^- 


'- V 


w^. 


^^ 


^' 


^^i^Lc^ .  ^KSJ^^^'i^^Li 


^-Aoy^^  .  -Cq>  <    ^^  .      ^^yyv^^i , 


/;^^ 


MRS.    LINCOLN'S 


Boston  Cook  Book. 


WHAT  TO  DO  AND    WHAT  NOT  TO  DO 
IN  COOKING. 


BY 

MRS.    D.   A.    LINCOLN, 

OF     THE     BOSTON     COOKING     SCHOOL, 


BOSTON: 

ROBERTS     BROTHERS. 

1888. 


Copyright,  188S, 
By   Mrs.    D.  A.    Lincoln. 


John  Wilson  and  Son,  Cambridge, 


5EJi0  iSocrft  is  ©etifcatetJ 

TO 

MRS.    SAMUEL    T.    HOOPER, 

President  of  the  Boston  Cooking  School, 

IN    RECOGNITION    OF    HER    ZEAL    IN    EVERY    GOOD    WORK    FOR    THE 
BENEFIT    OF    WOMAN  ; 

AND    TO 

THE    PUPILS,    PAST    AND    PRESENT, 

OF   THE 

BOSTON   COOKING    SCHOOL, 

WHOSE    ENTHUSIASM   IN   THEIR  WORK   HAS   MADE  THE   LABOR  OF 
TEACHING    A   DELIGHT. 


Not  to  know  at  large  of  things  remote 
From  use,  obscure  and  subtle,  but  to  know 
That  which  before  us  lies  in  daily  life, 
Is  the  prime  wisdom," 


Milton. 


"  To  know  what  you  do  know*,  and  not  to  know  what  you  do  not 
know,  is  true  knowledge." —  Confucius. 


PREFACE. 


To  compile  a  book  which  shall  be  not  only  a  collection 
of  receipts,  given  brie%  for  the  experienced  housekeeper, 
and  with  sufficient  clearness  for  the  beginner,  but  which 
shall  also  embody  enough  of  physiology,  and  of  the  chem- 
istry and  philosoph}^  of  food,  to  make  every  principle  in- 
telligible to  a  child  and  interesting  to  the  mature  mind  ; 
which  shall  serve  equall}'  well  for  the  cook  in  the  kitchen, 
the  pupil  in  the  school-room,  and  the  teacher  in  the  normal 
class,  —  is  a  difficult  task.  Yet  the  need  of  a  book  of 
moderate  cost,  containing  in  a  reasonably  small  compass  all 
this  and  much  more,  has  been  seriously  felt  b}'  all  who  are 
engaged  in  teaching  cookery.  Moreover,  there  is  a  special 
reason  for  the  publication  of  this  work.  It  is  undertaken 
at  the  urgent  request  of  the  pupils  of  the  Boston  Cooking 
School,  who  have  desired  that  the  receipts  and  lessons 
given  during  the  last  four  years  in  that  institution  should 
be  arranged  in  a  permanent  form. 

To  one  who  from  childhood  has  been  trained  in  all  de- 
tails of  housework,  learning  by  observation  or  by  actual 
experience  much  that  it  is  impossible  to  receive  from 
books,  the  amount  of  ignorance  shown  by  many  women  is 
surprising.  That  a  person  of  ordinary  intelligence  pre- 
siding over  her  household  can  be  satisfied  with  only  a 
vague  conception  of  the  common  domestic  methods,  or 
that  any  true  woman  can  see  anything  degrading  in  any 
labor  necessary  for  the  highest  physical  condition  of  her 


vi  Preface. 


family,  would  be  incredible  if  the  truth  of  it  were  not 
daily  manifest. 

Happily,  popular  opinion  now  decides  that  no  young 
lady's  education  is  complete  without  a  course  of  training 
in  one  or  more  branches  of  domestic  work.  And  those 
who  are  not  so  fortunate  as  to  have  the  best  of  all  train- 
ing—  that  of  actual  work  under  a  wise  and  competent 
mother  —  gladly  resort  to  the  cooking- schools  for  in- 
struction. 

In  compiling  these  receipts  for  use  in  a  school  and  in 
the  family,  several  things  were  demanded.  In  a  school 
of  pupils  from  every  class  and  station  in  life,  a  great 
variety  of  receipts  is  desirable.  They  must  be  clear, 
but  concise,  for  those  who  are  already-  well  grounded  in 
first  principles.  They  must  be  explained,  illustrated,  and 
reiterated  for  the  inexperienced  and  the  careless.  They 
must  have  a  word  of  caution  for  those  who  seem  always 
to  have  the  knack  of  doing  the  wrong  thing.  They  must 
include  the  most  healthful  foods  for  those  who  have  been 
made  ill  by  improper  food  ;  the  cheapest  as  well  as  the 
most  nutritious,  for  the  laboring  class  ;  the  richest  and 
most  elaborately  prepared,  for  those  who  can  afford  them 
physically  as  well  as  pecuniarily. 

These  receipts  are  not  a  mere  compilation.  A  large 
portion  have  accumulated  during  a  long  period  of  house- 
keeping ;  and  many  have  been  received  from  friends  who 
are  practical  housekeepers.  Others  have  been  taken  from 
standard  authorities  on  cooking ;  and  all  have  been  fre- 
quently and  thoroughly  tested  by  pupils  under  the  eye  of 
the  author.  As  far  as  possible,  acknowledgment  has  been 
made  for  the  receipts  received.  Where  changes  and  im- 
provements have  been  made,  or  where  there  were  many 
authorities  for  the  same  formula,  no  credit  has  been  given. 

Some  cook-books  presuppose  the  presence  of  an  as- 
sistant ;  but  as  three  fourths  of  the  women  in  this  country 


Preface.  vii 


do  their  own  work,  these  receipts  are  arranged  so  as  to 
require  the  attention  of  but  one  person. 

It  is  proverbial  that  3'oung  housekeepers  are  often 
greatly  perplexed  in  attempting  to  provide  little  enough 
for  only  two.  For  their  benefit  many  of  our  receipts  are 
prepared  on  a  scale  of  smaller  measurements. 

The  materials  to  be  used  are  given  in  the  order  in  which 
they  are  to  be  put  together.  They  are  arranged  in  col- 
umns, where  the  eye  may  catch  them  readil}^,  or  in  italics 
where  economy  of  space  seemed  desirable. 

Every  caution  or  suggestion  has  been  given  at  the  re- 
quest of  some  pupil  who  failed  to  find  in  other  books  just 
what  she  needed  ;  or  because,  in  the  experience  of  teach- 
ing, it  has  been  shown  that,  unless  forewarned,  pupils 
inevitably  make  certain  mistakes.  Many  subjects  which 
in  other  books  are  omitted  or  given  briefly,  will  be  found 
to  have  receiv^ed  here  an  extensive  treatment,  because 
they  have  seemed  of  paramount  importance. 

All  the  chemical  and  physiological  knowledge  that  is 
necessary  for  a  clear  understanding  of  the  laws  of  health, 
so  far  as  they  are  involved  in  the  science  of  cookery,  is 
given  in  this  book.  Nine  tenths  of  the  women  who  go 
through  a  scientific  course  in  seminaries  never  put  any 
of  the  knowledge  gained  into  practical  use.  By  the  time 
they  have  occasion  to  use  such  knowledge  in  their  own 
homes,  the  Chemistry  and  Physiolog}^  have  been  relegated 
to  the  attic,  where  they  help  mice  to  material  for  their 
nests,  but  help  no  woman  to  appl^-  the  principles  of 
science  upon  which  the  health  and  welfare  of  her  house- 
hold largely  depend. 

The  statement  will  appear  incredible  to  most  people, 
and  yet  it  is  true,  that  many  women  do  not  know  what 
the  simplest  things  in  our  dailj^  food  are  ;  cannot  tell  when 
water  boils,  or  the  diflference  between  lamb  and  veal,  lard 
and  drippings.     They  cannot  give  the  names  of  kitchen 


viii  Preface. 


utensils ;  do  not  know  anything  about  a  stove,  or  how  to 
pare  a  potato.  This  will  explain  what  might  otherwise 
seem  an  unnecessary  minuteness  of  detail.  The  expe- 
rience of  such  ignorance  also  suggested  the  sub-title  of 
the  "  Boston  Cook  Book,"  —  "  What  to  do  and  what  not 
to  do  in  Cooking," — just  how  to  hold  your  bowl  and  spoon, 
to  use  your  hands,  to  regulate  your  stove,  to  wash  your 
dishes  ;  and  just  how  not  to  fall  into  the  errors  into  which 
so  many  have  stumbled  before  you.  But,  more  than  all, 
it  is  attempted  to  give  a  reason  for  every  step  taken,  and 
a  clear  answer  to  any  questions  that  are  likely  to  arise  in 
the  experience  of  either  housekeeper  or  cook. 


A  PREFACE  NOT  FOR  THE  PUBLIC. 


A  WORD  of  grateful  acknowledgment  is  due  the  many 
friends  who  have  aided  in  this  work. 

First,  to  my  mother  I  owe  much  for  her  excellent  judg- 
ment in  training  me  as  a  child  to  a  love  for  all  house- 
hold work.  Although  it  was  often  hard  to  "  help  mother  " 
when  other  children  were  at  play,  the  knowledge  thus 
gained  has  proved  invaluable.  Every  j^ear's  experience 
in  teaching  has  made  me  prize  more  and  more  this  early 
training. 

Also,  I  am  deeply  indebted  to  Miss  M.  S.  Devereux 
for  the  illustrations  of  this  book.  In  all  my  work  I  have 
been  greatl}^  aided  by  her  suggestions  and  generous 
sympathy. 

And,  lastly,  I  would  not  forget  my  obligations  to  a  large 
circle  of  personal  friends.  Especially  would  I  remember 
the  one  who,  twenty  years  ago,  aided  me  in  making  my 
first  loaf  of  bread,  and  the  many  among  my  pupils  who, 
out  of  their  varied  experience,  have  contributed  much  that 
has  proved  helpful. 

MARY  J.   LINCOLN. 

W0LLA6TON,  Mass.,  1884. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Introduction 1 

Bread  and  Bread  Making 36 

B.ECEIPTS  FOR  Yeast  and  Bread 62 

Raised  Biscuit,  Rolls,  etc 68 

Stale  Bread,  Toast,  etc 75 

Soda  Biscuit,  Muefins,  Gems,  etc 80 

Waffles  and  Griddle-Cakes 97 

Fried  Muffins,  Fritters,  Doughnuts,  etc 102 

Oatmeal  and  other  Grains 108 

Beverages       Ill 

Soup  and  Stock       119 

Soup  without  Stock 146 

Fish 159 

Shell  Fish 175 

Meat  and  Fish  Sauces 187 

Eggs 197 

Meat 210 

Beef 214 

Mutton  and  Lamb 232 

Veal 239 

Pork 245 

Poultry  and  Game 251 

Entrees  and  Meat  Rechauffe 265 

Sundries 282 


xii  Contents. 


PAGE 

Vegetables 289 

Rice  and  Macaroni 306 

Salads .  309 

Pasthy  and  Pies 316 

Pudding  Sauces 328 

Hot  Puddings 331 

Custards,  Jellies,  and  Creams 341 

Ice-Cream  and  Sherbet 361 

Cake 369 

Pruit 391 

Cooking  por  Invalids 407 

Miscellaneous  Hints 435 

The  Dining-Room 439 

The  Care  of  Kitchen  Utensils   . 443 

An  Outline  op  Study  for  Teachers 449 

Suggestions  to  Teachers 483 

A  Course  of  Study  for  Normal  Pupils 485 

Miscellaneous  Questions  for  Examination 486 

Topics  and  Illustrations  for  Lectures  on  Cookery     .  490 

Course  op  Instruction  at  the  Boston  Cooking-School  .  495 

Explanation  op  Terms  used  in  Cookery 503 

List  op  Utensils  needed  in  a  Cooking-School    .     .     .  508 


General  Index 513 

Alphabetical  Index 529 


LIST   OF  ILLUSTEATIONS, 


PAGE 


Fig.  1.     Grain  of  Wheat , 37 

2.  Grain  of  Wheat  with  Bran  removed      .     .     .     „  38 

3.  Grain  of  Wheat  magnified       ...,,,.  38 

4.  Yeast  Plant 4g 

5.  Cruller 105 

6.  Cruller  after  Folding 105 

7.  Baked  Fish 164 

8.  Small  Fish  served  whole     .               166 

9.  Scalloped  Lobster 183 

10.  Omelet 201 

11.  Orange  Omelet 202 

12.  Eggs  and  Minced  Meat 205 

13.  Stuffed  Eggs 206 

14.  Eggs  a  la  Creme 208 

15.  Diagram  of  Ox 212 

16.  Hind  Quarter  of  Beef     . 212 

17.  Aitch  Bone 214 

18.  Bound 215 

19.  Back  of  Rump 216 

20.  First  Cut  of  Sirloin .  216 

21.  Sirloin  Roast 217 

22.  Tip  of  Sirloin 218 

23.  First  Cut  of  Rib 219 

24.  Chuck  Rib 219 

25.  Fillet  of  Beef 222 

26.  Mutton  Duck 235 

27.  Paper  Ruffle ...  236 

28.  Chop .237 

29.  Chop  in  Paper 237 


xiv  List  of  Illustrations. 

PAGE 

Fig.  30.  Calf's  Heart    .     .     .     : 241 

"  31.  Sweetbreads  and  Bacon 243 

"  32.  Sweetbreads  on  Macaroni 244 

"  33.  Pigeons  and  Spinach  on  Toast 264 

"  34.  Boned  Turkey,  browned 265 

"  35.  Boned  Chicken,  larded  and  baked 266 

"  36.  Chicken  in  Jelly 267 

'*  37.  Meat  Porcupine 272 

"  38.  Croquettes 279 

''  39.  Stuffed  Potatoes 296 

''  40.  Chicken  Salad 314 

"  41.  Lobster  Salad 315 

"  42.  Bow-Knots 321 

"  43.  Cheese  Straws 322 

"  44.  Apple  Snowballs 335 

''  45.  Orange  Charlotte 348 

"  46.  Orange  Baskets 351 

"  47.  Mould  of  Bavarian  Cream 357 

"  48.  Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding ^     .  358 

'*  49.  Strawberry  Charlotte 360 

**  50.  Cookies 386 


DEMONSTRATION    LECTURES    OM 

COOKERY, 

By    MRS.    LINCOLN. 


Schools  or  Societies  in  other  cities,  wishing  one  Demonstration  or  s 
course  of  Lectures,  can  secure  Mrs.  Lincoln's  services  by  applying  to 
her  personally  or  by  letter. 

For  terms,  address, 

Mrs.   D.   A.   LINCOLN, 

Wollaston,    Mass. 


"Among  all  the  cooJc  looks,  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln's  Bos- 
ton Cook  Book  will  certainly  take  its  place  as  one  of  the 
very  best.  It  is  jJuhlished  and  arranged  in  a  very  con- 
venient and  attractive  form,  and  the  style  in  which  it 
is  written  has  a  certain  literary  quality  which  ivill  tempt 
those  toho  are  not  interested  in  recipes  and  cooking  to 
peruse  its  pages.  The  recipes  are  practical,  and  give  just 
those  facts  which  are  generally  omitted  from  books  of  this 
sort,  to  the  discouragement  of  the  housekeeper  and  fre- 
quently to  the  lamentable  disaster  and  failure  of  her  plans. 
Mrs.  Lincoln  has  laid  a  large  number  of  pieople  under 
obligation,  and  jyufs  into  her  book  a  large  amount  of  general 
experience  in  the  difficult  and  delicate  art  of  cooking.  The 
book  is  admirably  arranged,  and  is  sujjjjlied  with  the  most 
perfect  indexes  we  have  ever  seen  in  any  work  of  the  kind." 
—  The  Christian  Union. 


Just  published : 

CARVING   AND    SERVING. 

By   MRS.    D.   A.   LINCOLN, 

AUTHOR    OF    "  THE    BOSTON    COOK    BOOK." 

• 

i6mo.     Board  covers.     Price,  60  cents 


THE  BOSTO]^  COOK  BOOK, 


COOKERY 

Cookery  is  the  art  of  preparing  food  for  the  nourish- 
ment of  the  human  bod}'.  When  given  its  proper  impor- 
tance in  the  consideration  of  health  and  comfort,  it  must 
be  based  upon  scientific  principles  of  hygiene  and  what 
the  French  call  the  minor  moralities  of  the  household. 
All  civilized  nations  cook  their  food,  to  improve  its  taste 
and  digestibility.  The  degree  of  civilization  is  often 
measured  by  the  cuisine. 

Cooking  (from  the  Latin  coquo^  to  boil,  bake,  heat,  dr}', 
scorch,  or  ripen)  is  usually  done  by  the  direct  application 
of  heat.  Fruits  and  some  vegetables  which  are  eaten  in  a 
natural  state  have  reallj"  been  cooked  or  ripened  by  the 
heat  of  the  sun.  Milk  and  eggs,  which  are  types  of  per- 
fect food,  would  be  useless  as  food  unless  they  came  from 
the  warm  living  animal.  Fish,  flesh,  and  fruits  which 
have  been  dried  in  the  sun  or  smoked,  and  are  often  eaten 
without  any  further  preparation,  have  undergone  a  certain 
process  of  natural  cooking. 

Heat  seems  to  create  new  flavors,  and  to  change  the 
odor,  taste,  and  digestibility  of  nearly  all  articles  of  food. 
It  swells  and  bursts  the  starch  cells  in  flour,  rice,  and 
potatoes;  hardens  the  albumen  in  eggs,  fish,  and  meat; 
softens  the  fibrous  substances  in  tough  meats,  hard  vege- 
tables and  fruits.  It  develops  new  flavors  in  tea,  coffee, 
roasted  meat,  crusts  of  bread,  baked  beans,  etc. 

1 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Cold  is  also  an  important  matter  to  be  regarded  in  the 
preparation  of  food.  Sweet  dishes  and  certain  flavors, 
like  honey,  ices,  and  custards  ;  the  water,  wine,  or  milk  we 
drink  ;  our  butter,  fruits,  and  salads,  —  are  all  more  pala- 
table when  cold. 

Water ^  or  some  other  liquid,  in  connection  with  heat  is 
necessar}^  in  man}^  forms  of  cookery.  Grains,  peas,  beans n 
dried  fruits  which  have  parted  with  nearh^  all  their  moisture 
in  the  ripening  or  drj^ng  process  necessary  for  their  preser- 
vation, need  a  large  portion  of  water  in  cooking,  to  soften 
and  swell  the  cellulose,  gluten,  and  starch  before  the}^  can 
be  masticated  and  digested.  In  some  vegetables  and  fruits 
water  draws  out  certain  undesirable  flavors  ;  it  softens 
and  dissolves  the  gelatinous  portions  of  meat,  and  makes 
palatable  and  nourishing  many  substances  which  would  be 
rendered  unwholesome  by  a  dry  heat. 

Air^  or  the  free  action  of  ox3'gen,  upon  our  food  while 
cooking  develops  certain  flavors  not  otherwise  to  be  ob- 
tained. Meat  roasted  or  broiled  has  a  much  finer  flavor 
than  when  boiled,  baked,  or  fried.  Toasted  bread,  thin 
corn  cake  baked  before  the  fire,  roasted  apples,  and  man}^ 
articles  cooked  in  the  open  au*,  show  the  benefit  of  this 
free  combined  action  of  heat  and  air. 

Drying  in  the  sun  was  one  of  the  earliest  modes  of 
cooker}'.  Then  came  roasting  before  an  open  fire,  or 
broihng  over  the  coals,  and  baking  in  the  hot  ashes. 
This  last  was  the  primitive  oven.  As  the  art  of  making 
cooking-utensils  developed,  stewing,  boiling,  and  frying 
were  adopted.  Then,  to  economize  heat,  portable  ovens 
were  invented ;  these  were  originally  a  covered  dish  set 
over  or  near  the  fire,  having  sometimes  a  double  cover 
filled  with  coals.  Afterwards,  stoves  which  kept  the  fire 
and  heat  in  a  limited  space  were  introduced;  and  im- 
provements haA^e  been  made  in  them  so  extensively  that 
we  now  have  them  with  conveniences  for  doing  every  form 
of  cooking  with  wood,  coal,  oil,  or  gas. 

Some  one  gives  this  distinction  between  man  and  other 
animals  :  ' '  Man  is  an  animal  that  builds  a  fire  and  uses  it 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


to  cook  his  food."  It  is  quite  important,  then,  as  a  step- 
ping-stone to  cooking,  to  learn  the  properties  and  manage- 
ment of  a  fire. 

Fire. 

Fire  is  heat  and  hght  produced  by  the  combustion  of 
inflammable  substances.  Combustion  is  a  chemical  opera- 
tion carried  on  in  the  air,  or.  the  chemical  union  of  the 
ox3'gen  of  the  air  with  some  combustible  bod}- ,  like  hy- 
drogen gas  or  the  solid  carbon,  and  is  attended  with  the 
evolution  of  heat  and  light.  The  heat  and  the  light  come 
from  the  sun.  With  every  particle  of  vegetable  matter 
that  is  formed  by  the  combined  action  of  the  sun  and  the 
carbonic  acid  gas  in  the  air,  a  portion  of  the  sun's  heat 
and  light  is  absorbed  and  held  fast  in  it.  And  whenever 
this  vegetable  matter  is  decomposed,  — as  in  burning  wood, 
coal,  or  oil,  which  are  onl\^  definite  forms  of  vegetable  mat- 
ter, —  this  heat  and  light  are  given  out.  The  amount  of 
each  depends  upon  the  mode  of  burning. 

Air  is  composed  mainly  of  two  elementarj'  gases,  ox3^gen 
and  nitrogen  (one  part  ox3^gen  and  four  parts  nitrogen), 
with  a  small  amount  of  watery  vapor  and  carbonic  acid  gas. 

Pure  oxj'gen  is  a  gas  vhich  has  a  wonderful  attraction 
for,  and  power  of  combination  with,  ever}^  other  element. 
If  it  were  everywhere  present  in  a  perfectl}'  pure  state,  it 
would  consume  or  burn  up  everj'thing ;  but  it  is  diluted 
or  mixed  (not  combined)  with  nitrogen,  another  gas  which 
iS  incombustible,  and  which  lessens  the  combustibilit}^  of 
ever3^thing  with  which  it  comes  in  contact.  Owing  to  this 
dilution,  the  oxygen  will  not  unite  with  the  carbon  and 
hj'drogen  with  which  it  is  everywhere  surrounded,  and 
produce  rapid  combustion,  except  at  a  high  temperature. 
The  temperature  at  which  this  union  takes  place  is  called 
the  burning-point,  and  this  varies  in  different  substances. 
Thus  combustion  is  within  the  power  and  conti'ol  of  man ; 
and  some  extra  means  are  usuall3'  emplo3'ed  to  increase 
the  temperature  to  the  burning-point,  —  friction,  or  per- 
cussion,   or   the   use    of   some   more   highl3'  inflammable 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


substances,  like  sulphur  and  phosphorus.  This  produces 
heat  sufficient  to  complete  the  chemical  union,  or,  in  com- 
mon phrase,  "•  kindles  the  fire." 

The  heat  generated  for  all  household  purposes  is  produced 
b}^  the  chemical  action  of  the  ox3'gen  of  the  air  upon  the  hy- 
drogen and  carbon  which  are  found  in  the  various  kinds  ot 
wood  and  coal.  The  ox3'gen  first  combines  with  the  car- 
bon and  decomposes  it,  producing  carbonic  acid  gas,  which 
escapes  into  the  air,  from  which  it  is  absorbed  by  plants,  or 
b}-  human  lungs  when  there  is  no  proper  ventilation.  The 
oxj^gen  also  combines  with  the  hydrogen  gas  in  the  fuel, 
and  this  produces  the  flame  ;  the  larger  the  amount  of 
hj'drogen  in  the  fuel,  the  greater  the  amount  of  flame. 
Some  of  the  products  of  combustion  are  not  entirel}^  con- 
sumed,  and  pass  off  as  smoke  ;  some  are  incombustible,  and 
remain  as  ashes.  The  intensity  of  a  fire  and  the  amount 
of  heat  which  it  produces  are  alwaj^s  in  proportion  to  the 
amount  of  oxygen  with  which  it  is  supplied.  There  should 
be  just  air  enough  for  perfect  combustion.  An  excess  of 
air  projected  upon  a  fire  convej'S  away  the  heat,  cools  the 
fuel,  and  checks  the  combustion.  The  suppl}^  of  air  should 
be  controlled  b}^  confining  it  in  a  limited  space. 

Fires  are  usually  kindled  at  the  bottom  of  a  flue  or  chim- 
ney. The  heated  air,  being  lighter,  rises  ;  the  colder,  den- 
ser air  rushes  in  to  take  its  place,  becomes  heated,  and 
ascends.  Thus  a  continuous  current  is  established,  and  a 
constant  suppl}'  of  fresh  air  secured.  The  chimney  serves 
to  carry  off  the  smoke  and  poisonous  products  of  combus- 
tion ;  the  heavier,  incombustible  products  settle  in  the  form 
of  ashes.  The  force  of  this  current  of  air  drawing  through 
the  chimne}'  (a  matter  of  great  importance)  is  called  the 
draught.  It  varies  with  the  temperature  and  amount  of 
air  in  the  room,  and  the  length  and  width  of  the  chimney. 


Fuel. 

The  materials  generallj'  used  as  fuel  are  wood,  charcoal, 
coal,  kerosene  oil,  and  gas. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Soft  woods ^  such  as  pine  or  birch,  kindle  quickly,  produce 
intense  heat,  and  are  best  for  a  quick,  blazing  fire. 

Hard  ivoods^  like  oak,  ash,  and  hickor}^,  burn  more  slowly, 
but  produce  harder  coals,  which  retain  the  heat  longer,  and 
are  better  where  long-continued  heat  is  required. 

Charcoal^  which  is  coal  made  by  charring  or  burning 
wood  with  only  a  limited  supplj'  of  air,  burns  easily  and 
produces  greater  heat  in  proportion  to  its  weight  than  anj^ 
other  fuel.     It  should  never  be  burned  in  a  close  room. 

Anthracite  coal  is  a  kind  of  mineral  charcoal  derived  from 
ancient  vegetation  buried  in  the  earth,  and  so  thoroughly 
pressed  that  nothing  is  left  but  pure  carbon,  a  little  sul- 
phur, and  the  incombustible  ash.  It  kindles  slowly,  yields 
an  intense,  steady  heat,  and  burns  for  a  longer  time  with- 
out replenishing  than  the  hardest  wood. 

Cb/je,  often  used  in  cities,  is  the  residue  of  coal  from 
which  illuminating  gas  has  been  manufactured.  The  heat 
is  intense,  but  transient. 

Stoves  for  burning  kerosene  oil  and  gas  have  recently 
been  introduced,  and  are  now  so  nearly  perfect  that  the 
care  of  a  fire  for  cooking  purposes  is  trifiing.  Gas  can 
only  be  used  in  certain  localities. 

The  cheapest  fuel  is  the  best  kerosene  oil.  There  need 
be  no  waste,  no  superfluous  heat,  no  vitiated  air,  if  the  fire 
be  extinguished  immediately  after  the  work  is  done,  and  if 
the  stove  be  kept  perfectl}'  clean,  so  as  to  secure  a  free 
burning  and  perfect  combustion.  With  two  good  stoves 
having  all  the  latest  and  best  improvements,  a  large  amount 
of  work  can  be  easily  and  satisfactorily  accomplished. 

The  Making  and  Care  of  a  Coal  Fire. 

If  you  intend  to  buy  a  new  stove  or  range,  get  one  sim- 
ple in  construction,  that  j^ou  may  quickly  learn  all  its  parts 
and  their  uses  ;  plain  in  finish,  that  you  ma}-  easily  keep  it 
clean ;  and  perfectl}"  fitted  part  to  part,  with  doors  and 
dampers  shutting  absolutely  close,  so  that  you  ma}'  con- 
trol the  fire  and  heat.     This  latter  point  is  of  essential 


6  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

importance  in   regulating  the  oven  and  in  preventing  a 
waste  of  fuel. 

Become  thorough^  acquainted  with  whatever  stove  you 
may  have.  If  necessary-,  take  it  apart ;  learn  how  to 
clean  it  in  the  inside,  to  regulate  the  dampers  for  all  the 
variations  of  wind,  temperature,  and  fuel;  and  then  learn 
how  to  make  and  keep  a  fire. 

All  stoves  have  a  fire-box,  with  more  or  less  space  under- 
neath for  ashes ;  a  slide  damper  under  the  fire,  letting  in 
the  air  ;  an  outlet  for  the  smoke  ;  and  a  damper  which  reg- 
ulates the  supply  of  hot  air,  sending  it  around  and  under- 
neath the  oven,  or  letting  it  escape  into  the  chimney. 
Remove  the  covers  and  brush  the  soot  from  the  top  of  t  he 
oven  into  the  fire-box ;  then  clean  out  the  grate ;  and  if 
the  stove  have  conveniences  for  so  doing,  sift  the  ashes  in 
the  stove  and  save  all  the  old  coal  and  cinders.  Put  in 
shavings  or  loose  rolls  of  paper,  then  fine  pine  kindlings, 
arranged  crosswise,  and  a  layer  of  hard  wood,  leaving 
plent}"  of  air  space  between  the  pieces.  Be  sure  the  wood 
comes  out  to  each  end  of  the  fire-box.  Put  on  the  covers  ; 
and  if  the  stove  need  cleaning,  moisten  some  pulverized 
stove  polish  with  water,  and  rub  the  stove  with  a  paint 
brush  dipped  in  the  polish.  When  all  blackened,  rub  with 
a  dry  polishing-brush  until  nearly  dry.  Open  the  direct 
draught  and  oven  damper,  and  light  the  paper,  as  a  slight 
heat  facilitates  the  process  of  polishing.  When  the  wood 
is  thoroughly  kindled,  fill  the  fire-box  with  coal  even  with 
the  top  of  the  oven.  Brush  up  the  hearth  and  floor,  empty 
the  teakettle,  and  fill  it  with  fresh  water.  Watch  the  fire, 
and  push  the  coal  down  as  the  wood  burns  away,  and 
add  enough  more  coal  to  keep  it  even  with  the  top  of  the 
fire  bricks.  When  the  blue  flame  becomes  white,  close  the 
oven  damper ;  and  when  the  coal  is  burning  freely,  but  not 
red,  shut  the  direct  draught.  It  seems  impossible  for  some 
persons  to  understand  that  a  coal  fire  is  at  its  height  as 
soon  as  well  kindled,  and  needs  onlj'  air  enough  to  keep  it 
burning.  When  it  becomes  bright  red  all  through,  it  has 
parted  with  most  of  its  heat,  and  begins  to  die  out.     Tons 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


of  coal  are  wasted  in  manj'  kitchens,  and  ranges  are  need- 
lessty  burned  out,  b}^  filling  the  fire-box  till  the  coal  touches 
the  covers,  and  leaving  the  draughts  open  till  the  coal  is 
red. 

Nearly  all  stoves  and  portable  ranges  have  the  oven  at 
one  side  of  and  a  little  below  the  fire.  In  brick-set  ranges 
the  ovens  are  sometimes  over  the  fire.  A  stove  has  a  door 
on  each  side  of  the  oven,  with  the  fire-box  in  front.  A 
portable  range  has  only  one  oven-door,  and  the  fire-box  at 
the  end.  In  ranges  where  the  oven  is  over  the  fire,  the 
articles  to  be  baked  are  placed  on  a  grate  near  the  middle, 
as  the  bottom  of  the  oven  is  usually  very  hot.  In  stoves 
or  portable  ranges  anj'thing  which  has  to  rise  in  the  oven, 
like  bread,  pastry,  cake,  etc.,  is  placed  on  the  bottom  of 
the  oven,  and,  if  the  heat  be  too  great,  a  small  rack  or 
grate  maj^  be  placed  under  it.  Large  pieces  of  meat  are 
placed  on  a  rack  in  a  pan  ;  while  small  cuts  of  meat,  birds, 
etc.,  which  are  to  be  baked  quicklj^,  and  any  dishes  which 
are  to  be  merel}^  browned,  like  scalloped  dishes,  must  be 
placed  on  the  grate  near  the  top.  Cultivate  the  habit  of 
opening  and  shutting  the  oven-door  quickty  but  gently. 
Learn  the  hottest  and  coolest  places  in  the  oven.  Look  at 
things  as  they  are  baking,  and  turn  and  watch  tiU  you  are 
sare  they  can  be  left  alone.  If  anything  bake  unevenly  or 
too  fast,  put  a  screen  between  it  and  the  heat,  —  a  pan  on 
the  grate  above  or  underneath,  or  a  frame  of  stiff  paper 
made  larger  than  the  pan,  that  it  may  not  touch  the  dough. 
When  the  regulating  dampers  are  closed  and  the  oven  is 
still  too  hot,  lift  a  cover  on  the  top  partly  off,  although  in 
a  stove  in  which  the  parts  are  perfectly  adjusted  this  will 
never  be  necessary.  When  the  oven  is  not  hot  enough, 
open  the  direct  draught,  and  rake  out  the  ashes  from  the 
grate.  Keep  the  grate  cleaned  out  and  the  fire  burning 
freely,  when  a  very  hot  oven  is  needed.  At  other  times 
keep  the  draughts  shut  and  do  not  waste  the  coal. 

To  keep  a  brisk  fire  for  several  hours  or  all  day,  it  is 
better  to  add  a  sprinkhng  of  coal  often,  rather  than  to  let 
it  burn  nearly  out,  and  then,  by  adding  a  larger  quantity, 


8  The  Boston  Cook  Booh. 

check  the  fire  and  retard  the  work.  In  using  the  top  oi 
the  stove  remember  the  hottest  place  is  over  the  fire  and 
toward  the  middle,  not  on  the  front  of  the  stove.  When 
you  have  once  watched  the  flame  in  its  passage  over  the 
top,  down  the  back,  and  under  the  oven,  then  across,  out 
and  up  on  the  opposite  side  and  out  into  the  chimney,  you 
will  understand  where  the  greatest  heat  must  be. 

Boiling. 

The  term  ' '  boiling  "  is  often  used  erroneously  in  cook- 
QYj.  The  expressions  "■  the  teakettle  boils,"  "  the  rice  is 
boiling,"  "boiled  beef,"  etc.,  are  all  good  illustrations  of 
the  rhetorical  figure  metonymy^  but  they  are  practically 
incorrect.  In  all  cases  it  is  only  the  water  or  liquid  which 
boils.  No  solid  can  boil  until  first  changed  to  a  liquid. 
Solids  become  liquid  at  the  melting-point.  Liquids  take 
the  form  of  steam  or  vapor  at  the  boiling-point.  Boiling- 
is  the  conversion  of  a  liquid  into  steam  by  the  application 
of  heat  suflftcient  to  cause  ebullition.,  or  agitation  ot  its  sur- 
face. Boiling,  therefore,  as  applied  to  the  cooking  of 
solids,  is  heating  or  cooking  in  a  boiling  liquid.  It  is  one 
of  the  most  generally  used,  and  abused,  forms  of  cooking. 
Boiling  water,  which  is  really  cooked  water,  is  the  hquid 
usually  employed.  Water,  as  it  is  heated  from  below,  ex- 
pands into  vapor.  The  air  of  the  water  and  the  steam 
shoot  up  in  the  form  of  bubbles  ;  as  they  come  in  contact 
with  the  cold  water  near  the  surface,  the  bubbles  collapse, 
the  steam  is  condensed  and  descends  with  the  cold  water, 
making  a  double  set  of  currents,  which  causes  quite  a  com- 
motion among  the  particles.  As  the  whole  body  of  water 
becomes  hotter,  these  bubbles  of  steam  rise  higher  and 
higher  before  collapsing,  and  occasion  the  sound  which 
we  call  the  "  sint^inor  of  the  kettle."  When  the  water  is 
sufficiently  heated,  they  rise  and  break  at  the  surface, 
causing  more  or  less  agitation,  according  to  the  rapidity 
with  which  they  are  formed.  Water  is  scalding  hot  at 
150°,   or  when  the  hand  cannot  be  borne  in  it.     Water 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  g 

simmers  when  the  bubbles  all  collapse  beneath  the  surface, 
and  the  steam  is  condensed  to  water  again,  or  at  185°. 
Water  boils  when  the  bubbles  rise  to  the  surface,  and  the 
steam  is  thrown  off,  as  at  212°.  When  this  boiling-point 
is  reached,  the  heat  escapes  with  the  steam  ;  and  all  the  fire 
in  the  world  cannot  make  the  water  an}'  hotter,  so  long  as 
the  steam  escapes.  If  the  fire  be  verj^  fierce,  so  that  these 
bubbles  are  formed  and  expelled  rapidly,  and  the  water 
boils  over,  the  water  is  no  hotter ;  it  onl}^  evaporates  or 
boils  away  faster,  and  can  onl}^  be  made  hotter  b}^  confin- 
ing the  steam,  which  in  ordinarj^  kettles  is  impossible, 
owing  to  the  enormous  expansive  force  of  the  steam. 
With  a  few  exceptions  it  is  a  waste  of  fuel,  time,  and  ma- 
terial to  keep  the  water  boiling  at  such  a  galloping  rate 
that  the  cover  has  to  be  lifted  to  prevent  boiling  over. 

A  kettle  should  never  be  quite  full,  as  the  water  ex- 
pands in  heating,  and,  in  boiling  over,  makes  needless 
work  and  injures  the  stove.  Water  will  boil  more  quickl}' 
in  a  kettle  with  a  rough  surface  than  in  one  with  a  smooth 
surface,  as  the  water  adheres  to  a  smooth  surface  with 
greater  force,  and  this  force  or  attraction  must  be  over- 
come before  boiling  takes  place.  Small,  clean  gravel  is 
sometimes  kept  in  a  smooth  kettle  to  facilitate  the  boiling. 

Water  boils  at  a  higher  temperature  when  there  is  sugar, 
or  salt,  or  anything  in  it  to  increase  its  densit}'.  It  takes 
Idnger  for  it  to  boil ;  but  it  is  hotter,  when  that  point  is 
reached.  No  one  who  has  been  burned  hy  boiling  syrup 
ever  doubted  this  fact.  Fresh  water  boils  at  212°  ;  salt 
water,  at  224°.  If  we  put  salt  with  the  water  in  the  lower 
part  of  a  double  boiler,  a  greater  degree  of  heat  is  obtained 
by  which  to  cook  the  articles  in  the  top. 

Water  boils  at  a  lower  temperature,  that  is,  more  quickljs 
when  the  pressure  of  the  air  upon  the  water  is  diminished. 
Before  a  rain  the  pressure  of  the  air  is  lessened,  because 
the  air  when  filled  with  vapor  is  lighter.  Observing  house- 
keepers have  often  noticed  how  quickly  things  burn  at  such 
a  time,  and  foretell  a  rain  by  the  rapidity  with  which  water 
evaporates. 


lo  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

The  pressure  of  the  air  is  less  the  higher  we  ascend 
above  the  level  of  the  sea,  since  we  leave  much  of  the  air 
below  us.  Cooking  in  boiling  water  requires  a  much 
longer  time  in  mountainous  regions  ;  for  the  water  boils  so 
quickl}^  that  it  holds  less  heat  than  in  lower  altitudes, 
where  it  is  subject  to  greater  pressure.  Water,  in  boiling, 
loses  the  air  or  gases  which  give  it  a  fresh  taste  and  spark- 
ling appearance.  It  becomes  flat  and  tasteless.  If  there 
be  any  impurit}^  in  water,  boiling  or  cooking  will  destroy- 
it.  Then,  by  cooling,  and  exposing  to  pure  air  again,  it 
becomes  aerated  and  palatable.  But  water  for  cooking, 
unless  there  are  impurities  to  be  removed,  should  be  used 
when  freshly  boiled.  This  is  especiall}'  important  in  mak- 
ing tea  and  coffee. 

Soft  water  should  be  used  in  boihng  where  the  object  is 
to  soften  the  texture,  and  extract  the  soluble  parts,  as  in 
soups,  broths,  tea,  and  coffee.  Hard  water,  or  soft  water 
salted,  is  better  where  we  wish  to  preserve  the  articles 
whole,  and  retain  the  soluble  and  flavoring  principles,  as  in 
most  green  vegetables.  Beans  or  dried  peas,  which  contain 
casein  or  vegetable  albumen  in  large  proportion,  should  be 
cooked  in  soft  water,  as  the  lime  in  hard  water  hardens  the 
casein,  and  prevents  the  vegetables  from  becoming  soft. 

In  cooking  meat,  fish,  and  vegetables  in  water,  we  should 
remember  these  two  facts  :  — 

Cold  water  draws  out  the  albuminous  juices,  softens  the 
fibres  and  gelatinous  portions  of  meat,  and  holds  them  in 
solution.     It  draws  out  starch,  but  does  not  unite  with  it. 

Boiling  water  hardens  and  toughens  albumen  and  fibrine, 
bursts  the  starch  grains,  and  is  absorbed  by  the  swelling 
starch. 

Meat  is  cooked  in  water  for  three  distinct  purposes  :  — 

First.  To  keep  the  nutriment  within  the  meat^  as  in 
what  is  usuall}^  called  hailed  meat.  To  do  this,  we  leave  the 
meat  whole,  that  only  a  little  surface  may  be  exposed. 
Plunge  it  into  boihng  salted  water,  and  keep  it  there  for 
five  or  ten  minutes ;  this  hardens  the  albumen  over  the 
entire  surface,  and  makes  a  coating  through  which  the  juices 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  ii 

cannot  escape.  Then  move  the  kettle  where  the  water 
will  simmer  slowl}' .  See  that  the  cover  fits  tightly,  to  keep 
in  the  steam.  The  water  should  be  salted  to  raise  the 
boiling-point,  and  increase  the  density  of  the  water,  and 
thus  prevent  the  escape  of  the  juices.  A  small  amount  of 
the  albumen  in  the  outer  surface  will  be  dissolved  and  rise 
as  scum.  This  should  be  removed,  or  it  will  settle  on  the 
meat  and  render  it  uninviting  in  appearance.  If  the  meat 
be  put  in  the  kettle  with  the  bones  uppermost,  then  the  scum 
will  not  settle  on  the  meat.  In  turning  the  meat  do  not 
pierce  into  it  to  let  the  juices  escape.  It  will  take  a  longer 
time  to  cook  in  this  way,  but  the  fibrine  will  be  softened, 
and  the  meat  made  more  tender  and  of  better  flavor,  than 
when  kept  boiling  furiously. 

Second.  Meats  are  cooked  in  water  to  have  the  nutri- 
ment wholly  in  the  liquid^  as  in  soups  and  meat  teas.  Cut 
the  meat  in  small  pieces  ;  soak  in  cold  water,  the  longer 
the  better ;  heat  gradually,  and  keep  hot,  but  not  boiling, 
until  all  the  goodness  is  extracted. 

Third.  Meats  are  cooked  in  water  to  have  the  nutri- 
ment partly  in  the  liquid  and  partly  in  the  meat.,  as  in  stews^ 
fricassees^  etc.  Put  the  meat  in  cold  water,  let  the  water 
boil  quickly,  then  skim,  and  keep  at  the  simmering-point. 
The  cold  water  will  draw  out  enough  of  the  juices  to  enrich 
the  liquid ;  then,  as  it  reaches  the  boiling-point,  the  meat 
hardens,  and  retains  the  remainder. 

Fish  is  usually  cooked  in  boiling  water  for  the  purpose 
of  keeping  the  juices  in  the  fish.  As  the  flesh  of  fish 
breaks  easily,  the  water  should  never  be  allowed  to  boil 
rapidl3\  Salmon,  mackerel,  or  any  verj^  oily  fish,  should 
be  put  into  cold  water,  and  brought  almost  to  the  boiling- 
point  quickly,  as  they  have  a  verj-  strong,  rich  flavor.  A 
little  of  this  flavor  can  be  lost  without  injury  to  the  fish. 

Vegetables,  which  are  mostly  starch  and  water,  should 
be  put  into  boiling  water  and  boiled  rapidly,  that  the  small 
portions  of  albumen  which  the}"  contain  may  be  hardened 
on  the  surface  ;  then,  if  the  starch  grains  are  burst  quickly, 
they  will  absorb  the  albuminous  juices  within. 


12  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Milk  boils  at  196°.  Being  thicker  than  water,  less  of 
the  steam  escapes,  and  the  whole  liquid  becomes  hot  sooner 
than  water.  The  bubbles  rise  rapidlj',  and,  owing  to  their 
tenacity,  do  not  burst  at  the  surface,  but  climb  over  one 
another  till  they  run  over  the  edge  of  the  pan. 

Milk,  grains,  custards,  and  any  substances  which,  from 
their  glutinous  nature,  would  be  liable  to  adhere  to  the 
kettle,  are  much  more  easily  and  safely  cooked  in  a  double 
boiler,  or  in  a  pail  within  a  kettle  of  water.  This  is  one 
form  of  steaming^  or  cooking  over  boiling  water.  In  steam- 
ing, the  water  should  not  stop  boiling  until  the  articles  are 
cooked.  This  is  a  convenient  form  of  cooking  many  arti- 
cles which  it  is  troublesome  to  cook  with  a  dry  heat,  and 
3'et  do  not  need  the  solvent  powers  of  water.  Watery 
vegetables  are  rendered  drier  b3^  steaming ;  and  tough 
pieces  of  meat  which  cannot  be  roasted,  are  first  made 
tender  b}^  steaming,  and  then  browned  in  the  oven.  Some- 
times meat  is  steamed  in  its  own  juices  alone ;  this  is 
called  smothering^  or  pot-roasting. 

Stewing  is  another  form  of  boiling  or  cooking  in  a  small 
qnantit}^  of  water,  at  a  moderate  heat,  and  for  a  long  time. 
The  word  means  a  slow,  moist,  gentle  heat.  It  is  an  eco- 
nomical mode  of  cooking,  except  where  a  fire  has  to  be 
kept  for  this  purpose  alone.  The  long-continued  action  of 
a  gentle  heat  softens  the  fibres  ;  and  the  coarsest  and 
cheapest  kinds  of  meat,  cooked  in  this  way,  with  vegeta- 
bles, may  be  made  tender  and  nutritious.  Bj'  judicious  use 
of  seasoning  material,  remnants  can  be  made  into  savorj^ 
and  nourishing  dishes.  Whether  we  call  it  simply  a  stew, 
or  ragout.,  haricot.,  or  salmi ^  the  principle  is  the  same,  — 
that  of  slow,  steady  simmering,  rather  than  fierce  boiling. 

Fricasseeing  (meaning  ''tofiy")  is  a  form  of  stewing. 
The  term  is  usuall}^  applied  to  chicken,  veal,  or  some  small 
game,  which  is  cut  into  pieces,  and  fried  either  before  or 
after  stewing,  and  served  with  a  rich  white  or  brown 
sauce,  and  without  vegetables.  Any  meat  that  is  quite 
juicy  and  not  ver}^  tough  ma}^  be  first  browned  on  the  out- 
side to  keep  in  the  juices,  and  improve  the  flavor.    Coarse, 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  13 

tough  pieces  should  not  be  browned,  but  dipped  in  vinegar 
to  soften  the  fibre  ;  and  pieces  containing  much  gristle 
should  be  put  into  cold  water. 

Braising  is  a  form  of  stewing  done  usuall3^  in  a  braising- 
pan  or  kettle  which  has  coals  in  the  cover.  Any  granite 
or  iron  pan  with  a  close  cover  to  keep  in  the  steam  will 
answer  the  purpose.  When  placed  in  the  oven,  where  it 
is  surrounded  b}^  a  slow,  uniform  heat,  it  needs  very  little 
attention.  It  is  one  of  the  most  economical  and  satisfac- 
tory^ ways  of  cooking  large  pieces  of  tough,  lean  meat, 
pigeons,  liver,  fowls,  heart,  etc.  Stock,  vegetables,  and 
bacon  may  be  used,  if  a  rich  liquor  be  required  ;  but  water, 
herbs,  and  simple  seasoning  make  it  very  palatable. 

Baking  is  hardening  or  cooking  in  a  dry  heat,  as  in  a 
close  oven.  Nearly  all  flour  mixtures  —  bread,  pastry,  and 
some  forms  of  pudding  —  are  more  wholesome  baked  than 
when  cooked  in  an}'  other  way.  Many  forms  of  baking 
are  really  stewing ;  but  the  closely  confined  heat  of  the 
oven  gives  an  entirel}'  difi'erent  flavor  from  that  obtained 
b}^  stewing  over  the  fire.  This  is  seen  in  the  diff'erence 
between  stewed  and  baked  apple-sauce,  beans,  etc. 

Meat  and  fish,  if  baked  in  the  right  way,  lose  less  in 
weight  than  when  boiled  or  roasted.  To  bake  them  prop- 
erh',  the  juices  must  be  kept  within  the  meat.  An  intense 
heat  at  first  is  necessary  to  harden  the  albumen  ;  then  re- 
duce the  heat,  that  the  outside  may  not  become  too  hard, 
and  baste  frequently  to  prevent  drying.  No  water  should 
be  put  in  the  pan  at  first,  as  it  will  then  be  impossible  to 
have  a  greater  heat  than  that  of  boiling  water  (212°) ,  while 
for  baking  meat  280°,  or  niore,  is  required.  Put  one  or 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  beef  drippings,  or  some  of  the  fat 
from  the  meat,  in  the  pan,  to  use  in  basting,  as  the  fat  can 
be  made  much  hotter  than  water.  If  the  joint  be  very 
large,  or  the  meat  need  thorough  cooking,  like  poultry, 
A^eal,  or  pork,  water  can  be  added  to  check  the  heat  as 
soon  as  the  outside  is  cooked  suflScientl}'  to  keep  in  the 
juices.  This  will  keep  the  meat  moist.  Small  cuts,  and 
meats  to  he  eaten  rare,  are  better  baked  without  water. 


14  TJte  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Many  persons  accustomed  to  meat  roasted  before  the 
open  fire  object  to  the  flavor  of  baked  meat.  If  the  oven 
be  very  hot  at  first,  and  opened  every  five  minutes  just 
long  enough  for  the  basting,  which  is  an  essential  part  of 
the  cooking  process,  the  smoky  odor  escapes.  If  there 
be  no  damper  to  check  the  heat  underneath  the  oven,  put 
the  grate  or  another  pan  under  the  dripping-pan,  as  no 
heat  is  required  under  the  meat.  This  will  prevent  the  fat 
in  the  pan  from  burning  and  smoking  the  meat.  Place 
the  meat  with  the  skin  side  down  at  first ;  then,  if  the 
juices  begin  to  flow,  the  skin  keeps  them  in  ;  and,  when 
turned,  it  brings  the  side  which  is  to  be  up  in  serving 
next  the  hottest  part  of  the  oven,  for  the  final  browning. 
AU  baked  meat  or  fish  should  be  salted  and  floured  all 
over.  Salt  draws  out  the  juices  ;  but  the  flour  unites  with 
them,  making  a  paste  which  soon  hardens,  and  keeps  them 
within.  Baste  often,  and  dredge  with  salt  and  flour  after 
basting.  If  there  be  no  shelf  attached  to  the  stove  near 
the  oven,  keep  a  box  or  frame  of  wood  just  the  height  of 
the  oven,  near  by,  and  pushed  up  close  to  it;  it  will  be 
found  very  convenient  to  pull  the  pan  out  upon  it  when 
basting  or  turning  the  meat. 

Frying. 

Frying  is  cooking  in  hot  fat,  —  not  hoiling  fat,  as  it  is  so 
often  called,  for  fat  can  be  made  much  hotter  than  the 
temperature  required  for  cooking,  which  is  385°  ;  the  tem- 
perature for  boiling  fat  is  from  565°  to  600°.  Fr3ing, 
when  properly  done,  is  immersion  in  smoking-hot  fat.  The 
fat  should  be  deep  enough  to  entirely  cover  the  articles  to 
be  cooked  ;  and  as  it  may  be  used  many  times,  it  is  not  so 
extravagant  as  some  suppose  to  use  such  a  quantity.  The 
prime  secret  of  nice  ftying  is  to  have  the  fat  hot  enough 
to  harden  instantly  the  albumen  on  the  outer  surface,  and 
thus  prevent  the  fat  from  soaking  into  the  inside  of  what- 
ever is  to  be  fried.  As  a  much  higher  temperature  is 
required  than  that  for  boiling  or  baking,  the  articles  are 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  15 

very  quickly  cooked  ;  and  they  have  a  flavor  quite  unlike 
that  given  b}^  any  other  form  of  cooking. 

All  articles  to  be  fried  should  be  thoroughly  dried  and 
slightly  warmed.  If  very  moist,  or  very  cold,  or  too  7nany 
articles  be  fried  at  a  time,  the  fat  becomes  chilled,  and 
the  grease  soaks  into  them.  Then,  as  the  moisture  heats 
and  boils,  it  causes  such  a  commotion  that  the  fat  and 
water  boil  over,  and  there  is  great  danger  from  the  fat 
taking  fire  and  spreading  to  your  clothing,  to  sa}^  nothing 
of  the  trouble  of  cleaning  the  stove  and  floor.  For  this 
reason  be  careful  not  to  let  a  drop  of  water,  or  of  con- 
densed steam  from  another  kettle,  fall  into  the  hot  fat. 

Meat,  fish,  oj-sters,  croquettes,  etc.,  should  be  dried, 
and  rolled  in  fine  bread-crumbs,  to  absorb  any  moisture  ; 
then  rolled  in  beaten  Qgg,  and  in  fine  crumbs  again.  The 
hot  fat  hardens  the  albumen  of  the  egg  instantly  ;  and  that, 
with  the  crumbs,  makes  a  fat-proof  crust. 

Fish  balls,  fritters,  and  fried  muffin  mixtures  contain 
egg  and  albumen  sufficient  to  keep  them  from  soaking  fat, 
if  the  fat  be  onl}^  hot  enough.  A  Scotch  bowl,  or  deep 
iron  or  granite  kettle,  and  a  wire  basket  small  enough  to 
fit  down  into  the  kettle,  are  best  to  use  in  frying. 

The  Test  for  Hot  Fat.  —  When  the  fat  begin?  to  smoke 
put  in  a  bit  of  bread  ;  if  it  brown  quickh^,  or  while  you 
can  count  sixty  as  the  clock  ticks,  it  is  hot  enough  for 
fried  potatoes,  doughnuts,  etc.  When  hot  enough  to 
brown  the  bread  while  you  count  forty,  it  will  do  for  fish 
balls,  croquettes,  etc. 

When  ready  to  fij,  plunge  the  basket  into  the  hot  fat 
to  grease  it,  and  then  place  in  it  the  croquettes,  or  what- 
ever you  ma}^  be  frying,  so  that  the}^  will  not  touch  each 
other.  Hold  the  handle  of  the  basket  with  a  long  fork, 
and  plunge  it  quickly  into  the  fat,  but  do  not  drop  the 
handle,  because  if  the  fat  begin  to  boil  up,  3'ou  can  then 
raise  the  basket  quickly,  and  wait  till  the  ebullition  has 
subsided  before  plunging  it  in  again ;  and  thus  avoid 
the  danger  of  burning  from  the  overflowing  fat.  The  fat 
cools  rapidly,  w^hen  many  articles  are  fried  at  once,  and 


i6  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

should  be  reheated  to  the  test  point  before  frying  any 
more. 

Time.  — Any  cooked  mixture,  such  as  fish  balls  and  cro- 
quettes, or  very  small  fish,  oysters,  scallops,  etc.,  will  be 
fried  brown  in  one  minute.  Thicker  fish,  chops,  and  frit- 
ters require  longer  cooking ;  and,  after  plunging  them  into 
the  hot  fat,  the  kettle  should  be  set  back  from  the  fire  to 
prevent  them  from  becoming  too.  brown  before  they  are 
sufficiently  cooked.  While  frying,  be  careful  not  to  spill 
any  ftit  on  the  stove.  Keep  a  tin  plate  in  your  left  hand, 
and  hold  it  under  the  basket,  or  ladle,  as  you  take  things 
from  the  fat. 

Draining.  —  Thorough  draining  is  another  secret  of  nice 
frying,  and  3'ou  cannot  find  a  much  hotter  place  than  right 
over  the  hot  fat ;  so  hold  your  basket  of  fried  food  over  the 
hot  fat,  and  shake  shghtly,  till  all  dripping  has  stopped. 
Then  place  the  fried  articles  on  soft  or  unglazed  paper,  to 
absorb  the  fat,  and  keep  them  hot  till  ready  to  serve. 
Never  pile  fried  articles  one  on  another. 


Fat  for  Frying. 

Lard,  a  mixture  of  half  suet  and  half  lard,  drippings,  or 
oil,  may  be  used  for  ftying.  Suet  and  drippings  are  cheap- 
est, and  are  preferred  b3^  many.  Suet  used  alone  cools 
very  quickly  and  leaves  a  tallowy  taste.  Drippings  should 
be  carefully  clarified  (see  page  18)  and  freed  from  water, 
or  the  articles  cooked  will  soak  fat.  Lard,  with  a  small 
proportion  of  suet  or  drippings,  is  more  generall}^  satisfac- 
tory. There  is  often  a  verj^  disagreeable  odor  to  new  lard, 
and  more  or  less  water  in  it,  as  is  shown  b}'  the  froth  and 
ebullition  as  soon  as  it  becomes  hot.  Before  it  is  used  for 
any  purpose  it  should  be  clarified  with  slices  of  raw  potato 
and  heated  until  it  becomes  still.  Olive  oil  is  the  purest  fat 
for  frying,  but  it  is  too  expensive  for  general  use.  Cotton- 
seed oil  has  been  recently  introduced  for  cooking  purposes, 
and  is  an  excellent  fat  for  frj-ing,  though  many  dislike  its 
peculiar  odor.     It  may  be  heated  much  hotter  than  lardj 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  ly 

without  burning,  and,  when  properl}'  used,  imparts  no 
flavor  to  the  food.  When  the  fat  becomes  too  brown  for 
potatoes  or  doughnuts,  use  it  for  croquettes,  etc.,  and  then 
use  it  for  nothing  except  fish  balls  and  fish.  When  it  be- 
comes xQvy  brown,  put  it  with  the  soap-grease. 

If  you  wish  to  fty  several  kinds  at  the  same  time,  begin 
with  potatoes,  following  with  doughnuts  or  flour  mixtures, 
and  crumbed  articles  last ;  otherwise  the  crumbs  will  fall 
oflT,  and  adhere  to  whatever  is  put  in  subsequently.  After 
ever}^  frj'ing,  strain  the  fat  through  a  flne  wire  strainer  or 
fine  strainer  cloth  into  a  tin  pail,  not  pouring  it,  but  dip- 
ping it  from  the  kettle  with  a  small  long-handled  dipper. 
Let  it  cool  slightly  before  straining,  as,  if  very  hot,  it  will 
melt  the  strainer.  Sprinkle  coffee  on  the  stove,  while  fry- 
ing, to  disguise  the  odor. 

Sauteing. 

The  ordinar}^  way  of  frying  in  a  shallow  pan  with  onlj^  a 
little  fat,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other,  which  the 
French  call  sauteing^  answers  ver}"  well  for  some  purposes, 
—  omelets,  fried  cakes,  and  many  things  browned  in  butter  ; 
but  nearl}^  everything  that  requires  sluj  more  fat  than  just 
enough  to  keep  it  from  sticking,  is  much  better  immersed 
in  hot  fat.  Fish  balls,  chops,  and  03^sters  are  more  quickly 
cooked,  and  absorb  less  fat,  when  fried  b}"  immersion  than 
when  sauted.  Some  people  are  extremel}^  unwilling  to 
make  the  change,  and  persist  in  going  on  in  the  old  way 
of  cooking  in  a  little,  half-hot  fat  which  spatters  over 
stove  and  floor,  soaks  into  the  fish  or  meat,  and  is  often 
served  as  the  onl}^  grav}-.  Upon  such,  dj^spepsia  is  a  fell 
avenger. 

These  directions  for  frying  are  given  thus  minutely  not 
from  any  desire  to  recommend  this  method  of  cooking ; 
but,  if  people  will  fry  their  food,  they  should  do  it  in  the 
only  correct  wa}'.  With  the  exception  of  salt-fish  balls 
and  small,  dry,  M^hite  fish,  there  is  nothing  fried,  even  in 

2 


1 8  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

the  right  way,  that  would  not  be  equallj'  good,  and  much 
more  conducive  to  health,  were  it  cooked  otherwise.  Sar- 
atoga potatoes,  or  chips  as  the}'  are  called,  are  reall}-  chips, 
for  persons  with  weak  digestion.  O^-sters,  chops,  fritters, 
and  the  materials  in  croquettes,  muffins,  and  doughnuts 
may  be  cooked  in  many  better  wa^s. 

Frying  answers  verj-  well  for  open-air  cooking,  on  the 
seashore  or  in  camp,  where  appetite  and  digestion  are 
strengthened.  But  in  most  modern  houses,  where  the 
odors  from  the  kitchen  penetrate  the  remotest  nook  and 
corner,  there  are  mau}^  serious  objections,  apart  from  the 
indigestibility  of  the  food  thus  prepared.  The  acrid  odors 
given  off  during  the  heating  of  fat  are  ver}^  irritating  to 
the  mucous  membrane  of  the  nose  and  throat,  and  the}'  are 
equally  so  to  a  sensitive  stomach.  Some  persons  who  can 
usually  digest  fried  food  cannot  do  so  when  the  stomach 
has  been  irritated  by  the  odor  in  ftying.  If  all  those  who 
are  so  fond  of  croquettes,  fritters,  etc.,  were  obliged  to 
inhale  the  smoking  fat,  these  dishes  would  seldom  appear 
on  the  table. 

To  clarify  Fat. 

Am^  uncooked  fat,  such  as  suet,  the  fat  from  chickens, 
and  all  superfluous  beef  fat,  should  be  saved  and  clarified, 
or  made  pure  and  clear.  Cut  the  fat  into  small  pieces, 
cover  with  cold  water,  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  the 
fat  has  melted,  and  the  water  nearl}'  all  evaporated.  Then 
strain  and  press  all  the  fat  from  the  scraps.  When  cool, 
remove  the  cake  of  hard  fat,  or,  if  soft,  draw  it  to  one  side 
and  let  the  water  underneath  run  off.  You  may  put  with 
the  new  fat  any  fat  from  soup  stock,  corned  beef,  drippings 
from  roast  beef,  veal,  fresh  pork,  or  chicken  ;  in  fact,  any- 
thing except  the  fat  from  mutton,  turkey,  and  smoked 
meat.  If  there  be  any  sediment  adhering  to  the  fat,  add 
a  little  very  cold  water,  and,  after  stirring  well,  pour  the 
water  off,  or  skim  the  fat  from  the  water.  Place  the  fat 
in  a  pan  over  the  fire,  and,  when  melted,  add  one  small 
raw  potato,  cut  into  thin  slices.     Let  it  stand  on  the  top 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  19 

of  the  stove  or  in  the  oven  till  the  fat  has  stopped  bub- 
bling, is  still,  and  the  scraps  are  brown  and  crisp  and 
rise  to  the  top.  Strain  through  a  fine  strainer,  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place.  Fat  thus  cleared  will  keep  sweet  for 
weeks,  if  melted  occasionall}^  which  should  always  be 
done  when  any  new  fat  is  added. 

Boiling  the  fat  causes  the  water  in  it  to  evaporate,  and 
the  organic  matters  or  impurities  to  be  decomposed,  and 
deposited  as  sediment ;  the  potato,  owing  to  its  porosity 
and  power  of  absorption  (being  mostly  starch  and  carbon) . 
absorbs  any  odors  or  gases,  unites  with  the  sediment,  and 
thus  cleanses  the  fat,  very  much  as  charcoal  purifies  water. 
Clarified  fat  (or  dripping,  as  it  is  usually  termed)  an- 
swers for  many  purposes  in  cooking, — frying,  sauteing, 
basting  roast  meat,  greasing  pans  ;  and  as  shortening  for 
bread,  plain  pastrj^,  and  gingerbread. 

Egg  and  Bread  Crumbing. 

Hints  on  saving  bread  crusts  and  stale  pieces,  for  egg 
and  bread  crumbing,  are  given  on  page  75.  The  crumbs 
should  be  sifted  through  a  fine  sieve.  For  fish  or  meat 
mix  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  parsle\^  with  them. 
Beat  the  eggs  slightly  with  a  fork  in  a  shallow  dish.  Add 
one  tablespoonful  of  water  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk 
for  each  Qg^.  Add  a  little  sugar  if  they  are  to  be  used  for 
sweet  dishes,  and  salt  and  pepper  for  all  others.  Sprinkle 
the  crumbs  on  a  board,  and  roll  the  chop,  fish,  or  cro- 
quettes first  in  the  crumbs  ;  shake  off  all  that  do  not  adhere. 
Cover  all  the  articles  with  the  crumbs  and  let  them  stand 
till  diY}\  then  dip  into  the  beaten  Qgg^  and  be  careful  to 
have  every  part  covered.  Drain  from  the  egg,  and  roll 
again  in  the  crumbs.  Croquettes  or  any  soft  mixture 
should  be  held  on  a  broad  knife  while  being  placed  in  the 
Qgg.  Then  dip  the  Qgg  over  them,  and  slip  the  knife  again 
lengthwise  under  the  croquette,  drain,  and  put  it  carefully 
into  the  crumbs.  Scallops  and  ver}^  small  03'sters  can  be 
more  easily  crumbed  by  placing  them  with  the  crumbs  in  a 


20  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

sheet  of  paper,  and  tossing  or  turning  till  all  are  crumbed. 
Remember  the  order :  crumbs  first,  then  egg^  then  crumbs 
again.  , 

Roasting. 

Roasting  (meaning  "  to  heat  violent!}^"  )  is  cooking  be- 
fore an  open  fire  ;  it  implies  the  action  of  a  much  greater 
degree  of  heat  than  that  emploj'ed  in  an}'  of  the  previously 
specified  methods  of  cooking.  The  heat  of  an  open  fire  is 
about  1,000°. 

In  the  da^'S  of  open  fireplaces  this  was  the  general  way 
of  cooking  large  pieces  of  meat ;  but  now  it  is  adopted 
onl}^  in  large  establishments,  or  by  those  who  can  aflbrd 
the  additional  expense  of  a  tin  kitchen,  and  a  range  con- 
structed especially  for  roasting.  Baking,  or  roasting  in  a 
YQYY  hot  oven,  being  a  cheaper  and  more  convenient  wa}^, 
is  more  generalh^  used.  Ovens  in  stoves  and  ranges  are 
now  well  ventilated  ;  and  meat  when  properly  cooked  in  a 
very  hot  oven,  and  basted  often,  is  nearly  equal  in  flavor 
to  that  roasted  before  an  open  fire.  The  fire  for  roasting 
should  be  clear  and  bright,  and  of  sufiScient  body  to  last, 
with  only  a  slight  sprinkling  of  coal,  through  the  time  for 
roasting. 

The  meat  is  placed  on  a  spit,  and  hung  in  the  jack  in  a 
tin  kitchen,  and  made  to  revolve  slowly  before  the  fire  by 
winding  a  spring  in  the  jack,  or  by  turning  the  spit  at 
regular  intervals.  The  meat  should  be  rubbed  with  salt 
and  flour,  and  placed  on  the  spit,  ver}^  near  the  fire  at 
first,  to  harden  the  albumen ;  then  removed  a  little  dis- 
tance to  prevent  the  meat  from  burning,  before  the  inside 
is  cooked.  Place  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  dripping  in 
the  pan  to  use  in  basting  the  meat  ;  baste  often,  and 
dredge  two  or  three  times  with  flour.  When  the  joint  is 
very  large,  place  a  buttered  paper  over  it. 

As  the  juices  of  meat  are  composed  largely  of  water, 
the  water  will  be  evaporated  as  soon  as  it  reaches  the 
boiling-point,  or  212°.  When  meat  is  placed  in  a  moder- 
ate oven,  the  heat  is  not  suflBcient  to  harden  the  albumen 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  21 

on  the  outer  surface  ;  the  watery  juices  evaporate,  the 
steam  escapes,  and  the  meat  becomes  chy  and  tasteless. 
But  when  meat  is  exposed  to  the  intense  heat  of  an  open 
fire,  or  a  very  hot  oven,  the  albumen  hardens ;  and  if 
basted  frequentl}'  with  hot  fat,  the  meat  is  completely  en- 
veloped in  a  varnish  of  hot  melted  fat,  which  assists  in 
communicating  the  heat  to  the  inside,  and  checks  the 
evaporation  of  the  juices  ;  this  prevents  the  escape  of  the 
steam,  so  that  the  inside  of  properlj^  roasted  meat  is 
really  cooked  in  the  steam  of  its  own  juices.  The  evapo 
ration  of  juices  is  proportionate  to  the  amount  of  surface 
exposed.  A  small  joint  has  a  larger  surface  in  proportion 
to  its  weight  than  a  large  joint  weighing  double  or  treble 
the  amount ;  therefore  the  smalle?-  the  joint  to  be  roasted, 
the  higher  the  temperature  to  which  its  surface  should  be  ex- 
posed, that  the  evaporation  may  be  more  quickty  arrested. 
For  very  thin  pieces  of  meat,  which  have  a  still  larger 
surface  in  proportion  to  the  weight,  such  as  steaks  and 
chops,  a  greater  heat  is  required.  This  is  accomplished 
by  broiling^  which  should  be  done  near  the  burning- 
point,  the  highest  degree  of  heat  employed  in  any  form  of 
cooking. 

Broiling. 

Broiling  (meaning  "  to  burn"  )  is  cooking  directly  over 
the  hot  coals.  The  degree  of  heat  is  so  intense  that  the 
articles  to  be  cooked  would  be  very  quickly  burned,  were 
they  allowed  to  remain  for  any  length  of  time  over  the  fire. 
The  secret  of  nice  broiling  is  frequent  turning.  The  fire 
should  be  bright  red,  and  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  fire-box, 
so  that  the  broiler  maj^  almost  touch  the  fire.  There 
should  be  no  flame,  as  the  flame  from  coal  is  due  to  the 
combustion  of  tany  vapors,  and  will  cause  a  deposit  of 
coal  tar  on  the  meat,  giving  it  a  smoky,  nauseating  flavor. 
When  the  fat  from  the  chop  or  steak  drips  on  the  coals 
and  blazes,  it  deposits  a  film  of  mutton  or  beef  fat  all 
over  the  meat,  which  has  a  very  different  flavor  from  that 
of  the  coal  flame^     When  the  steak  has  much  fat,  remove 


22  The  Boston  Cook  Booh 

part  of  it.  A  little  fat  will  improve  the  flavor,  baste 
the  meat,  and  keep  it  from  becoming  too  dry.  The 
oven  damper  should  alwa^'s  be  opened  while  broiling, 
that  the  smoke  of  the  dripping  fat  may  be  carried  into  the 
chimney. 

There  is  nothing  better  for  broiling  than  a  double  wive 
broiler.  It  is  well  to  have  several  sizes.  Grease  it  well 
with  a  bit  of  the  fat  from  the  meat,  or  with  salt-pork  rindc 
Place  the  thickest  part  of  whatever  is  to  be  broiled  next 
the  middle  of  the  broiler.  Do  not  salt  the  meat,  as  salt 
draws  out  the  juice.  Have  the  platter  heating,  and  every- 
thing else  ready,  that  you  may  not  leave  the  broiling  for 
an  instant.  Hold  the  broiler  firmly,  with  a  coarse  towel 
wrapped  around  your  hand  to  protect  it  from  the  heat. 
Place  it  as  near  the  fire  as  possible,  to  sear  the  outside 
instantl}^ ;  count  ten,  then  sear  the  other  side.  The  heat 
hardens  the  outside,  and  starts  the  flow  of  the  juices. 
Thej^  cannot  escape  through  the  hardened  outer  surface ; 
but  if  the  meat  were  cooked  wholl}'  on  one  side  before 
turning,  the}^  would  soon  come  to  the  top,  and  then,  in 
turning  the  meat,  the  juices  would  drip  into  the  fire.  But 
if  the  meat  be  turned  before  the  juices  reach  the  top,  the 
other  surface  is  hardened,  and  they  cannot  escape,  but  flow 
to  the  centre,  and  are  there  retained.  As  the  juices  are 
converted  into  steam  by  the  heat,  they  swell  and  give  the 
meat  a  pufl'y  appearance.  If  the  broiling  be  carried  on 
too  long,  these  juices  gradually  ooze  between  the  fibres 
to  the  surface,  and  are  evaporated  ;  and  the  meat  becomes 
dry,  leathery,  and  indigestible. 

Meat  should  be  broiled  only  long  enough  to  loosen  all 
the  fibres,  and  start  the  flow  of  the  juices.  The  meat  will 
spring  up  instantly  when  pressed  with  the  knife  ;  and  when 
it  ceases  to  do  this,  the  juices  have  begun  to  evaporate, 
and  the  meat  shrinks.  A  little  experience  will  enable  one 
to  decide  just  when  to  remove  the  meat.  Do  not  cut  into 
it,  as  this  lets  out  the  juices.  It  should  be  pink  and  juicy, 
not  raw  and  purple,  nor  brown  and  dry.  Turn  over  as 
often  as  you  can  count  ten,   and  cook  four  minutes,  if 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  23 

one  inch  thick ;  six,  if  one  inch  and  a  half  thick.  The 
smaller  and  thinner  the  article,  the  hotter  should  be  the 
fire  ;  the  larger  the  article,  the  more  temperate  the  fire,  or 
the  greater  the  distance  from  the  fire. 

Fish  should  be  floured  to  keep  the  skin  from  sticking. 
A  large  baking-pan  to  keep  in  the  heat  should  be  held 
over  an3-thing  which  is  very  thick  and  requires  to  be  cooked 
a  long  time. 

Chickens,  which  need  to  be  thoroughly  broiled  but  not 
burned  or  dried,  require  about  twent}'  minutes.  A  safe 
way  is  to  w^rap  them  in  buttered  glazed  paper ;  cook  the 
inner  side  first,  and  after  the  first  searing  keep  them  at  a 
little  distance  from  the  fire. 

Chops,  bacon,  birds,  and  dr}^  fish  are  also  improved  by 
broiling  in  the  buttered  paper.  Take  a  large  sheet  of 
white  letter  paper,  or  two  small  sheets.  Eub  them  well 
with  softened  butter.  This  keeps  out  the  air.  Season  the 
chop  or  fish  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  it  near  the  centre 
of  the  paper,  and  fold  the  edges  of  the  paper  over  several 
times  and  pinch  them  together  close  to  the  meat.  The 
paper  will  char  a  long  time  before  blazing,  if  care  be  taken 
not  to  break  through  the  paper  and  thus  let  in  the  air  and 
let  out  all  the  fat.  The  meat  will  be  basted  with  its  own 
fat  and  juices.  A  longer  time  will  be  required  for  the 
broiling  ;  but  when  the  paper  is  well  browned,  the  chop  will 
be  done.  It  will  be  found  juicy  and  delicious, — -free 
from  anj"  smoky  flavor. 

Pan-broiling  is  broiling  in  a  hissing  hot  spider  or  ftying- 
pan.  Heat  the  pan  to  a  blue  heat.  Eub  it  with  a  bit  of 
the  beef  fat,  just  enough  to  keep  the  meat  from  sticking, 
but  do  not  leave  any  fat  in  the  pan.  Sear  the  meat  quickly 
on  one  side,  then  turn  without  cutting  into  the  meat,  and 
brown  the  other  side  before  any  juice  escapes  into  the 
pan.  Cook  about  four  minutes,  turning  twice,  and  serve 
very  hot  with  salt  and  butter.  If  the  pan  be  hot  enough 
and  no  fat  used,  this  is  not  frying,  it  is  broiling  on  hot 
iron;  and  the  flavor  is  almost  equal  to  broiling  over  the 
coals. 


24 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh 


Time  Tables  for  Cooking. 


Bahing  Bread,  Cake,  and  Puddings 


Loaf  bread     .     .     . 

.    40  to 

Rolls,  biscuit      .     . 

10  to 

Graham  gems      .     . 

Gingerbread  .     .     . 

20  to 

Sponge  cake  .     .     . 

.     45  to 

Plain        " 

30  to 

Fruit 

2  to 

Cookies      .... 

10  to 

Bread  pudding    .     . 

Rice  and  Tapioca     . 

Indian  jiudding  .     . 

2  to 

Plum           "        .     .     . 

2  to 

Custards 

15  to 

Steamed  brown-bread  . 

Steamed  puddings  .     . 

1  to 

Pie-crust 

about 

Potatoes     .... 

30  to 

Baked  beans        .     . 

6  to 

Braised  meat       .     .     . 

3  to 

Scalloped  dishes      .     . 

15  to 

60  m. 

20   " 

30   " 

30   *' 

GO   " 

40   " 

3hrs. 

15  m. 

Ihr. 

1    ■•' 

3    " 

3    " 

20  m. 

3  hrs. 

3  " 
30  m. 
45   " 

8  hrs. 

4  " 
20  m. 


Baking  Meats. 


Beef,  yirloin,  rare,  per  lb 
Beef,  sirloin,  well  done, 

per  lb 

Beef,  rolled  rib  or  rump, 

per  lb 

Beef,  long  or  short  fillet 
Mutton,  rare,  per  lb. 
Mutton,      well     done, 

per  lb 

Lamb,  well  done,  per  lb. 
Veal       "       " 
Pork      "       "         " 
Turkey,  10  lbs.  wt.      . 
Chickens,  3  to  4  lbs.  wt. 
Goose,  8  lbs.  . 
Tame  duck     . 
Game      " 
Grouse  .     .     . 
Pigeons      .     . 
Small  birds    . 
"V'enison,  per  lb. 
Fish,  G  to  8  lbs 

thin  fish 
Fish,  4  to  6  lbs, 

halibut  .     . 
Fish,  small     . 


long, 


thick 


Boiling. 

Eggs,  coffee,  clams,  oysters 

Rice,  green  corn,  peas,  tomatoes,  asparagus,  hard-boiled  eggs 
Potatoes,  macaroni,  squash,  celery,  spinach,  sweetbreads     .     . 
Young  beets,  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  parsnips,  cauliflower      . 
Young  cabbage,  string  beans,  shell  beans,  oyster  plant  .     .     . 
Winter  vegetables,  oatmeal,  hominy  and  wheat,  chickens  and 

lamb 

Fowls,  turkey,  veal 

Corned  beef,  smoked  tongue,  beef  a  la  mode 

Ham 

Halibut  and  salmon  in  cubical  form,  per  lb . 

Blue-fish,  bass,  etc.,  per  lb 

Cod,  haddock,  aud  small  fish,  per  lb .     , 


.  8  to  10  nj. 

12  to  15  " 

12  to  15   '• 

20  to  30   '' 

10   " 

15  " 

15  " 

20  " 

30  " 

3  hrs 

1  to  1^-  " 

2  " 

40  to  60  m. 

30  to  40  " 

30  '' 

30  " 

15  to  20  " 

15  " 

Ihr. 


20  to  30  m. 


to  5  m. 
to  20  " 
to  30  •' 
to  45  " 
to  60  " 

to  2hn 
to  3  " 
to  4  •' 
to    5    " 

15  m. 

10  " 
6    " 


Frying. 

Smelts,  small  fish,  croquettes,  fish  balls ,     .  1  m 

Muffins,  fritters,  doughnuts >     .     .     .  3  to    5   " 

Slices  of  fish,  breaded  chops 4  to    6   *' 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  25 


Broiling. 

Steak,  one  inch  thick 4  m. 

Steak,  one  and  a  half  inch  thick 6  " 

Small,  thin  fish 5  to    8  " 

Thick  fish 12  to  15  " 

Chops,  broiled  in  paper 8  to  10  " 

Chickens 20   " 


Larding. 

Manj'  kinds  of  meat  which  are  very  lean  and  dry  are 
improved  by  the  addition  of  some  kind  of  fat.  The  tender- 
loin or  fillet  of  beef,  the  thick  part  of  the  leg  of  veal,  grouse, 
and  liver,  are  often  prepared  in  this  wa}'. 

Larding  is  drawing  small  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  or  bacon 
through  the  surface  of  the  meat ;  daubing  is  forcing  strips 
of  pork  through  the  entire  thickness  of  the  meat.  Take  a 
piece  of  fat  salt  pork  two  inches  wide  and  four  inches 
long.  Shave  off  the  rind  the  long  way  of  the  pork  ;  then 
cut  two  or  three  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
the  same  waj-  as  the  rind  ;  cut  only  to  the  membrane  which 
lies  about  an  inch  below  the  rind,  as  this  is  the  firmest 
part  of  the  pork  ;  then  cut  each  slice  across  the  width,  into 
strips  one  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  This  will  make  the 
lardoons  one  quarter  of  an  inch  wide  and  thick  and  two 
inches  long.  Insert  one  end  of  the  lardoon  into  the  end 
of  the  larding-needle,  then  with  the  point  of  the  needle 
take  up  a  stitch  half  an  inch  deep  and  one  inch  wide  in 
the  surface  of  the  meat.  Draw  the  needle  through,  and 
help  the  pork  to  go  through  by  pushing  until  parti}'  through, 
then  hold  the  end  of  the  pork  and  draw  the  needle  out, 
leaving  the  pork  in  the  meat,  with  the  ends  projecting 
at  equal  lengths,  Take  up  more  stitches  one  inch  apart 
in  parallel  or  alternate  rows,  until  the  whole  surface  is 
covered. 

Daubing  is  applied  to  a  broad,  thick  piece  of  beef  or 
veal.  Cut  the  pork  in  strips  one  third  of  an  inch  wide  and 
thick,  and  as  long  as  the  meat  is  thick.  Punch  a  hole 
clear  through  the  meat  with  a  steel,  and  then  insert  the 


26  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

lardoon  with  a  large  larding-needle  or  with  the  fingers. 
The  salt  and  fat  from  the  lardoons  penetrate  the  inside  of 
the  meat,  and  b}'  man}'  are  considered  an  improvement. 
Those  who  object  to  the  pork  will  find  that  beef  maj'  be 
seasoned  as  well  hy  covering  the  surface  with  nice  beef 
suet,  salted  ;  or  the  pork  may  be  laid  on  the  meat  and 
removed  after  cooking.  The  process  is  not  difficult,  re- 
quiring no  more  skill  than  any  other  kind  of  sewing. 

Boning. 

Any  one  who  can  use  a  sharp  knife,  and  scrape  meat  or 
fish  from  a  bone,  without  cutting  her  own  flesh,  can  bone 
an}- thing,  from  the  smallest  bird,  chop,  or  fish,  to  a  leg  or 
forequarter  of  lamb,  or  a  turkey.  A  small  knife  with  a 
sharp,  short,  pointed  blade,  is  all  that  is  required.  It  is 
well  to  begin  on  a  small  scale  b}^  removing  the  bone  from 
a  chop  or  steak.  The  aim  is  to  remove  the  flesh  from  the 
bone  without  cutting  into  the  flesh,  or  destroying  its  shape 
more  than  is  necessar}'. 

To  Bone  a  Chop  or  Steak.  —  Begin  at  the  bone  end,  scrape 
the  meat  awa}- ,  leaving  the  bone  clean  and  the  flesh  un- 
broken. If  there  be  a  piece  of  tenderloin  under  the  bone, 
remove  it,  and  put  it  up  close  to  the  meat,  which  was 
above  the  bone  in  the  original  form. 

Directions  for  boning  fish  are  given  on  page  161. 

To  Bone  a  Leg  of  Mutton.  —  Cut  it  ofi"  at  the  first  joint, 
insert  the  knife  near  the  joint,  and  loosen  the  flesh  from 
the  bone,  leaving  all  the  gristle  and  tendons  on  the  bone. 
Then  begin  at  the  tail  end,  and  scrape  the  fat  away  from 
the  backbone,  then  follow  the  bone  (jo\x  can  easily  tell  b}' 
the  feeling,  if  you  cannot  see  it)  until  3'ou  come  to  the 
joint ;  leave  all  the  gristle  and  cords  on  the  bone,  and  con- 
tinue scraping  off  the  flesh  till  the  whole  bone  is  out.  One 
could  easil}-  cut  through  ^rom  the  outside  to  the  bone  and 
remove  it  in  that  way ;  but  the  flesh  would  have  to  be 
sewed  together,  and  much  of  the  juice  would  escape. 
After  removing  the  bone,  stuff  the  cavit}'  left  by  the  bone, 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  27 

and  sew  the  skin  together  at  the  smaller  end.  Then  bring 
the  edges  together  at  the  upper  end,  crowding  all  the  flesh 
inside,  and  sew  the  skin  together  tightly.  This  gives  a 
rectangnlar  form  of  solid  meat  and  stuffing.  When  salted 
and  floured  and  exposed  to  a  hot  oven,  the  juices  are  kept 
inside  ;  the  meat  is  more  conveniently  served,  and,  when 
cold,  does  not  become  drj'  and  hard. 

Any  other  pieces  of  meat  are  boned  in  a  similar  manner. 

To  Bone  a  Bird,  Fowl,  or  Turkey.  —  In  this  case  the 
flesh  is  to  be  kept  in  the  skin  in  order  to  preserve  the 
shape.  The  skin  should  be  firm  and  unbroken,  and 
the  bird  should  not  be  drawn.  Remove  the  head  and  pin- 
feathers,  singe  and  wipe  carefullj'.  Remove  the  tendons 
from  the  legs,  and  loosen  the  skin  round  the  end  of  the 
drumstick.  Make  an  incision  through  the  skin  from  the 
neck  to  the  middle  of  the  back,  or  near  the  junction  of 
the  side  bone.  Scrape  the  flesh  wdth  the  skin  away  from 
the  backbone  until  you  feel  the  end  of  the  shoulder-blade  ; 
loosen  the  flesh  from  this,  and  then  follow  the  bone  to  the 
wing  joint,  and  down  to  the  middle  joint  in  the  wing. 
The  skin  lies  very  near  the  bone  underneath  the  joint, 
and  care  must  be  taken  to  avoid  cutting  through  the  skin 
at  these  places.  Leave  the  first  bone  in  the  wing  to  aid 
in  keeping  the  shape  ;  it  ma}"  be  removed  before  serving. 
In  small  birds  there  is  so  little  meat  on  the  wings,  that 
it  is  just  as  well  to  cut  them  off"  at  the  middle  joint.  Re- 
move the  bone  from  the  other  wing  in  the  same  wa}',  then 
follow  the  collar  bone  from  the  wing  down  to  the  breast- 
bone, loosening  the  crop  from  the  flesh.  In  removing  the 
flesh  from  the  breastbone,  be  careful  not  to  cut  through 
the  skin  on  the  ridge.  The  flesh  maj^  be  pushed  away 
with  the  fingers,  and  the  fillets  or  pieces  that  are  detached 
from  the  other  flesh  can  be  laid  aside,  and  put  in  place 
afterwards.  When  the  breastbone  is  bare,  separate  the 
flesh  from  the  ribs,  and  be  careful  not  to  break  through 
the  membrane  into  the  inside.  Remove  the  flesh  round 
tlie  second  joint,  then  the  drumsticks,  turning  the  flesh 
wrong  side  out   as  in  pulling  a  glove   from    the   finger. 


28  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Repeat  this  process  on  the  other  side.  Then  scrape  down 
to  the  end  of  the  backbone,  and  cut  through  the  bone, 
leaving  a  part  of  it  in  the  tail.  Separate  the  membrane 
under  the  body  without  breaking.  Thus  you  have  the 
flesh  in  the  skin,  and  the  skeleton  left  entire  with  the  con- 
tents undisturbed  in  the  inside.  Lay  the  stuffing  in,  filling 
out  the  legs  and  wings,  then  sew  the  skin  along  the  back, 
and  skewer  or  tie  into  the  original  shape. 

An  easier  way  of  boning  a  fowl  where  it  is  to  be  rolled 
like  a  galantine^  is  to  cut  off  the  wings  at  the  second  joint, 
break  the  drumstick  half-wa}^  from  the  joint,  cut  the  skin 
down  the  entire  length  of  the  back,  remove  the  flesh  from 
the  wing  and  second  joint,  turning  the  skin  and  flesh  off 
like  a  glove  ;  then  do  the  same  on  the  other  wing  and  leg, 
lea^sdng  the  breast  till  the  last.  The  wings  and  legs  are 
turned  inside,  the  stuffing  is  laid  in  the  flesh,  and  the 
whole  rolled  over  and  over,  and  sewed  on  the  edge  of  the 
skin  and  at  the  ends  of  the  roll. 

Measuring. 

It  has  been  said  that  "  good  cooks  never  measure  any- 
thing." They  do.  The}"  measure  by  judgment  and  ex- 
perience ;  and  until  you  have  a  large  share  of  both  these 
essential  qualities,  use  3'our  spoon  and  cup  or  scales. 

Measures,  in  preference  to  weights,  are  used  in  nearly 
all  these  receipts,  as  they  are  more  convenient  for  the  ma- 
jority of  housekeepers.  When  measured  and  estimated  by 
the  Table  of  Weights  and  Measures  on  page  30,  the  cup 
and  spoon  may  be  used  as  accuratel}^  as  the  scales. 

Flour,  meal,  sugar,  salt,  spices,  and  soda  should  al- 
ways be  sifted  before  measuring.  An}"  other  materials 
that  have  been  packed,  like  mustard  and  baking  powder, 
if  not  sifted,  should  be  stirred,  and  broken  up  light]}'. 
One  tablespoonful  of  solid  mustard  taken  carelessl}'  from 
the  box  has  been  found  equal  to  three  tablespoonfuls 
measured  after  sifting. 

The  saltspoons,  teaspoons,  and  tablespoons  used  in  these 
receipts  are  the  silver  spoons  now  in  general  use.     Iron 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  29 

mixing-spoons  vary  much  in  size,  but  tiiere  is  a  size  wiiicii 
holds  exactl}'  the  same  as  a  silver  tablespoon.  Be  careful 
to  use  this  size  in  measuring.  The  cup  is  the  common 
kitchen  cup  holding  half  a  pint.  Those  with  handles  are 
more  convenient. 

To  measure  a  teaspoonful  of  dr}^  material,  dip  into  the 
sifted  material,  and  take  up  a  heaping  spoonful,  shake  it 
slightl}^  until  it  is  just  rounded  over,  or  convex  in  the 
same  proportion  as  the  spoon  is  concave.  An.  even  ov  scam 
teaspoonful  means  the  spoon  filled  lightly,  and  levelled  off 
with  a  knife.  One  half  teaspoonful  is  most  accuratel}' 
measured  by  dividing  through  the  middle  lengthwise. 
When  divided  across  the  width  the  tip  is  smaller  than  the 
lower  half.  A  heaping  teaspoonful  is  all  the  spoon  will 
hold  of  au}^  lightly  sifted  material.  A  teaspoonful  of  liquid 
is  the  spoon  full  to  the  brim. 

Tablespoonfuls  are  measured  in  the  same  waj'. 

A  cupful  of  diVj  material  should  be  filled  and  heaped 
lightly  (not  shaken  down),  then  levelled  off"  even  with  the 
top.  A  small  scoop  should  be  kept  in  the  flour  or  sugar 
to  use  in  filling  the. cup.  A  heaping  cupful  is  all  the  cup  will 
hold.  A  cupful  of  liquid  is  not  what  }■  ou  can  carr^^  without 
spilling,  but  what  the  cup  will  hold  without  running  over  ; 
full  to  the  brim.  Place  your  cup  in  a  saucer,  while  filling- 
it,  or  in  the  bowl  in  which  the  liquid  is  to  be  poured. 
Half  a  cupful  is  not  half  the  distance  from  the  bottom  to 
the  rim.  Most  cups  are  smaller  at  the  bottom,  for  which 
allowance  must  be  made.  Take  two  cups  of  the  same 
size  and  shape,  fill  one  with  water,  then  pour  the  water 
without  spilling  into  the  other  cup  until  it  stands  at  the 
same  level  in  both  cups.  This  gives  you  the  half-cupful 
exactly,  which  in  the  cups  used  here  is  two  thirds  of  the 
height,  or  within  an  inch  of  the  top.  The  quarter  and 
three-quarter  measures  may  be  found  in  the  same  wa3^  A 
scant  cupful  is  within  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  the  top. 

'•''Butter  the  size  of  an  egg^'  is  a  very  common  expression. 
This  equals  about  one  quarter  of  a  cupful,  or  two  ounces, 
or  one  heaping  tablespoonful,  either  of  which  is  more  easily 


30  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


written  than  the  first  expression.  Place  an  e^g  in  one 
tablespoon,  then  pack  butter  in  another  till  it  fills  the 
spoon  in  the  same  proportion  as  the  egg^  and  joii  will 
easily  cany  it  in  mind. 

Have  3'our  materials  measured  or  at  hand,  and  all  uten- 
sils ready  before  beginning  the  mixing,  or  putting  the 
ingredients  together.  Keep  a  bucket  or  pan  full  of  flour, 
freshly  sifted  each  day,  and  ready  for  use.  Measure  flour 
first,  and  put  it  in  a  bowl  or  pan  together  with  salt,  soda, 
cream  of  tartar,  and  spice  ;  measure  butter  and  put  it  in 
the  mixing-bowl ;  then  measure  the  sugar,  and,  in  scraping 
out  the  sugar,  take  the  butter  which  has  adhered  to  the 
cup.  Break  your  eggs  on  the  edge  of  the  cup  ;  if  the  white 
be  clear,  the  egg  is  good.  Put  the  yolks  in  one  bowl  and 
the  whites  in  another ;  measure  the  milk  or  liquid,  and, 
after  using  the  beaten  yolk,  clean  out  the  bowl  with  the 
milk.  Or,  measure  all  the  dr}'  ingredients,  break  and  sep- 
arate the  eggs,  measure  the  milk,  add  it  to  the  beaten 
yolks,  and  measure  the  melted  butter  last.  In  either  waj^ 
you  can  make  one  cup  do  for  all  without  washing.  "'Two 
eggs  beaten  separately  "  means  that  the  3'Olks  and  whites 
are  to  be  beaten  separately,  not  each  whole  Qgg  beaten 
separatel}^ 

A  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  is  measured  after  melt- 
ing. A  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted  is  measured  before 
melting. 

To  economize  space,  in  many  of  the  receipts  the  abbre- 
viations are  written :  one  cup  for  one  cupful,  tablesp.  for 
tablespoonful,  teasp.  for  teaspoonful,  and  saltsp.  for  salt- 
spoonful.  All  these  measures  mean  a  full  measure,  unless 
scant  or  heaping  measures  are  specified. 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures. 

4  saltspoonfuls  of  liquid  —  1  teaspoonful. 

4  teaspoonfuls  of  liquid  =  1  tablespoonful. 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  dry  material  =  1  tablespoonful. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  =  1  wineglass,  or  ^  gill,  or  {  cup 
2  gills  =  1  cup,  or  \  pint. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


31 


16  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid 

12  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  material 

8  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  material 
4  cups  of  liquid 

4  cups  of  flour 

2  cups  of  solid  butter 

\  cup  of  butter 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar 
2^  cups  of  powdered  sugar 

3  cups  of  naeal 

1  pint  of  milk  or  water 

1  pint  of  chopped  meat  packed  solidly 

9  large  eggs,  10  medium  eggs 

1  round  tablespoonful  of  butter 
1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter 
Butter  the  size  of  an  QQg 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar 

2  round  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
2  round  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee 

2  round  tablespoonfuls  of  powd  sugar 

1  tablespoonful  of  liquid 

1  bottle  S.  M.  wine 

1  bottle  brandy 

1  small  bottle  Burnett's  extract 

1  small  bottle  Burnett's  extract 

1  flask  of  olive  oil 


- 1  cup. 

:  1  cup. 
:  1  cup. 

:  1  quart. 

:  1  pound,  or  1  quart. 

:  1  pound. 

:  i  pound. 

:  1  pound. 

:  1  poimd. 

:  1  pound. 

1  pound. 
:  1  pound. 
:  1  pound. 
:  1  ounce. 

2  ounces,  or  \  cup. 

:  2  ounces,  or  \  cup. 

:  1  ounce. 

:  1  ounce. 

1  ounce. 

1  ounce. 

^  ounce. 

3  cups,  or  48  tablespoonfuls- 
1^  cups,  or  24  tablespoonfuls- 
J  cup  scant,  or  3  tablespoonfuls 

:  12  teaspoonfuls. 
1^  cups,  or  20  tablespoonfuls. 


Table  of  Proportions. 

1  scant  measure  of  liquid  to  3  full  measures  of  flour,  for  bread. 

1  scant  measure  of  liquid  to  2  full  measures  of  flour,  for  muffins. 

1  scant  measure  of  liquid  to  1  full  measure  of  flour,  for  batters. 

^  cup  of  yeast,  or  ^  of  compressed  yeastcake,  to  one  pint  of  liquid. 

1  even  teasp.  of  soda  and  2  full  teasp.  of  cream  tartar  to  1  quart  of  flour. 

3  heaping,  or  4  even  teaspoonfuls,  of  baking  powder  to  1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  1  pint  of  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  1  cup  of  molasses. 

1  saltspoonful  of  salt  to  1  quart  of  milk  for  custards. 

1  teaspoonful  of  extract  to  1  quart  of  custard. 

1  saltspoonful  of  salt  to  1  loaf  of  sponge  cake. 

1  teaspoonful  of  extract  to  1  loaf  of  plain  cake. 

1  saltspoonful  of  spice  to  1  loaf  of  plain  cake. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  1  quart  of  soup  stock  or  2  quarts  of  flour. 

I  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper  to  1  quart  of  soup  stock. 

1  teaspoonful  of  mixed  herbs  to  1  quart  of  soup  stock. 

1  tablespoonful  of  each  chopped  vegetable  to  1  quart  of  soup  stock. 

A  speck  of  cayenne  pepper  is  what  you  can  take  up  on  the  point  of  a  pen- 
knife or  on  a  quarter-inch  square  surface. 

A  pinch  of  salt  or  spice  is  about  a  saltspoonful. 

A  pinch  of  hops  is  J  of  a  cup. 


32  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

The  proportions  of  seasoning  given  in  these  receipts  are 
not  sufficient  for  those  who  like  highly  seasoned  food.  It 
is  easier  to  add  more,  than  to  remove  an}^  if  too  highlj' 
seasoned. 


Mixed  Spice  for  Rich  Cakes  and  Plum  Puddings. 

\  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  allspice. 

1  teaspoonful  each  of  mace  and  grated  nutmeg. 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon. 


Spice  Salt  for  Soups  and  Stuffings. 

4  ounces  of  salt. 

2  ounces  of  celery  salt. 

1  ounce  each  of  Avhite  pepper  and  ground  thyme. 

1  ounce  each  of  marjoram  and  summer  savory. 

i  ounce  of  sage. 

1  saltspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper. 

i  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  allspice,  and  mace. 


Mix,  sift,  and  keep  closely  covered. 


Mixed  Whole  Herbs,  for  Soups  and  Braised  Meats. 

1  bunch  each  of  whole  thyme  and  marjoram. 
1  bunch  each  of  summer  savory  and  sage, 
i  pound  of  bay  leaves. 

Crush  and  break  the  leaves,  blossoms,  and  stalks,  and 
mix  thoroughly. 

Mixing. 

Next  to  care  in  measuring  comes  the  manner  of  mixing. 
The  most  accurate  measurement  of  the  best  materials  is 
often  rendered  useless  by  a  neglect  to  put  them  together 
properly,  and  the  blame  is  usually  charged  to  the  oven  or 
the  receipt.  There  are  three  distinct  ways  of  mixing : 
Stirring^  Beating^  and  Gutting  or  Folding. 

Stirring.  —  Let  the  bowl  of  the  spoon  rest  slightl}^  on 
the  bottom  of  the  mixing-bowl ;  then  move  round  and 
round  in  widening  circles,  without  lifting  the  spoon  out  of 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  33 

the  mixture,  except  to  scrape  the  sides  of  the  bowl  occa- 
sionalh\  Stir  slowl}'  at  first,  to  avoid  spattering ;  add  the 
Uquid  graduall}',  and  be  sure  the  bowl  of  the  spoon  (not 
the  edge  nor  the  tip  merely)  touches  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  the  bowl.  This  is  mashing  as  well  as  stirring,  and  the 
mixture  soon  becomes  a  paste.  When  perfectl}'  smooth 
and  free  from  lumps,  add  more  liquid  till  3'ou  have  the 
desired  consistenc}'.  We  siiV  flour  and  water  together  for 
a  thickening,  or  butter  and  flour  and  milk  for  a  sauce. 
We  stir  when  we  rub  butter  to  a  cream,  or  when  we  make 
a  batter  or  semi-dough.  When  we  make  a  stifl"  dough  we 
stir  at  first,  and  then  turn  the  whole  mass  over,  bringing 
the  knife  or  spoon  round  the  bowl  and  cutting  up  through 
the  dough. 

Beating.  — Tip  the  bowl  slightly,  and  hold  the  spoon  so 
that  the  edge  scrapes  the  bowl,  and  bring  it  up  through 
the  mixture  and  over  with  a  long  quick  flop  to  the  oppo- 
site side ;  under,  and  up  through  again,  lifting  the  spoon 
out  of  the  mass  and  cutting  clear  through,  scraping  from 
the  bottom  at  every  stroke.  Keep  the  bowl  of  the  spoon 
and  the  sides  of  the  mixing-bowl  well  scraped  out,  that 
all  the  material  ma}-^  be  equally  beaten. 

We  stir  simply  to  blend  two  or  more  materials  ;  we 
beat  to  entangle  all  the  air  possible  in  the  mixture.  We 
beat  eggs  or  batter  or  soft  dough.  The  albumen  of  the 
eggs  and  the  gluten  of  the  flour,  owing  to  their  viscidit}'  or 
glutinous  properties,  catch  the  air  and  hold  it  in  the  form 
of  cells,  something  as  we  make  soap  bubbles  hy  blowing 
air  into  soap}'  water.  The  faster  we  beat,  and  the  more 
we  bring  the  material  up  from  the  bowl  into  the  air,  the 
more  bubbles  we  have ;  but  one  stirring  motion  will  de- 
stro}'  them.  Yolks  of  eggs  should  be  beaten  nearly  as 
much  as  the  whites,  or  till  the}^  are  light  or  lemon-colored, 
and  thicken  perceptibly^  The  whites  should  be  beaten  till 
they  are  stiff"  and  dr}',  or  fly  off"  in  flakes,  or  can  be  turned 
upside  down  without  spilling.  When  the  two  are  to  be 
put  together,  always  plan  to  turn  the  whites  into  the  yolks, 
as  there  is  less  waste  than  when  the  yolks  are  turned  into 


34  The  Boston  Cook  Boole, 

the  whites.  Let  the  whites  sttind  a  minute,  then  run  a 
palette  knife  round  the  edge  close  to  the  bowl ;  they  will 
slip  out  easily,  and  leave  the  bowl  almost  clean.  For 
beating  eggs,  for  nearly  all  purposes  the  Dover  egg-beater 
is  the  best.  There  should  be  two  sizes,  the  larger  one  for 
the  whites  of  eggs.  Hold  the  beater  lightly  in  the  left 
hand,  and  move  it  round  through  the  Qgg  while  turning 
the  handle.  For  frosting,  and  snow  pudding,  and  all  beat- 
ing of  soft  dough,  use  a  perforated  wooden  spoon.  Bowls 
with  slightly  flaring  sides,  and  not  too  deep  to  be  clasped 
from  bottom  to  rim  in  the  left  hand,  are  most  convenient. 
If  tipped  slightly  toward  the  right,  the  beating  is  done 
more  effectually. 

Gutting,  or  Folding,  or  Lifting.  —  Omelets,  sponge  cake, 
whipped  cream,  etc.,  should  have  the  beaten  white  cut  or 
folded  in  carefully  to  avoid  breaking  the  air  bubbles.  Turn 
the  mixture  over  with  the  spoon,  cut  through,  lift  up,  and 
fold  the  materials  together,  lifting  the  part  from  below,  up 
and  over,  and  mixing  very  gently  until  just  blended.  Do 
not  stir  round  and  round,  nor  beat  quickly. 

All  mixtures  which  are  raised  with  eggs  alone,  should 
have  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  thoroughly  and 
separately  beaten ;  any  very  thin  batter,  like  pop-overs, 
pancakes,  or  gems  made  without  eggs,  should  be  beaten 
vigorously  just  before  baking.  Graham  or  whole-wheat 
flour  is  better  than  white  flour  for  gems  that  are  made 
without  eggs,  because  it  contains  more  gluten. 

Shall  we  stir  only  one  way?  No;  stir  any  way  you 
please,  so  long  as  3^ou  blend  or  mix  the  materials.  But 
after  heating  in  air  bubbles,  don't  break  them  by  stirring^ 
unless  3'ou  wish  to  keep  up  the  game  of  cross  purposes 
indefinitely.  Always  let  the  last  motion,  before  turning 
into  the  pans,  be  one  of  quick,  vigorous  heating ;  except 
in  those  receipts  where  folding  instead  of  beating  is 
indicated. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


35 


Table  of  Average  Cost  of  Material  used  in  Cooking. 


1  cup  of  flour  or  meal    .     . 

$0.01 

1  pound  of  spaghetti      .     . 

$0.16 

1         "    sugar      .... 

.06 

1            ''      cornstarch  .     . 

.10 

1         "    butter     .... 

.20 

1  can  of  tomatoes      .     .     . 

.15 

1  effar 

.03 

1       •'     salmon    .... 
1        "     lobster     .... 

.18 

^oo 

1  cup  of  molasses     .     .     . 

.05 

.15 

1         "      milk 

.02 

1       "     devilled  ham  and  toi 

gue  .30 

1  tablespoonful  of  wine 

.02 

1  tumbler  of  jelly      .     .     . 

.35 

1         "           "         brandy 

.04 

1  jar  of  marmalade  .     .     . 

.25 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla     . 

.02 

1  poimd  of  tea      .    .     .     • 

.75 

1         "           "      spice  .     . 

.02 

1           *'       coffee      .     .     .     . 

.38 

1        "           "      soda,  and   $ 

I 

1          "      chocolate     .     .     • 

.40 

teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tarta 

r        .02 

^          "       nutmeg   .     .     . 

.32 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter    . 

.03 

\          "       mace  .... 

.60 

Butter  size  of  an  qqq     .     . 

.05 

1          "      cloves,  cassia   .• 

.15 

1  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil 

.02 

1          "       ginger     .     .     . 

.10 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee  . 

.05 

i          "      mustard  .     .     . 

.12 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  tea     .     . 

.01 

\          "       herbs,  ground  . 

.10 

1  quart  of  milkman's  cream 

.25 

Package  of  whole  herbs    . 

8 

1          "      Deerfoot  cream 

.60 

1  pound  of  cheese      .     .     . 

.18 

1  box  of  gelatine  .... 

.16 

1          "       Parmesan  cheese 

.50 

1  lemon 

.02 

1  peck  of  potatoes     .     .     . 
1          "     apples  .... 

.25 

1  orange 

.03 

.50 

1  pound  of  raisins     .     .     . 

18 

1  quart  of  onions       .     .     . 

.10 

1           "       currants . 

.10 
.18 

1  carrot  

.02 

1           "       citron      .     .  '  . 

1  turnip 

.05 

1           "       crackers      .     . 

.10 

1  bunch  of  celery      .     .     . 

.20 

1           '•       tapioca   .     .     . 

.07 

1  handful  of  parsley      .     . 

.05 

1           *'       rice     .... 

.09 

1  bunch  of  watercresses     . 

.05 

1           "       macaroni     .     . 

.18 

1  head  of  lettuce  .     .     .     , 

.10 

These  prices  are  for  the  best  materials,  and  are  esti- 
mated for  the  season,  from  October  to  June,  when  butter 
and  eggs  are  higher  than  during  the  summer. 


36  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


BREAD   AND   BREAD   MAKING-. 

Importance  of  Bread.  —  Bread  is  one  of  the  earliest,  the 
most  generally  used,  and  the  most  important  forms  of 
food  adopted  by  mankind.  Nothing  in  the  whole  range 
of  domestic  life  more  affects  the  health  and  happiness  of 
the  family  than  the  quality  of  its  daily  bread.  With  good 
bread,  the  plainest  meal  is  a  feast  in  itself ;  without  it,  the 
most  elaborately  prepared  and  elegantly  served  menu  is 
unsatisfactor3\ 

Bread-making  is  at  once  the  easiest  and  the  most  difficult 
branch  of  culinarj^  science,  —  easy,  if  onlj^  sufficient  inter- 
est be  taken  to  master  a  few  elementary  principles  and 
to  follow  them  alwaj'S,  using  the  judgment  of  the  best 
authorities,  until  experience  furnishes  a  sufficient  guide  ; 
difficult,  if  there  be  an}'  neglect  to  use  proper  care  and 
materials.  It  should  be  regarded  as  one  of  the  highest 
accomplishments  ;  and  if  one  tenth  part  of  the  interest, 
time,  and  thought  which  are  devoted  to  cake  and  pastry 
and  fancy  cooking  were  spent  upon  this  most  important 
article  of  food,  the  presence  of  good  bread  upon  our  tables 
would  be  invariably  secured. 

Origin  and  Cleaning  of- '- Bread. '^  — Bread  is  made  from  a 
variet}'  of  substances,  —  roots,  fruits,  and  the  bark  of  trees  ; 
but  more  generally  from  certain  grains.  The  word  bread 
is  derived  from  the  verb  to  hray^  or  pounds  expressive  of  the 
old  method  of  preparing  the  grain.  Bread  is  therefore 
made  of  something  bra3^ed,  as  brayed  wheat  or  bra3^ed 
corn.  But  these  bra^-ed  or  ground  materials  are  not  prop- 
erly bread  until  they  are  mixed  or  moistened  with  water. 
Then  the  bra3^ed  grain  becomes  dough.^  from  a  word  mean- 
ing to  wet,  or  moisten.  In  primitive  times  this  wetted 
meal  or  dough  was  baked  at  once  in  hot  ashes,  and  made 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  37 

a  firm,  compact  bread,  exceedingly  hard  of  digestion. 
Accidentally  some  one  discovered  that  by  letting  the  dough 
stand  till  it  had  fermented,  and  then  mixing  it  with  new 
dough,  it  raised,  or  lifted,  the  whole  mass,  and  made  it 
lighter  and  more  porous.  Thus  we  have  our  word  loaf. 
from  lijian,  to  raise,  or  lift  up.  The  old  dough — or  leaven, 
as  it  is  called — lifts  up  the  dough.  The  raised  mass  is  held 
in  place  by  the  heat  in  baldng,  and  becomes  the  loaf  of 
raised  bread. 

Bread  made  from  Wheat.  —  Bread  is  made  principally  from 
wheat  flour.  Rye  and  corn  meal  are  sometimes  used,  but 
better  results  are  obtained  when  there  is  a  mixture  of  wheat 
with  one  or  more  of  these  grains.  Rj-e  used  alone  makes 
a  close,  moist,  stick3'  bread ;  while  corn  meal  alone  makes 
too  dr}^  and  crumbly  a  loaf. 

Wheat  is  an  annual  grass  of  unknown  origin,  cultivated 
more  extensivelj'  in  the  Northern  hemisphere.  There  are 
over  one  hundred  and  fifty  varieties  of  wheat.  They  are 
classified  as  red  or  white,  in  reference  to  the  color  of  the 
grains;  as  winter  or  summer,  —  winter  wheat  being  sown 
in  the  autumn,  and  summer  wheat  in  the  spring ;  as  soft 
or  hard,  — soft  wheat  being  tender  and  floury  or  starchy, 
and  hard  wheat  being  tough,  firm,  and  containing  more 
gluten. 

Chemical  Composition  of  Wheat.  —  Wheat  is  the  only  gram 
which  contains  gluten  in  the  proper  proportion  and  of  the 
desired  quality  essential  to 
the  making  of  light,  spongy 
bread.  It  contains  all  the 
elements  necessary  for  the 
growth  of  the  body  ;  but,  to 
meet  all  the  requirements  of 
nutrition,  the  whole  of  the 
grain,  with  the  exception  of     ^     ,    ^    .     ^   ^   ^    ^    . 

^  '  ^  Fig.  1.     Gram  of  wheat,  showing  outer 

the    outer    husk,     should    be  coat  of  silex  and  woody  fibre. 

used.      Wheat   has   several 

laj-ers  of  bran  coats,  the  outer  one  of  which  is  almost  wholly 

pure  silica  and  is  perfectly  indigestible.     Underneath  this 


38 


The  Boston  Coo/£  Book, 


Fig.  2.     Grain  of  wlieat  with  bran  coat 
removed. 


husk  lie  the  inner  bran  coats,  containing  gluteal,  a  dark  sub- 
stance which  is  the  nitrogenous  or  flesh-forming  element, 

the  phosphates  and  other  min- 
eral matters  which  help  to 
make  up  the  bon}-  parts  of 
the  bod}',  and  the  oil  which 
gives  the  characteristic  odor 
to  wheat  grains.  The  cen- 
tre, or  heart,  of  the  grain 
consists  of  cells  filled  with 
starchy  a  fine,  white,  mealy 
powder,  which  has  little  value  as  food  except  as  a  heat 
producer.  There  is  also  a  small  amount  of  gluten  dif- 
fused among  the  starch  cells.  For  convenience,  these  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  wheat  will  be  designated  as  bran,  or 
the  outer  husk  ;  gluten,  or 
the  inner  bran  coats  ;  and 
starch,  or  the  heart  of  the 
wheat.  The  proportion  and 
quality  of  the  gluten  and 
starch  in  different  kinds  of 
wheat  vary  according  to  the 
climate  and  soil  in  which 
they  are  grown.  They  are 
also  affected  by  the  method 
of  grinding  the  grain.  Wheat  grown  in  Southern  or  warm 
climates,  and  in  the  intense,  though  short,  summer  of  our 
own  Northwest,  contains  more  nitrogen  than  that  grown  in 
cold,  damp  climates.  It  loses  more  water  b}'  evaporation, 
and  consequently  the  seed  is  smaller  and  harder.  In  some 
varieties  of  wheat  the  outer  husk  is  thin  and  smooth,  and 
peels  off  readil}^  under  the  stones.  In  others,  it  is  thick 
and  rough,  and  adheres  closely  to  the  kernel.  In  some,  it 
is  light-colored  or  brittle  ;  in  others,  dark-colored  or  tough. 
The  husk}^  portion  of  wheat  is  about  fourteen  or  sixteen 
per  cent  of  the  whole  weight. 

The  gluten  of  wheat  is  a  gray,  tough,  elastic  substance, 
consisting  chiefly  of  vegetable  fibrine.    It  can  be  examined 


Fig.  3.     Grain  of  wheat  magnified. 
A  is  the  bran  ;  B  the  gluten  ;  C  the  starch. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  39 

easilj'  bj'  making  a  dough  of  flour  and  water,  and  working 
it  on  a  sieve  under  a  stream  of  water.  Tiie  water  will 
cany  the  starch,  sugar,  gum,  and  mineral  matters  into  the 
pan  below,  leaving  a  lump  of  gluten  on  the  sieve.  It 
closely  resembles  a  piece  of  animal  skin,  and,  when  dried, 
has  a  glue-like  appearance ;  hence  its  name,  gluten.  The 
proportion  of  gluten  varies  from  eleven  to  fifteen  per  cent. 
This  tough,  elastic  quality  of  the  gluten  determines  the 
qualitj-  of  the  flour.  The  more  gluten  and  the  tougher  or 
stronger  it  is,  the  better  the  flour.  The  gluten  of  good 
flour  will  swell  to  four  or  five  times  its  original  bulk  ;  while 
that  of  poor  flour  does  not  swell,  but  becomes  water}'  and 
stick}',  and  sometimes  gives  off  a  disagreeable  odor,  owing 
to  the  deterioration  of  the  fattj'  or  oil}'  element. 

Preparing  the  Flour. 

St.  Louis  Process.  —  There  are  several  methods  of  con- 
verting wheat  into  flour.  One  is  by  grinding  between  two 
horizontal  stones,  the  upper  one  revolving,  and  the  lower 
one  stationary.  The  surface  of  the  stones  presents  an 
infinite  number  of  minute  cutting  edges.  The  upper  stone 
IS  convex,  the  lower  one  concave  ;  but  instead  of  fitting 
perfectly,  they  approach  closer  together  from  the  centre 
outward,  so  that,  as  the  grain  is  poured  into  an  opening  in 
the  upper  stone,  it  is  at  first  rather  coarsely  crushed,  and 
then  cut  finer  and  finer,  as  it  is  carried  to  the  circumfer- 
ence by  the  centrifugal  force.  As  the  grain  leaves  the 
stones,  the  outer  husk  has  been  least  affected  ;  the  tough, 
coherent  gluten  is  divided  minutely,  while  the  brittle  starch, 
which  forms  two  thirds  01  the  grain,  is  completely  crushed. 
The  miller  then  divides  these  products,  by  sifting  or  bolt- 
ing, into  ^??e^oi<r,  coarse  flour,  and  bran. 

The  bran  should  be  discarded  as  utterly  useless  for 
human  food  ;  but  it  is  often  mixed  with  an  inferior  quality 
of  fine  flour,  and  sold  as  Graham  flour.  It  was  at  one 
time  considered  valuable  as  a  food  for  those  suffering 
from  constipation,  chiefly  on  account  of  its  coarseness  ;  but 


40  The  Boston  Cook  Book, . 

science  has  shown  us  recently  that  minute  points  of  glass 
(and  bran  is  nothing  else)  are  not  Nature's  best  agents  in 
removing  effete  matters  from  the  system.  All  of  the  so- 
called  Graham  flour  made  by  this  process  should  be  sifted 
before  using. 

The  coarse  flour  will  vary  in  quality,  according  as  it  has 
more  or  less  of  the  outer  bran  mixed  with  it.  In  the  soft 
wheats  the  husk  peels  off  readily  under  the  stones,  and  is 
easily  separated  b}-  bolting ;  and  as  these  soft  varieties 
contain  the  smallest  proportion  of  gluten,  they  jdeld  a  coarse 
flour,  containing  only  an  average  amount  of  gluten,  and 
the  whitest  fine  flour.  But  in  the  hard^  fli'^ty  wheats,  this 
outer  husk  clings  so  closely  that  much  of  it  is  ground  up 
finely  with  the  flour,  giving  it  a  dark  color.  This  flour,  as 
it  contains  a  large  proportion  of  gluten,  would  be  more 
nutritious  were  it  not  that  much  of  the  gluten  adheres  to 
the  hulls,  and  is  lost  by  sifting  them  out,  and  much  of  the 
fine,  flinty  bran  is  retained  in  the  flour,  which  makes  it 
irritating  and  indigestible. 

The  quality  of  thQ  fine  flour  depends  upon  the  qualit}^  of 
the  wheat,  in  the  first  place  ;  also  upon  the  number  of  sift- 
ings,  being  richer  in  gluten  the  less  it  is  sifted  ;  and  upon 
the  way  in  which  it  is  stored.  The  process  of  grinding 
with  the  stones  heats  the  flour ;  and  as  it  is  often  thrust 
upon  the  market  without  being  properly  cooled  and  dried, 
it  spoils  very  rapidh^  Flour  made  by  this  process  of 
grinding  is  called  the  St.  Louis^  or  old-process  flour.  When 
made  of  the  very  best  qualit}^  of  grain  and  carefully  pre- 
pared, it  makes  a  sweet,  nutritious  bread,  and  is  excellent 
in  cake  and  pastry.     It  is  often  designated  pastry  flour. 

Haxall  Process.  —  Another  method  of  making  flour  is 
by  the  new^  or  Haxall  process,  so  called  from  the  name  of 
the  inventor.  B}^  this  process  the  outer  husk  is  first  re- 
moved, or  decorticated;  then  the  cleaned  grain  is  cut  by  a 
system  of  knives,  which  reduces  it  to  a  fine  powder  with- 
out the  injurious  effects  of  heating.  This  flour  has  a 
slightly  granular  consistenc}',  owing  to  the  presence  of 
minute  particles  of  hard,  flinty  aluten.     It  is  usuall}'  made 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  41 

from  the  best  quality  of  wheat,  and  keeps  well.  It  is  con- 
sidered by  man}'  as  the  best  flour  for  bread,  as  it  makes  a 
whiter,  nicer-looking  loaf.  Haxall  flour  swells  more  than 
that  made  by  the  old  process,  as  it  contains  more  of  the 
gluten  ;  the  same  measure  making  a  gi-eater  quantit}^  of 
bread  than  the  St.  Louis  flour.  It  is,  therefore,  cheaper 
in  the  end,  though  costing  more  per  barrel.  By  repeated 
sif tings,  this  flour  loses  its  gluten,  as  does  that  made  by 
the  St.  Louis  process,  and  consequently  is  then  inferior  as 
a  food.  But  we  can  supply  by  other  flours  and  other  food 
what  this  flour  lacks  in  nutritious  qualities  ;  and  until  the 
j)opular  taste  is  educated  to  demand  the  amount  of  nutri- 
ment contained  in  bread  rather  than  the  whiteness  of  it,  as 
a  test  of  its  quality,  it  is  well  to  make  our  fine,  white  bread 
from  this,  which  is  the  best  flour,  and  have  it  as  nearlj" 
perfect  as  possible. 

There  have  been  man}'  variations  of  the  Haxall  process, 
and  all  are  included  under  the  term  neio-process  flour . 

Minnesota. — The  Minnesota,  or  patent-process,  flour  is 
now  considered  one  of  the  best  grades.  The  Washburn, 
Pillsbury,  and  many  other  mills  located  in  Minneapolis  are 
the  largest  flour-mills  in  the  world,  and  produce  an  excel- 
lent qualit}'  of  flour,  in  which  a  large  proportion  of  the 
gluten  is  retained.  This  Minnesota  flour  is  made  from 
carefull}'  selected  wheat  grown  in  the  Red  River  region, 
the  best  wheat-growing  section  in  America.  The  first  step 
in  the  process  is  the  breaking  off  of  the  germinal  point  of 
each  grain  by  what  are  called  ending  stones.  Then  it  is 
sent  through  corrugated  iron  rollers,  having  shallow  grooves 
cut  spirally  upon  them,  with  rounded  ridges  between,  and 
the  opposing  rollers  grooved  in  an  opposite  direction.  The 
grains  are  crushed  (not  ground)  ;  the  starchy  parts,  or 
middlings,  being  quite  finely  powdered  and  easil}'  separa- 
ted from  the  bran  or  tailings.  After  this  separation  the 
middlings  are  passed  through  ten  bolting-cloths,  and 
then  through  other  and  finer  corrugated  machines,  and 
made  into  the  various  grades  of  fine,  superfine,  Sind  fancy 
flours. 


42  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Health-Food  Flour.  —  A  still  better  method  of  convert- 
ing wheat  into  flour,  and  one  which  is  indorsed  hy  leading- 
scientists  and  physicians,  has  been  recentl}'  introduced  by 
the  Health  Food  Company  of  New  York.  Only  the  choicest 
kinds  of  wheat  are  used.  The  outer  husk  is  first  removed 
by  moistening  the  grain,  and  subjecting  it  to  a  gentle  rub- 
bing by  what  is  termed  the  "attrition  process."  This 
softens  the  woodj'  fibre  of  the  outer  bran,  which  is  easily 
removed  b}^  sifting,  but  does  not  aflfect  the  hard  gluten 
coats.  The  grains  are  dried,  then  pulverized  into  various 
grades  hy  a  compressed  cold-air  blast,  which  dashes  the 
grains  into  atoms  with  tremendous  force.  This  is  called 
whole-wheat  flour,  the  name  indicating  that  the  whole  of  the 
gluten,  or  nutritive  part  of  the  flour,  is  retained.  It  is  not 
sifted  like  other  flours,  but  pulverized  into  all  the  varieties 
of  crushed  wheats  coarse  granulated  and  fine  granulated  wheat; 
each  variet}^,  even  the  finest  flour,  containing  all  that  is 
valuable  as  food.  Bread  made  with  this  flour  has  been 
found,  after  repeated  trial,  to  be  sweet  and  agreeable  to  the 
taste,  light  and  spongy  in  texture,  with  none  of  the  objec- 
tionable features  of  Graham  bread,  and  answering  fully  all 
the  demands  of  perfect  nutrition. 

Cheap  inferior  Graham  flour,  made  of  poor  flour  mixed 
with  bran,  is  worse  than  no  food  at  all.  An}'  flour  con- 
tainina*  much  of  the  indi2:estible  bran  causes  irritation  of 
the  digestive  organs  ;  all  the  food  is  hurried  through  the 
alimentary  canal  before  digestion  is  complete  or  all  the 
nutriment  can  be  absorbed,  and  thus  is  neither  economical 
nor  healthful.  Fine  flour  containing  the  most  gluten  is  the 
most  nutritious,  because  it  is  all  digested,  and  the  loss  of 
albuminous  material  can  be  supplied  from  other  sources. 

The  Arlington,  the  Franklin,  and  some  other  brands  of 
whole-wheat  flour,  are  highly  indorsed  by  those  familiar 
with  them. 

The  Tests  of  Good  Flour. 

The  first  requisite  in  making  good  bread  is  to  use  good 
flour.     Good  flour  should  not  be  pure  white  in  color,  but 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  43 

of  a  creamy,  yellowish-white  shade.  If  it  feel  damp, 
clamm}-,  or  stick}',  and  gradually  form  into  lumps  or 
cakes,  it  is  not  the  best.  Good  flour  holds  together  in  a 
mass,  when  squeezed  b}'  the  hand,  and  retains  the  impres- 
sion of  the  fingers,  and  even  the  marks  of  the  skin,  much 
longer  than  poor  flour  ;  when  made  into  a  dough,  it  is 
elastic,  easy  to  be  kneaded,  will  stay  in  a  round  puff}' 
shape,  and  will  take  up  a.  large  amount  of  water:  while 
poor  flour  will  be  stick}',  flatten,  or  spread  itself  over  the 
board,  and  will  never  seem  to  be  stiff  enough  to  be  handled, 
no  matter  how  much  flour  is  used.  Haxall  flour  has  a  fine 
granular  consistency,  and  runs  easily  through  the  sieve  or 
the  fingers  like  fine  meal ;  while  good  St.  Louis  flour  feels 
soft  and  oily.  It  is  extravagant  to  buy  poor  or  even 
doubtful  flour.  But,  should  it  have  every  appearance  of 
being  good  flour,  and  yet  not  make  good  bread,  do  not 
condemn  the  flour  without  a  fair  trial ;  and  be  sure  the 
fault  is  nowhere  else. 

Every  experienced  cook  has  her  own  tests  for  flour,  and 
some  of  them  are  amusing,  if  not  reliable.  The  best  way 
is  to  buy  a  small  quantity  at  flrst,  and  make  it  into  dough ; 
then,  if  satisfactory,  purchase  whatever  amount  is  re- 
quired, and  buy  this  same  brand  as  long  as  it  proves  of 
uniform  quality.  The  names  given  to  flour  are  not  a  sure 
criterion  of  the  quality.  The  flour  may  come  from  the 
same  growth  of  wheat,  and  be  ground  in  the  same  manner 
and  at  the  same  mill,  and  yet  the  miller  or  the  wholesale 
dealers  will  brand  it  differently.  And  the  same  brand  will 
vary  in  quality  from  year  to  year.  Some  of  the  varieties 
sold  in  Boston,  and  known  to  be  good  by  personal  trial, 
are  Archibald's  Extra,  Washburn's,  Spaulding,  Corrug.ited, 
Taylor's  Best,  Brown's  Best,  Marguerite,  etc.  ;  the  same 
flour  may  be  known  in  other  cifies  under  different  names. 
There  are  others  equally  good,  and  every  year  some  new 
brand  is  announced.  It  is  estimated  that  one  barrel  of 
flour  will  last  one  person  one  year  ;  which  gives  a  rule  of 
proportion  by  which  to  buy.  Most  good  housekeepers 
agree  that  flour  is   not  improved  by  long  keeping,  though 


44  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

flour  dealers  think  differently.  Flour  should  be  kept  in  a 
cool,  dvy  place,  as  the  least  dampness  causes  it  to  absorb 
moisture ;  the  gluten  loses  its  tenacity,  becomes  sticky. 
and  the  bread  made  from  it  is  coarser  and  less  light. 

For  small  families  it  is  better  to  buy  whole-wheat  flour 
by  the  bag  or  half-barrel ;  Haxall,  for  bread,  hy  the  bar- 
rel ;  and  the  best  St.  Louis  flour  for  cake  and  pastry,  by 
the  bag,  as  a  much  smaller  proportion  is  needed  (or  should 
be)  for  these  indigestibles,  than  for  the  "  staff  of  life." 

Bread,  Fermented  and  Unfermented. 

Now,  having  discnssed  the  subject  of  the  flour,  the  next 
step  in  order  is  the  diflerent  ways  of  making  it  into  bread. 
These  may  all  be  included  under  two  divisions,  —  those 
made  by  fermentation,  and  those  without  fermentation. 

Fermentation^  what  is  it^  —  Fermentation  is  that  change 
in  organic  substances  by  which  their  sugar,  starch,  gluten, 
etc.,  are  decomposed  or  recombined  into  new  compounds. 
This  change  may  be  spontaneous  under  favorable  condi- 
tions of  air,  moisture,  and  warmth ;  or  it  may  be  hastened 
b}^  the  presence  of  a  ferment.  A  ferment  is  some  albu- 
minous substance  in  a  state  of  decomposition,  and,  when 
introduced  into  any  other  albuminous  substance,  in  how- 
ever minute  a  quantifc}^,  causes  a  change  which  pervades 
the  whole  mass.  These  fermenting  substances  are  in  great 
variety,  and  the  germs  of  some  of  them  are  always  present 
in  the  air.     There  are  different  kinds  of  fermentation. 

The  lactic  fermentation  is  the  jjhange  in  milk  when  it 
sours.  The  casein,  or  albuminous  part  of  the  milk,  by 
exposure  to  the  air  and  warmth,  begins  to  decompose, 
becomes  a  ferment,  and  changes  the  sugar  of  the  milk  into 
an  acid  called  lactic  acid.  <This  reacts  upon  the  remainder 
of  the  milk,  as  any  acid  would,  and  causes  it  to  coagulate 
or  harden,  and  gives  it  a  sour  taste. 

The  alcoholic  fermentation  is  that  which  is  produced  in 
substances  rich  in  sugar  or  starch,  as  the  fruits  and  grains 
from  which  wines  and  beer  are  made.     Some  of  these  fer- 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  45 

ment  germs  are  present  in  the  juice  of  grapes  ;  and  under 
the  influence  of  air,  moisture,  and  warmth,  they  seize 
upon  the  sugar  already  present  in  the  natural  fruit  juices, 
and  any  that  ma}^  be  added,  and  convert  it  into  carbonic 
acid  gas  and  alcohol.  In  the  grains,  a  portion  of  the 
gluten  ferments  and  changes  the  starch  into  sugar,  and 
then  the  sugar  into  carbonic  acid  and  alcohol.  In  con- 
verting the  starch  into  sugar  there  is  no  change  evident  to 
the  eye  ;  but  as  soon  as  the  sugar  is  decomposed  into  alco- 
hol and  carbonic  acid  gas,  large  bubbles  of  gas  appear, 
which  swell  the  whole  mass. 

Acetic  fermentation  is  caused  bj^  allowing  alcoholic  fer- 
mentation to  go  on  be3'Ond  a  certain  limit,  or  in  a  tem- 
perature above  90°.  A  familiar  illustration  of  this  is  the 
change  of  wine  or  cider  into  vinegar. 

Now,  bread-dough  contains  gluten,  sugar,  and  starch ; 
and  if  the  dough  be  kept  warm  for  a  certain  time,  lactic 
fermentation  will  be  developed  spontaneously,  and  the  bread 
made  from  such  dough  will  be  sour  and  heav}'.  Alco- 
liolic  fermentation  can  also  be  spontaneously  produced  in 
dough,  b}^  making  first  a  batter  (as  the  semi-fluid  state 
is  more  favorable  to  rapid  chemical  change),  and  subject- 
ing it  to  a  temperature  of  110°  for  five  or  six  hours  ;  then, 
adding  more  flour,  allowing  it  to  rise  again,  and  then 
baking  it.  Bread  made  in  this  way  is  called  salt  or  milk- 
rising's  bread.  But  it  does  not  keep  well,  and  is  not  gen- 
erally liked. 

It  is  not  alwa3's  convenient  to  wait  for  dough  to  be 
raised  in  this  manner,  so  we  hasten  the  process  by  the 
addition  of  some  active  ferment.  Leaven,  or  a  piece  of 
old  dough,  left  to  sour,  and  then  mixed  with  the  new 
dough  was  formerh^  used  ;  this  produced  lactic  as  well  as 
alcoholic  fermentation,  and  though  the  bread  was  light  and 
spong}'  in  texture,  it  had  an  unpleasant  sour  taste.  But 
since  the  chemistrj^  of  yeast  fermentation  has  been  under- 
stood, yeast  has  come  to  be  considered  the  best  ferment  for 
producing  alcoholic  fermentation  in  bread  rapidly,  and 
with  no  objectionable  result. 


46  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Teast,  what  is  it"^  —  Yeast  is  a  plant  or  germ  of  the 
fungus  tribe.  Under  the  microscope  it  is  found  to  consist 
of  numberless  minute  rounded  or  oval  bodies  which  are 
true  vegetable  cells.    Yeast  is  therefore  one  of  the  simplest 

and  smallest  of  vegetable 
organisms.      Each  little 
cell   consists   of  an   en- 
,^    ,„,    ,  velopins;    skin   or  mem- 

FiG.  4.     Yeast  Plant.  l       &  _     _  , .       .  , 

brane,  contannng  a  liquid 
or  sap.  They  grow  or  expand  from  the  minutest  micro- 
scopic points,  and  seem  to  bud  off  from  each  other  and 
multiply  into  many  millions  to  the  cubic  inch.  These 
cells  are  easil}'  propagated  in  any  medium  where  they  find 
congenial  food,  particularly  in  the  juice  of  grapes.  If 
grape-juice  be  filtered  and  left  to  stand  in  a  warm  place 
two  or  three  hours,  it  becomes  first  cloud}-,  then  thick,  and 
gives  off  bubbles  of  gas,  showing  there  has  been  some 
change  in  its  composition.  In  a  short  time  a  grayish- 
3^ellow  froth,  or  la3'er  of  yeast  cells,  collects  on  the  surface. 
"  Whether  the  germs  or  spores  of  the  j^east  plant  exist 
alread}'  in  the  juices  of  the  living  grape,  or  whether  thev 
are  alwa3's  floating  in  the  air,  and  cling  to  the  exterior  of 
the  fruit,  and  only  become  mixed  with  the  juice  in  the  wine- 
press, is  not  known  ;  "  neither  is  it  known  just  how  they 
decompose  the  sugar  of  the  grape.  But  it  is  enough  for 
our  purpose  to  know  that  the}'  grow  in  the  juice  and  ex- 
pand there,  and  that  an  active  ferment  may  be  dissolved 
out  of  these  yeast  cells,  sufficient  to  cause  alcoholic 
fermentation. 

The  natural  development  of  yeast  through  the  agency  of 
plants  is  too  slow  and  inconvenient  a  process  to  rely  upon  ; 
therefore  we  manufacture  it  from  various  substances  rich 
in  starch  and  sugar.  Brewer's  yeast  is  made  from  malt, 
or  sprouting  grain,  usually  barle}-  ;  home-made  yeast,  from 
flour  and  potatoes. 

Yeast  Bread  the  Result  of  Chemical  Changes.  —  Bread 
properly  made  with  3'east  undergoes  certain  chemical 
changes  which  render  it  lighter,  more  porous,  more  pleas- 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  47 

ant  to  the  taste,  and  more  healthful,  because  more  easily 
digested,  and  more  convenient  for  general  use.  It  is  gen- 
erally recommended  hy  scientific  and  medical  men  as  the 
best  form  of  bread. 

Wheat  contains  a  larger  percentage  of  starch  than  of  any- 
thing else.  Wq  learn,  in  the  chapter  on  Digestion,  that 
starch  as  such  is  not  absorbed  into  the  human  S3'stem.  It 
must  first  be  transformed  into  sugar.  All  starch  that  is 
not  changed  into  sugar  b}^  the  process  of  cooking  or  before 
our  food  is  eaten,  is  so  changed  by  the  ptyalin^  or  ferment  of 
the  saliva,  and  the  ferment  of  the  pancreatic  fluid.  Any 
process  which  produces  this  change  for  us  makes  our  food 
more  digestible.  "  Powdered  alum  will  dissolve  in  water 
sooner  than  a  crystal  of  alum."  Any  fluid  will  penetrate 
more  easilj^  through  a  sponge  than  through  puttj^,  and  the 
salivar}'  and  gastric  fluids  are  no  exception  to  this  rule. 
Wheat  starch  in  its  natural  state  is  close  and  compact ;  and 
bread  made  simply  with  flour  and  water,  and  baked  at  once, 
will  be  close,  dry,  and  difficult  to  masticate  and  digest. 
Good  bread  should  be  sufficiently  soft  to  be  easily  crushed 
in  the  mouth,  and  of  such  a  light,  spongy  texture  that  all 
the  starch  cells  ma}^  be  ruptured,  and  the  greatest  possible 
amount  of  surface  be  presented  to  the  action  of  the  diges- 
tive fluids.  To  obtain  these  qualities  in  bread,  we  try  to 
expand  the  dough  as  much  as  possible  without  destroying 
its  natural  sweetness.  Owing  to  the  peculiar  elasticity 
and  tenacity  of  the  wheat  gluten,  this  is  very  easily  accom- 
plished by  alcoholic  fermentation.  The  flour  is  moistened 
with  some  warm  liquid,  3^east  and  salt  are  added,  and  it  is 
then  exposed  for  some  hours  to  a  temperature  of  about 
70°.  The  yeast  changes  some  of  the  starch  of  the  flour 
into  sugar,  and  the  sugar  into  alcohol  and  carbonic  acid 
gas.  This  gas,  being  lighter  than  the  dough,  rises,  and,  in 
its  efforts  to  escape,  expands  the  elastic,  glutinous  dough 
into  a  mass  two  or  three  times  its  original  bulk.  The 
toughness  or  elasticitj'  of  the  gluten  prevents  the  gas  from 
escaping  ;  and  when  this  expansion  has  reached  the  desired 
limit, — that  is,  before  the  alcoholic  fermentation  has  changed 


48  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

to  the  acetic  and  soured  the  dough,  or  the  tough,  glutinous 
walls  of  the  air  cells  are  broken, — we  check  the  forma- 
tion of  gas,  and  kill  the  ferment  by  baking  the  dough  in  a 
hot  oven.  The  alcohol  escapes  into  the  oven  ;  some  of  the 
starch  is  changed  into  gum,  and  forms  the  crust ;  and  the 
rapid  decomposition,  produced  by  the  intensfe  heat,  causes 
the  crust  to  assume  a  brown  color. 

Unfermented  Bread.  —  This  is  made  without  yeast ;  but 
the  principle  is  the  same  as  in  fermented  bread,  namely,  the 
liberation  of  gas  within  the  dough.  The  gas  escapes  quickly, 
and  all  such  bread  must  be  backed  as  soon  as  possible  after 
mixing.  There  are  no  chemical  changes  in  the  starch  or 
sugar ;  the  elastic,  glutinous  dough  is  simpl}^  expanded  by 
the  gas.  The  starch  cells  are  ruptured  by  the  intense  heat 
in  baking  ;  but  if  the  gas  bubbles  burst  before  the  heat  has 
fixed  the  gluten  wall,  the  bread  will  be  heavy.  This  gas 
is  produced  in  the  bread  dough  in  various  waj^s :  1st.  B3' 
the  gas  in  ver\'  cold  water,  and  the  air  obtained  bj-  vig- 
orous beating ;  2d.  Bj^  the  introduction  of  water  under 
pressure,  highly  charged  with  gas.  The  first  method  is 
only  suitable  for  mixtures  which  are  to  be  baked  quickly 
in  a  very  hot  oven,  and  eaten  immediatel}',  like  gems, 
pufis,  etc.  The  latter  method  produces  what  is  known  as 
aerated  bread,  making  a  light,  sweet,  spongy  loaf;  but  it 
is  not  practicable  for  home  use.  3d.  The  usual  method 
is  b}^  some  gas-generating  compound,  as  the  union  of  an 
acid  and  an  alkali ;  usually  soda,  with  either  sour  milk, 
cream  of  tartar,  or  muriatic  acid.  This  is  a  convenient 
form  adopted  b}^  many  people  who  think  it  hard  work  to 
make  yeast  bread.  When  the  chemicals  used  are  pure, 
and  in  such  a  proportion  that  they  neutralize  each  other, 
and  leave  onl}^  Rochelle  salt  as  a  residue,  this  bread,  if 
used  only  occasionall}^  is  harmless.  But  Rochelle  salt  is 
a  medicine,  not  a  nutritive  food ;  and  "those  who  are  well 
do  not  need  the  disturbing  influence  of  a  medicine  in  their 
dail}^  bread,"  and  those  who  are  ill  do  not  often  need  this 
particular  form  of  medicine.  Through  ignorance  or  care- 
lessness this  bread  is  often  made  so  that  there  is  an  excess 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  49 

of  alkali  or  a  residue  of  alum  ;  and  then,  if  used  habitually, 
it  is  injurious,  and  to  some  extent  poisonous.  It  is  con- 
venient to  know  how  to  make  it  well  in'  an  emergenc}',  and 
it  helps  make  variet}-.  It  is  best,  when  freshly  baked,  in 
the  form  of  small  biscuit  rather  than  in  loaves,  and  is  not 
as  indigestible,  when  eaten  hot,  as  hot  yeast  bread.  But 
for  a  bread  for  general  use,  for  bread  that  will  keep  well, 
for  bread  that  will  leave  a  sweet,  clean  taste  in  the  mouth, 
for  bread  that  will  yield  the  most  in  bulk  from  a  given 
amount  of  flour,  for  bread  for  promoting  health,  there  is 
nothing  equal  to  perfect,  home-made  yeast  bread.  It  is 
not  so  difficult  a  task  to  make  perfect  bread  as  most  young 
housekeepers  imagine,  or  old  housekeepers  assert.  It  is 
not  impossible  for  a  3'oung  girl  to  succeed  as  well  in  her 
first  attempt  in  this  art  as  the  mature  housekeeper  who 
counts  her  loaves  by  the  thousand,  provided  she  learns  the 
best  way  of  making  it,  and  uses  a  reasonable  amount  of 
common-sense. 

The  Best  Kinds  of  Yeast. 

Who  made  the  first  yeast  ?  and  how  does  a  young  house- 
keeper start  her  own,  when  away  from  stores  or  friends, 
where  she  can  neither  buy  nor  borrow  ?  are  questions  often 
asked.  Simply  make  a  thin  batter  with  flour  and  water, 
and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  till  it  ferments,  and  is  full 
of  bubbles.  A  pint  of  this  ferment  is  equal  to  one  cup  of 
old  3'east  in  starting  the  new. 

There  are  three  kinds  of  yeast  in  general  use,  —  the 
dry^  the  compressed^  and  the  liquid,  —  each  of  which  has 
its  peculiar  merits. 

Dry  yeast  calces,  such  as  the  "National"  or  "Twin 
Brothers,"  are  inexpensive,  always  ready  to  use,  and  gen- 
erall}^  liked  by  those  who  care  more  for  economy  of  time 
and  trouble  than  for  the  quality  of  their  bread. 

Compressed  yeast  cakes,  like  the  "  Vienna"  or  "  Fleisch- 
mann's,"  are  excellent,  when  perfect^  fresh  ;  the  best  form 
of  yeast  where  bread  is  made  in  large  quantities.  But  for 
a  small  family,  where  only  a  quarter  of  a  cake  is  used  per- 

4 


50  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

haps  twice  a  week,  or  for  those  living  at  a  distance  from 
the  stores,  ihej  are  inconvenient,  expensive,  and  waste- 
ful. They  have  almost  entirely  taken  the  place  of  baker's 
yeast. 

As  to  which  is  best  of  the  many  varieties  of  home-made 
yeast,  who  shall  decide  when  housekeepers  disagree? 
Ever}'  good  cook  thinks  her  wa}'  the  best.  They  are  all  good 
that  tnake  good  bread ;  the  onl}'  special  advantage  of  one 
over  another  being  the  greater  ease  in  making  or  the 
length  of  time  it  will  keep  good.  People  who  are  inclined 
to  shirk  think  it  a  deal  of  trouble  to  make  yeast  of  an\' 
kind  ;  but  there  are  none  so  independent  as  those  who  make 
their  own  yeast. 

The  simplest  form  of  liquid  3'east  is  made  with  flour,  salt, 
and  boiling  hop  water.  To  this  many  add  potatoes  and  a 
little  sugar,  and  some  add  ginger.  Chemists  sa}'  that  the 
potato  is  the  best  form  of  starch  for  the  growth  of  yeast. 
Potato  3^east  rises  more  rapidlj^,  and  keeps  longer  without 
souring,  than  flour  yeast ;  bread  made  from  it  is  sweet, 
light,  and  does  not  drj'  quicklj'.  As  to  the  comparative 
merits  of  grated  raw  potato  or  boiled  potato,  those  who 
have  used  them  both  ways  with  equally  good  results  think 
the  grated  potato  has  the  advantage  of  being  made  in  much 
less  time. 

The  really  essential  points  are  that  the  water  shall  be 
hoiling^  so  that  all  the  cells  of  the  flour  or  potato  maj'  be 
ruptured.  The  salt  and  sugar  assist  in  the  fermentation, 
and  the  hops  and  ginger  serve  to  prevent  the  yeast  from 
souring  by  checking  the  fermentation  before  all  the  sugar 
is  converted  into  alcohol ;  they  also  give  it  an  agreeably 
pungent  taste,  if  not  used  in  too  large  quantities.  Old 
potatoes  are  better  than  new  for  yeast,  because  the}^  con- 
tain more  sugar.  Porcelain  or  granite  kettles  for  boiling 
the  hops  and  potatoes,  and  earthen  bowls  and  wooden 
spoons  for  mixing,  are  best,  as  iron  and  tin  cause  the  yeast 
to  turn  dark-colored. 

The  3^east  for  starting  must  be  fresh  and  livety,  and 
never  added  till  the  boilino-  mixture  has  become  lukewarm, 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh,  51 

or  the  plant  will  be  killed.  It  must  be  kept  warm,  and 
stirred  several  times  while  rising,  and  the  next  day  put 
away  in  well-scalded  glass  jars.  Keep  it  in  a  cool  place  ; 
freezing  or  intense  heat  will  kill  the  yeast  plant.  Eeserve 
a  portion  for  the  next  rising  in  a  small  jar  b}^  itself,  as 
opening  the  jar  often  causes  the  yeast  to  lose  its  strength. 
Always  shake  or  stir  well  before  using.  Yeast  is  good 
when  it  is  foamy  or  full  of  beads,  has  a  brisk,  pungent 
odor,  and  a  good  deal  of  snap  or  vim ;  it  is  poor  when  it 
has  an  acid  odor,  and  looks  water}^  or  has  a  thin  film 
over  the  top. 

Making  the  Dough. 

Flour  is  moistened,  or  made  into  dough,  with  water  or 
with  milk.  This  softens  the  gluten  and  starch,  dissolves 
the  sugar,  and  cements  all  the  particles  together.  Those 
who  prefer  water  claim  that  water  bread  is  cheaper,  has 
more  of  the  natural  sweet  taste  of  the  wheat,  and  will 
keep  longer  ;  while  those  in  favor  of  using  milk  are  equally 
sure  that  milk  bread  is  more  nutritious,  more  tender,  more 
agreeable  to  the  taste  and  the  eye,  more  easily  made,  and 
with  proper  care  will  keep  sweet  and  moist  longer. 

Proportion.  —  The  proportion  of  liquid  and  flour  varies 
both  with  the  flour  and  the  liquid.  Bread  made  of  St. 
Louis  flour,  or  mixed  with  water,  takes  more  flour  to  make 
the  same  amount,  than  when  made  of  Haxall  flour,  or 
mixed  with  milk.  The  general  rule  is  one  scant  measure  of 
liquid,  including  the  3^east,  to  three  full  measures  of  flour. 
Water  bread  will  need  about  one  cupful  more ;  and  milk 
bread,  or  whole-wheat  bread,  from  one  half  to  one  cupful 
less  of  flour.  Dough  which  is  to  be  kneaded,  or  rolled 
and  cut  into  special  shapes,  should  be  stiffer  than  that 
which  is  not  kneaded,  or  is  to  be  made  into  loaves  ;  but  in 
all  cases  it  should  be  mixed  just  as  soft  as  can  be  handled 
easily  without  sticking,  and  just  as  little  extra  flour  as 
possible  should  be  used.  If  the  dough  be  too  stiff,  make 
several  deep  incisions,  and  work  in  a  little  more  liquid. 
The   proportion  of  yeast  is  half  a  cupful  of  fresh  home- 


52  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

made  yeast  to  a  pint  of  liquid:  a  little  less  in  warm  weather  ; 
or  when  mixed  at  night,  when  the  dough  has  a  longer 
time  to  rise;  or  when  made  with  a  "sponge,"  or  with 
whole-wheat  flour,  as  the  extra  amount  of  gluten  in 
this  flour  causes  it  to  ferment  more  rapidl}^  A  larger 
amount  of  jeast  can  be  used  when  it  is  necessary-  to  make 
bread  in  a  limited  time  ;  but  great  care  must  be  taken  not 
to  use  enough  to  lea^'e  an  unpleasant  3'easty  taste  in  the 
bread.  With  compressed  yeast,  dissolve  one  fourth  of  a 
cake  in  half  a  cupfid  of  lukewarm  water ^  and  use  as  home- 
made yeast.  It  will  dissolve  in  one  tablespoonful  of  water  ; 
but  it  is  important  to  have  the  half-cupful,  that  the  propor- 
tion of  liquid  may  be  the  same. 

Manner  of  Mixing.  —  Manj'  people  prefer  to  measure  the 
flour,  and  add  enough  of  the  liquid  to  make  it  the  desired 
consistency.  The  better  wa}-  is  to  measure  the  liquid,  and 
add  flour,  using  more  or  less  according  to  the  quality  of 
the  flour,  as  the  measure  of  the  liquid  determines  the  size 
of  the  loaf.  All  the  flour  may  be  added  at  first,  and  the 
dough  raised  in  a  mass  ;  or  a  drop  batter  may  be  made  with 
about  half  the  flour,  and  when  this  has  well  risen,  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour  maj^  be  added,  and  the  whole  allowed 
to  rise  again.  The  latter  method  is  preferable  when  it  is 
inconvenient  to  knead  at  the  first  mixing,  as  is  often  the 
case  in  the  evening,  or  when  there  is  any  doubt  about  the 
quality  of  the  j^east,  as,  if  the  j^east  will  not  raise  three 
cups  of  flour,  it  certainly  will  not  raise  six.  This  method 
is  advisable,  also,  when  it  is  necessary-  to  hasten  the  pro- 
cess of  bread-making.  Dough  made  by  ' '  setting  a 
sponge,"  as  this  way  is  called,  requires  less  3^east,  the  fer- 
mentation being  more  rapid  in  a  batter  than  in  a  stiff" 
dough  ;  and  this  fermented  batter  acts  like  a  double  portion 
of  yeast  on  the  fresh  flour,  raising  it  very  quickly.  It  is 
the  best  way  of  making  bread  with  milk  in  the  summer,  as 
it  ma}'  be  mixed  early  in  the  morning  and  baked  by  noon ; 
and  as  it  ma\"  be  easil}'  watched,  it  need  not  become  sour. 
The  question  of  mixing  at  night  or  in  the  morning  is 
one  which  every  housekeeper  can  best  answer  for  herself. 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh. 


Manj^  old  receipts  read,  ''  Make  a  hole  in  the  flour, 
add  the  ^^east,  and  then  pour  in  the  liquid."  If  the 
3^east  be  added  to  the  milk  or  water,  and  well  mixed  with 
it,  and  the  flour  then  stirred  thoroughly  into  this  liquid 
mixture,  the  3'east  will  be  more  eventy  distributed  through 
the  dough,  and  less  kneading  will  be  required  than  when 
made  b^'  the  old  method. 

The  other  ingredients  added  to  the  dough  are  salt  and 
sugar ^  in  the  proportion  of  one  even  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one  even  tahlespoonful  of  sugar  to  three  pints  of  flour  ^  using  a 
little  less  salt  if  butter  is  added,  and  a  little  more  with 
compressed  yeast,  as  that  is  not  as  salt  as  home-made 
yeast,  and  doubling  the  amount  of  sugar  when  using  whole- 
wheat flour. 

Sugar  in  Bread.  —  Man}^  object  to  the  use  of  sugar 
in  bread.  Flour  in  its  natural  state  contains  sugar ;  this 
sugar  is  changed  in  fermentation.  Just  enough  sugar  to 
restore  the  natural  sweetness,  but  not  enough  to  give  a 
realty  sweet  taste,  is  necessar}'  in  fermented  bread. 

Potatoes.  —  Potatoes  are  sometimes  added  to  bread 
dough.  Where  the  flour  is  of  an  inferior  quality,  the 
bread  is  very  much  improved  by  their  use  ;  but  with  good 
flour  they  are  unnecessarj^  and  the  use  of  them  increases 
the  labor  of  making  bread. 

Shortening.  — Whether  bread  shall  be  "  shortened  or  not 
shortened,"  is  another  question  on  which  there  is  great 
diversity  of  opinion.  Those  who  disapprove  of  fat  of  any 
kind  in  bread  claim  that  we  eat  fat  enough  in  other  forms 
of  food,  and  also  that  the  same  crisp  tenderness  of  tex- 
ture may  be  produced  b}^  skilful  kneading.  Bread  made 
with  new  or  unskimmed  milk,  and  kneaded  well,  requires 
no  other  shortening ;  but  water  bread,  when  shortened,  is 
made  more  tender,  and  therefore  is  more  easily  pene- 
trated by  the  digesUve  fluids.  The  latest  decision  of  the 
best  ph3^sicians  is  that  fat  is  absolutely  necessary  as  an 
element  of  food,  and  it  is  often  given  as  a  remedj^  for 
some  diseases.  The  proportion  which  one  person  would 
receive  from  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  or  drippings,  or 


54  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

lard,  ill  two  loaves  of  bread  would  not  harm  the  most  deli- 
cate stomach.  Butter  tastes  best ;  drippings  are  cheap- 
est. Lard  has  for  its  chief  merit  that  of  making  whiter 
bread  than  either  of  the  others.  The  shortening  maj^  be 
rubbed  into  the  flour,  or,  better  still,  melted  in  the  warm 
liquid.  Too  much  shortening  clogs  the  glutinous  cell- 
walls,  and  therefore  checks  the  rising.  Rolls,  rusks,  and 
buns,  which  are  usually  short-nied  more  than  loaf  bread, 
should  have  the  butter  added  at  the  last  kneading. 

The  bread  should  be  mixed  in  a  deep  stone-china  or 
granite  bowl ;  wooden  bowls  are  difficult  to  keep  sweet  and 
clean.  Brown  earthenware  is  awkward  in  shape  and 
clumsy  to  handle,  while  tinware,  being  a  better  conductor 
than  china,  lets  the  heat  within  the  mass  escape,  and  the 
tin  rubs  off  from  the  constant  friction.  Use  a  wooden 
spoon,  or  a  w^ooden-handled  iron  spoon,  or  a  broad-bladed 
knife. 

Kneading  the  Dough.  —  Kneading  is  the  process  of  press- 
ing or  working  the  dough  in  such  a  manner  that  the  flour 
and  water  may  be  thoroughly  mixed,  and  the  yeast  be  so 
evenl}^  distributed  that  the  fermentation  may  be  equal 
through  the  whole  mass.  It  may  be  done  hy  cutting  or 
chopping,  either  with  the  hand  or  machinerj' ;  but  there  is 
nothing  that  gives  the  fine,  even  grain  to  bread  so  well  as 
hand-kneading ;  and  no  surer  test  of  the  proper  consist- 
ency of  dough  than  that  given  b}--  the  sense  of  touch. 
There  are  some  kinds  of  milk  bread  and  rolls  which  are 
ver}^  good  without  it ;  but  water  bread  should  always  be 
kneaded.  It  is  often  done  in  the  mixing-bowl,  b}^  draw- 
ing the  dough  over  from  the  side  and  pressing  it  down 
in  the  centre,  turning  the  bowl  with  the  other  hand ;  but 
it  is  more  effectually  accomplished  on  a  bread-board.  In 
Spain  the  bakers  knead  the  bread  with  such  force  that 
the  palms  of  the  hands  and  the  second  joints  of  the  fingers 
are  covered  with  corns ;  but  strength  and  force  are  not  so 
essential  to  good  kneading  as  a  pecuhar  and  dexterous 
handling  of  the  dough.  The  most  approved  process  is  the 
following :  — 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  55 

Sprinkle  the  board  with  flour,  and  leave  a  little  in  the 
corner  to  lay  3'our  hands  upon.  Scrape  the  dough  from 
the  bowl,  and  toss  it  over  with  the  knife  that  it  maj^ 
be  well  floured.  Flour  the  hands  ;  then,  with  the  finger- 
tips, draw  the  dough  farthest  from  3'ou  up  and  over  to- 
ward the  centre,  letting  the  ball  of  the  hand  meet  the 
dough,  and  then  press  down  firmty,  giving  the  dough  some- 
what of  a  rolling  motion,  that  it  may  not  stick  to  the 
board.  Repeat  this  motion  until  the  dough  is  in  a  long 
narrow  shape,  then  turn  it  at  right  angles,  and  draw  up, 
fold,  and  press  down  again ;  and  continue  this  process 
until  the  dough  is  smooth,  elastic,  fine,  and  even-grained. 
Dust  the  board  and  the  palms  of  the  hands  with  fiour  often, 
but  onl}^  slightly.  Should  the  dough  stick,  lift  it  quickly, 
and  alwaj's  scrape  off*  what  has  adhered  to  the  board  before 
dusting  again,  that  the  board  may  be  kept  smooth.  But 
do  not  let  it  stick ;  keep  it  in  constant  motion.  Do  not 
knead  hard  enough  to  break  into  the  dough,  nor  let  the 
finger-tips  pierce  the  smooth  crust  that  soon  forms  under 
proper  kneading.  Use  the  fingers  merely  in  drawing  the 
dough  over,  and  keep  them  up  and  out  of  it  when  press- 
ing with  the  ball  of  the  hand.  Use  both  hands  in  the 
same  manner,  or  draw  up  and  press  with  the  right,  and 
turn  the  ball  of  dough  with  the  left,  that  all  parts  may 
receive  an  equal  pressure.  When  enough  of  this  smooth, 
soft  texture  has  been  formed  all  through  the  dough,  it  can 
be  worked  for  some  time  without  even  a  dusting  of  flour. 
After  a  little  experience,  if  care  be  taken  in  the  beginning, 
a-nd  only  a  little  flour  added  at  each  dusting,  when  the 
dough  is  sufficiently  kneaded,  the  hands,  the  apron,  and 
the  board  will  be  clean,  and  the  dough  of  an  even,  elastic 
consistency,  springing  up  instantly  as  you  toss  or  pound 
or  punch  into  it.  The  habit  of  mixing  with  the  hands, 
and  rubbing  oflT  little  wads  of  dough  from  the  fingers  into 
the  whole  mass,  should  be  avoided,  especially  toward  the 
last  of  the  process.  There  is  no  mechanical  operation  in 
cooking  more  fascinating  than  the  deft,  quick  touches  a 
natural  kneader  gives  to  a  mass  of  dough.     Young  ladies 


56  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

with  pretty  hands  can  display  them  there  quite  as  well  as 
with  embroidery,  etc.  ;  but  the  rings  and  bracelets  should 
be  left  in  the  jewel-case.  The  stitches  in  tight  dress 
sleeves  are  not  "  warranted  not  to  break  ^^  during  this  pro- 
cess. Perfect  freedom  for  the  muscles  of  the  arms  and 
chest  is  absolutely  essential  to  the  making  and  kneading 
of  bread. 

Temperature  and  Time  for  the  Raising  of  Bread.  —  In 
winter  the  water  or  milk  used  in  mixing  should  be  luke- 
warm ;  and  if  the  flour  be  kept  in  a  yqyy  cold  place,  warm 
it  before  using.  In  summer  the  water  need  not  Ix' 
warmed,  neither  should  it  be  ice-water ;  the  milk  shoulrl 
be  scalded  (not  boiled),  and  cooled.  After  the  bread  is 
kneaded  sufficiently  it  must  be  made  into  a  smooth  round 
ball,  with  no  dry  flour  left  on  the  surface,  and  put  back  in 
the  mixing-bowl  to  rise.  If  3'ou  have  learned  the  knack 
of  scraping  a  bowl  thoroughly,  it  need  not  be  washed  : 
otherwise  it  is  well  to  wash  and  grease  the  bowl,  that  the 
dough  may  come  out  more  easily  after  it  has  risen.  Notice 
how  it  fills  the  bowl,  and  let  it  rise  until  it  has  a  little 
more  than  doubled  in  size.  Cover  it,  not  with  a  cloth 
alone,  as  that  serves  merely  to  keep  out  the  dust,  but  with 
several  thicknesses  of  cloth,  and  a  tightl}'  fitting  tin  cover. 
It  is  important  that  the  air  be  excluded,  as  it  causes  a 
hard  crust  to  form,  w^hich  will  be  difficult  to  mix  thoroughly 
in  the  dough  at  the  next  kneading,  and  will  also  leave  dark 
spots  or  streaks  in  the  bread. 

The  dough  should  rise  in  a  temperature  of  about  75°. 
Avoid  a  draught  of  cold  air,  or  sudden  alternations  of  ex- 
treme heat  and  cold.  If  it  be  placed  on  a  mantel  or  near 
a  stove,  it  must  be  turned  frequently.  When  necessary  to 
hasten  the  rising,  place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  warm  (not 
hot)  water,  and  keep  the  water  at  the  same  temperature 
until  it  begins  to  rise.  After  fermentation  has  been  well 
established  the  temperature  can  be  lowered  without  harm, 
provided  it  does  not  fall  below  45°.  In  winter,  bread 
should  be  mixed  early  in  the  evening ;  and  if  the  kitchen 
become  very  cold  before  morning,  keep  the  dough  in  a 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  57 

warmer  room  ;  it  will  be  risen  by  six  or  seven  in  the  morn- 
ing. In  summer,  mix  it  later  at  night,  leave  it  in  a  cool 
place,  and  the  next  morning  attend  to  it  earl}' ;  if  possible, 
b}'  five  o'clock.  In  very  hot  weather  mix  early  in  the 
morning,  and  bake  by  noon.  It  should  never  be  allowed 
to  rise  to  the  point  of  ''  caving  in,"  or  settling,  or  running 
over  the  bowl.  Even  if  it  does  not  become  sour,  it  loses 
the  natural  sweet  flavor  of  the  wheat,  and  is  tasteless  and 
insipid.  It  should  rise  in  a  light,  puff}',  well-rounded 
mass  ;  and  if  it  half  filled  the  bowl  at  first,  it  will  be  read}', 
when  risen  nearl}^  to  the  top  of  the  bowl,  "  to  cut  down," 
as  most  cooks  express  it.  This  is  done  by  cutting  it  awaj' 
from  the  sides  of  the  bowl,  and  working  it  over  into  the 
centre  with  the  knife.  This  releases  some  of  the  gas, 
checks  the  fermentation,  and  reduces  the  bulk  somewhat. 
It  will  rise  again  ver}-  quickly,  and  the  cutting-down  pro- 
cess can  be  repeated  several  times,  and  the  bread  will  be 
the  better  for  it,  provided  the  rising  does  not  go  too  far  at 
any  time.  It  takes  but  a  moment,  and  should  alwajs  be 
done  when  the  dough  is  risen  sufficiently,  if  3-ou  are  not 
ready  to  shape  it  at  once  into  loaves.  If  3'ou  do  not  wish 
to  bake  the  bread  for  several  hours,  it  can  be  kneaded 
again  and  put  in  the  ice-chest  or  cellar.  When  the  dough 
rises  too  long,  and  has  soured,  it  will  have  a  strong,  tin- 
gling acid  odor  as  3'ou  cut  into  it,  and  it  will  pull  away 
from  the  bowl  in  long  threads,  having  a  waterj'  appear- 
ance, quite  unlike  the  proper  spong}^  consistency  and  pun- 
gent alcoholic  odor  when  it  is  just  right.  The  practice  of 
using  soda  to  sweeten  it,  when  in  this  state,  cannot  be  too 
severely  condemned.  Chemists  say  that  light  sour  bread 
is  not  unhealthful,  although  unpalatable  to  most  Americans. 
Bread  in  that  condition  is  eaten  largely  by  the  Germans. 
Sour  bread  sweetened  by  soda  is  unhealthful,  as  it  is  very 
rarely  that  the  alkali  is  wholly  neutralized  by  the  acetic 
acid.  Those  who  boast  of  never  having  sour  bread  be- 
cause the}^  alwaj^s  keep  a  bottle  of  soda  dissolved  and 
ready  for  instant  use,  should,  instead,  blush  at  the  fact  of 
such  careless  housewifery.    With  proper  care,  bread,  even 


58  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

when  made  with  milk,  need  never  sour.  But  should  the 
accident  ever  occur,  it  is  better  to  eat  the  bread,  or  dry  it 
for  crumbs,  or  throw  it  away  even,  than  to  use  the  soda. 
This  practice  is  so  abominable  that  here  it  will  receive 
neither  aid  nor  encouragement. 

Shaping  into  Loaves  or  Biscuit.  —  At  least  an  hour  be- 
fore the  time  for  baking,  scrape  the  dough  from  the  bowl, 
and  turn  it  out  upon  the  board,  which  should  be  dusted 
with  flour ;  knead  it  slightly,  and  divide  into  the  proper 
l^roportion  for  loaves. 

The  measures  given  in  the  following  receipts  fill  two 
3)rickloaf  pans,  which  are  eight  inches  long  by  four  inches 
broad  and  five  inches  deep,  with  nearly  straight  sides. 
This  shape  gives  small  uniform  slices.  Small  round  pans 
were  formerl}'  considered  best  for  baking  both  bread  and 
€ake  ;  and  there  is  some  truth  in  the  reason  given,  namely, 
that  the  cells  which  are  formed  by  the  gas  are  circular  in 
form,  and  are  much  more  uniform  in  a  round  than  in  an 
oblong  loaf,  in  which  the  corner  cells  are  easily  flat- 
tened or  compressed,  forming  heavy  streaks  around  the 
edges.  But  man}^  people  dislike  the  shape  of  the  slices  in 
a  round  loaf,  and  oblong  pans  have  been  more  generally 
adopted.  The}'  should  be  greased  with  lard  or  drippings. 
It  is  better  to  divide  the  dough  into  four  equal  parts  and 
put  two  in  each  pan,  for  several  reasons :  a  small  round 
loaf  is  more  easil}'  shaped,  and  can  be  broken,  if  wanted, 
while  fresh,  better  than  a  long  loaf;  two  small  loaves 
rise  and  fill  the  pan  more  evenl}^  than  one  long  loaf ;  and 
unless  great  care  be  taken  in  shaping  to  have  the  one 
loaf  of  uniform  thickness,  it  will  rise  more  in  the  middle 
and  give  uneven  slices.  Manj^  make  a  deep  cut  through 
the  middle  to  prevent  this  ;  but  that  spoils  the  smooth 
round  efl'ect  which  adds  so  much  to  the  looks  of  the 
crust. 

Use  the  merest  dusting  of  flour  in  shaping,  and  knead 
just  enough  to  work  out  the  large  bubbles  of  gas  b}^  fold- 
ing the  mass  over  into  the  middle,  then  letting  it  spring 
open.     Pat,  coax,  and  work  it  with  the  hand  and  fingers 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  59 

until  there  are  no  wrinkles,  and  the  loaves  are  smooth. 
Greasing  the  hands  slightly  with  butter  helps.  All  the 
flour  added  at  this  kneading  rises  but  once,  and  too  much 
will  make  the  loaf  burst  out  unevenly  at  the  sides.  Some 
careless  kneaders  mereh^  fold  it  over,  and  if  it  look 
smooth  on  the  top  thej^  think  that  enough  ;  but  their  loaf 
will  sometimes  have  a  seam  or  crack  through  it,  which  will 
cause  the  slices  to  fall  apart  easil}'. 

The  loaves  should  come  nearl}^  half-way  up  the  pan  ;  and 
the  same  rule  follows  as  for  the  first  rising,  namelj^,  let  it 
come  to  the  top,  or  till  the  bulk  is  doubled.  Cover  with 
<.-loth  and  tin  cover,  or  a  large  tin  pan.  The  time  for  rising 
varies  with  the  lightness  of  the  dough  and  the  temperature 
of  the  room.  It  is  impossible  to  give  a  definite  rule  ;  but 
should  it  rise  too  far  and  stick  to  the  cloth,  or  look  "  tum- 
bled in,"  cut  it  down,  knead,  and  let  it  rise  again.  Never 
bake  it  in  the  above  state,  as  it  will  be  coarse-grained,  if 
not  hollow.  It  is  better  to  bake  it  a  little  too  soon  than 
to  let  it  rise  too  long. 

Rolls  and  small  biscuit  should  rise  in  the  pans  longer 
and  be  baked  in  a  hotter  oven  than  the  loaf,  because  the 
loaf  rises  in  the  oven  until  the  heat  has  penetrated  to  the 
centre  ;  while  in  the  rolls  the  air  cells  are  ver}^  quickly  fixed 
b}^  the  intense  heat  needed  to  perfect  the  crust,  and  fer- 
mentation is  almost  immediatel}^  checked.  This  is  con- 
trary to  the  usual  practice ;  but  it  is  the  correct  wa}-. 
Man}'  people  prepare  biscuit  for  breakfast  b}'  letting  them 
rise  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a  very  hot  place  while  the 
oven  is  heating.  They  are  often  onlj'  half  baked,  and  then 
eaten  smoking  hot ;  and  those  who  have  never  had  any- 
thing else  think  them  just  right.  The  evil  effects  of  this 
practice  have  been  the  occasion  for  much  of  the  outcry 
against  hot,  or  even  fresh,  biscuit.  Such  are  entirely  dif- 
ferent from  the  dr}',  light,  delicious  biscuit  which  have  had 
a  natural,  not  a  forced,  rising,  are  of  the  proper  texture, 
have  been  baked  quickly,  and  allowed  to  stand  at  least 
half  an  hour  before  being  eaten.  The  moral  of  the  above 
is,  never  try  to  have  raised  biscuit  for  breakfast  without 


6o  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


rising   at  least  three  hours  before  breakfast- time,   unless 
you  wish  your  famil}'  to  become  slaves  to  indigestion. 

The  Temperature  for  Baking.  —  The  object  of  baking 
bread  is  to  kill  the  ferment,  rupture  the  starch  grains, 
fix  the  air  cells,  and  form  a  nicel}'  flavored  crust.  Bread 
could  be  baked  by  steam,  as  the  air  cells  become  fixed 
at  212°,  and  the  temperature  of  the  inside  of  the  loaf, 
owing  to  the  moisture,  never  rises  above  that  point ;  but. 
to  give  the  delicious  flavor  of  the  browned  crust,  a  much 
higher  temperature  is  needed.  The  oven  should  be  hot 
enough  to  brown  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  one  minute 
for  rolls,  and  in  jive  minutes  for  loaves.  This  is  a  good 
rule  for  those  who  do  not  use  a  thermometer,  oi*  cannot 
judge  of  the  heat  by  their  hands.  The  heat  should  be 
greater  at  the  bottom  than  at  the  top  of  the  oven,  and  of 
sufficient  strength  to  last  through  the  time  of  baking  (which 
is  about  an  hour)  without  replenishing  the  fire.  Divide 
the  time  into  thirds  ;  the  first  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
the  heat  should  increase,  remain  steadj^  during  the  next, 
and  decrease  toward  the  last.  The  dough  should  rise,  and, 
after  fifteen  minutes,  begin  to  brown  slightl}'.  If  the  oven 
be  too  hot,  and  the  loaf  brown  too  fast,  a  hard  crust  will 
be  formed  before  the  heat  reaches  the  centre,  and,  pressing 
down  on  the  air  cells,  make  a  heavy  streak  ;  or,  if  removed 
from  the  oven  too  soon,  it  will  be  raw  and  doughy  inside. 
If  the  heat  be  not  sufficient  to  form  the  crust  in  fifteen 
minutes,  the  dough  will  go  on  rising  until  it  becomes  sour 
and  pasty,  and  the  air  cells  will  run  together,  making  a 
hole  in  the  middle.  The  baking  of  bread  is  something  that 
will  not  take  care  of  itself.  The  old  notion  that  3'ou  must 
not  look  at  anything  in  the  oven  is  erroneous ;  and  until 
you  have  learned  by  experience  just  how  to  regulate  the 
fire  and  oven,  and  the  man}^  tests  by  which  everj-  good 
cook  determines  when  bread  is  done,  look  at  it  often, 
and  bake  according  to  the  clock  from  fifty  to  sixty  min- 
utes. Better  bake  ten  minutes  too  long,  putting  a  paper 
over  the  top  to  prevent  a  burned  crust,  than  not  long 
enough.     Bake  it  hrown^  not  black,  nor  pale  whity-brown, 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


but  brown  all  over.  Rolls  are  often  brushed  with  milk  just 
before  and  after  baking,  to  give  them  a  richer  brown  color. 
Rubbing  over  with  soft  butter  while  still  hot  makes  a  crisp, 
delicious  crust.  When  well  baked,  if  tapped  with  the  fin- 
gers, a  hollow,  empty  sound  will  be  emitted  ;  the  crust 
feels  firm,  and,  if  broken  apart,  the  inside  rebounds  in- 
stantly on  any  shght  pressure.  "  ^ 

The  Care  of  Bread  after  Baking.  —  Remove  the  loaves 
immediately  from  the  pans,  and  place  them  where  the  air 
can  circulate  freelj'  round  them  and  thus  carr}-  ofi"  the  gas 
which  has  been  formed,  but  is  no  longer  needed.  A  bread 
or  cake  cooler,  made  of  fine  wire,  set  in  a  narrow  frame 
thirt}^  inches  long  by  twelve  or  fifteen  broad,  is  a  v«ry  use- 
ful article,  as  it  will  hold  several  loaves.  An  old  wire 
window-screen,  too  small  for  modern  windows,  with  cleats 
on  the  ends,  to  keep  it  two  or  three  inches  from  the  table, 
answers  the  purpose  admirably.  Man}^  use  a  wire  sieve  ; 
but  that  is  small,  and  leaves  the  marks  of  the  larger  cross 
wires  on  the  loaf.  Never  leave  the  bread  in  the  pan,  or -on 
a  pine  table,  to  sweat  and  absorb  the  odor  of  the  wood. 

If  3'ou  like  crusts  that  are  crisp,  do  not  cover  the  loaves  ; 
but  to  give  the  soft,  tender,  wafer-like  consistency  which 
many  prefer,  wrap  them,  while  still  hot,  in  several  thick- 
nesses of  bread  cloth.  When  cold,  put  them  into  a  stone 
jar  or  tin  box  ;  remove  the  cloth,  as  that  absorbs  the  mois- 
ture, and  gives  the  bread  an  unpleasant  taste  and  odor. 
Keep  the  jar  well  covered  and  carefully  cleansed  from 
crumbs  and  stale  pieces.  Scald  and  dry  it  thoroughly 
ever}^  two  or  three  da3's.  A  yard  and  a  half  square  of 
coarse  table  linen  makes  the  best  bread  cloth.  Keep  a 
good  supply ;  keep  them  sweet  and  clean,  and  use  them 
for  no  other  purpose. 

Fine  white  bread  should  be  partaken  of  in  moderation. 
Although  the  "  stafl"  of  life,"  it  is  not  necessary  to  eat 
bread  with  every  kind  of  diet.  It  is  most  useful  when 
taken  with  articles  containing  a  large  proportion  of  nour- 
ishment in  a  small  bulk,  as  it  then  gives  the  stomach  the 
proper  degree  of  expansion. 


62  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Raw  Potato  Yeast. 


3^  cup  flour. 

3=^  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 


3  raw  potatoes. 

1  to  2  quarts  boiling  water. 

1  cup  yeast. 


First,  see  that  j'oii  have  at  least  three  quarts  of  water 
boiling  rapidh\'    Pare  the  potatoes,  and  keep  them  cov- 
ered with  cold  water.     Mix  the  flour,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a 
large  bowl,  and  grate  the  potatoes  as  quickly  as  possible, 
not  stopping  to  grate  ever}'  scrap  ;  mix  them  at  once  with 
the  flour,  using  a  wooden  or  silver  spoon,  that  the  mixture 
ma}^  not  be  dark-colored.     Pour  the  boiling  water  directly 
from  the  teakettle  over  the  grater,  and  rinse  ofi"  the  potato 
into  the  bowl,  using  perhaps  a  pint  of  water  at  first.     Mix 
the  water  thoroughly  with  the  potato  and  flour ;  then  add, 
slowl}',  enough  more  boiling  water  to  make  it  the  consist- 
ency of  thin  starch.     The  amount  of  water  will  depend 
upon  the  quality  of  the  flour  and  potatoes.     If  it  does  not 
thicken,  pour  the  mixture  into  a  double  boiler  or  granite 
pan,  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling-point,  stirring  well  to 
keep  it  from  sticking.     Strain  through  a  squash  strainer  and 
let  it  cool.     When  lukewarm  (clear  through  the  mixture, 
not  merety  on  the  top) ,  add  the  j'east.     Cover  slightl}' ,  and 
keej)  in  a  warm  (not  hot)  place,  until  light  and  covered 
with  white  foam.     After  it  begins  to  rise,  beat  it  well  sev- 
eral times,  as  this  makes  it  stronger.     At  night,  or  when 
well  risen,  put  it  into  wide-mouthed  earthen  or  glass  jars. 
The  next  morning  cover  tightly,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool 
place.     Reserve  one  cupful  or  more  in  a  small  glass  jar, 
and  do  not  open  it  until  read}^  for  the  next  3'east-making. 
Alwa3's  shake  yeast  well  before  using ;  take  your  cup  to 
the  jar  instead  of  taking  the  jar  to  the  hot  kitchen  ;  when 
empty,  scald  the  jar  and  the  cover  thoroughly.     This  is 
the  quickest  and  easiest  way  of  making  3^east,  fifteen  min- 
utes being  ample  time  for  the  first  part  of  the  process.     It 
is  whiter  and  looks  more  inviting  than  that  made  with  hops. 
It  keeps  well  two  weeks,  and  makes  delicious  bread. 

This  receipt  can  be  varied  b}'  using  boiling  hop-water. 


The  Boston   Cook  Book.  65 

Steep  one  fourth  cup  of  loose  hops  five  minutes  in  three  'pints 
of  water ^  in  a  granite  or  porcelain  kettle,  and  strain  it  into 
the  potato  and  flour.  Or  the  flour  may  be  omitted,  using 
more  potato  or  less  water.  Many  think  it  an  improvement 
to  mix  one  even  teaspoonful  of  sifted  ginger  with  the  flour, 
sugar,  and  salt.  The  hops  and  ginger  will  make  the  3^east 
dark-colored,  but  it  wiU  not  be  perceptible  in  the  bread. 

Boiled  Potato  Yeast.  {Mrs.  Towne's  Matilda.) 
Three  large.,  old  potatoes,  pared,  soaked,  and  boiled  until 
broken  in  small  pieces  ;  half  a  cup  of  loose  hops  boiled  in 
one  quart  of  water.  Drain  and  mash  the  potatoes  ;  add  the 
hop  water  and  enough  more  hot  water  to  make  two  quarts. 
Strain,  rubbing  all  the  potato  through,  and  put  it  on  to 
boil.  When  boiling,  add  three  fourths  of  a  cup  of  flow\ 
whigh  has  been  wet  to  a  smooth  paste  in  cold  water,  and 
three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  five  minutes,  stirring 
well ;  let  it  cool ;  add  tliree  fourths  of  a  cup  of  yeast ;  and, 
when  well  risen,  add  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  salt.  Keep  in  a 
covered  stone  jar  in  a  cool  cellar.  Bread  made  with  this 
yeast  will  not  sour  even  in  the  hottest  weather. 

Hop  Yeast. 
Steep  half  a  cup  of  loose  hops  in  one  quart  of  boiling 
water,  in  a  granite  kettle,  five  minutes.  Mix  one  cup  of 
flour,  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  one  tahlespoonfd  of 
salt.  Strain  the  hop  liquor,  and  pour  it  boiling  into  the  flour 
mixture.  Boil  one  minute,  or  till  thick.  When  cooled, 
add  one  cup  of  yeast. 


Water  Bread. 

2  quarts  sifted  (new-process)  flour, 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  butter,   or  drip- 
pings, or  lard. 

Sift  the  flour,  and  till  the  measure  lightly,  not  heaping, 
nor  shaken  down.     Turn  it  into  a  large  bowl  holding  about 


%  cup  liquid  yeast,  or, 

3^  cake   compressed    yeast,    dis 

solved  in  y^  cup  water. 
1  pint  lukewarm  water. 


64  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

four  quarts.  Reserve  one  cup  of  flour  to  add  at  the  last  if 
needed,  and  to  use  on  the  board.  Mix  the  salt  and  sugar 
with  the  flour ;  rub  in  the  shortening  until  fine,  like  meal. 
Mix  the  yeast  with  the  water.  If  compressed  3'east  be 
used,  dissolve  one  fourth  of  a  cake  in  half  a  cup  of  water. 
This  is  in  addition  to  the  pint  of  water  to  be  used  in  mix- 
ing. Pour  the  liquid  mixture  into  the  centre  of  the  flour, 
mixing  it  well  with  a  broad  knife  or  a  strong  spoon.  Scrape 
the  dr3^  flour  from  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  bowl,  bring- 
ing the  knife  up  through  the  dough,  and  turning  the  mass 
over  and  over  until  no  dr}^  flour  is  left.  If  it  be  too  soft 
to  be  handled  easilj^,  add  a  little  of  the  reserved  cup  of 
flour.  If  too  stiff",  add  more  water.  Knead'  it  half  an 
hour,  or  till  smooth  and  fine-grained.  Cover,  and  let  it 
rise  until  it  doubles  its  bulk.  Cut  it  down  ;  let  it  rise  again  ; 
divide  into  four  parts,  then  shape  into  loaves,  putting  two 
in  each  pan,  or  reserve  some  for  biscuit.  Cover  and  let  it 
rise  again  to  the  top  of  the  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  nearly 
an  hour. 

Milk  Bread,  No.  1. 


1  teaspoonful  salt, 
%  cup  yeast. 
6  or  7  cups  flour. 


1  pint  milk,  scalded  and  cooled. 
1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted  in 

the  hot  milk. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

Measure  the  milk  after  scalding,  and  put  it  in  the  mixing- 
bowl  ;  add  the  butter,  sugar,  and  salt.  When  cool,  add  the 
yeast,  and  then  stir  in  the  flour,  adding  it  gradually  after 
flve  cups  are  in,  that  it  ma}-  not  be  too  stiff";  use  just 
enough  to  knead  it.  Knead  till  smooth  and  elastic.  Cover  ; 
let  it  rise  till  light ;  cut  it  down ;  divide  into  four  parts  ; 
shape  into  loaves  or  biscuit.  Let  it  rise  again  in  the  pans. 
Bake  forty  or  fifty  minutes. 

Milk  Bread,  No.  2  (not  kneaded). 

The  same  proportions  as  in  the  preceding  rule,  except 
that  about  one  cup  less  of  flour  is  used,  and  the  dough  is 
not  kneaded.     Mix  it  with  a  knife,  cutting  it  through  and 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  65 

turning  and  working  it  over  until  all  the  dvy  flour  is  well 
mixed  with  the  other  materials.  Mix  it  just  soft  enough 
to  be  shaped  into  a  loaf  after  it  has  risen.  Scrape  the 
dough  from  the  sides  of  the  bowl ;  smooth  the  top  with 
a  knife  ;  cover  and  let  it  rise.  Shape  it  into  loaves,  and 
when  well  risen  bake  about  fort}^  minutes. 

Water  Bread  (with  a  Sponge). 


1  tablespoonf  ul  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 


1  pint  water. 

I'o  cup  yeast,  scant. 

About  2  quarts  flour. 


Put  the  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  in  the  mixing-bowl ;  add 
one  fourth  cup  of  boiling  water  to  dissolve  them  ;  then  add 
enough  more  lukewarm  water  to  make  a  pint  in  all,  half 
a  cup  of  3'east,  and  three  and  a  half  or  four  cups  of  flour, 
enough  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop,  not  pour,  from 
the  spoon.  Give  it  a  vigorous  beating ;  cover  and  let  it 
rise  over  night.  This  soft  mixture  is  called  a  sponge.  In 
the  morning  add  flour  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  knead. 
Knead  it  half  an  hour.  Cover ;  let  it  rise  in  the  bowl 
until  noon,  or  till  light  and  spongy  ;  then  shape  it  into 
loaves  or  rolls ;  let  it  rise  again  in  the  pans ;  bake  as 
usual.  This  sponge  can  be  divided  in  the  morning,  add- 
ing to  one  part  of  it  white  flour  enough  to  knead  it,  and 
to  the  other  part  whole-wheat  or  rye  flour  and  another 
tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Make  it  just  stiff  enough  to  shape 
easily  into  a  loaf  after  it  is  risen.  Use  white  flour  to 
shape  it  on  the  board,  as  the  rye  and  whole-wheat  floui 
are  stick}'.  Or  make  the  dough  a  little  softer,  fill  gem 
pans  two  thirds  full,  let  them  rise  to  the  top,  bake  in  a  hot 
oven,  and  you  have  "  raised  rye  or  whole-wheat  gents." 

Milk  Bread,  No.  3  (with  Sponge). 

Pour  one  pint  of  scalded  milk  on  one  tablespoonful  each 
of  butter  and  sugar.,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  when  luke- 
warm, add  half  a  cup  of  yeast  if  mixed  in  the  morning  or 
one  fourth  of  a  cup  if  mixed  at  night.     Stir  in  three  cups  of 


66  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

flour,  and  beat  well.  Let  it  rise  over  night,  or,  if  mixed  in 
the  morning,  about  three  hours.  Then  add  from  two  to 
three  cups  of  flour ^  or  enough  to  knead  it,  and  knead  half 
an  hour.  Let  it  rise  in  the  bowl,  and  again  after  being 
shaped  into  loaves  or  rolls,  and  bake  as  usual. 

Whole-wheat  or  rye  bread  or  gems  can  be  made  from  this 
sponge  the  same  as  in  the  preceding  rule. 

Whole- Wheat  or  Graham  Bread. 


1  pint  milk,  scalded  and  cooled. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

%  cup  yeast. 


5  or  6  cups  fine  granulated  wheat 
flour,  or 

2  cups  white  flour,  and 

3  or  3j^2  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 


In  the  morning  mix,  in  the  order  given,  into  a  dough,  a 
little  softer  than  for  white  bread  ;  let  it  rise  till  light,  stir 
it  down,  pour  it  into  w ell- greased  pans ^  or,  if  stiff  enough, 
shape  it  into  loaves ;  let  it  rise  again,  and  bake  a  little 
longer  and  in  a  less  hot  oven  than  white  bread.  Graham 
or  whole-wheat  flour  rises  more  rapidl}'  than  white  flour, 
as  it  contains  more  gluten.  It  is  liable  to  become  sour 
if  mixed  over  night,  and  then  the  cooks  resort  to  the  soda. 
For  the  true  remed}^  use  less  yeast,  and  use  sugar  instead 
of  molasses,  or  mix  in  the  morning.  Alwaj's  sift  the  flour, 
notwithstanding  all  cook-books  say  to  the  contrary.  Use 
a  coarse  sieve  or  squash  strainer.  Sift  once,  and,  if  you 
observe  the  character  of  the  refuse,  yow  will  be  glad 
to  do  so  always.  Bake  part  of  this  as  biscuit  or  rolls. 
When  made  with  ordinary  Graham  flour,  the  bread  is 
much  lighter  if  at  least  one  third  white  flour  be  used. 

Squash  Bread. 


1  tablespoonful  butter. 

}4  cup  yeast. 

Flour  enough  to  knead  it. 


1  cup  squash,  stewed  and  sifted. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
\y^  cups  scalded  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  salt  with  the  squash,  add  the  butter 
melted  in  the  hot  milk,  and  when  cool  add  the  yeast  and 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  67 

flour.    Knead  fifteen  minutes.    Let  it  rise  till  light.    Knead 
and  shape  into  loaves  or  biscuit.     When  well  risen,  bake 


Hye  Bread. 

Make  by  rule  given  for  Milk  Bread,  No.  3,  adding  rye 
flour  or  rye  meal  to  the  white-flour  sponge. 


Raised  Brown  Bread.     (Mrs.  H.  B.  May.) 

1  pint  yellow  corn  meal.  I         )^  teaspoonful  salt. 

)^  cup  yeast.  1  saltspoonf ul  soda. 

3^  cup  molasses.  I  1  pint  rye  meal. 

Put  the  corn  meal  in  the  mixing-bowl,  and  scald  it  with 
boiling  water,  just  enough  to  wet  it ;  let  it  stand  ten  min- 
utes, then  add  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  soft  batter. 
When  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast,  molasses,  soda,  salt,  and 
lye  meal.  Beat  it  well,  and  let  it  rise  over  night,  or  until  it 
cracks  open.  Stir  it  down  ;  put  it  in  a  buttered  and  floured 
tin  to  rise  again  ;  sprinkle  flour  over  the  top.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  two  hours.  Brown  bread  made  b}'  this  rule 
was  first  tested  by  the  writer  thirty  years  ago,  when  it  was 
a  wonder  and  delight  to  watch  it  as  it  was  put  on  a  wooden 
shovel  and  placed  in  the  great  brick  oven.  It  has  been 
made  in  the  same  house  regularly  every  week  since  then, 
and  proves  just  as  good  now  as  it  was  in  the  olden  time. 

Thirded  Bread. 


1  cup  white  flour  (St.  Louis). 

1  cup  rye  flour,  or  sifted  rye  meal. 

1  cup  yellow  corn  meal. 


1  teaspoonful  salt. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

}£  cup  yeast. 


Mix  with  milk  (scalded  and  cooled)  till  thick  enough  tc 
be  shaped.  Let  It  rise  until  it  cracks  open.  Put  into  a 
brickloaf  pan,  and  when  well  risen  bake  it  one  hour. 


68  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Sour  Milk  Brown  Bread,  No.  1.     (Mrs.  Wm.  B.  Johnson.) 


1  pint  corn  meal. 
1  pint  Graham  flour. 
1  teaspoonf  ul  soda. 


1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  pint  sour  milk. 
1  cup  molasses. 


Mix  the  meal  with  flour.  Mash  the  soda  and  salt  before 
measuring ;  sift  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  flour ;  add 
the  sour  milk  and  molasses,  and  beat  well.  If  not  moist 
enough  to  pour,  add  a  little  warm  water.  Pour  it  into  a 
well-greased  mould  or  pail,  filling  it  oiAy  two  thirds  full. 
Cover  it  with  a  tight  cover,  also  greased.  Steam  three 
hours  in  a  steamer,  or  set  the  pail  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water.  Keep  the  water  boiling  ;  and  as  it  boils  away,  re- 
plenish with  boiling  water  to  keep  it  at  the  same  level. 
Remove  the  cover,  and  place  the  mould  in  the  oven  fifteen 
minutes  to  dry  the  crust. 

Sour  Milk  Brown  Bread,  Ko.  2. 


1  cup  white  corn  meal. 
1  cup  rye  flour. 
1  cup  Graham  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 


1  full  teaspoonful  soda. 
}4,  cup  molasses. 
1  pint  sour  milk. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  sifting  the  soda,  and  adding 
more  milk  or  water  if  not  thin  enough  to  pour.  Steam 
three  hours.  One  cup  of  raisins  stoned  and  halved  may 
be  added  to  this,  or  any  of  the  receipts  for  brown  bread. 

Raised  Biscuit  and  Rolls. 

The  name  "biscuit"  is  from  the  French,  and  means 
"  twice  baked."  It  was  originallj"  applied  to  a  kind  of  hard, 
thin  bread,  made  in  that  manner  to  deprive  it  of  all  moist- 
ure and  insure  its  remaining  in  good  condition  for  a  long 
time.  It  was  something  like  our  crackers  and  ship  bread. 
But  in  America  it  means  an}'  kind  of  bread  made  into 
small,  round  cakes  and  intended  to  be  eaten  hot  or  fresh. 
Raised  biscuit  may  be  made  from  am'^  of  the  doughs  made 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  69 

by  the  receipts  for  bread  ;  the  proportions  are  enough  for 
one  pan  of  bread,  and  one  pan  of  biscuit  containing  twelve 
or  sixteen  according  to  the  size.  They  should  always  be 
made  small,  and  shaped  with  the  fingers,  not  cut  with  a 
cutter.  Divide  the  portion  of  dough  reserved  for  biscuit 
into  halves,  then  into  quarters,  and  each  quarter  into 
thirds  or  quarters.  To  shape  a  biscuit^  take  one  of  these 
quarters  in  the  left  hand  and  rest  it  lightl}^  on  the  board. 
With  the  right  thumb  and  forefinger  draw'  a  point  of  the 
dough  up  and  over  to  the  centre,  and  hold  it  down  with  the 
left  thumb.  Give  the  dough  a  slight  turn  toward  the  left, 
and  repeat  the  drawing  up  and  folding  over  until  3^ou  have 
been  all  round  the  ball.  You  may  roll  them  in  the  hands 
until  all  these  foldings  have  disappeared  and  they  are 
smooth  and  round,  and  call  them  simpl}^  biscuit;  or  you 
may  make  the  folds  as  distinct  as  possible,  and  place  them 
at  once  in  the  pan.  The  folds  will  spread  apart  in  rising, 
and  when  baked  the}"  can  be  peeled  ofi"  in  layers.  They 
are  then  honored  with  the  name  of  Imperial  Rolls.  Put 
the  biscuit  in  a  shallow  round  pan,  fitting  them  closely, 
that  they  may  rise  up,  round  and  puffy,  instead  of  spread- 
ing. When  ver}^  light,  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  Keep  them  wrapped  in  a  bread  cloth  for 
at  least  half  an  hour  before  serving.  The  receipts  for 
Milk  Bread  are  especially  nice  for  biscuit. 

Rolls. 

Rolls  are  made  by  rolling  the  raised  dough  into  small 
forms,  with  the  hands  or  with  a  rolling-pin,  and  afterward 
cutting  and  folding  into  the  desired  shape  ;  the  shape  and 
manner  of  manipulation  giving  the  distinctive  names.  The 
dough  for  rolls  should  be  very  light,  and  when  wanted  un- 
usually nice,  more  shortening  should  be  worked  into  it  after 
the  second  kneading.  The  rule  for  Water  Bread  made 
with  a  sponge  is  good  for  plain  rolls  ;  Milk  Bread  made 
with  a  sponge  is  the  same  as  Parker  House  Rolls ^  which 
have  been  generally  adopted  by  housekeepers  as  the  stand- 


70  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

ard.  The  following  are  some  of  the  best  varieties  and 
shapes : — 

For  Finger  Jiolls,  make  a  dough  bj'  the  rule  for  Milk 
Bread,  No.  2,  and  when  risen  and  ready  to  shape,  divide 
the  half  reserved  for  rolls  into  twelve  pieces.  Make  each 
piece  into  a  smooth  ball  as  if  for  biscuit,  then  roll  it  be- 
tween the  palms,  or  with  the  palm  of  one  hand  on  the 
board,  into  a  long  roll  about  the  size  of  the  second  finger. 
Roll  with  buttered  hands  or  with  as  little  flour  as  possible. 
Place  them  close  together  in  a  long,  shallow  pan.  Let 
them  rise  to  the  top  of  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  very  hot 
oven  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

To  make  a  Oleft  Roll^  make  the  dough  into  smooth  balls, 
then  with  a  floured  knife-handle  press  through  the  centre 
but  not  quite  through  on  the  ends.  Or  make  them  round, 
and  place  them  some  distance  apart  on  the  pan,  and  when 
ready  to  bake,  make  a  deep  cut  through  the  middle.  Make 
another  cut  at  right  angles  with  the  first  and  3'ou  have 
a  Cross  Roll. 

Parker  House  Rolls  are  made  after  the  receipt  for  Milk 
Bread  with  sponge,  and  when  well  risen  and  ready  to  shape, 
roll  the  dough  on  the  board  as  3'ou  would  pastrj^,  and,  if 
wanted  richer,  spread  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  soft- 
ened butter  all  over  it.  Fold  the  dough,  and  roll  out  again 
until  nearl}'  half  an  inch  thick.  Lift  the  rolled  dough  from 
the  board  and  let  it  shrink  back  all  it  will,  and  be  sui%  it 
is  of  uniform  thickness  before  cutting,  or  the  rolls  will  lose 
their  shape.  Cut  with  a  round  or  oval  cutter ;  press  the 
thumb  across  the  middle  and  fold  over  like  a  turnover, 
letting  the  edges  come  together.  As  they  rise  they  wdll 
open  a  little,  and,  if  folded  onh^  half-wa}^  over,  the^^  are 
liable  to  open  too  far.  Spread  a  bit  of  soft  butter  the 
size  of  a  pea  on  the  edge  before  folding  it,  if  jon  like 
the  crusty  inside  which  that  gives.  Or  roll  the  dough 
thinner,  and  put  two  rounds  together  with  a  thin  spread- 
ing of  butter  between  ;  these  are  called  Twin  Rolls. 

To  make  Pocket-hook  or  Letter  Rolls ^  roll  the  dough  in  a 
rectangular  shape  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  in 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


strips  four  inches  wide  and  as  long  as  the  dough  will  allow. 
Spread  with  soft  butter ;  fold  one  end  of  the  strip  over 
about  an  inch  and  a  half,  and  then  over  again.  Cut  off 
even  with  the  folding,  and  then  fold  another,  and  so  on. 
Or  cut  the  dough  into  strips  two  inches  wide  bj'  seven  long, 
and  spread  each  strip  with  butter,  and  fold  one  third  over 
and  then  again  like  a  letter.  Or  roll  the  dough  out  one 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  then  roll  up  and  cut  pieces  one 
inch  wide  from  the  end  of  the  roll,  turn  them  over  on  the 
side,  and  place  close  together  in  a  pan  to  rise. 

To  make  a  Braid,  cut  the  rolled  dough  in  strips  one 
inch  wide  b}^  six  inches  long,  and  pinch  three  strips  together 
at  the  end,  then  form  into  a  braid.  Or  roll  little  balls  of 
dough  into  long  pieces  the  same  as  for  sticks,  and  then 
braid  them. 

To  make  Crescents,  or  Vienna  Rolls,  roll  the  dough 
until  onh'  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick ;  cut  into  pieces  five 
inches  square  and  then  into  triangles.  Hold  the  apex  of 
the  triangle  in  the  right  hand,  roll  the  edge  next  the  left 
hand  over  and  over  towards  the  right,  stretch  the  point 
and  bring  it  over  and  under  the  roll ;  bend  the  ends  of  the 
roll  around  like  a  horseshoe,  being  careful  to  keep  in  the 
folding.  Any  dough  that  is  quite  stiff  may  be  shaped  with 
the  hands  into  small,  oval  rolls  with  quite  tapering  ends, 
and  baked  far  enough  apart  to  allow  each  roll  to  have  a 
crust  all  over.  These  are  called  French  Rolls.  Any  of 
these  rolls  may  be  rubbed  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  melted 
butter ;  or,  better  still,  twist  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  clean 
cloth  and  rub  it  over  them  just  as  thej  are  taken  from  the 
oven. 


Sticks. 


1  cup  milk,  scalded. 
3^  cup  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
}/£  teaspoonf  ul  salt. 


^  cake  compressed  yeast,  or 
3  tablespoonfuls  liquid  yeast. 
White  of  1  egg. 
About  4  cups  flour. 


Melt  the  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  in  the  hot  milk ;  when 
lukewarm,  add  the  3'east  (if  compressed,  dissolve  in  three 


72  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

tablespoonfuls  of  warm  milk  or  water),  then  the  beaten 
white  and  flour.  Knead  until  smooth  and  fine-grained.  Let 
it  rise  over  night  or  till  light.  Shape  into  small  balls ; 
then  roll  into  sticks  a  foot  long.  Let  them  rise  slowlj-  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  that  they  ma}'  be  dried  through 
before  browning.  When  shaped  into  large  plain  rolls,  they 
are  called  White  Mountain  Roils. 

Rolls  designed  for  breakfast  or  dinner  are  better  not  to 
be  sweetened  enough  to  taste  sweet ;  but  for  tea  or  lunch 
more  sugar  may  be  added.  This  brings  us  to  another  vari- 
ety of  rolls  which  are  made  richer  bj'  the  addition  of  but- 
ter, sugar,  eggs,  and  fruit,  including  Swedish  Rolls,  Rusks, 
and  Bunns. 

Swedish  Rolls. 


1  pint  milk,  scalded. 

%  cup  butter. 

^  cup  sugar. 

1  scant  teaspoonful  salt. 


/2 

7  or  8  cups  flour. 


Melt  the  butter,  and  dissolve  the  sugar  and  salt  in  the 
hot  milk  ;  when  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast  and  beaten  whites. 
Mix  in  flour  to  make  a  sponge  or  drop  batter.  In  the 
morning  add  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  and  knead  twenty 
minutes.  Let  it  rise  till  noon  or  till  light ;  then  knead 
again  slightty,  and  roll  out  into  a  large,  rectangular  piece, 
half  an  inch  thick.  Have  the  edges  as  straight  as  possi- 
ble. Spread  all  over  with  a  thin  layer  of  soft  butter,  and 
a  sprinkling  of  sugar,  cinnamon,  grated  lemon  rind,  and 
currants.  Roll  up  lik6  a  jelly  roll,  cut  off  slices  an  inch 
wide,  la}^  them  with  the  cut  side  down  on  well-greased 
pans,  and  when  well  risen  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  When  done,  glaze  them  with  sugar  dis- 
solved in  milk,  and  dry  them  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven,  or 
rub  them  with  soft  butter.  If  mixed  in  the  morning, 
make  a  sponge  with  the  scalded  milk  cooled,  the  eggs, 
salt,  sugar,  and  part  of  the  flour.  •  Place  the  bowl  in  a 
pan  of  warm  water  for  three  or  four  hours ;  then  add  the 
butter  and  the  remainder  of  the  flour.  Knead,  and  after 
it  is  well  risen  roll  out  as  above. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  73 


Rusk,  ]^o.  1. 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled.  34  cup  yeast. 

1  tablespoonf ul  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

%  teaspoonful  salt. 

Mix  in  a  sponge  at  night  or  very  early  in  the  morning. 
When  well  risen,  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Knead  and  let  it  rise  again,  then  add  one  fourth  of  a  cup 
of  hutter^  rubbed  to  a  cream,  half  a  cup  of  sugar ^  and  one 
egg^  beaten  with  butter  and  sugar.  Let  it  rise  in  the  bowl 
till  light.  Shape  into  small  round  biscuit ;  put  them  close 
together  in  a  shallow  cake  pan,  that  they  may  rise  very 
high.  When  read}^  to  bake,  rub  the  tops  with  sugar  dis- 
solved in  milk,  sprinkle  with  drj'  sugar,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Rusk,  No.  2. 

Make  a  dough  at  night  by  the  rule  for  Milk  Bread,  No.  1. 
In  the  morning  make  half  the  dough  into  a  loaf  for  bread. 
Put  with  the  remainder  half  a  cup  of  butter^  creamed,  with 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  egg^  well  beaten ;  mix  and  beat 
well ;  add  half  a  cup  of  flour  ^  or  enough  to  shape  it  easil3^ 
Let  it  rise  in  the  bowl,  shape  into  small  rounds  or  into 
long  narrow  rolls,  and  when  \Qvy  light,  glaze  them  and 
bake  as  in  the  preceding  rule. 

Rusk,  Wo.  3.    {Miss  Yandes.) 


1  pint  milk,  scalded. 

3^  cup  butter  and  lard,  mixed. 

^  cup  sugar. 


1  cup  potato  yeast. 

3  eggs. 

Flour  as  required. 


Mix  early  in  the  morning,  in  the  order  given,  adding 
flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Let  it  rise  till  full  of 
bubbles,  then  add  flour  enough  to  knead  it.  When  well 
risen,  shape  into  rounds,  or  roll  out  and  cut  them.  Let 
them  rise  in  the  pans  till  very  light ;  then  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  about  half  an  hour. 


74  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Dried  Rushs  are  made  after  either  of  these  receipts,  and 
when  risen  are  rolled  thin,  cut  into  rounds,  and  put  two 
together  into  the  pan.  When  baked,  the}'  are  pulled  apart 
and  left  in  a  very  moderate  oven  to  drj- .  Or  they  are  cut 
in  slices  when  cold,  and  dried  until  crisp  and  brown. 
They  are  delicious  soaked  in  milk  and  eaten  with  butter, 
or  used  the  same  as  bread  in  puddings,  or  soaked  in  a 
custard  and  sauted. 

Bunns. 
Make  a  sponge  over  night  with 


1  cup  milk,  scalded. 
1  tablespoonf ul  sugar  and  1  e^,^ 
beaten  together. 


1  saltspoonful  salt. 
3^  cup  yeast. 

2  cups  flour. 


Beat  it  well  and  in  the  morning  add  flour  to  made  a  stiff 
dough.  Knead  fifteen  minutes.  Let  it  rise  until  light, 
then  add  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter^  softened,  half  a  cup 
of  currants^  and  one  saltspoonful  of  cinnamon  or  nutmeg. 
Let  it  rise  in  the  bowl  till  light.  Shape  into  small 
round  cakes,  put  them  close  together,  and  when  well 
risen  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Glaze  them  with  sugar 
and  milk,  or  with  white  of  egg  beaten  stiff  with  sugar. 
Make  a  deep  cut  like  a  cross  just  before  the}'  are  put  into 
the  oven,  and  you  have  Hot  Gross  Bunns.  Many  prefer 
a  bit  of  citron  put  into  the  middle  of  each  bunn.  These 
are  better  when  freshly  baked.  It  is  therefore  well  to 
make  only  a  small  quantity.  They  may  be  made  from 
risen  milk-bread  dough  in  the  same  manner  as  Rusk,  No. 
2,  by  using  the  spices  and  the  fruit  and  a  smaller  quantity 
of  sugar.  This  receipt  for  bunns  makes  excellent  raised 
doughnuts  by  omitting  the  currants  and  rolling  half  an 
inch  thick  and  cutting  with  a  doughnut  cutter. 

Raised  Bread  Cake,  or  Loaf  Cake. 

This  is  similar  to  rusks  and  bunns,  only  richer ;  and  as 
it  improves  by  keeping,  it  is  well  to  make  a  large  quantity. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  75 

At  night  mix  one  pint  of  milk.,  scalded  and  cooled,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt.,  half  a  cup  of  yeast.,  Jive  or  six  cups  of 
flour.,  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  In  the  morning  pre- 
pare one  cup  of  hutter.,  creamed  ;  add  two  cups  of  brown 
sugar.,  one  tahlespoonful  of  mixed  spices., — cinnamon.,  nut- 
meg., and  allspice.,  — Sindfour  eggs.,  3'olks  and  whites  beaten 
separatel}'.  Add  this  mixture  to  the  beaten  dough,  and 
beat  well.  Add  two  cups  of  stoned  and  chopped  raisins.,  or 
one  cup  of  raisins.,  one  cup  of  currants  and  half  a  cup  of 
sliced  citron.  Flour  the  fruit.  Let  it  rise  in  the  bowl  till 
light.  Stir  it  down,  and  pour  into  two  deep  cake  tins, 
making  them  two  thirds  full.  Let  it  stand  in  a  warm 
place  fifteen  or  twent}^  minutes,  then  bake  one  hour  or 
longer  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Uses  for  Stale  Bread. 

All  bread  crumbs  left  on  the  plates  or  bread  board  or  in 
the  bread  jar,  any  broken  pieces  not  suitable  for  toast, 
and  an}^  crusts  or  trimmings  of  toast  should  be  carefully 
collected  in  a  pan  by  themselves,  and  dried  (not  browned) 
in  the  hot  closet  or  in  a  moderate  oven,  then  pounded  in 
a  mortar  or  rolled  on  an  old  bread  board,  sifted  through 
a  coarse  sieve,  and  put  away  in  a  dr^^  place.  These  will 
be  useful  in  covering  anything  which  is  to  be  dipped  in  ^^^ 
and  crumbs  and  then  fried.  Bread  crumbs  brown  better 
than  cracker  crumbs,  and  are  much  cheaper,  being  made 
from  material  wdiich  is  usually  thrown  awa}'.  These  are 
dried  bread  crumbs.,  and  are  not  to  be  used  for  bread  pud- 
ding or  scalloped  dishes,  as  they  will  absorb  a  great  deal 
of  moisture.  They  will  keep  indefinitelj'  in  a  dr3'  place 
Stale  bread  crumbs,  which  are  not  dried  in  the  oven,  but  are 
made  from  odds  and  ends  of  stale  bread,  crumbled  finely 
or  grated  on  a  coarse  grater,  are  better  for  meat  or  fish 
stuffing,  bread  puddings,  bread  sauce,  bread  griddle-cakes, 
scalloped  fish,  etc.  They  should  be  used  at  once,  as  thej^ 
soon  become  musty.  An\^  whole  slices  of  stale  bread  may 
be  steamed  or  used  for  toast. 


y6  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Stale  Bread  Steamed. 

Have  a  large  covered  steamer  fitting  tightly  over  a  ket- 
tle of  boiling  water.  One  with  holes  all  over  the  bottom 
is  best,  as  the  steam  condenses  and  runs  down  the  sides 
and  through  the  holes  ;  while  in  those  with  holes  only  in 
the  middle  it  forms  little  pools  of  water  round  the  edge, 
which  make  the  bread  soggy.  Do  not  put  in  the  bread 
until  everything  else  is  read}',  as  it  takes  ©nl}'  a  few  min- 
utes for  it  to  become  heated  through.  Arrange  it  all  in 
the  middle  of  the  steamer,  tilted  against  a  small  cup  or 
dish  so  that  the  steam  may  pass  between  the  slices.  Do 
not  let  any  of  it  touch  the  sides  of  the  steamer,  or  it  will 
become  water-soaked.  When  ready  to  remove  it,  lift  the 
cover  quickl}-,  turning  it  over  instantty,  that  no  water  may 
drip  on  the  bread.  Spread  each  slice  with  butter  as  3^ou 
take  it  out,  and  arrange  them  on  a  hot  platter.  Cover 
with  a  napkin  and  serve  immediately.  Stale  biscuit  may 
be  made  much  nicer  than. new  in  this  way.  These  direc- 
tions may  seem  needlessl}^  minute  ;  but  it  is  just  these 
little  things  that  make  the  difference  between  light,  deli- 
cate, hot  steamed  bread,  and  the  heavy,  water-soaked 
stuff  that  is  often  served. 

Egg  Toast,  or  Bread  Sauted. 

1  egg.  I  1  cup  milk. 

1  saltspoonful  salt.  |         4  to  6  slices  stale  bread. 

Beat  the  egg  lightl}'  with  a  fork  in  a  shallow  pudding- 
dish  ;  add  salt  and  milk.  Soak  the  bread  in  this  until  soft. 
Turn  the  slices  by  putting  those  underneath  on  the  top. 
and  dip  the  custard  over  them,  being  careful  not  to  break 
them.  Have  a  griddle  hot  and  well  buttered.  Brown 
them  on  one  side  ;  then  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of 
each  slice,  and  turn  and  brown  on  the  other  side.  To  be 
eaten  hot  with  butter,  also  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  if 
liked.  This  is  one  of  the  nicest  ways  of  freshening  stale 
bread,  and  is  especialh'  convenient  when  the  fire  is  not  in 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  yj 

order  for  toasting.  It  is  called  French,  Spanish,  German, 
and  Nun's  Toast ;  but  Egg  Toast  seems  to  best  indicate 
the  character  of  the  dish.  When  fried  in  deep  fat,  it  ma}^ 
be  used  as  a  pudding  by  serving  with  a  sweet  sauce,  and 
is  then  called  Italian  Fritters. 

Brown  Bread  Brawls. 

Break  one  pint  of  dry  hrown  bread  and  half  a  cup  of  stale 
white  bread  into  inch  pieces.  Put  a  tahlespoonful  of  butter 
in  a  large  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is  melted,  but  not  brown, 
add  the  bread  and  cover  with  one  pint  or  more  of  mill\ 
Let  it  simmer,  stirring  occasionally  to  keep  it  from  stick- 
ing, until  the  bread  is  soft  and  the  milk  absorbed.  Salt 
to  taste. 

Brown  Bread  Brewis,  No.  2. 

Mix  the  same  proportion  of  bread  with  one  fourth  of  a 
€up  of  butter  in  a  double  boiler  ;  add  milh  to  cover,  and  cook 
over  hot  water  without  stirring  until  the  bread  has  absorbed 
all  the  milk.  If  the  bread  be  very  dr}^,  more  milk  will  be 
needed. 

Toast. 

Bread  is  toasted,  or  dried  and  browned,  before  the  fire 
to  extract  the  moisture  and  make  it  more  palatable  and 
digestible.  If  the  slices  be  cut  thick  and  carelessly  ex- 
posed to  a  blazing  fire,  the  outside  is  blackened  and 
made  into  charcoal  before  the  heat  can  reach  the  inside  ; 
the  moisture  is  onh'  heated,  not  evaporated,  making  the 
inside  dough}'  or  clamm\',  and  when  spread  with  butter, 
which  cannot  penetrate  the  charcoal,  but  floats  on  the  sur- 
face in  the  form  of  oil,  it  forms  one  of  the  most  indigestible 
compounds.  The  correct  way  is  to  have  the  bread  stale, 
and  cut  into  thin,  uniform  slices  about  one  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick.  The  fire  should  be  clear,  red  (not  blazing) 
coals.  The  crusts  may  be  removed  or  not  according  to 
your  taste,  or  the  purpose  for  which  the  toast  is  intended. 
If  you  require  only  one  or  two  slices,  a  toasting-fork  will 


7^  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

answer  ;  but  if  a  larger  quantity  be  needed,  tiiere  is  nothing 
better  than  a  double  broiler  with  wires  about  a  third  of  an 
inch  apart.  Place  the  slices  evenly  on  one  side  of  the 
broiler,  being  careful  not  to  put  in  more  than  can  be 
equally  exposed  to  the  fire  ;  close  the  broiler  and  hold  it 
firmly,  that  the  slices  ma}'  not  slip  ;  move  it  gently  over  the 
fire  for  one  or  two  minutes  ;  then  turn  it  over,  that  all  the 
moisture  may  be  drawn  out ;  hold  it  nearer  to  the  coals, 
and  color  it  a  delicate  golden-brown.  Serve  at  once  in  a 
toast  rack  or  piled  lighth^,  that  it  may  not  lose  its  crisp- 
ness.  Butter  before  serving,  or  send  it  dry  to  the  table. 
Bread  properly  dried  and  toasted  is  changed  from  the 
nature  of  dough,  which  always  has  a  tendency  to  sour  on 
the  stomach,  into  pure  wheat  farina.  It  is  not  so  scorched 
as  to  turn  the  butter  into  oil,  but  absorbs  the  butter ;  and 
butter  and  farina,  being  easily  separated,  are  quickty  acted 
upon  b}'  the  gastric  fluid.  Many  persons  prefer  toast  that 
is  soft  inside,  but  it  should  never  be  served  to  sick  people 
in  that  manner.  It  is  better  to  have  it  dry,  and  then  mois- 
tened with  milk  or  water,  than  to  have  it  doughy.  If  the 
bread  be  freshly  baked  and  3'ou  must  make  toast,  dr}''  the 
slices  in  a  warm  oven  before  toasting.  Always  toast  over 
the  coals,  or  in  the  oven.  If  toasted  over  a  hot  stove,  the 
crumbs  fall  through  and  burn,  giving  it  a  scorched  and 
smoky  flavor. 


Milk  Toast. 


1  pint  milk,  scalded. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  cornstarch. 

1  large  tablespoonful  butter. 


J?2  teaspoonf  ul  salt. 
6  slices  dry  toast. 


Scald  the  milk ;  put  the  butter  in  a  granite  saucepan ; 
when  melted,  add  the  dr}^  cornstarch ;  when  well  mixed, 
add  one  third  of  the  milk.  Let  it  boil,  and  stir  constantly 
till  it  is  a  smooth  paste  ;  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk 
gradualh^,  stirring  well ;  then  add  the  salt.  Put  the  toast 
in  a  hot  deep  dish  ;  pour  the  thickened  milk  between  each 
slice  and  over  the  whole.  Keep  the  dish  over  hot  water 
until  ready  to  serve.     If  hked  ver}'  soft,  the  slices  ma}'  be 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  79 

first  dipped  in  hot  salted  water,  or  in  the  hot  milk  before 
it  is  thickened. 

Cream  Toast. 

Cream  toast  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  using  a 
scant  tahlespoonful  of  butter^  and  cream  instead  of  milk, 
or  b}^  thickening  the  boiling  cream  with  07ie  tahlespoonful 
of  cornstarch  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk  or  water ;  then  salt 
to  taste,  and  boil  eight  or  ten  minutes. 

Water  Toast. 

Have  a  shallow  pan  with  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and 
a  tea  spoonful  of  salt.  Dip  each  slice  of  dry  toast  quickly 
in  the  water,  then  pile  on  a  hot  platter.  Spread  evenh^ 
with  butter  and  serve  very  hot.  Do  not  let  them  soak  an 
instant  in  the  water. 


Toast  for  Garnishing. 

For  poached  eggs,  cut  the  bread  into  rounds  with  a 
large  cake-cutter  before  toasting.  For  small  birds  or  as- 
paragus, remove  the  crusts  and  cut  into  oblong  pieces. 
For  minces  and  fricassees,  cut  into  small  squares  or  dia- 
monds. For  a  border,  cut,  after  toasting,  into  inch  and  a 
half  squares,  and  then  into  halves  diagonally',  making  tri- 
angles ;  or  cut  into  long  pointed  triangles. 


8o  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


SODA   BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,  G-EMS,  ETC. 

The  soda  now  used  in  cooking  is  the  bicarbonate  of 
soda,  — an  alkali  made  from  the  ashes  of  marine  plants,  or, 
more  recently' ,  from  sea  salt.  Crude  soda  is  known  as  sal- 
soda^  or  soda-saleratus  ;  when  refined  and  cleared  of  its  im- 
purities, it  is  carbonate  and  bicarbonate  of  soda,  the  latter 
having  twice  as  much  carbonic  acid  gas  as  the  carbonate. 
Potash  is  another  fixed  alkali  made  from  wood  ashes. 
Pearlash  is  purified  potash.  Saleratus  is  prepared  from 
pearlash  by  exposing  it  to  carbonic  acid  gas. 

Pure,  strong  alkalies  are  powerful  corrosive  poisons, 
eating  the  coats  of  the  stomach  perhaps  quicker  than  any 
other  poisonous  agent.  This  caustic  or  burning  propert}' 
is  somewhat  weakened  by  the  carbonic  acid  united  with 
them,  and  is  therefore  less  in  bicarbonate  of  soda  than  in 
the  potash  compounds.  The  latter  are  now  seldom  used. 
Alkalies  when  property  combined  with  acids  lose  this  poi- 
sonous property ;  the  carbonic  acid  gas  is  liberated,  and 
the  compound  formed  b}^  this  union  is  called  a  neutral  salt, 
being  neither  acid  nor  alkaline.  When  not  properly  com- 
bined, if  the  acid  be  stronger  than  the  alkali,  the  salt  is 
acid  ;  and  if  the  alkali  be  in  excess,  the  salt  is  alkaline  and 
still  poisonous. 

Soda  has  a  great  affinity  for  water ;  and  when  wet,  a 
combination  takes  place  which  allows  some  of  the  carbonic 
acid  gas  to  escape.  This  may  easily  be  seen  by  the  effer- 
vescence which  occurs  when  soda  is  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
This,  the  old  way  of  using  soda,  was  theoretically  wrong, 
as  much  of  the  gas  was  lost ;  yet  practical^  good  results 
were  obtained,  because  the  saleratus  formerly  used  was 
much  stronger  than  the  bicarbonate  of  soda  of  to-day,  and 
could  well  be  weakened. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  8i 

Soda  alone,  when  mixed  with  wet  dough,  will  give  off  gas 
enough  to  raise  the  dough  ;  but  it  leaves  a  strong  alkaline 
taste  and  a  greenish  yellow  color,  and,  being  poisonous, 
must  be  neutralized  by  an  acid,  or  else  its  use  is  not  ad- 
missible. The  best  acid  for  this  purpose  is  one  which  does 
not  liberate  the  gas  instantly  on  contact  with  the  soda, 
before  the  heat  can  fix  the  air  cells,  and  also  the  one 
which  leaves  no  unwholesome  residue. 

Muriatic  Acid,  which  is  sometimes  used,  would  be  the 
best,  as  it  leaves  only  common  salt  as  a  residue  ;  but  the 
gas  is  liberated  instantl}^,  and  onlj-  a  skilled  hand  can  mix 
the  bread  and  place  it  in  the  oven  without  losing  much 
of  the  gas. 

Cream  of  Tartar,  which  is  tartaric  acid  combined  with 
potash,  and  is  obtained  from  the  crystals  or  argols  which 
collect  in  wine  casks,  is  preferred  by  chemists.  Being 
only  slightl}^  soluble  in  cold  water,  it  unites  with  soda 
onty  when  heated,  and  the  gas  is  not  all  liberated  until 
the  mixture  is  in  the  oven.  The  residue  from  the  union 
is  Rochelle  salt,  which  is  not  injurious  taken  occasionally 
in  small  quantities.  The  objections  to  cream  of  tartar  are 
these :  being  very  expensive  (the  price  varj^ing  with  the 
grape  crop),  it  is  often  adulterated  with  alum  and  other 
harmful  substances ;  and  the  proportions  of  soda  and 
cream  of  tartar  are  often  guessed  at  instead  of  being  ac- 
curatel}^  measured.  The  only  safe  wa}'  to  use  these  chemi- 
cals is  to  purchase  cream  of  tartar  of  a  reliable  chemist, 
and  to  measure  carefully  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  two 
full  teaspoojifuls  of  cream  of  tartar  for  one  quart  of  flour. 
It  takes  a  trifle  more  than  twice  the  quantity  of  cream 
of  tartar  to  make  the  reaction  complete.  The  soda  must 
be  finely  pulverized  before  measuring  ;  rub  it  on  the  board 
with  a  knife,  measure,  and  then  sift  through  the  finest  wire 
strainer  into  the  flour.  Sifting  with  the  flour  through  an 
ordinary  flour  sieve  is  not  enough.  Cream  of  tartar  does 
not  become  lumpy  like  soda  ;  but  it  is  better  to  sift  it,  and 
salt  also,  into  the  flour,  and  then  sift  all  together  two  or 
three  times.     There  is  no  greater  abomination  in  cooked 

6 


82  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

food  than  a  spot  of  soda,  even  if  it  be  but  the  size  of  a 
pin-head,  and  no  one  should  excuse  such  negligence. 

Baking -Powders. — When  your  druggist  or  cook  is  not 
to  be  relied  upon,  use  a  baking-powder  which  has  been 
tested  and  proved  pure.  Pure  baking-powders  are  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  mixed  by  weight  in  the  proper  pro- 
portion, and  combined  with  rice  flour,  cornstarch,  or  some 
harmless  ingredient  to  insure  their  keeping.  To  allow  for 
this  starch  the  measure  should  be  a  little  more  than  the 
combined  amount  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar ;  tlirm 
rounding  teaspoonfids  of  baking-powder  being  equal  to  one 
level  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  two  full  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar.  One  even  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  for 
each  cup  of  flour  is  a  convenient  formula. 

Soda  is  also  neutralized  by  sour  milk  or  lactic  acid. 
This  is  economical,  particularly  for  those  who  have  pure 
milk  and  more  than  they  can  use  while  it  is  sweet.  But 
milk  is  often  adulterated,  and,  in  winter,  grows  bitter 
before  it  sours  ;  and  the  degree  of  acidity  varies  so  much 
that  the  result  is  often  failure.  Sour  milk  is  best  when 
it  sours  quickly,  and  is  thick  and  smooth,  not  separated. 
One  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  one  pint  of  nicely  thickened  or 
loppered  milk  is  the  proportion.  When  the  milk  tastes 
or  smells  sour,  but  is  not  thick,  use  it  as  sweet  milk  in 
gingerbread  or  brown  bread,  where  you  have  molasses  to 
complete  the  acidity.  Add  a  very  little  more  soda  if 
the  receipt  call  for  sweet  milk,  or  a  little  less  if  for  sour 
milk. 

Nearly  all  kinds  of  soda  biscuit,  muffins,  gems,  etc., 
should  have  the  dry  ingredients  mixed  in  one  bowl,  and 
the  liquids,  such  as  milk,  eggs,  melted  butter,  etc.,  in 
another  ;  and  when  ready  to  bake,  stir  the  two  quickly  and 
thoroughly  together,  and  bake  immediately  in  a  very  hot 
oven. 

Molasses  gives  another  acid  which  is  combined  with 
soda,  to  raise  and  lighten  dough.  Directions  for  its  use 
are  given  under  rules  for  brown  bread  and  molasses 
gingerbread. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  83 


Soda  and  Cream  of  Tartar  Biscuit. 

1  quart  sifted  flour.  1 2    full    teaspoonfuls     cream     of 

1  even  teaspoonf  ul  salt.  tartar. 

1   even   teaspoonful   soda,   meas-    1  large  tablespoonful  butter. 

ured  after  pulverizing.  ! 

Milk  to  make  a  very  soft  dough :  new-process  flour  will  take  a 
pint  or  more  ;  St.  Louis  flour,  less. 

Mix  in  the  order  given,  sifting  the  soda,  salt,  and  cream  of 
tartar  into  the  flour.  Then  sift  all  together  twice.  Rub  in 
the  butter  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers,  until  there  are  no 
large  lumps.  Mix  in  the  milk  graduallj^  using  a  broad 
knife  and  wetting  onl}-  a  small  part  of  the  flour  with  each 
addition  of  the  milk.  When  just  stiff  enough  to  be  handled 
(not  kneaded) ,  cut  it  through  with  the  knife  until  barely- 
mixed  ;  it  should  look  spongy  in  the  cuts  and  seem  full  of 
air.  Turn  it  out  on  a  well-floured  board ;  toss  with  the 
knife  till  well  floured  ;  touch  it  with  the  hands  as  little  as 
possible  ;  pat  it  with  the  rolling-pin,  which  must  be  lifteo 
quickly  that  it  may  not  stick ;  and  when  the  dough  is 
about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  into  rounds  and  bak^ 
at  once. 

To  make  Twin  Biscuit^  roll  the  dough  out  less  than  half 
an  inch  thick,  cut  into  rounds,  spread  with  softened  but- 
ter, and  put  two  together,  and  bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Baking-Powder  Biscmt. 

These  are  made  in  the  same  way  as  the  preceding, 
using  three  rounding  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  in 
place  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar. 

Sour  Milk  Biscuit. 

These  should  be  made  the  same  as  cream  of  tartar  bis- 
cuit, using  one  pint  of  thick  sour  milk  instead  of  sweet 
milk,  and  omitting  the  cream  of  tartar.  Observe  the  same 
directions  as  to  lightness  and  dexterity  in  mixing,  and 
vary  the  amount  of  milk  according  to  the  flour. 


84  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Whole- Wheat  or  Rye  Biscuit  (with  Soda). 


1  teaspoonf  ul  cream  of  tartav. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  melted  butter. 


1  cup  whole- wheat  or  rye  flour. 
1  cup  white  flour. 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  soda. 

Milk  enough  to  make  a  drop  batter  (about  one  cup).    If  sour  milk  be 
used,  omit  the  cream  of  tartar. 

Mix  in  the  order  given,   and    bake  in  hot  gem  pans 
twenty  or  thkty  minutes. 


Cream  Biscuit. 

When  using  sweet  cream,  make  the  same  as  cream  of 
tartar  biscuit ;  and  when  using  sour  cream,  the  same  as 
sour-milk  biscuit,  omitting  the  butter  in  either  case.  Any 
of  these  mixtures  may  be  baked  in  gem  or  muffin  pans  by- 
using  more  milk,  and  making  the  dough  soft  enough  to 
drop  from  the  spoon. 

Short  Cakes,  No.  1. 


1  pint  sifted  flour. 
)^  teaspoonful  salt,  scant. 
%    teaspoonful    soda,    measured 
after  pulverizing. 


1  full  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 
(omit  if  sour  milk  be  used). 

3=^  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sweet  or  sour  milk,  or  cold 
water. 


Mix  the  salt,  soda,  and  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour, 
and  sift  two  or  three  times.  Rub  in  the  butter  until  fine 
like  meal,  or  if  liked  very  short  and  crisp,  melt  the  butter 
and  add  it  hot  with  the  milk.  Add  the  liquid  gradually, 
mixing  and  cutting  with  a  knife,  and  use  just  enough  to 
make  it  of  a  light  spongy  consistenc}^  Scrape  out  the 
dough  upon  a  well-floured  board ;  toss  it  with  the  knife 
until  floured  ;  pat  into  a  flat  cake,  and  roll  gently,  till  half 
an  inch  thick  ;  cut  with  a  small  round  cutter,  and  bake  on 
the  griddle  or  in  the  oven.  If  you  use  a  griddle,  grease 
it  well  with  salt  pork  or  butter,  and  cook  the  cakes  slowly  ; 
watch   and  turn   them,  that   all  may  be  browned  alike. 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh  85 

When  they  are  well  puffed  up,  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  top 
of  each,  and  turn  over,  — or  move  them  to  one  side  and 
grease  again  with  the  pork,  and  turn  over  upon  the  freshly- 
greased  place.  When  browned  on  the  other  side  and 
done,  of  which  you  can  judge  by  the  firmness  of  textm-e 
or  by  pulling  one  partly  open,  serve  immediately.  Tear 
them  open,  as  cutting  with  a  knife  makes  them  heavy  and 
indigestible.  If  to  be  baked  in  the  oven,  put  them  quite 
close  together  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  bake  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes. 

Short  Cakes,  No.  2. 

Make  by  rule  No.  1,  and  divide  into  two  parts ;  pat  and 
roll  each  part  into  a  large,  round  cake  the  size  of  a  pie 
plate,  and  bake  either  in  a  spider  or  in  the  oven.  These 
short  cakes  may  be  eaten  hot  with  butter  if  for  a  simple 
breakfast  or  tea  cake,  or  buttered  and  spread  with  sweet- 
ened fruit  for  dessert. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake,  No.  1. 

Make  a  crust  by  rule  for  Dutch  Apple  Cake,  on  page  86  ; 
bake  it  on  round  tins  ;  split,  butter,  and  spread  with  sweet- 
ened berries  and  cream. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake,  No.  2. 

Make  b}^  rule  No.  1  for  Short  Cake,  and  bake  on  a  grid- 
dle in  small  rounds.  Tear  open,  and  spread  each  half 
with  softened  butter.  Fut  half  of  the  cakes  on  a  hotplate. 
Mash  a  pint  of  strawberries,  sweeten  to  taste,  put  a  large 
spoonful  on  each  cake  ;  then  put  another  laj^er  of  cakes, 
and  whole  berries,  well  sugared.     Serve  with  cream. 

Peach  Short  Cake. 

Make  by  either  of  the  receipts  for  Strawberry  Short  Cake, 
and  spread  with  shced  and  sweetened  peaches.  Apricots 
may  be  used  in  the  same  way ;  and  cream  may  be  added 
if  preferred. 


86  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Orange  Short  Cake. 

The  same  as  Strawberry,  using  oranges.  Peel  and  di- 
vide the  oranges,  remove  the  seeds  and  thick  inner  skin, 
and  cut  each  section  into  three  or  four  pieces.  Sweeten 
to  taste. 

Whole-Wheat  or  Rye  Short  Cakes. 


1  cup  white  flour. 

1  cup  whole-wheat  or  rye  flour. 

j^  teaspoonful  soda,  crushed  be- 
fore measuring,  and  sifted  into 
the  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 
(omit  if  sour  milk  be  used). 


)^  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  tablespoonf  ul  sugar. 
1  cup  of  sweet  or  sour  milk,  the 
amount  varying  with  the  flour. 
1  tablespoonf  ul  melted  butter. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  making  the  dough  stiff  enough 
to  be  rolled.  Cut  into  rounds  and  bake  on  a  griddle  ;  tear 
open  and  serve  with  cream  and  salt.  Or  roll  very  thin, 
cut  and  bake  in  the  oven,  split  and  pour  cream  thickened 
as  for  toast  over  them. 


Dutch  Apple  Cake.     (Mrs.  A.  A.  Lincoln.) 


1  pint  flour. 

}^  teaspoonful  salt. 

}£  teaspoonful  soda,  sifted  into 

the  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


3^  cup  butter. 
1  egg. 

1  scant  cup  milk. 
4  sour  apples. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 


Mix  the  drj^  ingredients  in  the  order  given  ;  rub  in  the 
butter ;  beat  the  egg  and  mix  it  with  the  milk ;  then  stir 
this  into  the  dry  mixture.  The  dough  should  be  soft 
enough  to  spread  half  an  inch  thick  on  a  shallow  baking- 
pan.  Core,  pare,  and  cut  four  or  five  apples  into  eighths  ; 
lay  them  in  parallel  rows  on  top  of  the  dough,  the  sharp 
edge  down,  and  press  enough  to  make  the  edge  penetrate 
slightly.  Sprinkle  the  sugar  on  the  apple.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  twenty  or  thirt}"  minutes.  To  be  eaten  hot  with  but- 
ter as  a  tea  cake,  or  with  lemon  sauce  as  a  pudding. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  8y 


Apple  or  Huckleberry  Cakes. 


1  pint  sifted  flour. 
}^  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  even  teasp.  baking-powder. 
}^^  cup  butter. 

^'o  cup  sugar. 


1  egg,  yolk  and  white  beaten  sep- 
arately, 

1  cup  milk. 

1  heaping  cup  huckleberries  or 
thinly  sliced  apples. 


Mix  the  flour,  salt,  and  baking-powder,  and  sift  two  or 
three  times.  Have  the  berries  picked  over,  washed,  dried, 
iind  sprinkled  with  flour.  Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add 
the  sugar,  and  beat  again.  Add  the  yolk  well  beaten,  and 
then  the  milk.  Stir  this  into  the  flour  and  beat  thor- 
oughly ;  add  the  white  beaten  stiff,  and,  lastly*,  the  berries, 
being  careful  not  to  break  them.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan 
or  in  muffin  pans  about  half  an  hour. 

These  ma}^  be  made  with  sour  milk,  omitting  the  baking- 
powder,  and  using  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  or  leave  out 
half  a  cup  of  flour,  and  substitute  for  it  half  a  cup  of  fine 
white  corn  meal. 

Huckleberry  Cake,  No.  2.     {Mrs.  A.  A.  Lincoln.) 

I  quart  flour.  3^  cup  butter. 

1  scant  teaspoonful  salt.  Milk  or  water  enough  to  moisten. 

4  even  teasp.  baking-powder.  1  pint  berries,  washed,  dried,  and 
}^  cup  sugar.  floured. 

Mix  salt,  baking-powder,  and  sugar  with  the  flour. 
Rub  in  the  butter,  and  moisten  with  milk  or  water  to  make 
a  dough  stiff  enough  to  keep  in  shape  when  dropped  from 
a  spoon.  Add, the  berries,  which  should  be  well  floured  to 
keep  them  from  settling.  Drop  by  the  large  spoonfuls  on 
a  well-buttered  shallow  pan.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 


Raised  Flour  Muffins  or  SaUy  Lunns  (with  Yeast). 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled.  1  egg,  yolk  and  white  beaten  sep- 

}4  teaspoonful  salt,  scant.  arately. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar.  Flour   enough    to   make   a   drop 

^  cup  yeast.  batter. 

If  intended  for  tea,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ^  and 

mix  late  in  the  forenoon.  They  will  rise  in  five  or  six 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


hours  ;  then  add  one  large  tahlespoonful  of  butter  melted. 
When  well  mixed,  fill  muffin  pans  two  thirds  full.  Let 
them  rise  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  Or  they  may  be  baked  in  muffin  rings  on  a  griddle, 
in  which  case  it  is  better  to  add  the  melted  butter  at  the 
first  mixing.  When  ready  to  bake,  have  the  griddle  and 
rings  well  greased  ;  contrive  to  take  up  a  spoonful  of  the 
dough  without  stirring  enough  to  let  out  the  air,  and  fill 
each  ring ;  cook  until  brown  and  well  risen,  then  turn  ring 
and  muffin  together,  and  brown  the  other  side.  Pull  them 
apart,  never  cut  them.  This  same  mixture,  when  risen  and 
baked  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served,  is  the  old-fashioned  Sally  Lunn.  Cut  with  the 
point  of  a  warm  knife.  If  intended  for  breakfast,  make  a 
batter  with  the  milk,  yeast,  flour,  and  sugar,  mix  late  in 
the  evening  arid  keep  in  a  cool  place.  In  the  morning  add 
the  egg,  melted  butter,  and  salt,  and  bake  as  usual. 

Mufllns  or  SaUy  Lunns,  No.  2  (made  quickly). 


1  pint  flour. 

2  teaspoonf uls  baking-powder. 
3^  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  scant. 


2  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

3^  cup  milk. 

3^  cup  butter,  melted. 


Mix  flour,  baking-powder,  and  salt.  Beat  the  yolks,  and 
add  the  milk  and  melted  butter.  Put  the  two  mixtures 
together  quickly ;  add  the  whites  last.  Fill  muffin  pans 
two  thirds  full,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  ver}^  hot 
oven.  This  makes  eight  muffins.  If  for  tea,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  the  flour.  Use  a  scant  cup  of 
milk  and  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter  if  you  prefer. 

Oatmeal  Biscuit.     {Miss  Barnes.') 

3  cups  boiling  water.  ]         1  scant  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  cup  oatmeal.  j 

Pour  the  water  on  the  oatmeal ;  add  the  salt,  and  cook 
three  hours  in  a  double  boiler.  Yv^hile  still  warm,  add  one 
large   tahlespoonful   of  butter,    and   half  a   cup    of    sugar. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


89 


When  cool,  add  half  a  cup  of  yeasty  aud  Jlour  to  make 
a  stiff  dough.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
bake  in  gem  pans  twenty  minutes  or  till  brown. 


Tea  Cakes. 


2%  cups  St.  Louis  flour. 

3^2  teaspoonl'ul  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


}^  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  egg. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  bake  in  gem  pans  or  cups. 
Add  one  cup  of  berries,  and  it  makes  a  delicious  berr}- 
cake. 


Cream  Muflins. 


1  pint  flour. 

3^  teaspoonful  salt. 

3^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


Yolks  of  2  eggs,  beaten  lightly. 
^  cup  cream  or  enough  to  make 

a  drop  batter. 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 


Bake  in  muffin  pans,  and  serve  very  hot. 


Tea  Cake  (Loaf). 


1  pint  flour. 
3^  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
3^  teaspoonful  salt. 
3  eggs,  yolks  beaten  and  mixed 
with 


I  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

1  cup  milk  (mixed  with  the  yolks 
and  sugar). 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
Whites  of  the  eggs  added  last. 


Bake  in  a  brickloaf  pan,  in  a  hot  oven.    To  be  eaten  hot 
as  a  tea  cake. 

Granulated  Wheat  Muf&ns. 


l^cups  granulated  wheat  (Health 

Food  or  Arlington). 
3^  teaspoonful  salt. 
2  even  teasp.  baking-powder. 


1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  scant  cup  milk. 
H  cup  water. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  bake  in  hissins:  hot  gem  pans 
twenty  minutes. 


90  The  Boston  Cook  Booh. 


Rye  Muifins.     {Miss  Parloa.) 

1  cup  rye  flour,  or  sifted  rye  meal.  1  cup  white  flour. 
^  cup  sugar.  1  egg. 

^  teaspoonf  ul  salt.  1  cup  milk. 

2  teaspoonf uls  baking-powder. 

Mix  rye,  sugar,  salt,  flour,  and  baking-powder  thor- 
oughly. Beat  the  egg  ;  add  the  milk,  and  stir  quickly  into 
the  dry  mixture.  Bake  in  hot  gem  or  muffin  pans  twenty- 
five  minutes. 


Corn  Muffins.    (Ft^om  an  unknown  Friend.) 


1  cup  common  corn  meal. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
1  scant  teaspoonful  salt. 


1  even  tablespoonf  ul  butter. 
5  cups  boiling  water. 


Mix  at  night  the  meal,  sugar,  and  salt  in  the  top  of  the 
double  boiler  ;  add  the  butter  and  boiling  water,  stir  until 
smooth,  and  cook  an  hour.  Turn  into  a  mixing-bowl, 
and  pour  over  it  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  water  to  prevent  a 
crust  from  forming.  In  the  morning  beat  it  up  soft  and 
smooth.  Mix  one  cup  and  a  half  of  fiiie  yellow  corn 
fi^ur.,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  white  four.,  two  even  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder^  and  stir  them  into  the  cooked 
meal.  Add  one  egg.,  well  beaten.  Drop  the  mixture  into 
round  iron  gem  pans,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

To  make  corn  and  rye  muffins.,  add,  in  the  morning, 

1  cup  yellow  corn  flour.  I  1  cup  common  flour. 

1  cup  rye  flour.  | 

Or  make  corn  and  whole-wheat  muffins  hy  adding 

11^  cups  yellow  corn  flour.  %  cup  common  flour. 

1  cup  whole-wheat  flour,  Erank 
lin  or  Arlington. 

These  are  delicious.  This  rule  makes  fifteen  muffins. 
If  fewer  be  desired,  half  of  the  cooked  corn-meal  mixture 
may  be  used,  and  the  remainder  reserved  for  another 
baking.      But   in   this    case   do  not   forget  to  halve  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


91 


dry  mixture  added  in  the  morning,  and  to  use  one  small 
Apple  Johnny  Cake  (without  Eggs).    {Mrs.  Webb.) 


1  pint  white  meal. 

2  tablespoonf  uls  sugar. 
%  teaspoonf  ul  salt. 

3^  teaspoonful  soda. 


1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
Milk  enough  to  mix  quite  soft. 
3  apples,  pared  and  sliced. 


Mix  in  the  order  given.     Bake  in  a  shallow  cake  pan 
thirty  minutes. 


Com  Cake  (thin). 


1  cup  yellow  corn  meal. 
3^  cup  sugar. 
3^  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  cup  flour. 


2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 

1  egg. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  bake  in  two  Washington 
pie  tins,  spreading  the  mixture  thick  enough  to  half  fill 
the  pan. 

Sponge  Com  Cake  (Sour  Milk). 


1  cup  flour. 
^2  cup  corn  meal. 
3^  teaspoonful  salt. 
y^  teaspoonful  soda. 
%  cup  sugar. 


Yolks  of  2  eggs. 

White  of  1  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 


Bake  in  a  shallow  round  pan  or  in  a  brickloaf  pan.     Use 
the  other  white  of  Qgg  for  clearing  the  coffee. 


Sponge  Com  Cake  (Sweet  Milk). 


1  cup  meal. 

)^  cup  flour. 

}/2  teaspoonful  salt. 

3-2  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
Yolks  of  2  eggs. 
White  of  1  egg. 
13^  cup  milk. 


Bake  in  brickloaf  bread  pan  about  half  an  hour. 


92  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Spider  Corn  Cake  (Sour  Milk).    {Miss  Parloa.) 


^  cup  corn  meal. 
Flour  to  fill  the  cup. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
3^  teaspoouful  salt. 
)4  teaspoouful  soda,  scant. 


1  egg. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

j^  cup  sour  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 


Mix  the  meal,  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  soda.  Beat  the 
egg ;  add  half  of  the  sweet  milk,  and  all  the  sour  milk. 
Stir  this  into  the  dry  mixture.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  hot 
spider,  or  shallow  round  pan,  and  pour  the  mixture  into 
it.  Pour  the  other  half  cup  of  sweet  milk  over  the  top, 
but  do  not  stir  it  in.    Bake  twent}^  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Corn  and  Rice  Mufl^ns. 


1  pint  white  corn  meal. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  flour. 
1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 
1  teaspoonful  soda,  scant. 


1  pint  sour  milk. 
1  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  or 
drippings. 


Bake  in  muffin  pans  about  twenty  minutes. 

Hominy  and  Com  Meal  Cakes.     (Jf?5.  S.  S,  Ropes.) 

Mix  two  taUespoonfids  of  fine.,  uncooked  hominy.,  half 
a  teaspoonfid  of  salt.,  one  tahlespoonfi/l  of  hutter.,  half  a  cup 
of  boiling  water.  Place  this  over  the  teakettle,  or  on  the 
back  of  the  stove  until  the  hominy  absorbs  all  the  water. 
Pour  one  cup  of  boiling  milk  on  one  scant  cup  of  corn 
meal;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the  hominy. 
When  cooled,  add  two  eggs.,  3'olks  and  whites  beaten  sep- 
arately, and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 
Bake  in  hot,  buttered  gem  pans  twentj-  minutes. 

Maryland  Com  Cakes  (without  Soda).    (^Mrs.  Upham.) 

Mix  one  cup  ,of  fine  white  sifted  meal,  one  even  tahle- 
spoonful  of  butter.,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar ^  one  saltspoonful 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  93 

of  salt.  Add  one  scant  cup  of  boiling  milk.  When  cooled, 
add  one  egg^  yolk  and  white  beaten  separately.  Bake  in 
stone  cups  about  thirty-  minutes. 

Dodgers,  Dabs,  or  Corn  Meal  Puffs  (without  Soda). 
(Miss  Alice  Walcott.) 

Two  cups  of  fine  white  corn  meal.,  scalded  with  boiling 
water  so  that  the  meal  is  all  wet  but  not  soft ;  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  butter.,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.,  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk;  when 
cold,  add  two  eggs^  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 
The  batter  should  drop  easily  from  the  spoon,  not  be 
thin  enough  to  pour,  nor  stiff  enough  to  be  scraped  out. 
Have  your  pans  greased  and  hissing  hot,  and  the  oven  as 
hot  as  possible.     Bake  until  brown  and  puffy. 

Indian  Bannock  (without  Soda).    {A.  W.) 

1  cup  corn  meal.  |  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar.  |  1  pint  boiling  milk. 

When  cool,  add  two  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Bake  in 
a  shallow  earthen  dish  in  a  ver}^  hot  oven,  and  serve  in 
the  dish,  like  a  pudding. 

Hoe  Cake  (without  Soda). 


Boiling  milk  or  water  enough  to 
scald  it. 


1  cup  white  corn  meal. 

M  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar  (if  you  like). 

Make  it  thick  enough  not  to  spread  when  put  on  the 
griddle.  Grease  the  griddle  with  salt  pork,  drop  the  mix- 
ture on  with  a  large  spoon.  Pat  the  cakes  out  till  about 
half  an  inch  thick  ;  cook  them  slowly,  and  when  browned 
put  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each  cake  and  turn  over. 
They  cannot  cook  too  long,  provided  the}'  do  not  burn. 
Sometimes  the  dough  is  put  on  in  one  large  cake,  and  as 
soon  as  browned  underneath  is  turned  over  upon  a  freshl}' 
greased  place ;  the  thin,  crisp  crust  is  peeled  off  with  a 
knife,  laid  on  a  hot  plate,  and  spread  with  butter,  and 


94  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

when  another  brown  crust  has  formed,  the  cake  is  turned 
again,  the  crust  is  removed  and  buttered,  and  so  on  until 
the  cake  is  all  browned.  These  crisp,  buttered  crusts  are 
served  piled  together  and  cut  in  sections. 

Rice  Crusts.    {Miss  Ward.) 

Cook  one  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice  in  the  double  boiler  in 
milk  enough  to  make  a  thin  mixture,  and  until  the  rice  is 
ver}^  soft.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.,  a  little  salt.,  one 
egg.,  and  flour  enough  to  make  it  hold  together.  Spread 
on  the  pan,  having  the  mixture  one  third  of  an  inch  thick. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven.     Split  and  eat  with  syrup. 

Rice  or  Hominy  Drop  Cakes. 

One  cup  of  boiled  hominy  or  rice.,  and  one  egg.  If  the 
hominy  be  cold,  heat  in  a  farina  kettle  with  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  water ^  and  stir  till  it  is  softened.  Beat  yolk  and 
white  separatel}^ ;  add  one  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Drop  in 
tablespoonfuls  on  a  well-buttered  pan,  and  bake  brown  in 
a  hot  oven. 

Breakfast  Puffs,  or  Pop-overs. 


1  cup  flour. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  cup  milk. 


1  egg,  yolk  and  white  beaten  sep- 
arately. 


Mix  the  salt  with  the  flour ;  add  part  of  the  milk  slowly, 
until  a  smooth  paste  is  formed ;  add  the  remainder  of  the 
milk  with  the  beaten  3'olk,  and  last!}'  the  white  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Cook  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans  or  earthen 
cups  in  a  quick  oven  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  puffs  are 
brown  and  well  popped  over. 

Rye  Gems,  or  Shells  (without  Soda). 


^  cup  rye  meal. 

3^  cup  flour. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 


2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 


Mix  the  meal,  flour,  and  salt.     Beat  the  yolks  ;  add  the 
sugar  and  milk.     Stir  this  into  the  dr}^  mixture  ;  add  thc' 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  95 

whites,  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  iron  gem  pans,  or  stone 
cups,  tliirt}'  to  fort}^  minutes.  One  cup  of  mixed  rye  meal^ 
white  corn  meal,  and  whole-wheat  flour ^  in  about  equal  pro- 
portions, maj^  be  used  in  the  same  way.  This  receipt  makes 
six  gems. 

Whole- Wheat  or  Graham  Gems,  or  Puffs.    {A.  TF.) 


2  cups  of  whole-wheat  flour. 
y^  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 


2  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
1  cup  milk. 
1  cup  water. 


Mix  flour,  salt,  and  sugar.  Add  the  milk  to  the  beaten 
yolks,  then  the  water,  and  stir  this  into  the  dry  mixture. 
Add  the  whites,  beaten  stiff,  and  bake  in  hissing  hot  gem 
pans  thirtj^  minutes. 


Whole- Wheat  Crisps  (specially  good  for  Children). 


1  cup  rich  cream,  sweet  or  sour. 

3^  cup  sugar. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 


2  cups  fine  granulated  wheat  flour, 
or  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 


Knead  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  stiff  enough  to  roll  out  thin 
as  a  wafer.  Cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  on  un- 
greased  tins  in  a  very  hot  oven.  The  sugar  will  sweeten 
the  sour  cream  sufficientlv. 


Fine  Granulated  Wheat  Gems  (no  Yeast,  Soda,  nor  Eggs). 

1  cup  water.  1  1  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  cup  milk.  I  23^  cups  fine  granulated  wheat. 

Stir  the  flour  slowty  into  the  liquid,  until  you  have  a  drop 
batter.  Then  beat  as  rapidly  and  as  long  as  your  arm 
will  allow.  Have  the  iron  gem  pans  hissing  hot,  and  well 
buttered.  Fill  quickly,  giving  the  batter  a  brisk  beating 
several  times  during  the  filling,  and  bake  at  once  in  a  very 
hot  oven. 


9^  The  Boston  Cook  Booh 


Maryland,  or  Beaten  Biscuit.    {Mrs.   Towne.) 

1  quart  flour.  i  i^  teaspoonful  salt. 

1^  cup  lard.  |  1  cup  cold  water. 

Rub  the  lard  and  salt  into  the  flour,  and  mix.  with  cold 
water  to  a  very  stiff  dough.  Knead  ten  minutes,  or  until 
well  mixed  ;  then  beat  hard  with  a  biscuit  beater  or  heavy 
roUing-pin,  turning  the  mass  over  and  over  until  it  begins 
to  blister  and  looks  light  and  puffy,  or  "  till,  pulling  off  a 
piece  quicklj',  it  will  give  a  sharp,  snapping  sound."  When 
in  this  condition,  pull  off  a  small  piece  suddenly,  form 
it  into  a  round  biscuit,  then  pinch  off  a  bit  from  the  top. 
Turn  over  and  press  with  the  thumb,  leaving  a  hollow  in 
the  centre.  Put  the  biscuit  some  distance  apart  in  the 
pan.  Prick  with  a  fork.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven.  They  should  be  light,  of  a  fine,  even  grain,  and 
crack  at  the  edges  like  our  crackers.  In  Maryland  no 
young  lady's  education  was  formerly  considered  finished 
until  she  had  learned  the  art  of  making  beaten  biscuit. 

Graham  Wafers. 

1  pint  white  flour.  1  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  pint  Graham  flour.  Cold  water  enough  to  make  a  stiff 

%  cup  butter.  dough. 

^  cup  sugar. 

Roll  out  very  thin,  cut  in  squares,  and  bake  quickly. 


Wafer  Biscuit  (for  Invalids). 


1  pint  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 


White  of  1  egg. 

Warm  new  milk  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  dough. 


Mix  salt  with  the  flour  ;  rub  in  the  butter  ;  add  the  beaten 
white  of  egg,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  stifl'  dough. 
Beat  half  an  hour  with  a  rolling-pin,  without  ceasing. 
Break  off  a  little  piece  of  dough  at  a  time,  and  roll  it  out 
as  thin  as  paper.  Cut  into  large  rounds.  Prick  with  a 
small  wooden  skewer,  and  bake  quickly  without  burning. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  97 


Gluten  Wafers. 

Half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  one  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
Stir  in  gluten  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dougli.  Knead  and 
roll  out  very  thin.  Cut  into  rounds,  and  bake  a  delicate 
brown  on  an  ungreased  tin.  Gluten  is  a  preparation  of 
wheat  flour  without  the  starch. 


Waffles,  Griddle-Cakes,  Pancakes,  etc. 

The  names  pancakes,  fritters,  flap-jacks,  slap-jacks, 
batter-cakes,  griddle-cakes,  slappers,  etc.,  are  applied  in- 
discriminately in  different  localities. 

Pancakes  were  formerl}"  a  kind  of  muffin  mixture,  made 
a  little  stiffer  than  a  drop  batter,  but  not  stiff  enough  to 
roll  out,  and  were  dropped  from  a  sj^oon  into  hot  fat,  and 
fried  like  doughnuts.  But,  recentl}^,  the  name  has  been 
applied  to  a  very  thin  batter  made  usually  without  soda, 
cooked  one  cake  at  a  time  on  a  small  well-buttered  ftying- 
pan,  and  turned  like  a  griddle-cake ;  then  buttered,  and 
rolled  over  and  over,  or  spread  with  sugar  and  jelly,  and 
then  rolled.  In  "ye  olden  time"  good  cooks  were  sup- 
posed to  have  the  knack  of  tossing  the  pan  so  skilfully 
that  the  cake  would  turn  over  itself ;  but  this  is  now  one 
of  the  lost  arts. 

For  convenience  and  clearness,  the  following  names  will 
be  used  in  this  work  :  — ■ 

Griddle- Cakes :  any  kind  of  small,  thin  batter-cakes 
cooked  on  a  griddle. 

Pancakes :  larger,  thin  batter-cakes,  made  without  soda, 
and  cooked  in  a  small  fr3'ing-pan. 

French  or  Rolled  Pancakes :  the  same  as  the  preceding, 
buttered,  sweetened,  and  rolled. 

Fried  Drop  Cakes  or  Fried  Muffins :  anj^  muffin  mixture, 
dropped  from  a  spoon  into  deep  hot  fat. 

Fritters:  a  thinner  mixture  made  without  soda,  either 
plain  or  with  meat,  fish,  or  fruit,  and  cooked  by  dropping 
into  deep  hot  fat. 

7 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Waffles  and  Griddle-Cakes. 

A  waffle  iron  is  made  of  two  corrugated  iron  griddles 
fitted  and  fastened  together  at  one  side  with  a  hinge,  and 
revolving  in  an  iron  frame,  which  is  to  be  placed  over  the 
fire.  It  ma}"  be  either  circular  or  oblong.  Each  griddle 
is  divided  into  compartments,  which  are  usuall}'  grooved 
into  diamonds,  hearts,  rounds,  etc. 

The  iron  should  be  placed  over  the  fire,  heated  on  each 
side,  and  greased  thoroughl}",  as  it  is  very  hard  to  clean 
if  the  cakes  stick.  Put  a  piece  of  salt  pork  on  a  fork,  or 
put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  rub  all 
over  both  griddles.  The  heat  will  melt  the  butter  and  let 
just  enough  of  it  go  through  the  cloth.  This  is  better 
than  to  put  it  on  with  a  knife.  Close  the  griddles  and 
turn  them ;  this  causes  the  fat  to  run  evenlj'  over  them. 
Open,  and  pour  the  waflfie  mixture  into  the  centre  of  the 
half  over  the  fire,  or  put  a  spoonful  in  each  compartment, 
filling  them  about  two  thirds  full.  Cover,  and  cook  one 
minute  on  one  side,  then  turn  and  cook  a  little  longer 
on  the  other.  An}^  kind  of  griddle-cake  mixture,  with 
the  addition  of  the  melted  butter  to  make  them  crisp, 
may  be  cooked  on  a  waflle-iron,  if  one  cares  to  take  the 
extra  trouble. 


Waffles. 


1  pint  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  bakinj 

y^  teaspoonful  salt. 


3-  eggs. 

13^  cups  milk. 

1  tablespoonf  111  butter,  melted. 


Mix  in  the  order  given  ;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the 
eggs  with  the  milk,  then  the  melted  butter,  and  the  whites 
last.     Serve  with  butter,  or  syrup,  or  caramel  sauce. 

Lemon  Syrup  (served  with  Waffles). 

1  cup  sugar.  I      1  teaspoonful  butter. 

^  cup  water.  |      1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

Boil  the  sugar  with  the  water  until  it  thickens  slightly. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  99 

Add  the  butter  and  lemon  juice.     Serve  as  soon  as  the 
butter  is  melted. 


Raised  Waffles. 

Mix  at  night  one  pint  of  milk^  one  third  of  a  cup  of  yeast. 
and  one  pint  of  flour.  In  the  morning  add  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt^  two  eggs,  j^olks  and  whites  beaten  separate]}^,  and 
one  tahlespoonful  of  melted  butter. 

Use  only  one  egg^  make  the  batter  a  trifle  thinner,  and 
fr}'  on  the  griddle,  and  you  have  Flannel  Cakes. 

Either  of  these  receipts  may  be  varied  by  using  half  or 
►  one  third  fine  white  corn  meal  or  Graham  flour  with  the 
white  flour.     If  intended  for  tea,  mix  in  the  forenoon. 


To  Cook  Griddle-Cakes. 

A  soapstone  griddle,  which  needs  no  greasing,  is  the 
best ;  but  of  whatever  material,  let  it  be  large  enough  to 
hold  seven  cakes.  Let  it  heat  while  you  are  making  the 
cakes.'  If  an  iron  griddle  be  used,  put  a  piece  of  salt  pork 
two  inches  square  on  a  fork ;  and  when  the  griddle  is 
hot  enough  for  the  fat  to  sizzle,  rub  it  all  over  with 
the  pork.  Just  grease  it ;  do  not  leave  little  pools  of  fat 
on  the  edge  to  burn,  and  smoke  the  cakes.  Take  up 
a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture,  and  pour  it  from  the  end 
of  the  spoon.  The  mixture  should  hiss  or  sizzle  as  it 
touches  the  griddle.  Put  one  in  the  centre  and  six 
around  the  outside.  By  the  time  3'OU  have  the  seventh 
cake  on,  the  first  one  will  be  full  of  bubbles  and  ready 
to  turn ;  and  when  the  seventh  is  turned,  the  first  will 
have  stopped  puffing  and  be  done.  Wipe  the  griddle 
with  a  dry  cloth,  and  grease  again  after  each  baking. 
Turn  3' our  griddle  often,  bringing  each  edge  of  it  in 
turn  over  the  hottest  part  of  the  stove,  that  the  cakes  may 
cook  evenl3\  Always  mix  waffles  or  griddle-cakes  in 
a  bowl  with  a  lip,  and  beat  up  the  mixture  well  between 
each  baking. 


lOO  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Griddle-Cakes. 


1  pint  flour. 

%  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 


1  scant  pint  sour  milk  or  cream. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 


Crush,  measure,  and  sift  the  soda  and  salt  into  the 
flour.  Mix  thoroughly.  Add  the  milk,  and  beat  well ; 
then  add  the  beaten  yolks,  and  lastly,  the  whites,  beaten 
stiff.  Bake  on  a  hot,  well-greased  griddle  ;  turn  when 
full  of  bubbles,  and  bake  on  the  other  side  till  they  stop 
puffing.  Use  one  half  or  one  third  fine  corn  meal  or  Gra- 
ham flour ^  to  make  a  variet3^ 

To  make   Huckleherry    Griddle- Cakes ^   add   one   -pint  of. 
berries^  picked  over  and  rolled  in  flour. 

Some  persons  prefer  to  mix  the  sour  milk  with  the 
flour,  and  let  the  mixture  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  the  salt,  soda,  and  eggs. 

Sour  milk  is  the  best  for  griddle-cakes,  and  when  thick- 
ened just  right,  the  cakes  are  very  good  without  the  eggs. 


Rice  or  Hominy  Griddle-Cakes  (no  Soda). 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 

separately. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
Flour    enough   to    make    a  thin 

batter. 


1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  warm  boiled  rice,  or  fine 

hominy. 
y^,  teaspoonful  salt. 


Bake  either  as  griddle-cakes  or  waflles. 

Bread  Griddle-Cakes. 

1   pint  stale    (not    dried)    bread-  [      1  pint  milk,  scalded, 
crumbs.  j      1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Pour  the  hot  milk  over  the  crumbs,  add  the  butter,  and 
soak  over  night  or  till  the  crumbs  are  softened.  Then 
rub  through  a  squash  strainer  ;  add 


2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 

separately. 
1  cup  flour. 


3^  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 

Cold  milk  to  thin  it  if  needed. 


Bake  slowly  :  spread  with  butter  and  sugar,  and  serve  hot. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  loi 


Raised  Graham  Griddle-Cakes. 

Mix  one  pint  of  milh^  scalded  and  cooled,  one  cup  of 
whole-wheat  flour  ^  one  cup  of  ichite  flour,  one  fourth  of  a  cup 
of  liquid  yeast.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt^  one  tahlespoonful  of  mo- 
lasses^ one  saltspoonful  of  soda.  If  too  thick,  add  a  little 
warm  water.  These  are  more  wholesome  than  buckwheat 
cakes. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

Pour  one  pint  of  hailing  water  on  half  a  cup  of  flne 
corn  meal;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  well, 
and  when  lukewarm  add  half  a  cup  of  white  flour,  one 
cup  of  buckwheat  flour ,  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  yeast.  Beat 
vigorously.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  stir 
down,  and  beat  again.  When  risen  and  ready  to  bake, 
add  one  saltspoonful  of  soda,  sifted  through  a  fine  strainer. 
Beat  again,  and  fry  in  large  cakes. 

Buckwheat  cakes,  even  if  not  sour,  usually  require  the 
addition  of  soda  just  before  baking,  to  make  them  light  and 
tender.  But  when  in  their  best  estate,  thej^  are  far  from 
perfect  food.  They  should  be  eaten  only  in  very  cold 
weather,  and  but  seldom  even  then.  They  are  better  and 
brown  better  when  made  with  boiling  milk  instead  of 
water. 

Com  Meal  Slappers,  or  Griddle-Cakes  (no  Soda). 

1  pint  corn-meal.  I  1  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  butter.  j  1  teaspoonful  sugar. 

Pour  into  this  mixture  boiling  milk  or  water  enough 
to  wet  the  meal.  When  cool,  add  two  eggs,  well  beaten, 
and  cold  milk  enough  to  make  a  ver}^  thin  batter. 

Pease  Griddle-Cakes. 

Take  green  pease  which  have  been-  boiled,  but  are  too 
hard  to  eat  as  a  vegetable.     Drain  very  dry,  then  mash, 


I02  The  Boston  Cook  Booh, 

and  rub  the  pulp  through  the  squash  strainer.  Or  boil 
one  cup  of  split  pease  till  very  tender,  letting  the  water 
boil  away.  Drain,  mash,  and  rub  through  a  squash 
strainer,  and  use  the  same  as  the  squash  in  squash  griddle- 
cakes. 

Squash  Griddle-Cakes. 


1  cup  boiling  milk. 
1  cup  sifted  squcash. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 


%  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  eg^. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 
1  cup  flour. 


Pour  the  boiling  milk  into  the  squash ;  add  the  butter, 
sugar,  and  salt.  When  cool,  add  the  Qg^,  well  beaten, 
then  the  baking-powder,  mixed  and  sifted  with  the  flour. 
If  too  thin,  use  more  flour ;  and  if  too  thick,  add  a  little 
milk.     The  dry  mealy  squash  is  the  best. 

French  Pancakes  (no  Soda).     {Miss  Parloa.) 


3  eggs. 

1  cup  milk. 

3^  teaspoonful  salt. 


1  teaspoonful  sugar. 

3^  cup  flour. 

}£  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 


Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Add  the  milk, 
salt,  and  sugar  to  the  yolks.  Pour  one  third  of  this  mix- 
ture on  the  flour,  and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  the 
remainder  of  the  milk,  and  beat  well ;  then  add  the  oil. 
Heat  and  butter  a  small  frying-pan,  and  pour  into  it 
enough  of  the  mixture  to  cover  the  pan ;  when  brown, 
turn  and  brown  the  other  side.  Spread  with  butter  and 
sugar  or  jelly  ;  roll  up,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Fried  Drop  Cakes. 

The  fat  for  fried  cakes  should  be  clean,  new  fat,  half 
lard  and  half  clarified  beef  drippings.  By  new  fat  is 
meant  fat  that  has  not  been  used  for  meat  or  fish,  or  be- 
come browned  by  previous  ftying.  The  same  fat  may 
be  used  several  times  by  clarifying  with  several  thin 
slices  of  raw  potato,  and  straining  through  a  fine  strainer 
after  each  frying.     When  it  becomes  too  brown  for  any 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  103 

flour  mixtures,  it  will  answer  for  croquettes  or  fish  balls. 
It  should  be  ver}^  hot,  and  still,  not  bubbling ;  but  not 
as  hot  as  for  mixtures  which  have  been  prcviousl}'  cooked. 
The  surest  way  is  to  fry  a  bit  of  the  mixture.  It  should 
rise  at  once  to  the  surface,  with  much  spluttering  of  the 
fat,  swell,  and  begin  to  brown  on  tlie  under  side.  Drop 
cakes  will  usualty  turn  over  themselves,  but  doughnuts 
and  fritters  should  be  turned.  They  should  be  cooked  an 
even  golden  brown,  and  the  fat  be  kept  at  the  right  tem- 
perature by  moving  the  kettle  farther  from  or  nearer  to 
the  fire.  Try  them  with  a  fork,  and  if  it  come  out  clean, 
the}^  are  done. 

Drain  each  cake  over  the  hot  fat,  and  when  they  cease  to 
drip,  put  them  in  a  squash  strainer  placed  in  a  pan  on  the 
back  of  the  stove,  or  drain  on  soft  brown  paper.  Change 
the  first  cooked  to  another  pan  when  the  next  are  read}' 
to  be  taken  out.  If  the  fat  be  not  hot  enough,  or  if  there 
be  too  much  soda,  doughnuts  will  absorb  the  fat.  The 
alkali  in  them  unites  with  the  grease,  as  it  does  in  making 
soap.  The  eggs  will  prevent  the  cakes  from  soaking  in  the 
fat,  and  it  is  healthful  and  more  economical  to  use  them. 

Fried  Flour  Muflans.     (Miss  I.  A.  Maynard.) 


1  saltspoonful  salt. 
Flour   enough    to    make  a   stiff 
batter. 


legg. 

y^  cup  sugar. 

^^  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoonf ul  baking-powder. 

Mix  salt  and  baking-powder  with  two  cups  of  flour. 
Beat  the  ^gg  very  light ;  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  again. 
Add  the  milk,  then  the  flour,  with  enough  more,  if  needed, 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.     Drop  from  a  spoon  into  hot  fat. 

Fried  Com  Meal  Cakes.     {Miss  Ward.) 

One  pint  of  milh^  poured  boiling  hot  upon  one  cup  of 
corn  meal ;  add  one  heaping  tahlespoonful  of  sugar .,  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  stand  all  night,  or  till  well 
swollen  ;  then  add  two  eggs  and  half  a  cup  of  fiour.  Fry 
in  hot  lard. 


I04  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Fried  Rye  Muflans. 


^  cup  rye  meal. 

^  cup  flour. 

3^  teaspoonf  ul  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 
1  egg. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  drop  from  a  small  table- 
spoon into  hot  fat.  Cook  until  the  muffins  will  not  stick 
when  tried  with  a  fork. 

Fried  Rye  Muffins  (Sour  Milk). 


1  pint  sour  milk. 
3^  cup  of  molasses. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 


1  saltspoonful  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  eggs. 


Rye  flour  to  make  a  stiff  drop  batter.  Fry  as  in  the 
preceding  rule. 

Sour  Milk  Doughnuts.    {Mrs.  Henderson.) 

Two  eggs,  beaten  light,  one  cup  of  sugar.,  three  even  tahle-^ 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.,  one  cup  of  sour  milk  (or  if  sweet 
milk  be  used,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar) ,  four 
cups  of  flour.,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda^  and  one  salt- 
spoonful each  of  cinnamon  and  salt.  Enough  more  flour  to 
make  just  soft  enough  to  roll  out.  Mix  the  dough  rather 
soft  at  first.  Have  the  board  well  floured,  and  the  fat 
heating.  Roll  onty  a  large  spoonful  at  first.  Cut  into* 
rings  with  an  open  cutter.  Mix  the  trimmings  with 
another  spoonful.  Work  it  slightly  till  well  fioured,  and 
roll  again.  Roll  and  cut  all  out  before  frying,  as  that 
will  demand  your  whole  attention.  Remember  that  the 
fat  should  be  hot  enough  for  the  dough  to  rise  to  the 
top  instantly. 

Doughnuts,  No.  2. 


1  quart  flour. 
3^  cup  sugar. 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 


1  saltspoonful  cinnamon  or  nut- 
meg. 
1  egg. 


3^  teaspoonful  soda.  Milk  enough  to  moisten  to  a  stiff 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar.         |      dough. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


105 


Doughnuts,  No.  3. 


legg. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 

3^  teaspoonful  salt. 


1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
1  saltspoonful  cinnamon. 
Flour  enough  to  roll  out. 


Baised  Doughnuts. 


1  pint  risen  milk  bread  dough. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs. 


1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

Spice  to  taste. 

Flour  enough  to  roll  out. 


These  are  more  wholesome  than  those  made  with  soda. 


Crullers.     {A.  T7.) 


1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

1  Qgg,  yolk  and  white  beaten  sep- 
arately. 


^2  saltspoonful  cinnamon  or  mace. 
%  saltspoonful  salt. 
Flour  enough  to  roll  out. 


Roll  the  dough  one  fourth  of  an  mch  thick.      Cut  in 
rectangular  pieces,   two  and  a  half  bj-   three  and  a  half 
inches  ;   then  make  five  in- 
cisions   lengthwise,    cuttiug 
to  within   one   third   of  an 


Fig.  5.     Cruller. 


Fig.  6.     Cruller  after  Folding. 


inch  at  each  end.  Take  up  every  other  strip,  fold  each 
strip  together  slightly  in  the  middle,  and  drop  them  into 
hot  fat. 


:o6 


The  Bosto''^  Cook  Book. 


Wonders,  or  Cheats. 

Beat  one  egg;  add  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  a 
wafer,  cut  with  large  round  cutter,  and  fry  one  minute  in 
hot  fat.  Serve  with  honey  or  syrup,  or  with  cream  and 
jelly,  or  2iwy  delicate  pudding  sauce. 

Henriettes. 


1  egg,  yolk  and  white  beaten  sep- 
arately. 
3^  cup  cream. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 


1  saltspoonful  baking-powder. 
3^  saltspoonful  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonf  ul  wine  or  brandy. 
Flour  enough  to  roll  out. 


Roll  as  thin  as  a  wafer,  and  cut  with  a  pastrj^  jagger 
into  small  squares  or  diamonds.  Fry  in  boiling  lard. 
Drain,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Or  add  less 
flour,  make  a  thick,  stiff  batter  instead  of  a  dough,  and 
press  the  batter  through  a  pastry  tube  into  boiling  lard, 
making  rings  or  any  shape  preferred. 


Cinci,  or  Rags. 


1  cup  flour. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 


^  cup  boiling  water. 
1  egg. 


Pour  the  boiling  water  gradually  upon  the  flour  and  salt, 
and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste ;  cool,  add  the  Qgg^  and  beat 
well.  Press  through  a  pastrj^  tube  into  hot  lard.  Drain, 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 


Fritter  Batter  (for  Oysters,  Clams,  or  Fruit). 

Yolks  of  two  eggs^  beaten  well ;  add  half  a  cwp  of  milk  or 
water.,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  one  saltspoonful  of 
salt.,  and  one  cup  of  flour.,  or  enough  to  make  it  almost  a 
drop  batter.  When  ready  to  use,  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  ver}^  stiff.  If  intended  for  fruit,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  the  batter.    If  for  clams,  tripe,  or  meat, 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh  107 

add  one  tahlespoonful  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.     This  bat- 
ter will  keep  several  days. 

Oyster  Fritters.  —  Boil  the  03^sters  till  the  liquor  flows 
freely.  Drain,  strain  the  liquor,  and  use  it  to  make  a  bat- 
ter,  as   in  the  preceding  rule.     Dip  each  oyster   in  the 

^batter  and  fry  until  brown  in  hot  fat. 

^^  Cllam  Fritters.  —  Drain  the  clams,  and  chop  the  hard 
lai •£.  Use  the  liquor  to  make  a  fritter  batter.  Add  the 
clams  and  fry  by  small  spoonfuls  in  hot  fat.  Clams  in  the 
shell  should  be  steamed  and  dressed.  Drain,  and  dip  each 
whole  clam  into  the  batter.  If  large  and  tough,  chop  the 
hard  part,  and  use  the  same  as  raw  clams. 

Apple  Fritters.  —  Core  and  pare  three  or  four  apples, 
but  do  not  break  them.  Cut  them  in  slices  one  third  of 
an  inch  thick,  leaving  the  opening  in  the  centre.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar,  lemon,  and  spice.  Dip  each  slice  in  the  fritter 
batter  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain,  and  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar. 

Vegetables  for  fritters,  such  as  celery,  salsif}^  or  parsnip, 
should  be  boiled  till  tender,  then  drained  and  cut  into 
small  pieces  ;  then  stir  them  into  the  fritter  batter. 


io8  The  Boston  Cook  Booh 


OATMEAL,    INDIAN    CORN,    AND    OTHER 
GRAINS    USED   AS   FOOD. 

Oatmeal  is  highly  nutritious,  being  richer  in  nitrogen 
than  any  other  grain  ;  but  as  it  does  not  contain  a  tough, 
adhesive  gluten,  like  wheat,  it  is  not  easil}^  made  into  fer- 
mented bread.  Its  nitrogenous  matter  resembles  casein 
more  than  gluten,  and  is  called  avenin  (from  avena^  the 
oat).  It  is  used  as  a  mush  or  porridge,  eaten  with  sugar 
and  milk.  It  is  rich  in  food  for  muscle  and  brain,  useful 
for  children  and  laboring  people,  but  irritating  to  mau}^ 
people  whose  digestive  powers  are  weak. 

Groats,  or  Grits^  are  oats  from  which  the  outer  husk  and 
inner  flinty  cuticle  are  removed. 

Indian  Corn  is  used  in  manj-  forms.  Some  varieties 
which  contain  a  large  proportion  of  sugar,  are  eaten  green 
from  the  cob  as  a  vegetable.  The  whole  grains,  hulled, 
are  eaten  as  samp ;  broken  grains  of  various  sizes,  as 
hominy ;  the  ground  grains,  as  either  coarse  or  fine  meal. 
Meal  grows  musty  very  quickly  when  ground  by  the  old 
process,  owing  to  the  moisture  of  the  corn  and  the  heat  of 
the  stones.  In  the  new-process,  or  granulated,  meal  the 
corn  is  first  dried  for  two  years,  then  ground  into  coarse 
grains  like  sugar.  Indian  corn  is  also  used  in  the  form  of 
a  ver}^  fine  powder,  called  cornstarch.  Corn  meal,  when 
cooked,  is  best  made  into  small  loaves  or  cakes  and  eaten 
hot.  It  is  rich  in  nitrogen,  and  contains  more  fat  than 
the  other  grains.  This  causes  it  to  attract  the  oxj'gen 
from  the  air,  and  spoil  rapidly.  It  should  be  purchased 
in  small  quantities.  It  is  better  adapted  to  strong  labor- 
ing people,  as  it  is  very  heating  for  persons  with  weak 
digestion. 


The  Boston  Coob  Book.  109 

Hye  meal  and  flour  are  used,  more  especially  in  New 
England,  in  the  form  of  bread  and  mush.  Rye  is  sweeter 
than  wheat,  and  makes  a  moist  bread  which  can  be  kept 
for  some  time  without  becoming  hard  and  unpalatable. 
Rye  should  be  purchased  in  small  quantities,  kept  in  a 
cool,  dr}'  place,  sifted  and  examined  thoroughly  before 
using. 

Barley  is  used  in  soups  and  sometimes  in  gruels.  It 
cannot  be  made  into  good  bread,  as  it  has  too  little  gluten. 
It  is  nutritious,  being  rich  in  phosphates.  It  contains 
starch  and  mucilage,  and,  in  the  form  of  gruel,  makes  a 
soothing  drink  in  fevers.  The  husk  is  removed,  the 
grains  are  ground  and  polished,  and  then  it  is  termed  pearl 
barley. 

Buckwheat  has  less  flesh-forming,  and  more  heat-giving 
elements  than  wheat.  It  is  therefore  suitable  onl}'  when 
used  in  cold  weather  and  by  those  who  labor  hard  or  exer- 
cise freel}^  It  is  used  principal^  in  the  form  of  griddle- 
cakes. 

Rice  contains  ver}^  little  of  the  flesh-forming  element. 
It  has  more  starch  and  less  fat  than  any  other  grain.  It 
is  cheap,  and  is  largeh'  used  b}'  people  in  very  hot  cli- 
mates. It  should  alwa3^s  be  used  with  milk,  eggs,  or 
some  fatty  substance. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 

One  cup  of  B.  B.  oatmeal,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt^  to 
a  scant  quart  of  boiling  water.  Put  the  meal  and  salt  in 
the  top  of  the  double  boiler  ;  add  the  boiling  water.  Place 
the  upper  boiler  on  the  stove,  and  boil  rapidly  eight  or  ten 
minutes,  stirring  occasionall}^  with  a  fork.  Then  place  it 
over  the  hot  water,  and  cook  from  fort}^  to  sixty  minutes  if 
liked  dry,  from  two  to  three  hours  if  liked  \Qvy  soft.  Re- 
move the  cover  just  before  serving,  and  stir  with  a  fork  to 
let  the  steam  escape,  to  dry  it  oif.  Served  with  baked 
apples  and  sugar  and  cream. 

Oatmeal  comes  in  three  grades.  B.  B.  is  the  whole  oat 
with  the  outer  husk  removed.     It  is  less  pasty  than  the 


no  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

finer  grades.  The  Scotch  consider  the  coarse  oatmeal  the 
best,  the  finer  kinds  being  only  suitable  for  children  and 
invalids. 

Oatmeal,  rice,  or  any  mush  that  contains  much  starch, 
is  more  easily  digested  if  it  is  masticated,  and  mixed  with 
the  saliva.  When  eaten  as  a  soft  porridge  and  still  fur- 
ther thinned  with  milk,  if  it  be  swallowed  whole,  the  saliva 
has  no  chance  to  do  its  part,  and  the  whole  process  of  the 
digestion  of  the  starch  is  left  for  the  intestines.  The  meal 
should  be  thoroughly  cooked,  stiff,  and  dry,  rather  than 
thin. 

Hominy^  cracked  wheats  and  granulated  ivheat  are  cooked 
in  the  same  way,  using  only  three  cups  of  boiling  water 
instead  of  one  quart. 

The  cracked  wheat  ma}^  be  poured  into  a  mould  wet  with 
cold  water,  and  when  jellied  eaten  cold  with  sugar  and 
cream. 

Whole  wheat  requires  jive  cups  of  hailing  water  to  one 
cup  of  wheat,  and  should  cook  six  hours. 

Hasty  Pudding,  or  Indian  Meal  Mush. 

Put  one  quart  of  water  on  to  boil.  Mix  one  pint  of  corn 
meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  tahlespoonful  of  Jlour 
with  07ie  pint  of  cold  milk.  Stir  this  gradually  into  the 
boiling  water  and  boil  half  an  hour,  stirring  often.  Eat  it 
hot,  with  milk,  and  only  in  cold  winter  weather. 

Fried  Hasty  Pudding. 

Cook  as  above  and  pour  it  into  a  brickloaf  pan ;  when 
cool,  cut  into  three-quarter  inch  slices.  Dip  them  in  Jlour, 
and  brown  each  side  in  hot  fat  in  a  frying-pan.  Or  dip 
in  crumbs,  egg,  and  again  in  crumbs,  and/ry  in  deep  fat. 

Any  of  these  mushes  may  be  fried  the  same  way. 
When  .eaten  with  bacon,  they  make  a  nice  relish  for 
breakfast. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  iii 


BEVERAGES. 


Tea. 

There  are  three  varieties  of  the  tea-plant ;  both  black 
and  green  tea  can  be  prepared  from  them  all.  Green 
tea  is  made  from  young  leaves  steamed,  roasted,  and 
dried  quickly  on  copper  plates.  Black  tea  is  made  from 
leaves  which  have  been  exposed  to  the  air  ten  or  twelve 
hours  before  roasting.  The  action  of  the  air  upon  the 
leaves  during  this  long  exposure  causes  the  dark  color. 
Green  tea  gives  up  less  of  its  juices  in  drying,  and  this 
accounts  for  its  energetic  action  on  the  nervous  sj'stem. 

The  tea-leaf  contains  the  largest  amount  of  nutritive 
matter  of  any  plant  used  as  human  food,  though  onl}^ 
a  small  portion  of  it  is  extracted  b}^  our  common  method 
of  making  tea.  There  is  a  large  proportion  of  casein  in 
the  leaves.  Many  of  the  savage  tribes  of  Tartar}^  boil  the 
leaves  with  soda,  and  eat  them  with  salt  and  butter.  But 
in  our  method  of  using  tea  as  a  beverage  merely,  we  use 
such  a  comparatively  small  quantity  that  the  amount  of 
nutriment  is  ver}^  little ;  its  chief  value  being  the  sense 
of  warmth  and  comfort  that  it  gives.  It  excites  the  brain 
to  increased  activit}^,  and  produces  wakefulness  ;  hence  it 
is  useful  to  students  and  night- workers.  It  retards  the 
action  of  the  natural  functions,  causes  less  waste,  and,  to 
a  certain  extent,  saves  food.  For  this  reason,  when  not 
used  in  excess,  it  is  suited  to  poor  people,  whose  supplies 
of  substantial  food  are  scant}-  ;  and  to  old  persons,  whose 
powers  of  digestion  and  whose  bodily  substance  have 
begun  to  fail.  It  should  not  be  used  early  in  the  morning, 
as  the  bod}'  needs  immediate  nourishment  in  a  larger 
quantity  ;  and  it  should  at  all  times  be  taken  moderatel}^ 
both  as  to  quantit}^  and  strength. 


112  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

The  water  should  be  freshly  boiled.  Scald  and  heat 
the  teapot,  which  should  be  of  earthen  or  china,  never  of 
tin.  Allow  one  teaspoonful  of  tea  for  one  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Reduce  the  proportion  of  tea  when  several  cups 
are  required.  Put  the  tea  in  a  strainer,  pour  through  it 
half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  to  cleanse  the  grounds.  Then 
put  the  tea  in  the  teapot ;  pour  on  the  boiling  water ; 
cover  closely  and  place  it  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but 
not  boil,  for  five  minutes.  If  cold  or  lukewarm  water  be 
used  in  making  tea,  the  thein^  or  nitrogenous  substance, 
will  not  be  obtained. 

In  boiling  tea  or  allowing  the  leaves  to  remain  long  in 
the  tea,  by  repeated  steeping,  the  fragrant  aroma  is  wasted 
and  the  tannin  is  extracted,  which  may  cause  gastric  dis- 
orders to  those  who  drink  it.  Never  make  tea  in  a 
tin  teapot,  as  the  tannic  acid  acts  upon  the  metal  and 
produces  a  poisonous  compound. 

A  slice  of  lemon  is  a  good  substitute  for  milk  in  tea. 
The  lemon  prevents  the  headache  and  sleeplessness  which 
the  tea  causes  in  some  persons. 

A  French  chemist  recommends  grinding  tea  like  coffee. 
It  will  yield  nearly  double  the  amount  of  its  exhilarating 
quality.  Also  to  put  a  lump  of  sugar  into  the  teapot 
with  the  tea. 

Iced  Tea,  or  Russian  Tea. 

Make  the  tea  by  the  first  receipt,  strain  it  from  the 
grounds,  and  keep  it  cool.  When  ready  to  serve,  put  two 
cubes  of  block  sugar  in  a  glass,  half  fill  with  ^roken  ice,  add 
a  slice  of  lemon,  and  fill  the  glass  with  cold  tea. 

Coffee. 

Coffee  grows  on  small  trees.  Mocha,  the  best  variety, 
is  grown  in  Arabia.  Other  choice  kinds  come  from  Java, 
the  West  Indies,  and  South  America.  The  fruit  of  the 
coffee  tree  is  something  like  the  cherr}^,  and  contains  two 
seeds  or  beans.     Bruising  the  fruit  separates  the  berries, 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


which  are  then  washed  and  dried.  The  raw  berries  are 
tough,  difficult  to  grind,  and  have  but  little  flavor.  Coffee 
should  be  roasted  and  kept  in  air-tight  cans,  that  the  fine 
flavor  ma\'  be  perfectl}^  developed  and  preserved.  Coffee 
is  more  stimulating  than  tea,  and,  when  taken  very  strong 
after  a  heart}'  meal,  aids  digestion.  It  should  be  made  in 
such  a  way  that  the  full  strength  and  aroma  are  obtained, 
without  developing  the  tannic  acid.  This  is  done  by  pour- 
ing boiling  water  upon  the  coffee  and  keeping  it  in  a 
closely  covered  vessel  just  below  the  boiling-point,  or 
boiling  not  longer  than  five  minutes.  If  allowed  to  boil 
longer,  or  left  uncovered,  the  volatile  oil  which  forms  the 
fragrant  aroma  is  dissipated,  and  the  tannic  acid  extracted. 
This  acid,  when  combined  with  cream  or  milk,  forms  a 
leathery,  indigestible  compound  which  irritates  the  internal 
membranes. 

The  proportion  of  one  third  Mocha  and  two  thirds  Java 
coffee  is  agreeable  to  most  people.  Man}^  prefer  to  roast 
and  grind  the  coffee  for  themselves ;  but  in  coffee-houses 
the  arrangements  for  roasting  are  now  so  complete,  that  it 
is  well  for  small  families  to  buy  coffee  already  roasted, 
and  to  grind  it  as  needed,  or  buy  it  ground  in  a  small 
quantit}'. 

The  coffee-pot  should  be  of  granite  ware  or  porcelain, 
and  kept  scrupulously  clean,  cleansing  the  spout  as  well 
as  the  pot  every  time  it  is  used.  A.  brownish  deposit  is 
soon  formed  on  the  inside  of  the  pot,  if  the  coffee  be 
allowed  to  stand  in  it  long,  or  if  it  be  not  often  scoured. 
Man}'  a  cup  of  ill-flavored  coffee  is  owing  to  its  having 
been  made  in  an  unclean  pot. 

The  proportions  are,  one  heaping  tahlespoonful  of  coffee 
to  one  Clip  of  hoilmg  water^  reducing  the  proportion 
sligbtl}'  when  several  cups  are  required.  Half  a  cup  of 
ground  coffee  is  enough  for  one  quart  of  water^  and  will 
make  sufficient  for  five  people.  It  takes  a  greater  pro- 
portion of  coffee  and  water,  and  it  is  more  difficult  to 
make  just  enough  for  one  person  than  for  more,  as  the 
last  coffee  poured  out  is  not  as  clear  as  the  first.     The 

8 


114  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

old  notion  of  allowing  extra  for  the  pot  is  not  without 
reason. 

Fish  glue  or  inferior  isinglass,  w4iich  can  be  purcliased 
at  a  druggist's,  is  a  cheap  and  convenient  article  to  use  in 
clearing  coffee.  Egg  shells  should  be  saved  and  used  for 
the  same  purpose.  Wipe  the  eggs  as  soon  as  they  come 
from  the  market,  and  then  the  shells  ma}-  all  be  used.  Two 
or  three  shells  contain  albumen  sufficient  to  clear  a  quart 
of  coffee. 

Various  modifications  of  the  biggin,  or  French  coffee-pot, 
are  in  use,  and  the  coffee  made  in  them  is  excellent,  as 
none  of  the  aroma  is  wasted.  The}'  are  generall}'  quite 
expensive,  and  some  soon  get  out  of  order,  if  not  handled 
carefull3\  The  spout  of  the  coffee-pot  should  be  closed 
with  a  cork,  or  a  thimble  fitted  for  that  purpose,  or  a  piece 
of  soft  brown  paper  twisted  so  as  to  form  a  stoi)per.  This 
prevents  the  escape  of  the  steam  and  aroma.  Coffee,  if 
allowed  to  boil,  should  stand  at  least  ten  minutes  after 
boihng,  to  give  it  time  to  settle  and  become  clear. 

Roasting  Coffee. 

Put  one  pound  of  raw  coffee  in  a  small  ftying-pan.  Place 
it  on  the  stove,  and  shake  and  stir  occasionally'  for  fifteen 
minutes,  or  till  yellow.  Then  cover  it,  and  increase  the 
heat,  and  shake  till  the  kernels  are  all  a  deep  cinnamon  or 
chestnut  color,  and  have  an  oily  appearance.  Be  careful 
that  none  are  burned.  Keep  it  covered,  and  when  still 
warm,  not  hot,  add  one  egg  and  its  shell.  Beat  until  every 
kernel  is  coated  with  the  Qgg.  The  egg  will  dry  quickly. 
It  helps  to  preserve  the  flavor,  is  the  cheapest  form  in 
which  to  use  egg  for  clearing,  and  does  not  interfere  with 
the  grinding  of  the  coffee. 

Coffee  should  be  kept  in  air-tight  tin  cans,  and  ground 
only  as  required.  The  finer  it  is  ground,  the  stronger  will 
be  the  extract. 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh,  115 


Coffee  (Common  Coffee-Pot). 

1  heaping  tablesp.  ground  coffee.   I      1  egg  shell. 

1  square  inch  isinglass,  or  |      1  cup  freshly  boiling  water. 

Scald  the  coffee-pot.  Put  in  the  coffee  and  isinglass. 
Add  the  boiUng  water.  Cover  the  spout,  and  boil  just  five 
minutes.  Stir  it  well.  Set  the  pot  on  the  back  of  the 
stove,  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil.  Add  half  a  cup  of 
cold  water.  Pour  out  a  little  of  the  coffee  and  pour  it  back 
again  to  clear  the  grounds  from  the  spout.  Let  it  stand 
at  least  ten  minutes.  If  served  in  the  pot,  be  careful  not 
to  roil  the  coffee  by  shaking  the  pot  or  b}^  careless  pour- 
ing. A  tablespoonful  of  caramel  mixed  with  the  ground 
coffee  gives  additional  flavor  and  color. 

Steamed  Coffee. 

The  same  proportions  as  in  the  preceding  rule.  Place 
the  coffee-pot  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  or  make  the 
coffee  in  a  granite  double  boiler  kept  expressly  for  that 
purpose,  and  steam  twent}'  minutes.  Pour  it  from  the 
grounds  into  a  hot  coffee-pot  for  serving. 

Coffee  made  with  Cold  Water. — Put  the  required  propor- 
tion of  cold  water  and  coffee  into  a  china  or  granite  coffee- 
pot, cover  closely,  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  let  it  just  come  to  the  boiling-point,  and  serve  at 
once.   It  needs  no  straining  nor  clearing.    {Miss  Devereux.) 

Coffee  made  with  an  Egg. 

One  egg  is  sufficient  to  clear  one  cup  of  ground  coffee.  If 
a  smaller  quantity  be  desired,  half  an  egg  may  be  used,  as, 
if  fresh,  the  remahider  will  keep  till  the  next  da}'.  Or  the 
whole  Qgg  ma}'  be  beaten  with  the  ground  coffee,  and  such 
portion  of  it  used  as  is  needed,  keeping  the  remainder 
closel}'  covered. 

To  make  the  coffee^  add  half  a  cup  of  cold  water  to  the 
portion  of  e^g  to  be  used  and  one  third  of  a  cup  of  coffee. 


ii6  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Beat  well ;  put  it  in  the  hot  coffee-pot ;  add  one  pint  of 
boiling  water  and  boil  five  minutes.  Keep  it  hot,  but  not 
boiling,  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  out  a  little  and  pour  it 
back  to  clear  the  spout. 

Entered  Coffee. 
This  is  made  in  a  French  biggin,  or  any  double  coffee- 
pot fitted  with  one  or  more  strainers.  The  coffee,  which 
is  ground  ver^^  fine,  is  placed  in  the  strainer ;  this  is  put 
into  the  receptacle  for  holding  the  made  coffee,  the  boiling 
water  is  poured  in  and  allowed  to  drip  slowly  through  the 
coffee.  If  there  be  onl}^  two  parts  to  it,  the  coffee-pot 
should  stand  where  the  coffee  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil. 
Many  of  the  coffee-pots  made  on  this  principle  are  placed 
in  another  vessel  containing  boiling  water. 

To  serve  Coffee. 

Cream,  scalded  milk,  and  block  sugar  are  essential  to  good 
breakfast  coffee.  Put  in  o?ie  tablespoonfal  of  cream  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  7nilk,  and  fill  the  cup  three  fourths  full. 
Never  fill  to  overflowing.  Let  each  person  add  the  sugar 
desired,  unless  3'ou  know  the  individual  tastes  of  the  fam- 
ily. The  milk  should  be  just  hot,  but  never  boiled,  as 
boiled  milk  gives  a  ver}-  unpleasant  flavor. 

After-dinner  coffee,  or  black  coffee,  is  made  b}^  either  of 
the  receipts  previously  given,  using  double  the  proportion 
of  coffee  :  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee  to  one  cup  of 
water.  It  should  be  very  strong  and  perfectly  clear  ;  served 
in  small  cups,  with  block  sugar  if  desired,  but  not  with 
cream  or  milk,  as  the  milk  counteracts  the  purpose  for 
which  the  coffee  is  taken. 

The  addition  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped  cream  to  a 
cup  of  coffee  gives  Vienna  Coffee.  An  equal  amount  of 
boiled  milk  and  filtered  coffee  is  called  Cafe  au  Lait. 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate. 
Cocoa  is  the  fruit  of  a  small  tree  which  grows  in  Mexico, 
Central  America,  and  the  West  Indies.    The  fruit  is  shaped 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  117 

like  a  large,  thick  cucumber,  and  contains  from  six  to 
thirty  beans.  The  beans  are  roasted,  like  coffee.  The 
husks  or  shells  are  taken  off,  and  used  in  that  form  as 
cocoa  shells.  The}'  need  longer  boiling,  and  are  preferred 
by  many  persons  with  weak  digestion.  The}^  are  some- 
times ground  with  the  bean,  making  an  inferior  article  of 
cocoa.  Starch  is  also  used  to  adulterate  cocoa.  The  best 
cocoa  is  made  from  the  whole  bean  after  the  husk  is  re- 
moved. Cocoa  nibs  are  the  beans  broken  instead  of 
ground. 

CJiocolate  is  the  finel}-  ground  powder  from  the  kernels 
mixed  to  a  stiff  paste  with  sugar,  and  sometimes  flavored 
with  vanilla.  It  is  the  most  nutritious  and  convenient  form 
of  cocoa ;  a  small  cake  of  it  will  satisfy  hunger.  It  is  a 
very  good  lunch  for  travellers.  If  the  oily  scum  which 
forms  on  the  surface  after  boiling  be  removed,  it  is  less 
indigestible. 

Chocolate  does  not  produce  the  injurious  effects  which 
render  tea  and  coffee  objectionable,  and  is  far  better  for 
children  and  working-people. 

Cocoa. 
Put  half  a  cup  of  broken  cocoa  into  a  pot  with  two  quarts 
of  water.  Boil  gently  two  hours,  until  reduced  to  one 
quart ;  or  use  half  cocoa  and  half  shells.  Serve  with  sugar 
and  cream ^  or  scalded  milk.  It  is  more  digestible  if  allowed 
to  cool  and  the  globules  of  fat  removed,  then  reheated. 

Prepared  Cocoa. 
This  ground  cocoa  comes  in  many  forms,  and  some  are 
recommended  to  be  prepared  at  the  table  ;  but  all  kinds 
are  better  boiled  one  minute  in  a  very  little  water,  the  same 
as  chocolate,  and  thinned  with  hot  milk. 

Shells. 

Steep  one  cup  of  shells  in  one  quart  of  boiling  water  three 
or  four  hours,  adding  more  hot  water  as  it  boils  away. 
Strain,  and  serve  with  hot  milk,  or  cream  and  sugar. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Chocolate. 

Put  one  square  of  Baker's  chocolate^  two  tablespoonfals  of 
sugar ^  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water ^  and  a  pinch  of  salt  in 
a  small  saucepan,  and  boll  until  smooth ;  stir  constantl}-  ; 
add  graduall}'  one  pint  of  boiling  water ^  and  when  read}'  to 
serve  add  one  pint  of  hot  milk.  Use  all  milk  and  two  squares 
of  chocolate^  if  liked  richer ;  or  thicken  with  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cornstarch  wet  in  a  little  cold  water ^  and  boil  five  min- 
utes before  adding  the  milk. 

German,  or  Sweetened  Vanilla  Chocolate. 

Melt  two  sticks  of  chocolate  in  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
hot  water.  Stir  to  a  smooth  paste  ;  add  gradually  one  pint 
of  hot  milk  and  stir  or  mill  it  five  minutes.  Serve  in  cups 
three  quarters  full  with  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped 
cream  on  the  top.  Sweeten  and  flavor  the  cream  before 
whipping. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  119 


SOUP. 

Nothing  can  be  easier  than  to  make  a  good  sonp  if 
one  only  knows  how  and  has  the  will  to  do  it ;  and  if  one 
will,  it  is  eas}'  to  know  how.  Considerations  of  econ- 
omy and  healthfalness  make  it  the  dut}'  of  everj^  house- 
keeper to  thoroughly  inform  herself  on  the  few  essential 
points  in  soup-making.  When  these  are  learned  it  will 
be  as  simple  as  an^^  other  dut^-. 

As  soups  are  not  made  from  nothing,  a  supph^  of  mate- 
rials should  always  be  kept  on  hand,  such  as  dried  sweet 
herbs  (which  may  be  purchased  at  any  citj^  market  for  a 
trifle ;  twenty-five  cents'  worth  will  last  a  j-ear  or  more)  ; 
also  whole,  as  well  as  ground  spices;  and,  more  particu- 
larly, fresh  vegetables,  —  onions,  carrots^  and  turnips.  If 
we  had  access  to  the  French  market,  we  could  bu}^  the 
smallest  amount  whenever  it  might  be  desired  ;  but  as 
only  a  few  marketmen  in  America  will  sell  a  single  onion 
or  a  single  carrot,  it  is  well  for  those  who  cannot  cultivate 
for  themselves  to  purchase  in  large  quantities.  The}' 
may  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  by  covering  with  clean  sand. 
Parsley  va^y  be  grown  in  the  house  if  you  have  a  sunny 
window ;  and  we  can  all  have  salt  and  pepper.  Now, 
having  these  seasoning  materials  always  at  hand,  you 
ma}^  easily  find  other  m.aterial  in  the  store-room,  or  from 
the  day's  supply  of  fresh  meat,  fish,  etc.,  without  buying 
expressly  for  soup  ;  that  is,  if  3'ou,  instead  of  the  market- 
man,  have  the  bones  and  trimmings. 

Ever}"  pantry  should  have  a  "  catch  all."  It  is  vastly 
more  important  there  than  in  the  sewing-ioora  or  on  the 
toilet-table.  The  coal-hod,  refuse  pail,  and  sink  catch  all 
in  many  households.  One  or  two  large  bowls  —  not  tin, 
but  deep  earthen  dishes,  provided  they  are  sw^et  and  do 


I20  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

not  leak  —  will  better  answer  the  purpose.  After  breakfast 
or  dinner,  do  not  put  away  the  remnants  of  steaks  or 
roasts  on  the  platters,  but  look  them  over  and  put  by 
themselves  any  pieces  that  can  be  used  again,  either  cold 
or  in  what  are  called  made  dishes.  Then  put  all  the  bones, 
trimmings,  fat,  gristle,  and  everything,  especially  the 
platter  gravy,  which  usually  flavors  the  dish-water,  into 
the  "  catch  all."  If  3'ou  have  just  one  bone  from  a  steak 
or  chop,  if  it  be  not  burned  it  is  worth  saving,  and  in  cool 
weather  will  keep  till  you  have  another.  If  there  be  a 
tablespoonful  of  an^^  vegetables,  a  stalk  of  celery,  an  egg, 
baked  apple,  or  a  bit  of  macaroni,  put  them  away  neatly. 
You  will  find  a  use  for  them.  If  you  have  boiled  a  fresh 
tongue,  a  fowl,  a  leg  of  lamb,  or  a  cup  of  rice,  plan  to 
make  a  soup  also,  and  thus  save  the  water.  This  econorav 
may  be  carried  to  the  extreme  of  saving  the  water  in  which 
cabbages,  beans,  or  potatoes  have  been  boiled,  or  of  keep- 
ing a  fire  several  hours  in  a  hot  day  onXy  to  save  a  few 
cents'  worth  of  bone,  or  of  spoiling  all  the  soup  by  adding 
a  spoonful  of  turnip  already  sour  ;  but  as  a  rule  we  err  in 
the  opposite  practice. 

Soups  are  made  from  meat,  fish,  and  vegetables,  with 
water  or  milk  ;  seasoned  or  flavored  with  any  or  every 
kind  of  vegetable,  sweet  herbs,  spices,  curr}^  powder, 
catchups,  aromatic  sauces,  and  with  some  kinds  of  fruit. 
They  are  served  thin  and  clear,  or  thickened  with  vegeta- 
bles or  cereals,  and  with  or  without  meat. 

Soups  are  classified  and  named  in  various  ways,  accord- 
ing to  material,  color,  quality,  etc.  Soups  with  stock  have 
meat  as  the  basis.  Soups  without  stock  are  made  of  fish, 
vegetables,  and  milk.  They  are  sometimes  called  soup 
maigre.  Soups  are  named  from  the  principal  ingredient, 
or  an  imitation  of  the  same,  as  Potato,  Onion,  Beef, 
Mutton,  Chicken,  Gumbo,  Macaroni,  Okra,  Ox-tail,  Gib- 
let,  Cock-a-leekie,  Lobster,  Mock  Turtle,  Mock  Bisque, 
etc.  ;  or  from  the  color,  as  Clear,  or  Amber,  Brown,  and 
White  ;  or  from  the  consistency,  as  Thin  soups  and  Purees  ; 
or  from  the  quality,  as  simple  Broths,  Bouillon,  and  Con- 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  121 

somme ;  or  from  the  season  of  the  year,  as  Julienne  ; 
or  from  the  people  who  use  them,  as  Scotch  Broth,  French 
Pot-au-feu,  Indian  Mullagatawne}^ ;  or  from  the  name  of 
the  makers,  or  in  any  way  one's  fancy  and  invention  may 
suggest.  But  from  the  scores,  yes,  hundreds  of  receipts 
in  the  cook-books,  which  seem  so  bewildering  to  the  be- 
ginner, a  few  simple  rules  may  be  deduced  which  will 
make  the  process  of  soup-making  intelligible  ;  and  when 
once  the  foundation  is  laid,  you  may  build  and  enlarge  as 
you  choose. 

Do  not  be  discouraged  because  you  have  not  all  the 
dozen  or  more  ingredients  mentioned  in  most  receipts. 
You  will  find  many  of  them  may  be  omitted  with  a  per- 
fectly satisfactory  result.  Much  depends  upon  what  is 
omitted,  though,  as  Potage  a  la  E-eine  without  chicken,  or 
Julienne  without  vegetables,  or  Mullagatawney  without 
curry  powder,  would  disappoint  those  who  think  only 
of  the  name ;  but,  called  by  any  other  name,  3'ou  would 
find  them  very  good  soups. 

Soups  with  Stock. 

Soups  made  with  stock  include  all  the  varieties  made 
from  beef,  veal,  mutton,  and  poultr3\  Perhaps  a  glance 
at  the  meaning  of  the  word  stock  will  make  clear  its  appli- 
cation to  cookery.  Stock  is  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  stician^ 
to  stick,  and  the  idea  of  fixedness  is  expressed  in  all  its 
forms.  Stock  in  trade  or  business  means  the  money  or 
material  laid  hj^  or  stored^  stocked^  jixed^  as  a  source  of 
supply,  ready  for  use  at  any  time  ;  and  in  the  business 
of  soup-making,  stock  is  the  material  stored  or  prepared 
in  such  a  wa}^  that  it  ma}^  be  kept  or  fixed  for  use  in 
making  diff'erent  kinds  of  meat  soup  ;  or,  more  definiteh', 
it  is  a  liquid  containing  the  juices  and  soluble  parts  of 
meat,  bone,  and  vegetables,  which  have  been  extracted 
by  proper  cooking.  This  liquid  is  more  or  less  solid  when 
cold,  according  to  the  gelatinous  nature  of  the  ingredients. 
It  varies  greatly  in  quaht}',  owing  to  the  manner  in  which 
it  is  prepared  and  the  material  used. 


122  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Stock  is  usually  made  from  the  cheaper,  inferior  parts 
of  meat,  which  yield  the  most  nutriment  when  cooked  in 
this  way ;  also  from  odds  and  ends  of  cooked  meat, 
which  perhaps  could  not  be  used  otherwise.  The  chief 
object  in  making  stock  is  to  obtain  in  the  quickest  manner 
the  largest  possible  amount  of  nutriment  from  the  cheap- 
est parts  of  meat,  and  after  getting  it  to  keep  and  use  it. 
This  is  best  accomplished  by  observing  the  following 
rules :  — 

First.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  and  soak  them 
in  cold  water  before  heating,  that  every  atom  of  nourish- 
ment may  be  extracted.  Cold  water  draws  out  and 
dissolves  the  meat  juices,  while  hot  water  hardens  the 
albumen  on  the  outside  of  the  meat  and  prevents  the 
juices  from  escaping  into  the  liquid. 

Second.  Use  a  careful  selection  and  proportion  of  meat, 
bone,  and  water,  and  season  judiciously',  so  that  no  one 
flavor  will  predominate. 

Third.  Use  a  steam-tight  kettle,  and  simmer.,  —  not  boil 
the  material  rapidl}',  —  that  the  juices  may  be  retained  in 
the  water,  and  not  wasted  b}-  evaporation. 

Fourth.  Make  stock  the  da}^  before  using,  if  possible, 
that  the  fat  ma}^  be  more  easilj^  removed  ;  but  do  not  give 
up  making  it  simpty  from  "lack  of  time,"  for  it  can  be 
made  quickly. 

A  soup  digester  is  the  proper  vessel  for  making  stock. 
This  is  a  porcelain-lined  iron  kettle  with  a  bale,  and  hav- 
ing a  cover  fitting  closely  into  a  groove,  so  that  no  steam 
can  escape  except  from  the  valve  in  the  top  of  the  cover, 
which  at  once  indicates  when  the  water  is  boiling  rapidly. 
One  holding  six  quarts,  and  costing  three  dollars,  is  a  con- 
venient size  for  a  small  family.  If  you  cannot  afford  a 
digester,  get  a  granite  ironware  kettle,  with  a  tightly  fit- 
ting cover.  Plain  ironware  will  do  if  you  have  nothing 
better;  but  it  rusts  easilj',  and,  if  tin-lined,  the  tin  melts 
in  careless  usage. 

The  meats  used  in  making  stock  should  contain  gelatine^ 
osmazome^  and  a  small  amount  of  fat. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  123 

Gelatine  is  found  in  the  bones,  skin,  tendinous  and  gristly 
portions  of  flesh,  especiallj^  in  veal.  It  is  this  which  causes 
the  stock  to  become  a  jellj'.  But  a  soup  which  forms  a 
jell}',  or  is  made  prhicipallj'  from  bones,  is  not  the  most 
nutritious.  The  jelly  of  bones  and  sinews  boiled  into  soup 
can  furnish  onlj'  jelly  for  our  bones  and  sinews.  It  is  use- 
ful in  convalescence,  for  then  the  portions  of  the  system  in 
which  gelatine  is  needed  have  been  wasted  ;  but  in  other 
cases,  though  easily  digested,  it  is  unwholesome,  for  it 
loads  the  blood  with  disturbing  products.  It  is  entirelj- 
destitute  of  flavor,  and  therefore  we  need  with  it  meat  con- 
taining osmazome. 

Osmazome  is  that  part  of  meat  which  gives  to  each  of  the 
various  kinds  its  distinctive  flavor.  It  is  more  abundant 
in  brown  than  in  white  meats,  and  in  the  meat  of  old 
rather  than  in  that  of  young  animals.  It  is  found  largely 
in  lean  beef,  mutton,  and  fowls.  Osmazome  is  more  highly 
developed  in  roasted  meals ;  therefore  all  the  bones  and 
remnants  of  roasts  which  cannot  be  utilized  in  eiitrees^ 
should  be  pufc  into  the  soup-kettle. 

We  need  also  the  alkaline  and  acid  salts  found  in  the 
blood  and  juices  of  the  flesh ;  therefore  a  small  portion  of 
raw^  lean  meat  should  form  a  part  of  all  stock. 

Fat  is  necessary,  as  an  element  of  perfect  food,  and 
should  always  be  used  in  making  stock.  It  adds  to  the 
flavor,  and  all  that  is  not  absorbed  in  the  stock  maj^  be  re- 
moved when  cold.  The  marrow,  found  in  the  shin  bone, 
is  the  best  form  of  fat.  The  browned  fat  of  roast  beef 
gives  a  fine  flavor,  and  occasionally  a  bit  of  ham  or  bacon 
may  be  used.  But  all  mutton  fat  should  be  avoided,  be- 
cause of  its  rankness. 

These  four  kinds  of  meat — beef,  mutton,  veal,  and  poul° 
try  —  may  be  used  together  or  separatel}- .  It  is  better  to 
use  mutton,  if  in  a  large  quantity,  by  itself,  as  the  flavor 
is  disagreeable  to  many.  After  having  extracted  all  the 
nuiriment  from  the  meat  in  its  juices,  fat,  albumen,  and 
flavor,  do  not  attempt  to  make  further  use  of  the  worthless 
residue  of  muscular  fibre.     It  is  not  only  harmful,  but  dry, 


124  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

tasteless,  and  utterly  useless  as  food.  It  needs  the  addi- 
tion of  many  other  materials  to  make  it  palatable  even, 
and  it  is  cheaper  to  get  the  fibrine  we  need  from  meat 
cooked  in  other  wa3's,  directions  for  which  will  be  given 
under  Boiling  Meats  and  Stews.  Therefore  do  not  hesi- 
tate, as  a  matter  of  econom}',  to  throw  away  this  useless 
meat. 

When  fresh  meat  is  bought  expressl}'  for  stock,  select  a 
piece  from  the  shin  or  lower  part  of  the  round  of  beef  or 
veal.  This  has  bone  with  marrow,  a  large  proportion  of 
gelatine,  more  or  less  osmazome,  according  to  the  amount 
of  flesh,  and  costs  less  than  other  parts.  In  mutton,  pieces 
from  the  neck  and  forequarter  are  the  best.  Fowls  are 
better  than  chickens.  With  this  fresh  meat  may  be  used 
the  bones  and  trimmings  from  steak  or  chops,  and  the 
flank  ends  of  roasting  pieces,  which  yield  more  nutriment 
if  added  to  the  stock  pot  before  being  cooked.  Add  also 
an}-  remnants  of  roasted  or  broiled  meat,  bone,  fat,  gristle, 
anything  except  mutton  fat.  In  families  where  large  roasts 
of  beef  and  poultr}^  are  often  used,  there  should  be  mate- 
rial enough  for  stock,  without  buying  new  meat,  except  for 
the  nicest  of  clear  soups,  which  the  French  call  Consomme. 

The  proportions  of  bone  and  meat  should  be  about  equal 
b3^  weight.  When  read}-  to  begin  the  stock,  wipe  the  fresh 
meat  with  a  clean  cloth  wet  in  cold  water.  Never  put 
the  meat  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  to  soak.  It  takes  out  all 
the  juices  that  you  wish  to  save.  Wipe  before  cutting.  The 
inside  is  clean.  But  rinse  the  cloth  and  scrub  the  outside 
thoroughly.  Cut  away  the  parts  that  are  tainted  or  dis- 
colored b}^  rusty  meat-hooks,  etc.  Examine  all  the  odds 
and  ends  of  cooked  meat,  and  remove  an}-  smoked  or 
burned  parts  from  ham  or  broiled  meat,  also  the  stuffing 
and  skin  from  roast  poultr}^  if  3'ou  wish  to  have  the  stock 
clear.  Scrape  the  meat  clean  from  the  bones  and  cut  into 
inch  pieces.  Break  or  saw  the  bones  as  small  as  3'ou  con- 
venientl}'  can.  Remove  the  marrow  (a  soft,  fatt}'^  sub- 
stance, which  you  will  find  in  the  hollow  of  the  bones)  and 
put  it  in  the  soup  kettle  to  keep  the  bones  from  sticking. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  125 

Put  in  the  bones  and  pack  the  meat  around  them.  Place 
\'Our  kettle  on  the  back  of  the  range  before  adding  the 
water,  so  that  there  need  be  no  heavj^  weight  to  lift.  Allow 
one  quart  of  fresh  cold  water  to  every  pound  of  meat  and 
bone  ;  one  fourth  less  water  if  your  stock  is  to  be  made 
altogether  of  cooked  meats,  or  if  you  use  a  digester.  Cover 
the  kettle,  and  after  the  water  is  quite  red,  and  the  juices 
are  well  drawn  out,  draw  the  kettle  forward  and  let  it  heat 
slowl3%  and  simmer.,  or  boil  slowl}^,  but  never  boil  hard. 

The  scum,  which  soon  rises  on  the  surface,  is  the  albu- 
men and  juices  of  the  meat  which  have  been  drawn  out 
and  mixed  with  the  cold  water.  They  coagulate,  or  har- 
den, as  the  water  heats,  and,  being  lighter  than  the  water, 
rise  to  the  surface  in  the  form  of  scum.  It  has  usually 
been  considered  essential,  in  making  soup,  to  remove  ever}^ 
particle  of  this  scum  ;  but  the  practice  is  wholly  unnecessary 
and  wasteful.  We  learn,  in  the  article  on  Boiling,  the 
three  distinct  purposes  and  methods  of  cooking  meat  in 
water ;  and  3'et  in  skimming  a  soup  we  act  direct^  con- 
trary to  the  general  principle  there  explained.  If  the  kettle 
be  clean,  the  water  piure,  and  the  meat  well  cleansed  from 
any  impurities  on  its  outer  surface,  what  can  there  be  in 
the  meat  not  suitable  to  eat,  an}^  more  than  in  roast  beef, 
or  steak,  or  boiled  mutton?  In  making  beef  tea  we  are 
directed  b}-  the  highest  scientific  authorities  to  remove  the 
fat,  cut  the  meat  small,  soak  it  in  cold  water,  heat  gradu- 
alh',  and  never  skim,  as  the  scum  or  thickened  material  in 
the  water  is  the  very  thing  desired.  Soup  is  onl}'  another 
form  of  beef  tea,  and  the  fat  which  is  objectionable  can 
better  be  removed  when  the  stock  is  cold.  These  juices 
and  soluble  parts  of  the  meat  should  be  retained ;  they 
increase,  rather  than  diminish,  the  flavof,  and  all  the  sedi- 
ment which  is  fine  enough  to  go  through  the  strainer 
should  be  used.  In  any  thickened  soup  it  is  so  mingled 
with  the  other  ingredients  as  not  to  be  unpleasant  to  the 
ej^e.  And  for  those  who  wish  clear  soups,  which  are  riot 
as  nutritious,  this  sediment  can  easily"  be  removed  in  the 
clearing. 


126  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

111  a  criticism  wliicli  so  decidedly  rejects  a  prevailing 
custom,  it  may  be  well  to  remark  that  the  method  of  pre- 
paring soups  which  is  recommended  in  the  preceding 
paragraph  has  been  successfully  proved  in  the  Boston 
Cooking  School  for  the  last  three  years.  The  French,  who 
regard  skimming  as  very  important  in  making  their  Pot- 
au-feu^  remove  the  meat  as  soon  as  tender,  and  serve  it  as 
bouiUi^  or  boiled  beef.  As  it  has  not  been  cut  in  small 
pieces,  and  is  heated  quickly,  some  of  the  juices  are  re- 
tained in  the  meat,  and  it  is  nourishing  and  palatable. 
Their  Pot-au-feu  is  more  like  our  beef  stew  than  like  soup 
stock. 

In  the  preparation  of  the  stock,  the  next  step  is  to  add 
the  seasoning,  which  may  be  used  in  these  proportions  : 
For  every  quart  of  water,  one  even,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two 
pepper'joryis  or  half  a  saltspoonful  of  ground  pepper,  two 
cloves,  two  allspice  berries,  one  fourth  of  ct  saltspoonful  of 
celery  seed  or  a  bit  of  celery  root,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a 
teaspoonful  of  mixed  herbs,  and  a  taUespoonful  of  each 
vegetable. 

Herbs  and  spices  are  better  whole  than  ground,  as  they 
may  be  more  readily  removed  b}^  straining.  The  French 
cooks  use  a  bouquet  of  herbs,  made  with  two  leaves  or 
blossoms  of  each  herb  wrapped  in  a  sprig  of  parsley  and 
tied  securely  so  that  it  may  be  easil}'  removed.  A  con- 
venient and  economical  wa}^  is  to  strip  off  the  leaves  and 
blossoms,  break  the  stalks  in  tiny  pieces,  mix  them,  and 
keep  in  a  tin  box.  Use  sage,  summer  savory,  thyme,  marjo- 
ram, and  bay  leaves:  a  teaspoonful  of  the  mixture  (not 
of  each  herb)  for  every  quart.  The  vegetables  generally 
used  are  onion,  carrot,  turnip,  and  celery.  It  is  better  to 
omit  them  entirely  in  warm  weather,  or  if  j'ou  wish  to 
keep  the  stock  more  than  a  week,  as  the  vegetable  juices 
ferment  quickly  and  sour  the  stock. 

Wash,  scrape,  or  pare  the  vegetables ;  cut  them  into 
small  pieces  for  convenience  in  measuring,  as  one  onion 
or  one  slice  of  carrot  is  rather  indefinite.  Keep  them 
in  cold  water  until  the  juices  are  drawn  from  the  meat. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  127 

When  old  or  strong,  the}'  may  be  blanched  or  parboiled 
first. 

Onions,  potatoes,  and  cabbage  should  always  be  scalded 
to  draw  out  the  indigestible  quaUties.  Some  object  to  the 
use  of  onions,  particularly  on  account  of  the  disagreeable 
odor ;  but  when  added  with  the  other  seasoning  material, 
they  are  so  completely  absorbed  in  the  stock  that  no 
trace  of  their  presence  can  be  detected.  All  or  part  of  the 
vegetables  may  be  fried  first,  if  you  like.  One  or  two 
sour  apples  give  a  pleasant  flavor  to  stock.  Wines  or 
catchups  should  be  added  just  before  serving,  as  boiling- 
dissipates  the  flavor. 

If  you  wish  to  have  a  dark  brown  stock,  reserve  part  of 
the  lean  meat  to  brown  with  the  onions.  Fry  the  onions 
in  a  little  fat,  and  when  ver}'  brown  remove  them,  to  pre- 
vent burning,  and  brown  the  meat  in  the  same  fat.  Add 
the  onions  and  meat  to  the  stock.  Take  a  little  water 
from  the  stock,  and  wash  off  all  the  browned  glaze  ad- 
hering to  the  ftying-pan,  as  this  is  the  best  part.  A  table- 
spoonful  of  browned  sugar  or  caramel  (see  page  134), 
which  should  alwaj^s  be  kept  on  hand,  will  also  give  a 
rich  dark  color.  After  the  seasoning  is  placed  in  the 
mixture,  put  the  kettle  where  it  will  keep  at  a  gentle, 
steady  simmering.  Do  not  let  it  boil  furiousl_7  one  half- 
hour  and  not  at  all  the  next,  but  find  the  place  on  the 
range  where  it  will  keep  at  just  the  right  temperature,  and 
then,  if  3'ou  have  a  steadj^  fire,  it  will  need  no  further 
attention  until  read}'  to  strain.  It  is  hot  enough  if  the 
water  just  bubbles  on  one  side  of  the  kettle. 

When  the  stock  has  simmered  till  the  meat  is  in  rags 
and  the  bones  clean,  strain  at  once.  Do  not  let  it  stand, 
if  in  an  iron  kettle.  If  you  have  used  a  digester  or  steam- 
tight  kettle,  the  water  will  not  have  lessened  much.  If 
boiled  in  an  ordinary  kettle,  it  will  be  reduced  about  one 
half  by  evaporation,  and  ma}'  be  diluted  when  rear]}-  for 
the  table.  Strain  in  this  way.  Place  a  stone  jar  beside 
your  kettle.  It  should  be  of  a  size  suited  to  the  amount 
of  stock.     Put  a  colander  over  the  jar  (it  should  fit  inside 


128  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

it),  and  a  strainer  cloth  over  tlie  colander.  Then,  with 
a  ladle  or  dipper,  dip  the  contents  of  the  kettle  and  pour 
into  the  strainer,  ^"ever  try  to  lift  the  kettle  and  pour 
it  out,  unless  j'ou  have  more  strength  and  skill  than  most 
beginners.  When  j^ou  have  only  a  pint  left,  you  may  try 
the  pouring.  Do  not  squeeze  the  cloth,  but  let  the  con- 
tents drain  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  throw  the  scraps 
awa3-.  Remember  that  3'ou  have  extracted  all  the  nutri- 
ment, and  have  it  in  the  water  ;  so  do  not  expect  to  have 
any  virtue  in  the  meat  or  vegetables.  Set  the  jar  in  a 
cool  place,  uncovered,  but  not  in  the  ice  chest  while  hot. 
It  keeps  better  to  cool  quickly.  In  cold  weather,  and  if 
3^ou  have  used  a  large  proportion  of  bone,  the  stock  will 
harden  like  jelly,  with  a  cake  of  solid  fat  on  the  top.  This 
fat,  b}'  excluding  the  air,  helps  to  keep  the  stock,  and 
should  not  be  removed  until  the  stock  is  needed.  In 
winter  stock  will  keep  a  week,  and  longer,  if  made  without 
vegetables.  It  should  be  heated  occasional^  to  the  boil- 
ing-point, or  after  taking  off  an}^  portion  of  it,  that  what 
remains  may  harden  again  in  an  unbroken  form.  A  little 
fresh  charcoal  tied  in  a  bag  and  boiled  with  the  stock  is 
said  to  restore  it  when  only  slightly  changed. 

In  very  warm  weather,  make  only  enough  for  each  dsij, 
as  sometimes  it  spoils  in  one  night.  If  3^ou  wish  to  make 
a  soup  while  the  stock  is  still  hot,  put  what  portion  3'ou 
may  need  into  a  shallow  pan  and  place  the  pan  in  ice 
water,  with  a  larger  pan  of  ice  water  over  it.  This  will 
soon  harden  the  fat ;  or  if  3^ou  have  not  time  to  do  this, 
take  off  what  fat  3^ou  can  with  a  spoon,  and  wipe  off  the 
remainder  with  soft  tissue  paper,  or  strain  several  times 
through  a  fine  napkin.  The  grease  will  adhere  to  the 
napkin,  which  should  be  rinsed  in  cold  water.  That 
hardens  the  fat.  Or  you  ma3^  let  the  soup  boil  gentl3', 
and  nearly  all  can  be  taken  off. 

To  remove  the  fat  after  the  stock  has  jellied,  run  a  knife 
around  between  the  cake  of  fat  and  the  jar.  If  the  fat  be 
solid,  it  will  sometimes  come  off  whole ;  but  if  soft,  take 
off  all  3'ou  can  without  cutting  into  the  jell3',  then  wring 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  129 

a  cloth  out  of  veiy  hot  water,  and  wipe  the  stock.  The 
hot  cloth  will  absorb  the  fat  readily.  Remember,  if  the 
sonp  is  to  be  served  clear,  not  a  pin-head  of  fat  must  be 
left ;  but  if  it  is  to  be  thickened  with  anj^  starch}'  material, 
this  will  absorb  what  cannot  be  removed  with  a  spoon. 
This  fat  must  be  saved  and  clarified  according  to  direc- 
tions on  page  18. 

With  this  stock  for  a  foundation,  3'ou  maj'  make  an 
endless  variet}^  of  soups,  each  soup  taking  its  name  from 
the  principal  solid  ingredient ;  and  it  is  equalh^  valuable  to 
use,  instead  of  water,  in  making  gravies  or  sauces.  No 
matter  how  little  3'ou  have,  one  cupful  is  worth  more  than 
it  costs  to  make  it,  as  an  addition  to  fricassees  and  braised 
meats.  This  stock,  if  properl}'  made  and  strained,  will  be 
suflScientl}^  clear  for  any  common  soups.  But  for  clear 
sparkling  soups  and  aspic  jelly,  it  must  be  clarified  with  the 
white  of  an  Qgg. 

To  clear  Soup  Stock. 

Remove  the  fat,  and  allow  the  white  and  shell  of  one  egg 
for  every  quart  of  stock.  If  j^ou  wish  to  flavor  the  stock 
more  highl}',  add  half  a  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed  and  the 
thinnest  possible  shavings  from  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 
Add  also  the  lemon  juice,  and  more  salt  and  pepper  if 
needed.  Mix  celery  seed,  lemon,  Qgg^  etc.  with  the  cold 
stock,  and  beat  it  well.  If  the  stock  be  hot  when  the  Qgg 
is  added,  the  Qgg  will  harden  before  it  has  done  its  work. 
This  is  a  point  where  many  fail.  Set  it  over  the  fire  and 
stir  it  all  the  time,  until  it  is  hot,  to  keep  the  egg  from 
settling.  Then  leave  it,  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes.  By 
this  time  a  thick  scum  will  have  formed,  and  as  it  breaks 
the  liquid  will  be  clear  and  sparkling,  like  wine,  and  darker 
than  before.  Draw  it  back  on  the  stove,  and  add  half  a 
cup  of  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  ten  minutes,  while  you 
get  3^our  jar,  colander,  and  fine  napkin  ready  for  straining. 
Wring  3'our  napkin  out  of  hot  water,  and  laj^  it  over  the 
colander.  Put  the  finest  wire  strainer  on  the  napkin  and 
then  pour  it  all  through.     This  strainer  will  catch  the  scum 

9 


I30  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

and  shells  which  would  otherwise  clog  the  Dapkin.  Let  it 
take  its  own  time  to  drain  ;  but  if  you  must  hasten  it,  raise 
the  napkin  first  at  one  corner,  and  then  at  another,  and  let 
the  liquid  run  down  to  a  clean  place.  This  is  better  than 
squeezing.  This  is  all  ready  to  serve  as  a  clear  soup  by 
simply  heating  to  the  boiling-point.  Serve  with  it,  in  the 
tureen,  thin  slices  of  lemon,  a  glass  of  sherr}^  3'olks  of 
hard-boiled  eggs,  or  delicate  flavored  force-meat  balls ;  or 
put  on  each  plate  a  poached  Qgg^  or  a  spoonful  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese. 

In  making  soups  from  this  stock,  bear  this  fact  in  mind : 
Do  not  waste  the  stock  by  boiling  in  it  any  material 
which  requires  long  boiling.  Vegetables,  rice,  sago,  tapi- 
oca, macaroni,  vermicelli,  etc.,  should  be  cooked  separately 
and  then  added  to  the  stock,  which  should  be  brought  to 
the  boiling-point. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  principal  varieties. 
These  soups  are  all  supposed  to  have  no  meat  served 
with  them.  The  broth  is  clear  and  thin,  and  every  particle 
of  vegetable  or  cereal  should  be  distinct,  except  in  the 
soups  called  Mixed   Vegetable    and  Tomato. 

Concise  rules  for  Common  Brown  Stock  and  Consomme 
are  given  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  do  not  need  to  read 
all  the  preliminary  remarks. 

Brown  Soup  Stock. 


6  pounds  hind  shin  of  beef. 

6  quarts  cold  water. 

10  whole  cloves. 

10  whole  peppercorns. 

Bouquet  of  sweet  herbs. 

1  large  tablespoonful  salt. 


3  small  onions. 
1  carrot. 

1  turnip. 

2  stalks  celery. 
2  sprigs  parsley. 


Wipe  and  cut  the  meat  and  bones  into  small  pieces. 
Put  the  marrow,  bones,  half  of  the  meat,  and  the  cold 
water  into  the  kettle.  Soak  half  an  hour  before  heatingc 
Add  spices  and  herbs.  Brown  the  onions  and  the  remain* 
der  of  the  meat,  and  add  them  to  the  stock  ;  add  the  veg- 
etables cut  fine.     Simmer  six  or  seven  hours  and  strain. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  131 


Bouillon. 


4  pounds  beef,  from  the  middle  of 

the  round. 
2  pounds  bone. 
2  quarts  cold  water. 


1  tablespoonful  salt. 

4  peppercorns. 

4  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  mixed  herbs. 


Wipe  and  cut  the  meat  and  bones  into  small  pieces ; 
add  the  water,  and  heat  slow!}' ;  add  the  seasoning,  and 
simmer  five  hours.  Boil  down  to  three  pints ;  strain, 
remove  the  fat,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve 
in  cups  at  luncheons,  evening  companies,  etc.  Boil  one 
onion,  half  a  carrot,  and  half  a  turnip  with  it  if  you  like. 

Clear,  or  Amber   Soup,  or  Consomme.^ 


4  pounds  shin  of  beef. 

4  pounds  knuckle  of  veal,  or 

3  pounds  fowl. 

4  quarts  cold  water. 

2  ounces  lean  ham  or  bacon. 

6  cloves. 

6  peppercorns. 

Bouquet  of  herbs. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 


3  onions. 
1  carrot. 

1  turnip. 

2  stalks  celery. 

2  sprigs  parsley. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  shells. 
1  saltspoouful  celery  seed. 
Rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 


Wipe  and  cut  the  meat  and  bones  into  small  pieces. 
Put  the  marrow,  bones,  and  part  of  the  meat  in  the  kettle 
with  four  quarts  of  cold  water.  Heat  slowly ;  cut  the 
onions  and  vegetables  fine,  and  fr}^  them  in  the  ham  fat  or 
in  drippings  ;  then  brown  the  remainder  of  the  meat.  Add 
onions,  meat,  herbs,  spices,  and  vegetables.  Simmer  until 
the  meat  is  in  rags ;  it  will  take  seven  or  eight  hours. 
Strain,  and  when  cold  remove  the  fat ;  add  the  whites  and 
shells  of  the  eggs,  celery  seed,  lemon,  and  salt  and  pepper 
if  needed.  When  well  mixed,  heat  it,  and  boil  ten  min- 
utes. Strain  through  the  finest  strainer,  and  heat  again 
to  the  boiling-point  before  serving.  Serve  clear,  or  with 
wine  or  lemon.  Clear  soup  should  be  perfectly  transpar- 
ent, of  a  light  brown  or  straw  color. 

1  Consomme  means  "  consumed,  boiled  to  rags." 


132  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Bones   and   trimmings  from  a  6- 

pound  roast  of  beef. 
2  cold  mutton-chops. 
The  flank  end  of  a  sirloin  steak, 

uncooked. 
4  quarts  cold  water. 
1  tablespoonful  salt. 


Left-over  Soup. 

4  cloves. 


4  peppercorns. 

1  cold  fried  egg. 

2  baked  apples. 

1  cup  cold  boiled  onions. 

2  stalks  celery. 

1  tablespoonful  mixed  herbs. 


Oat  up  the  meat  and  bones,  and  put  them  in  the  kettle 
with  the  cold  water.  Add  all  the  other  higredients,  and 
simmer  till  the  bones  are  clean,  the  meat  is  in  rags,  and 
the  water  reduced  one  half.  Strain,  and  the  next  morning 
remove  the  fat ;  when  read}^  to  serve,  heat  the  stock  to 
the  boiling-point ;  warm  with  it  one  cup  of  cold  macaroni 
or  tomatoes  left  from  3'esterday's  dinner.  Add  more  sea- 
soning if  needed. 

Julienne  Soup. 

1  quart  stock.  I  %  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  pint  mixed  vegetables.  |  %  saltspoonful  pepper. 

Cut  the  celery  into  thin  slices,  the  turnip  into  quarter- 
inch  dice,  and  the  carrot  into  three-quarters  by  one- 
eighth  inch  strips  or  straws,  using  only  the  orange  part. 
Or  cut  carrot  and  turnip  into  quarter-inch  slices,  and 
then  into  fancy  shapes  with  small  vegetable  cutters. 
Cover  with  boiling  water,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  cook  until  soft,  but  not  long  enough  to  destro}^  their 
shapes.  Let  the  quart  of  stock  come  to  a  boil ;  add  the 
vegetables,  the  water,  and  more  salt  if  necessar}^  Serve 
hot.  In  spring  and  summer  use  asparagus,  peas,  and 
string  beans.  It  is  quite  important  that  the  vegetables 
should  be  small  and  of  uniform  thickness  ;  but  if  awy 
require  a  longer  time  to  cook,  they  should  be  cut  into 
smaller  pieces. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  133 


Macaroni  Soup. 


1  quart  stock. 

3  or  4  sticks  macaroni. 


1  teaspoonful  salt. 

3^  saltspoonf  ul  pepper. 


Cook  the  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water,  about  half  an 
hour,  or  until  tender ;  drain,  pour  cold  water  through  it, 
to  keep  it  from  sticking  together.  La}^  the  sticks  close 
together  on  a  board,  and  divide  them  into  eighth-inch 
pieces,  making  tiny  rings,  or  cut  them  into  half-inch 
pieces.  There  should  be  about  a  pint  of  macaroni  for  a 
quart  of  stock.  Bring  the  stock  to  a  boil ;  add  the  maca- 
roni, the  salt,  and  the  pepper ;  then  pour  all  into  the 
tureen. 

Vermicelli  Soup. 

1  quart  stock.  j  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

3^  cup  vermicelli.  |  ^o  saltspoonf  ul  pepper. 

The  vermicelli  may  be  broken  or  not,  as  3'ou  please. 
Cook  about  ten  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain, 
put  it  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  over  it  the  boihng  stock. 
Spaghetti  and  Italian  Paste  may  be  used  in  the  same  wa}- . 

Rice,  Tapioca,  Sago,  or  Barley  Soup. 


1  teaspoonful  salt. 

%  saltspoonful  pepper. 


1  quart  stock. 

2  tablespoonfuls  either  rice,  bar- 
ley, tapioca,  or  sago. 

Wash  the  grains,  and  cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted 
water ;  then  add  them  to  the  boiling  stock.  Serve  with 
croutons.  Barley  should  be  soaked  one  hour,  and  boiled 
two  hours  or  more.  Vegetables  and  macaroni  are  better 
with  beef  stock  ;  and  rice,  tapioca,  and  barley  with  mutton 
or  chicken  stock. 


1  quart  stock. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar. 

1  saltspoonful  pepper. 


Tomato  Soup  with  Stock. 

1  can  tomatoes. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 


Stew  the  tomatoes  until  soft  enough  to  strain.     Rub  all 
but  the  seeds  through  the  strainer.     Add  the  sugar,  salt. 


134 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


and  pepper, 
croutons. 


Add  all  to  the  boilino^  stock.     Serve  with 


Carrot,  or  Crecy  Soup, 


1  quart  rich,  brown  stock. 

1  ijint  carrot. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar. 


1  teaspoonful  salt. 

^'2  saltspoonf  ul  pepper. 

1  small  onion,  sliced. 


Wash  and  scrape  the  carrot ;  shave  off  in  thin  slices  a 
pint  of  the  outer  part.  Do  not  use  the  3"ellow  centre. 
Cook  the  carrot  with  the  onion  in  boiling  salted  water  to 
cover,  till  very  tender.  Rub  the  carrot  through  a  squash 
strainer.  Add  the  stock  and  heat  again.  Add  the  sugar, 
salt,  and  pepper,  and  when  hot  serve  immediately  with 
croutons. 

Mixed  Vegetable  Soup. 


1  cup  strained  tomatoes. 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  saltspoonf  ul  pepper. 


1  quart  stock. 

1  quart  boiling  water. 

1  cup  each  chopped  onion,  carrot, 
and  celery. 

}^  cup  each  chopped  turnip,  pars- 
nip, and  cabbage. 

Use  all  or  as  many  varieties  of  vegetables  as  you  wish, 
or  if  3'ou  have  oulj  a  few,  add  macaroni,  rice,  or  barley, 
having  in  all  half  the  amount  of  vegetables  that  yoM.  have 
of  liquid.  Chop  all  the  vegetables  fine.  Cabbage,  cauli- 
flower, parsnip,  potatoes,  or  onions  should  be  parboiled  five 
minutes,  and  drained  carefully.  Fry  the  onions  and  car- 
rot ;  then  put  all  with  the  water  and  stock,  and  simmer 
until  tender.  Add  the  seasoning.  Serve  without  strain- 
ing.    Always  add  sugar  to  all  mixed  vegetable  soups. 

The  next  division  of  soups  includes  those  which  are 
thickened  in  various  ways,  and  in  which  the  meat  is  served 
with  the  soup  ;  also  White  Soups,  and  the  materials  to  be 
served  with  soups. 


Caramel,  for  coloriiig  Soups,  etc. 

Melt  one  cup  of  sugar  (either  brown  or  white)  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  water  in  a  frying-pan.    Stir  until  it  becomes 


TJie  Boston  Cook  Book.  135 

of  a  dark  brown  color.  Add  one  cup  of  boiling  water;  sim- 
mer ten  minutes,  and  bottle  when  cool.  This  should  always 
be  kept  on  hand,  as  it  is  useful  for  man}-  purposes.  It 
gives  a  rich,  dark  color  to  soups,  coffee,  and  jelly  ;  is  more 
wholesome  than  browned  butter  in  sauces,  and  is  delicious 
as  a  flavoring  in  custards  and  pudding  sauces. 

Glaze. 

Glaze  is  simply  clear  stock  boiled  down  to  one  fourth  of 
its  original  amount.  Put  two  quarts  of  rich,  strong  stock 
into  a  saucepan,  and  boil  it  uncovered  until  reduced  to 
one  pint.  It  should  have  a  gluey  consistenc}^  and  will 
keep  a  month  if  put  in  a  closely  covered  jar  in  a  cool  place. 
It  is  useful  in  browning  meats  which  have  not  been  colored 
b}^  cooking,  but  which  we  wish  to  have  the  appearance  of 
having  been  roasted  or  browned. 

Thickening  for  Soups. 

Soups  are  thickened  with  flour,  cornstarch,  or  rice  flour : 
one  tablespoonful  for  a  quart  of  soup,  —  heaping,  if  flour  ; 
scant,  if  rice  flour  or  cornstarch.  Flour  is  the  cheapest, 
but  cornstarch  gives  a  smoother  consistenc}'.  Mix  the 
flour  with  a  very  little  cold  water  or  milk  until  it  is  a  smooth 
paste  ;  then  add  more  liquid,  until  it  can  be  poured  easih^ 
into  the  boiling  soup.  Remember  to  boil  the  soup  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes  after  the  thickening  is  added,  that  there 
ma}^  be  no  raw  taste  of  the  flour.  Where  butter  and  flour 
are  used,  the  butter  is  rubbed  to  a  cream,  mixed  or  braided 
with  the  flour,  and  then  made  into  a  paste  with  a  little  of 
the  soup. 

A  better  way  is  to  put  the  butter  in  a  small  saucepan, 
and  when  melted  and  bubbling  stir  in  the  flour  quickly, 
until  smooth  (be  careful  not  to  brown  butter  for  any 
white  soup)  ;  then  add  gradually  about  a  cup  of  the  hot 
soup,  letting  it  boil  and  thicken  as  you  add  the  soup.  It 
should  be  thin  enough  to  pour.  In  vegetable  soups  or 
purees,  as  soon  as  the  hot  butter  and  flour  are  blended, 


136  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

they  ma}^  be  stirred  at  once  into  the  soup.  This  is  what  is 
meant  in  many  of  the  receipts  by  thickening  with  butter 
and  flour  which  have  been  cooked  together.  The  hot  but- 
ter cooks  the  flour  more  thoroughly  than  it  can  be  cooked 
in  any  other  way.  When  a  brown  thickening  is  desired, 
as  in  Mock  Turtle  Soup,  melt  the  butter  and  let  it  become 
as  brown  as  it  will  without  burning ;  then  add  all  the 
flour  at  once  and  stir  quickly,  that  everj-  particle  of  it 
may  be  moistened  in  the  hot  butter ;  add  the  water  or 
soup  gradualh'. 

Flour  that  is  browned  while  drj',  either  in  the  oven  or 
over  the  fire,  colors,  but  does  not  thicken.  A  certain 
amount  of  moisture,  of  either  fat  or  water,  is  necessar}' 
with  the  heat  to  thoroughly  swell  the  grains  of  starch  in 
the  flour.  Thickened  soups  should  be  about  the  consist- 
ency of  good  cream.     Purees  are  thicker. 

Material  to  be  served  with  Soup. 

Croutons^  or  Fried  Bread.  No.  1.  — Cut  stale  bread  into 
half-inch  slices,  remove  the  crusts,  and  cut  into  half-inch 
cubes  ;  put  them  in  a  fiying-basket,  plunge  into  fat  hot 
enough  to  brown  them  while  3'ou  count  forty  ;  drain  and 
gprinkle  with  salt.  They  may  be  fried  at  an}^  time  and 
heated  in  the  oven  just  before  serving.  Thej^  are  espe- 
cially nice  with  pea  and  bean  soup. 

No.  2.  —  Cut  the  bread  into  cubes,  and  brown  in  butter 
in  an  omelet  pan  ;  or  butter  first,  then  cut  into  cubes  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  The}^  are  best  when  prepared  after 
the  first  receipt. 

Crisped  Crackers.  —  Split  butter  crackers  and  spread  with 
butter ;  put  them,  the  buttered  side  up,  into  a  pan,  and 
brown  in  a  hot  oven.  They  are  delicious  with  white  or 
vegetable  soups,  and  in  fish  chowder  and  oj^ster  stews. 

Egg  Balls. 

Boil /o2«r  eggs  twent}^  minutes  ;  put  them  in  cold  water. 
When  cool,  cut  carefuU}"  through  the  white,  and  remove 


TJie  Boston  Cook  Book.  137 

the  yolks  whole.  They  maj'  be  served  in  the  soup  whole 
or  cut  into  quarters.  Or  put  the  yolks  in  a  small  bowl 
and  rub  them  to  a  paste  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Season 
with  one  saltspoonful  of  salt ;  one  fourth  of  a  saltspoonful 
of  pepper  ;  one  teaspoonfal  of  melted  butter.  Moisten  it  witli 
the  beaten  yolk  or  white  of  one  raw  egg.,  using  just  enough 
to  shape  it  easil}^  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
Roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  butter ;  the  same  as  force-meat 
balls.  They  are  sometimes  boiled  five  minutes  in  the  soup, 
but  are  better  fried. 


Force-Meat  Balls  for  Soup. 


1  cup  of  any  cooked  meat. 

1  saltsp.  each  of  salt  and  thyme. 

^2  saltspoonful  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley. 


Yolk  of  1  raw  egg. 
A  few  drops  onion  juice. 
1  tablespoonful  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 


Chop  the  meat  very  fine ;  add  the  seasoning ;  beat  the 
yolk  of  the  Ggg.,  and  add  enough  of  it  to  moisten  the  meat ; 
make  it  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  put  tbem  in  a  soup 
plate,  sprinkle  them  with  flour,  shake  the  plate  until  the 
balls  are  all  floured  ;  put  the  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  and 
when  brown  put  in  the  balls,  and  shake  the  pan  occasion- 
all}^  until  the  balls  are  browned. 


Mock  Turtle  Soup. 


1  calf's  head. 

4  quarts  cold  water. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 
6  cloves. 

6  peppercorns. 
6  allspice. 

y^  inch  stick  cinnan: 
Bouquet  of  herbs. 

2  onions. 


1  carrot. 

1  turnip. 
Celery  root. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
1  pint  brown  stock. 

3  eggs. 

1  lemon. 


Wash,  scrape,  and  clean  the  head,  and  soak  an  hour  in 
cold  water.     Remove  the  brains  and  tongue.     La}'  them 


138  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

in  cold  water,  to  be  reserved  for  separate  dishes.  Cut  the 
head  into  four  or  five  pieces,  and  put  it  into  the  kettle  with 
the  skin  side  up,  to  prevent  sticking.  Add  the  cold  water ; 
heat  slowly  and  skim  thoroughly,  as  the  meat  is  to  be  used 
again.  Add  the  salt,  and  simmer  two  hours,  or  until  the 
meat  slips  from  the  bones.  Remove  the  meat,  and  put 
the  face  meat  smoothly  on  a  plate,  so  it  can  easily  be  cut 
into  dice  when  cool.  Reserve  the  remainder  of  the  meat 
for  force-meat  balls.  Put  the  bones  on  to  boil  again. 
Add  the  herbs,  spices,  and  vegetables,  and  simmer  until 
reduced  to  two  quarts.  Strain,  and  set  awa3'  to  cool. 
Half  an  hour  before  serving,  remove  the  fat,  put  the  stock 
on  to  boil,  and  season  with  one  saltspoonful  each  of  ground 
thyme  or  marjoram  and  pepper,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Make  a  brown  thickening  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
browned,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  or  flour,  and 
one  pint  of  brown  stock.  Stir  this  into  the  stock.  Add 
one  cup  of  meat  dice,  made  hy  cutting  the  face  meat  into 
half- inch  cubes.  Boil  the  three  eggs  twent}^  minutes,  and 
make  the  j^olks  into  eg^  balls,  or  cut  the  whole  eggs  in 
half- inch  slices.  Make  force-meat  balls  with  the  reserved 
meat,  according  to  directions  on  page  137.  Put  the  meat 
balls  and  egg  balls  into  the  tureen,  add  the  soup,  and  serve 
very  hot  with  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

This  is  usually  flavored  with  a  glass  of  sherry  wine,  but 
is  very  good  with  only  the  lemon,  or  a  tablespoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Or  you  may  boil  with  it  one  pint 
of  strained  tomatoes. 

If  3^ou  have  no  brown  stock,  boil  one  pound  of  lean  beef 
with  the  head,  and  use  the  head  stock  with  the  flour  and 
butter  thickening.  This  soup  is  often  made  from  calf's 
feet,  and  one  or  two  pounds  of  lean  veal.  The  feet  should 
be  soaked  and  scalded,  boiled  in  four  quarts  of  water  with 
the  herbs,  spices,  and  vegetables,  until  the  water  is  reduced 
to  two  quarts.  Strain,  and  use  as  directed  in  the  first 
receipt,  making  force-meat  balls  of  the  veal,  and  meat 
dice  from  the  gelatinous  meat  of  the  feet. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


139 


Ox-Tail  Soup. 


2  ox-tails. 

1  large  onion. 

1  tablespoonful  beef  drippings. 

4  quarts  cold  water. 


1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  mixed  herbs. 

4  cloves. 

4  peppercorns. 


Wash  and  cut  up  the  ox- tails,  separating  them  at  the 
joints.  Cut  the  onion  fine  and  fr}^  it  in  the  hot  beef  drip- 
pings. When  slightly  browned,  draw  the  onion  to  one  side 
of  the  pan,  and  brown  half  of  the  ox-tails.  Put  the  fried 
onion  and  ox- tails  in  the  soup  kettle,  and  cover  with  four 
quarts  of  cold  water.  Tie  the  cloves,  peppercorns,  and 
herbs  in  a  small  piece  of  strainer  cloth,  and  add  them  to 
the  soup.  Add  the  salt,  and  simmer  three  or  four  hours, 
or  until  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones,  and  the  gristl}' 
portions  are  perfectly  soft.  Select  some  of  the  nicest 
joints  to  serve  with  the  soup.  Skim  off  the  fat,  and  add 
more  salt  and  pepper,  if  needed.     Strain  and  serve  very  hot. 

If  vegetables  are  served  with  this  soup,  add  one  pint  of 
mixed  vegetables,  —  onion,  carrot,  turnip,  and  celery.  Cut 
them  into  small  pieces,  or  into  fanc}^  shapes  with  a  vege- 
table cutter.'  Add  them  to  the  liquor  after  straining,  and 
boil  twenty  minutes  or  until  tender. 


Mullagatawny  Soup. 

This  is  an  Indian  soup,  and  means  "  pepper  pot."  It 
can  be  made  from  veal,  calf  s  head,  chicken,  or  rabbit. 
Use  one,  or  a  mixture  of  two  or  more  of  these  varieties 
of  meat.  Mullagatawnj'  soup  should  alwa^'s  be  very  highly 
seasoned  with  onions,  curry  powder,  and  apples,  or  lemons, 
or  some  strong  acid  fruit.  The  best  portions  of  the  meat 
are  usuall}^  removed  as  soon  as  tender,  and  served  with  the 
strained  soup.     Rice  should  also  be  served  with  this  soup. 


3  pounds  chicken,  or  young  fowl. 

1  pound  veal  bones. 

2  onions. 

1  tablespoonful  beef  drippings. 

4  cloves. 

4  peppercorns. 


2  sour  apples,  or 

The  juice  of  1  lemon. 

4  quarts  cold  water. 

1  tablespoonful  curry  powder. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar. 


40 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Clean  the  chicken,  and  cut  it  at  the  joints  into  nice 
pieces  for  serving.  Put  it  in  the  soup  kettle  witli  the  veal 
bones,  or  an}^  pieces  of  veal  30U  ma}^  have.  Cover  with 
four  quarts  of  cold  water.  Slice  the  onions,  and  fty  them 
brown  in  the  beef  drippings.  Put  the  onions,  cloves,  pep- 
percorns, and  apples  in  the  kettle.  Mix  the  cuny  powder, 
salt,  and  sugar  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  of  the  water  ; 
add  it  to  the  soup.  Let  the  soup  simmer  until  the  chicken 
is  tender.  Remove  the  cliicken  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Put  the  bones  back  in  the  kettle,  and  simmer  another  hour. 
Strain  the  soup,  remove  the  fat,  and  put  the  liquor  on  to 
boil  again,  with  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  three  or  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  boiled  rice.  When  the  chicken  is  hot, 
serve  at  once. 


Scotch  Broth. 


on- 


2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

1  saltspoonful  white  pepper. 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley. 


3^  cup  pearl  barley. 
2  pounds  neck  of  mutton. 
2  quarts  cold  water. 
I4  cup  each  of  carroty  turnip, 
ion,  and  celery. 

•  Pick  over,  and  soak  the  barley  over  night  or  several 
hours  in  cold  water.  Wipe  the  meat  with  a  clean  wet 
cloth.  Remove  the  fat  and  skin.  Scrape  the  meat  from 
the  bones  and  cut  it  into  half-inch  dice.  Put  the  bones  on 
to  boil  in  one  pint  of  cold  water,  and  the  meat  in  three 
pints  of  cold  water.  Let  the  latter  boil  quickl}',  and  skim 
carefully  just  as  it  begins  to  boil.  When  the  scum  comes 
up  white,  add  the  barley  and  skim  again.  Cut  the  vege- 
tables into  quarter-inch  dice,  fr}^  them  five  minutes  in 
one  tablespoonful  of  the  butter,  and  add  them  to  the  meat. 
Simmer  three  or  four  hours,  or  until  the  meat  and  barley 
are  tender.  Strain  the  water  in  which  the  bones  have  sim- 
mered. Cook  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  When  smooth,  add  the 
strained  water  graduall}-,  and  stir  into  the  broth.  Add 
the  salt,  pepper,  and  parsley.  Simmer  ten  minutes,  and 
serve  without  straining.     Many  people  have  a  prejudice 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  141 

against  mutton  in  stews  or  broths.  The  strong,  disagree 
able  flaA^or  lies  mostly  in  the  skin.  If  this  be  removed 
together  with  the  fat,  it  will  repaj-  one  for  the  time  and 
trouble.  As  this  broth  is  not  to  be  strained,  it  is  always 
well  to  boil  the  bones  separate!}'.  Care  must  be  taken  not 
to  let  the  water  boil  awa}^  This  is  a  favorite  dish  among 
the  Scotch.  They  often  serve  it  with  a  larger  proportion  ot 
vegetables,.  The  carrots  are  sometimes  grated,  giving  the 
broth  a  fine  color,  and  sometimes  the  dice  of  meat  are  first 
browned  in  the  butter.  Rice  ma}'  be  used  instead  of  bar- 
ic}'. Scotch  broth  made  after  this  receipt  has  been  tested 
by  a  native  Scotchman,  and  pronounced  more  like  the 
"  auld  countree  "  than  an}'  other  dish  eaten  in  America. 

Mutton  Broth. 

Allow  one  quart  of  cold  water  to  each  'pound  of  meat  and 
bone.  Break  the  bones  and  cut  the  meat  (which  should 
be  lean)  into  small  pieces.  CoA^er  with  cold  water  and 
heat  slowly.  Add  one  teaspoonfid  of  salt  and  half  a  salt- 
spoonf  id  of  pepper^  and  a  small  slice  of  onion  and  turnip  if 
you  like.  Simmer  until  the  meat  is  in  shreds.  Strain  it, 
and  when  it  is  cool  remove  the  fat.  To  one  quart  of  the 
broth  allow  two  tahlespoonfids  of  rice^  washed  and  soaked 
half  an  hour.  When  the  broth  is  boiling,  add  the  rice  ; 
simmer  until  it  is  tender,  being  careful  not  to  let  the  water 
boil  awa}'.  Season,  and  serve  at  once.  For  seasoning, 
a  little  curry  powder,  used  as  3'ou  would  use  caj'enne 
pepper,  or  a  saltspoonful  of  celery  salt,  or  a  few  leaves  of 
fresh  mint,  are  agreeable  as  a  change. 

When  you  have  not  time  to  cool  the  broth,  a  piece  of 
soft  tissue  paper  passed  over  the  surface  helps  to  take  up 
any  globules  of  fat  which  cannot  be  removed  with  a  spoon. 
To  make  it  quickly  foi'  a  sick  person,  chop  one  pound  of 
perfectly  lean,  juicy  mutton  very  fine  ;  pour  over  it  one  pint 
of  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  until  the  water  is  ver}'  red ; 
then  heat  it  slowly.  Let  it  simmer  ten  minutes.  Strain, 
and  serve  hot. 


142  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Chicken  Broth. 

Clean  the  chicken,  and  separate  it  at  the  joints.  Re- 
move all  the  skin  and  fat.  Cover  the  chicken  with  cold 
water.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt^  one  saltspoo7iful  of 
pepper^  one  small  onion^  sliced.  Simmer  until  the  chicken 
is  tender.  Remove  the  best  part  of  the  meat,  and  put 
the  bones  and  gristle  back  and  simmer  until  the  bones  are 
clean.  Wash  and  soak  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  half  an 
hour.  Strain  the  broth.  Remove  the  fat.  Put  the  broth 
on  to  boil  again,  and  add  to  it  the  rice,  and  the  nicest 
portions  of  meat  cut  into  small  pieces.  Simmer  until  the 
rice  is  tender.  Add  seasoning  to  taste,  and  serve  at  once. 
A  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  may  be  added  if  desired.  Serve 
with  toasted  crackers. 


Turkey  Soup. 

Take  the  bones  and  scraps  left  from  roast  turkey  or 
chicken,  or  any  kind  of  game.  Scrape  the  meat  from  the 
bones,  and  \^y  aside  any  nice  pieces,  no  matter  how  small. 
Remove  all  the  stuffing,  and  keep  that  by  itself.  Break 
the  bones,  and  pack  them  closely  in  a  kettle.  Cover  with 
cold  water.  Add  one  small  onion^  sliced,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt^  and  a  little  pepper.  Simmer  two  or  three  hours,  or 
until  the  bones  are  clean.  •  Strain,  and  remove  the  fat. 
Put  the  liquor  on  to  boil  again,  and  add  for  everj^  quart  of 
liquor,  one  cup  of  cold  meat^  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  half 
a  cup  of  the  stuffing.  Or  omit  the  stuffing  and  thicken  the 
soup  with  flour.  Simmer  till  the  meat  is  tender,  and 
serve  at  once.  If  there  be  a  much  larger  proportion  of 
meat  and  stuffing  left,  use  it  in  making  scalloped  turke}^ 
or  croquettes.  This  is  much  better  than  to  boil  meat, 
bones,  and  stuffing  together.  In  that  case  the  stuffing 
absorbs  the  oil,  and  gives  a  very  strong,  disagreeable 
flavor  to  the  soup. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  143 

White  Soup  Stock. 

White  soup  stock  is  made  from  veal  or  chicken,  sea- 
soned with  onion,  celer}^  salt,  and  white  pepper,  avoiding 
anything  which  will  give  it  color.  White  soups  are  thick- 
ened with  rice,  cornstarch,  flour,  eggs,  or  the  white  meat 
of  chicken  chopped  fine,  and  are  made  still  richer  by  milk 
or  cream. 

White  Soup  (from  Veal). 


4  pounds  knuckle  of  veal. 
3  quarts  cold  water. 

1  even  tablespoonful  salt. 
6  peppercorns. 

2  small  onions. 
2  stalks  celery. 


1  pint  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  saltspoonful  celery  salt. 


Wipe  and  cut  the  veal  into  small  pieces.  Put  it  into 
the  kettle  with  the  cold  water.  Heat  slowly  and  skim, 
because  we  do  not  wish  the  soup  colored.  Add  the  salt, 
peppercorns,  onions,  and  celery.  Simmer  five  hours, 
strain,  and  when  cool  remove  the  fat.  There  should  be 
about  three  pints  of  stock.  When  ready  to  use  it,  put 
the  stock  on  to  boil,  and  the  milk  into  the  double  boiler. 
Thicken  the  stock  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  cooked  together. 
Add  the  boiling  milk,  the  salt,  and  pepper.  Beat  two 
eggs  until  liglit,  put  them  in  the  tureen,  and  strain  the 
boiling  soup  over  them.  Many  people  prefer  to  use  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  only.  This  makes  a  j^ellow  soup. 
Others  var}^  it  by  boiling  the  eggs  hard  and  rubbing  the 
yolks  through  a  gravy  strainer  after  the  soup  is  in  the 
tureen. 

This  veal  stock  ma}^  be  clarified  with  the  white  of  an 
Qgg^  if  3^ou  wish  it  transparent.  But  it  is  better  with  the 
milk  or  cream,  and  should  be  highlj''  seasoned,  and  re- 
duced one  half  by  boiling,  as  when  made  from  veal  alone 
it  is  insipid.     Serve  with  croutons. 


144  ^^^  Boston  Cook  Book. 


White  Soup  (from  Chicken). 


3  or  4  pounds  fowl. 

8  quarts  cold  water. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  salt. 

6  peppercorns. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  chopped  onion. 


1  pint  cream. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  cornstarch. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  saltspoonful  white  pepper. 


2  tablespoonf uls  chopped  celery.      2  eggs. 

Singe,  clean,  and  wipe  the  fowl.  Cut  off  the  legs  and 
wings,  and  disjoint  the  bod\'.  Put  it  on  to  boil  in  cold 
water.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  quickly^  because  we  wish  to 
use  the  meat  as  well  as  the  water,  and  skim  thoroughly. 
The  meat  may  be  removed  when  tender,  and  the  bones  put 
on  to  boil  again.  (Use  the  meat  for  croquettes  or  other 
made  dishes.)  Add  the  salt  and  vegetables.  Simmer  until 
reduced  one  half.  Strain,  and  when  cool  remove  the  fat. 
For  one  quart  of  stock  allow  one  pint  of  cream  or  milk. 
If  cream,  use  a  little  less  Hour  for  thickening.  Boil  the 
stock ;  add  the  butter  and  flour,  cooked  together,  and  the 
seasoning.  Strain  it  over  the  eggs,  stirring  as  j'ou  pour, 
or  the  eggs  will  curdle.  B}^  substituting,  for  the  eggs  in 
this  white  soup,  the  white  meat  of  the  chicken,  chopped 
fine  and  rubbed  to  a  powder,  we  have  Potage  a  la  Reine^ 
which  many  think  too  elaborate  for  any  but  a  professional 
cook  to  undertake.  The  breast  of  a  roast  chicken  may  be 
used.  Add  it  to  the  boiling  stock,  then  thicken  it  with 
the  flour  and  butter.  Add  the  cream,  and  if  not  perfectl}' 
smooth,  strain  into  the  tureen.  It  should  be  quite  thick 
like  cream.  Whole  rice  is  sometimes  served  with  clear 
chicken  soup.  If  used  as  a  thickening,  boil  the  rice  until 
soft  enough  to  rub  through  a  strainer.  Add  it  to  the 
jchicken  liquor,  and  unite  them  with  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together. 

The  liquor  in  which  a  fowl  or  chicken  has  been  boiled, 
when  not  wanted  for  any  other  purpose,  should  be  saved 
for  white  soup.  If  the  vegetables  and  spices  are  not 
boiled  with  the  fowl,  frj-  them  five  minutes  without  burn- 
ing, add  them  to  the  stock,  and  simmer  fifteen  minutes. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  145 

Sti'ain  before  serving.     Chicken  stock  clarified  makes   a 
pale  straw-colored,  transparent  soup. 

Potage  a  la  Reine,  No.  2.     {Queen  Victoria's  favorite  Soup.) 

Remove  the  fat  from  o?ie  quai^t  of  the  water  in  which  a 
chicken  has  been  boiled.  Season  highh^  wath  salt^  pepper^ 
and  celery  salt.;  and  a  little  onion  if  desired,  and  put  on  to 
boil.  Mash  the  3'olks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  and 
mix  them  with  half  a  cup  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs^ 
soaked  until  soft  in  a  little  milk.  Chop  the  white  meat  of 
the  chicken  until  fine  like  meal,  and  stir  it  into  the  egg 
and  bread  paste.  Add  one  pint  of  hot  cream  slowl3%  and 
then  rub  all  into  the  hot  chicken  liquor.  Boil  five  minutes  ; 
add  more  salt  if  needed,  and  if  too  thick  add  more  cream, 
or  if  not  thick  enough  add  more  fine  cracker  dust.  It 
should  be  like  a  puree. 


146  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


SOUPS   WITHOUT   STOCK. 

Any  of  the  soups  or  purees  in  this  division  may  be  at- 
tempted before  one  has  mastered  the  imaginary  difficulties 
of  stock-making.  They  are  palatable,  nutritious,  inex- 
pensive, and  quickly  prepared. 

Potato  Soup. 


%  teaspoonf  ul  celery  salt. 
3^  saltspoonful  wliite  pepp 
3^  saltspoonful  cayenne. 
7^  tablespoonf  ul  flour. 
1  tablespoonf  ul  butter. 


3  potatoes. 

1  pint  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  onion. 

1  stalk  celery. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Wash  and  pare  the  potatoes,  and  let  them  soak  in  cold 
water  half  an  hour.  Put  them  into  boiling  water,  and 
cook  until  very  soft.  Cook  the  onion  and  celery  with  the 
milk  in  a  double  boiler.  When  the  potatoes  are  soft,  drain 
off  the  water  and  mash  them.  Add  the  boiling  milk  and 
seasoning.  Rub  through  a  strainer,  and  put  it  on  to  boil 
again.  Put  the  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  and  bubbling,  add  the  flour,  and  when  well  mixed 
stir  into  the  boiling  soup  ;  let  it  boil  five  minutes,  and  serve 
very  hot.  This  flour  thickening  keeps  the  potato  and 
milk  from  separating,  and  gives  a  smoothness  and  con- 
sistency quite  unlike  the  granular  effect  which  is  often 
noticed.     If  the  soup  be  too  thick,  add  more  hot  milk. 

The  celery  salt  ma}^  be  omitted  if  3^ou  have  the  fresh 
celery,  or,  if  you  like,  put  one  tahlespoonful  of  fine  chopped 
'parsley  into  the  soup  just  before  serving. 

When  you  wish  a  richer  soup,  use  a  quart  of  milk,  mak- 
ing it  much  thinner,  and  add  two  eggs^  well  beaten,  after 
you  take  it  from  the  fire ;  or  put  them  in  the  tureen, 
and  stir  rapidly  as  you  pour  in  the  boiling  soup.  New  raw 
potatoes,  cut  into  small  dice  or  balls  and  cooked  till  tender 
but  not  broken,  are  sometimes  served  in  potato  soup. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  147 


Celery  Soup. 


1  head  celery. 

1  pint  water. 

1  pint  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  onion. 


1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  flour. 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 
y^  saltspoonful  pepper. 


Wash  and  scrape  the  celer}^,  cut  into  half-inch  pieces, 
put  it  into  one  pint  of  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  until 
very  soft.  Mash  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Cook 
the  onion  with  the  milk,  in  a  double  boiler,  ten  minutes, 
and  add  it  to  the  celery.  Rub  all  through  a  strainer,  and 
put  it  on  to  boil  again.  Cook  the  butter  and  flour  together 
in  a  small  saucepan  until  smooth,  but  not  brown,  and 
stir  it  into  the  boiling  soup.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper ; 
boil  five  minutes,  and  strain  into  the  tureen.  Serve  very 
hot. 

Tomato  Soup. 


1  saltspoonful  white  pepper. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  onion. 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley. 
1  tablespoonful  cornstarch. 


1  quart  can  tomatoes. 

1  pint  hot  water. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

4  cloves. 

4  peppercorns,  or 

Put  the  tomatoes,  water,  sugar,  salt,  cloves,  and  pep- 
percorns on  to  boil  in  a  porcelain  stewpan.  Put  the  but- 
ter in  a  small  saucepan,  and  when  it  bubbles  put  in  the 
onion  and  parsle}'.  Fry  five  minutes,  being  careful  not  to 
burn  it.  Add  the  cornstarch,  and  when  well  mixed  stir 
it  into  the  tomato.  Let  it  simmer  ten  minutes.  Add 
more  salt  and  pepper  if  needed.  Strain,  and  serve  with 
plain  boiled  rice,  or  croutons,  or  toasted  crackers. 


Mock  Bisque  Soup. 

1  tablespoonful  cornstarch. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
y.^  cup  butter. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  until  soft  enough  to  strain   easily. 
Boil  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.     Cook  one  tablespoonful 


}4  can  tomatoes. 
1  quart  milk. 
1./ 


148  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

of  the  butter  and  the  cornstarch  together  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, adding  enough  of  the  hot  milk  to  make  it  pour  easih'. 
Stir  it  carefull}'  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  boil  ten  minutes. 
Add  the  remainder  of  the  butter  in  small  pieces,  and  stir 
till  well  mixed.  Add  salt  and  pepper  and  the  strained 
tomatoes.  If  the  tomatoes  be  ver}^  acid,  add  half  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  soda  before  straining.  Serve  verj^  hot.  Many 
would  use  more  tomatoes,  but  it  is  more  delicate  with  a 
small  quantit}'. 

Black  Bean  Soup. 


1  pint  black  beans. 

2  quarts  cold  water. 

1  small  onion. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

1  saltspoonful  pepper. 
^  saltspoonful  cayenne. 


1  saltspoonful  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  lemon. 

2  hard-boiled  eggs. 


Soak  the  beans  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  off 
the  water,  and  put  them  on  to  boil  in  two  quarts  of  cold 
water.  Slice  the  onion  and  fiy  it  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
the  butter.  Put  it  with  the  beans.  Add  a  bit  of  celery 
root,  if  3^ou  have  it.  Simmer  four  or  five  hours,  or  until 
the  beans  are  soft.  Add  more  cold  water  as  it  boils  awaj-, 
—  about  half  a  cup  everj-  half-hour,  —  to  check  the  boil- 
ing and  soften  the  beans,  leaving  about  two  quarts  when 
done.  Rub  the  beans  through  a  strainer,  put  the  soup 
on  to  boil  again,  and  add  the  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard. 
When  boiling,  thicken  it  with  the  flour  and  butter  which 
have  been  cooked  together.  This  will  prevent  the  beans 
from  settling.  Season  to  taste.  Cut  the  lemon  and  eggs 
into  thin  slices,  put  them  into  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  hot 
soup  over  them.     Serve  with  croutons. 

Many  think  tomatoes  are  an  improvement.  If  that 
flavor  be  desired,  add  to  the  above  half  a  can  of  tomatoes, 
before  straining.  Others  think  it  is  not  just  right  unless 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  or  some  bones  and  odds 
and  ends  of  meat,  have  been  boiled  with  it.  The  beans 
are  sometimes  boiled  to  quite  a  thick  pulp,  and  after  sifting 
made  of  the  proper  consistenc}'   by  thinning  with  brown 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  149 

soup  stock,  and  seasoned  more  highly  with  the  addition 
of  ground  herbs,  spices,  force-meat  balls,  and  wine.  It 
is  then  not  unlike  Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

A  very  good  bean  soup  may  be  made  from  the  remains 
of  baked  beans.  Add  one  quart  of  water  and  a  slice  of 
onion  to  each  pint  of  beans.  Boil  to  a  pulp,  mash,  and 
season.  Or  make  the  soup  of  equal  parts  of  white  beans 
and  canned  or  dried  sweet  corn.  If  dried  corn,  soak  it 
over  night,  chop  it  fine,  and  boil  it  with  the  beans.  If 
canned  corn,  chop  it,  and  add  it  to  the  beans  after 
straining.  But  whichever  wa}-  it  is  prepared,  do  not  boil 
the  beans  in  the  water  in  which  the}^  were  soaked,  nor 
serve  them  without  straining,  to  remove  the  hulls,  which 
contain  no  nutriment  and  are  indigestible. 


Split  Pea  Soup. 


1  cup  dried  split  peas. 
3  pints  cold  water. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  flour. 


y^  teaspoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  saltspoonf  ul  white  pepper. 


Pick  over  and  wash  the  peas.  Soak  over  night,  or  for 
several  hours  in  cold  water.  Put  them  on  to  boil  in  three 
pints  of  fresh  cold  water,  and  let  them  simmer  until  dis- 
solved, adding  enough  more  water,  as  it  boils  away,  to 
keep  three  pints  of  liquid  in  the  kettle.  Keep  it  well 
scraped  from  the  sides  of  the  kettle.  When  soft,  rub  through 
a  strainer  and  put  on  to  boil  again.  Add  either  water, 
stock,  milk,  or  cream  to  make  the  consistency  you  wish. 
It  should  be  more  like  a  puree  than  a  soup.  Cook  one 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  together, 
and  add  to  the  strained  soup  when  boiling.  Add  the  salt 
and  pepper,  and  when  it  has  simmered  ten  minutes,  serve 
at  once  with  fried  dice  of  bread. 

This  is  delicious  made  in  this  simple  way.  It  must 
always  be  strained,  and  thickened  with  the  flour  and  but- 
ter, or  it  will  separate  as  it  cools.  It  will  be  smooth,  per- 
fectly free  from  grease ;  and  those  who  like  the  natural 


150  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

taste  of  the  peas  prefer  it  to  any  other  way  of  cooking. 
Do  not  think  you  must  boil  more  or  less  salt  pork  with  it, 
as  most  receipts  advise.  It  ma}^  be  varied  in  many  ways, 
by  adding  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  before  straining,  or 
by  boiling  with  the  peas  a  small  onion  which  has  first  been 
cut  fine  and  fried  in  a  little  butter,  or  b}"  adding  any  rem- 
nants of  bone  or  meat,  being  careful  to  remove  them  before 
straining.  Always  use  the  split  peas,  as  the  hulls  have 
been  removed,  and  they  cook  much  more  quickly  than  the 
whole  peas. 


Green  Pea  Soup. 


1  quart  green  peas. 
1  quart  water. 
1  pint  milk. 
^2  teaspoonful  salt. 


3^  saltspoonful  pepper. 
3^  teaspoonful  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  flour. 


Put  the  peas  into  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  cook 
until  soft.  Mash  them  in  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled,  and  rub  through  a  strainer,  gradually  adding  a  pint 
of  hot  water,  which  will  help  to  separate  the  pulp  from  the 
skins.  Put  on  to  boil  again.  Cook  the  butter  and  flour 
in  a  small  saucepan,  being  careful  not  to  brown  it.  Stir 
it  into  the  boiling  soup.  Add  the  salt,  sugar,  pepper,  and 
the  milk,  which  should  be  hot,  using  enough  milk  to  make 
it  the  consistency^  yow  prefer.  This  is  a  very  good  way  to 
use  peas  that  are  old  and  hard,  and  unfit  to  serve  as  a 
vegetable,  which  is  often  the  case  with  those  that  come 
from  a  market.  When  the  pods  are  fresh,  wash  them 
thoroughly ;  allow  more  water,  and  boil  them  with  the 
peas. 

Green  Com  Soup. 


1^  saltspoonful  white  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 


6  ears   sweet  corn,  or  enough  to 

make  1  pint  raw  pulp. 
Water  to  cover  the  ears. 
1  pint  milk,  or  cream. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

With  a  very  sharp  knife  scrape  the  thinnest  possible 
shaving  from  each  row  of  kernels,  and  then,  with  the  back 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  151 

of  the  knife,  scrape  out  the  pulp,  leaving  the  hull  on  the 
cob.  Break  the  cobs  if  long,  and  put  them  on  to  boil  Ih 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  them.  Boil  thirty  minutes  and 
strain.  There  should  be  about  one  pint  of  water  after 
straining.  Put  the  corn  water  on  to  boil  again,  and  when 
boiling  add  the  corn  pulp.  Cook  fifteen  minutes.  Add 
the  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  the  boiling  milk.  Thicken 
it  with  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  one  tablespoonfal  of 
butter  cooked  together.  Boil  five  minutes  and  serve  at 
once. 

Corn  is  better  for  soup  when  it  is  a  little  old  for  the 
table,  and  the  pulp  is  thick  rather  than  milky. 


Vegetable  Soup  (Winter). 


1  cup  each  of  onion  and  carrot. 
1  cup  each  of  turnip  and  parsnip. 
1  pint  each  of  celery  and  potato= 
^  cup  butter  or  drippings. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  tablespoonfui  flour. 


1  teaspoonful  sugar. 
1  saltspoonf  ul  white  pepper. 
3^  saltspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 
1  tablespoonfui  chopped  parsley. 
1  slice  of  bread  crust  toasted  very 
brown. 


Cut  the  onion,  carrot,  tm^nip,  parsnip,  and  celery  into 
half-inch  dice,  reserving  the  onions  to  fry,  and  the  pota- 
toes to  boil  b}^  themselves.  Put  the  butter  in  a  stew- 
pan  or  soup  kettle,  and  when  hot  add  the  onions.  After 
frying  them  carefully  until  colored  but  not  burned,  add  the 
flour,  and  when  well  mixed  pour  on  gradually  a  pint  of 
hot  water.  Add  the  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  bread,  vegetables 
(except  the  potatoes),  and  enough  boiUng  water  to  cover 
all.  Let  them  simmer  two  hours.  Boil  the  potatoes  ten 
minutes,  drain,  and  add  them  to  the  soup.  When  the 
vegetables  are  soft,  rub  all  through  a  strainer.  Add  more 
salt  and  pepper  if  desired,  and  keep  over  hot  water  until 
ready  to  serve. 

A  summer  vegetable  soup  may  be  made  in  a  similar  man- 
ner, using  young  onions,  turnips,  carrots,  and  cauliflower. 
Cut  fine  and  parboil ;  then  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water, 
simmer  until  soft,  mash,  strain,  season,  make  quite  thin 


152  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

with  hot  cream  or  milk,  and  pour  this  over  a  small  quan- 
tit3^  of  tender  green  peas  and  asparagus  tips,  previously 
boiled. 


Fish  Soup. 


1  pound  any  boiled  fish,  — salmon, 

cod,  or  halibut. 
1  quart  milk. 
1  slice  onion. 


1  tablespoonful  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  saltspoonful  pepper. 


Cook  the  fish  in  boiling  salted  water,  until  it  flakes 
easily.  Drain  it,  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  and  rub 
through  a  coarse  strainer.  Cook  the  onion  with  one 
quart  of  milk  ten  minutes,  remove  the  onion,  and  thicken 
the  milk  with  the  flour  and  butter  cooked  together.  Add 
the  seasoning  and  fish.     Let  it  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Puree  of  Canned  Salmon. 

Remove  the  oil,  bones,  and  skin  from  half  a  can  of 
salmon.  Chop  the  salmon  very  fine.  Boil  one  quart  of 
milk^  and  season  and  thicken  it  as  for  fish  soup.  Add  the 
salmon,  and  when  heated  it  is  read}^  to  serve. 

Lobster  Soup,  or  Bisque  of  Lobster. 


2  pounds  lobster. 
1  quart  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

2  tablesp.  flour  or  cornstarch. 


1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  saltspoonful  white  pepper. 
3^  saltspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 
1  pint  water. 


Remove  the  meat  of  the  lobster  from  the  shell,  and  cut 
the  tender  pieces  into  quarter-inch  dice.  Put  the  ends  of 
the  claw  meat  and  any  other  tough,  hard  parts,  with  the 
bones  of  the  bod}^,  into  one  pint  of  cold  water,  and  boil 
twent}^  minutes,  adding  more  water  as  it  boils  away.  Put 
the  coral  on  a  piece  of  paper,  and  diy  it  in  the  oven. 
Boil  one  quart  of  milk,  and  thicken  it  with  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  and  two  of  flour  or  cornstarch.  Boil  ten 
minutes.  Strain  the  water  from  the  bones  and  add  it  to 
the  milk.     Add  the  salt  and  pepper,  using  more  if  high 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  153 


seasoning  be  desired.  Rub  the  dried  coral  through  a 
strainer,  using  enough  to  give  the  soup  a  bright  pink  color. 
Put  tlie  green  fat  and  lobster  dice  into  the  tureen,  and 
strain  the  boiling  soup  over  them.     Serve  immediately. 

If  you  do  not  like  so  much  of  the  lobster  in  the  soup, 
chop  it  all  very  fine,  boil  it  with  the  milk,  and  rub  it 
through  a  squash  or  gravy  strainer.  Many  like  the  addi- 
tional thickening  of  half  a  cup  of  Jine  cracker  crumbs. 

This  soup  may  also  be  varied  by  using  one  pint  of  stocky 
either  chicken  or  veal,  and  one  pint  of  milk ;  or  b}'  the 
addition  of  force-meat  halls  made  in  the  following  manner  : 
Cut  only  half  of  the  meat  into  dice ;  chop  the  remainder, 
and  pound  it  to  a  fine  paste  with  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  pepper  ;  beat 
one  raw  egg,  and  add  enough  of  it  to  moisten  the  paste  so 
that  it  may  easily  be  made  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg  ; 
let  them  simmer  in  the  soup  about  five  minutes,  just 
enough  to  cook  the  egg. 

Lobster  Soup,  No.  2. 

The  meat  of  two  small  lobsters,  cut  fine,  one  pint  of  cream, 
one  pint  of  milk.  Simmer  twenty  minutes.  Add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  wet  in  cold  milk.  Salt  and  cayenne  pepper 
to  taste.  Just  before  serving  add  half  a  cup  of  butter,  cut 
into  small  pieces,  and  stir  till  it  is  entirely  absorbed. 
Strain,  and  serve  very  hot. 


Oyster  Soup. 


1  quart  oysters. 

1  pint  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 


2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

Salt  to  taste. 

3^  saltspoonful  pepper. 


Put  the  milk  on  to  boil  in  the  double  boiler,  while  you 
prepare  the  oj^sters.  Place  a  colander  over  a  pan.  Put 
the  03'sters  in  a  large  bowl,  and  pour  over  them  one  cup  of 
water.  Take  up  each  oyster  with  the  fingers,  to  make  sure 
no  pieces  of  shell  adhere  to  it,  and  drain  in  the  colander. 
Strain   the    oyster   liquor,    which   has    drained    from   the 


154  T^^^  Boston  Cook  Book. 

colander,  through  the  finest  strainer.  Put  it  on  to  boil. 
Remove  the  scum,  and  when  clear  put  in  the  03'sters. 
Let  them  simmer,  but  not  boil,  until  they  begin  to  grow 
plump  and  the  edges  to  curl  or  separate.  Strain  the  liquor 
into  the  milk,  and  put  the  oysters  where  they  will  keep 
hot,  but  not  cook.  Thicken  the  milk  with  the  butter  and 
flour,  which  have  been  cooked  together ;  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  (the  amount  of  salt  depending  upon  the 
saltness  of  the  03'sters) .  Boil  five  minutes  ;  add  the  03's- 
ters  and  serve  at  once.  This  receipt  ma}^  be  varied  by 
boiling  one  cup  of  fine  chopped  celery  and  a  small  slice  of 
onioji  with  the  milk  ten  minutes  ;  then  straining  and  thick- 
ening it  with  half  a  cup  of  powdered  cracker.  Add  the 
butter,  the  seasoning,  and  the  parboiled  oysters.  Serve 
at  once. 

Oyster    Stew    is    made    like    oj^ster   soup,    without    the 
thickening. 

Clam  Soup. 


1  tablespoonf ul  chopped  parsley. 

1  heaping  tablespoonf  ul  butter. 

2  heaping  tablespoonf  uls  flour. 
1  pint  milk  or  cream. 


3^  peck  clams  in  the  shell. 

Salt  to  taste. 

1  saltspoonful  pepper. 

3^  saltspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  onion. 

Prepare  the  clams  b}'  boiling  in  the  shells,  and  cutting 
as  directed  for  clam  chowder,  keeping  the  soft  part  sepa- 
rate from  the  hard.  Pour  off  one  quart  of  the  clam  liquor 
after  it  settles,  being  careful  not  to  take  any  of  the  sedi- 
ment ;  put  it  on  to  boil,  and  remove  the  scum.  Add  one 
pint  of  hot  water .1  and  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  cay- 
enne, onion,  and  parsley.  Put  in  the  hard  part  of  the 
clams.  Simmer  fifteen  minutes,  strain,  and  boil  again, 
and  when  boiling  thicken  with  the  flour  cooked  in  the 
butter.  Add  the  hot  milk  or  cream,  and  the  soft  part  of 
the  clams  ;  serve  at  once,  with  crackers  and  pickles. 

Another  method  of  preparing  clam  soup,  if  needed 
quickly  :  Heat  the  clam  broth  to  a  boiling  point ;  add  the 
clams  cut  fine  ;  season,  and  pour  into  the  tureen  over  two 
eggs  beaten  up  with  the  boiling  milk. 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  155 

The  clam  hroth  served  hot  with  toasted  crackers  will  often 
tempt  a  person  with  a  capricious  appetite. 

Fish  Chowder. 


4  or  5  pounds  cod  or  haddock  or 

bass. 
6  potatoes. 

A  2-inch  cube  of  fat  salt  pork. 
2  small  onions. 


1  tablespoonful  salt. 

}/^  teaspoonf  ul  white  pepper. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  quart  milk. 

6  butter  crackers. 


When  buying  a  fish  for  a  chowder,  have  the  head  left  on, 
but  the  skin  removed  ;  or  if  3^ou  have  to  depend  upon  your- 
self, remove  the  skin  according  to  directions  on  page  161. 
Then  begin  at  the  tail  and  cut  the  fish  from  the  bone  on 
one  side,  keeping  the  knife  as  close  as  possible  to  the 
bone  ;  remove  the  bone  from  the  other  side.  Do  not  for- 
get to  take  out  the  small  bones  near  the  head.  Wipe  the 
fish  carefully  with  a  damp  cloth,  cut  it  into  pieces  about 
two  inches  square,  and  put  it  away  in  a  cool  place.  Break 
the  bones  and  head,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  put  them 
on  to  boil.  Pare  and  slice  the  potatoes  one  eighth  of  an 
inch  thick,  using  enough  to  make  the  same  quantity  b}' 
measurement  as  you  have  of  fish.  Soak  them  in  cold  water 
half  an  hour,  and  parboil  or  scald  in  boiling  water  five 
minutes ;  then  pour  off  the  water.  Cut  the  pork  into 
quarter-inch  dice,  and  fry  it  in  an  omelet  pan.  Cut  the 
onions  into  thin  slices  and  fr}^  them  in  the  pork  fat,  beiug 
careful  that  it  does  not  burn.  Pour  the  fat  through  a 
strainer  into  the  kettle,  leaving  the  pork  scraps  and  onions 
in  the  strainer.  Put  the  sliced  potatoes  into  the  kettle  ; 
hold  the  strainer  over  the  potatoes,  and  pour  through  it 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them.  This  is  easier  than 
to  fr}'  in  the  kettle,  and  skim  out  the  pork  and  onions,  — 
which  to  a  novice  would  be  running  the  risk  of  burning  the 
fat,  cleaning  the  kettle,  and  beginning  again.  When  the 
potatoes  have  boiled  ten  minutes,  strain  the  water  in  which 
the  bones  were  boiled,  and  pour  it  into  the  kettle.  Add 
the  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  the  chowder  is  boiling 
briskly,  put  in  the  fish,  and  set  it  back  where  it  can  sim- 


156  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

mer  ten  minutes.  Do  not  break  the  fish  b}'  stining  it. 
Add  the  butter  and  the  hot  milk.  Split  the  crackers,  put 
them  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  chowder  over  them.  Do 
not  soak  the  crackers  in  cold  water.  Butter  crackers  will 
soften  easilj^  in  the  hot  chowder.  If  you  wish  the  broth 
thicker,  stir  in  one  cup  of  fine  cracker  crumbs,  or  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  cooked  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
More  milk  and  a  little  more  seasoning  may  be  added  to 
this  amount  of  fish  and  potato,  if  you  wish  to  make  a  larger 
quantity.  When  wanted  richer,  beat  two  -eggs^  mix  them 
with  th^  hot  milk,  and  put  in  the  tureen  before  turning  in 
the  chowder.  If  added  while  the  chowder  is  in  the  hot 
kettle,  the  eggs  will  curdle.  Any  firm  white  fish  ma}^  be 
used  for  a  chowder,  but  cod  and  haddock  are  best.  Man}' 
use  a  cod's  head  with  the  haddock.  The  head  is  rich  and 
gelatinous,  and  it  should  alwa3's  be  boiled  with  the  bones, 
and  the  liquor  added  to  the  chowder.  In  this  chowder  you 
have  nothing  but  what  the  most  dainty  person  may  relish. 
There  are  no  bones,  skin,  or  scraps  of  boiled  pork.  Fish, 
potatoes,  and  crackers  are  all  clistinct  in  the  creamy  liquid, 
instead  of  being  a  past}^  mush,  such  as  is  often  served. 
For  a  change,  the  crackers  maj^  be  buttered  and  browned. 

If  a  highl}^  seasoned  dish  be  desired,  boil  an  onion,  cut 
into  thin  shces,  with  the  potatoes ;  add  more  pepper,  and 
either  cayenne  pepper,  Worcestershire  sauce,  or  curr}^ 
powder.  Omit  the  boihng  water,  and  use  only  that  in 
which  the  bones  were  boiled,  when  making  a  smaller 
quantity. 

Clam  Chowder. 


y^  teaspoonful  white  pepper. 
1  large  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  quart  milk. 
6  butter  crackers. 


3^  peck  clams  in  the  shells. 
1  quart  potatoes,  sliced  thin. 
A  2-inch  cube  of  fat  salt  pork. 
1  or  2  onions. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Clam  chowder  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  fish 
chowder,  substituting  half  a  peck  of  clams  for  the  fish. 
Clams  in  the  shells  are  better,  as  j^ou  then  have  more 
clam  liquor.      Wash  with  a  small  brush,   and  put  them 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


157 


in  a  large  kettle  with  half  a  cupful  of  water,  or  just  enough 
to  keep  the  under  ones  from  burning ;  set  them  over  the 
fire.  When  the  clams  at  the  top  have  opened,  take  them 
out  with  a  skimmer,  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle,  take 
the  clams  from  the  shell ;  remove  the  thin  skin  ;  then  with 
scissors  cut  off  all  the  black  end,  cut  the  "  leather  straps  " 
into  small  pieces,  leaving  the  soft  part  whole.  Let  the 
clam  liquor  settle,  and  pour  it  off  carefully.  Use  half 
water  and  half  clam  liquor.  Fry  the  pork  and  onion  the 
same  as  in  fish  chowder  ;  add  the  potatoes,  which  have  been 
soaked  and  scalded,  and  boiling  water  to  cover.  When 
the  potatoes  are  soft,  add  the  clam  liquor,  the  seasoning, 
and  the  clams  ;  when  w^armed  through,  add  the  hot  milk 
and  turn  into  the  tureen.  Do  not  put  the  clams  into  the 
chowder  until  the  potatoes  are  nearly  done,  as  prolonged 
boilino;  hardens  them. 


Corn  Chowder. 


1  saltspoonful  white  pepper. 
1  large  tablespoonf  ul  butter. 
1  pint  sUcecl  tomatoes. 
1  pint  milk. 
6  crisped  crackers. 


1  quart  raw  sweet  corn. 

1  pint  sliced  potatoes. 

A  2-inch  cube  fat  salt  pork. 

1  onion. 

1  teaspoonf  ul  salt. 

Scrape  the  raw  corn  from  the  cob.  Boil  the  cobs  twenty 
minutes  in  water  enough  to  cover  them  ;  then  skim  them 
out.  Pare,  soak,  and  scald  the  potatoes.  Fr^-  the  onion 
in  the  salt  pork  fat,  and  strain  the  fat  into  the  kettle  with 
the  corn  water.  Add  the  potatoes,  corn,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Simmer  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  the  potatoes  and  corn  are 
tender.  Add  the  butter  and  milk,  and  serve  very  hot 
with  crisped  crackers. 


1  pound  lobster. 
1  quart  milk. 
3  crackers. 
J^  cup  butter. 


Lobster  Chowder. 


1  scant  teaspoonful  salt. 

3^  saltspoonful  white  pepper. 

}^  saltspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 


Boil  one  quart  of  milk.     Roll  three  crackers  fine ;  mix 
with  them  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter,  and  the  green  fat 


158  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

of  the  lobster.  Season  with  one  scant  teaspooiiful  of 
salt,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper,  and  one  fourth 
of  a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper.  Pour  the  boiling 
milk  gradually  over  the  paste.  Put  it  back  in  the  double 
boiler ;  add  the  lobster  meat  cut  into  dice ;  let  it  boil  up 
once,  and  serve. 

Puree  of  Clams. 

One  pint  of  hoiled  clams ;  remove  the  dark  substance 
from  the  soft  part,  and  chop  the  hard  part  very  fine. 
Thicken  one  pint  of  hot  cream  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour 
cooked  in  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  hot  butter  ;  add  the 
chopped  clams,  the  soft  parts,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
more  hot  cream  or  a  little  of  the  clam  liquor  if  the  puree 
be  too  thick.     When  hot,  strain  it  into  the  tureen. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  159 


FISH. 

Fish,  on  account  of  its  abundance,  cheapness,  and 
wholesomeness,  is  invaluable  as  an  article  of  food.  It  is 
less  nutritious  and  less  stimulating  than  meat,  as  it  con- 
tains less  solid  matter  and  more  water.  An  exaggerated 
idea  of  the  value  of  fish  as  brain  food  has  prevailed  ;  the 
latest  authorities,  however,  state  that  there  is  no  evidence 
to  prove  that  fish  is  an}^  richer  than  meat  in  phosphorus. 
But  as  it  contains  little  fat,  the  white  varieties  particularly, 
it  is  easily  digested,  and  as  it  has  a  large  proportion  of 
nitrogenous  material,  it  is  especially  adapted  to  all  those 
upon  whom  there  are  great  demands  for  nervous  energy. 

Salmon  heads  the  list  "  of  whatsoever  hath  scales  and 
fins,"  in  nutritive  qualities  ;  and  it  is  richer  than  meat. 
The  next  in  value  are  fat  halibut,  shad,  white-fish,  mack- 
erel, blue-fish,  lean  halibut,  bass,  fiounder,  trout,  cod, 
haddock,  cusk,  etc. 

Red-blooded  fish,  like  salmon,  mackerel,  and  blue-fish, 
have  the  oil  distributed  through  the  body.  Thej^  are 
nutritious  for  those  who  can  digest  them,  but  are  too  rich 
and  oily  for  invalids.  White  fish,  like  fiounder,  halibut, 
cod,  and  haddock,  have  the  oil  in  the  liver,  and  are  more 
easily  digested.  Fish  should  be  perfectly  fresh  and  thor- 
oughly cooked,  or  it  will  be  very  indigestible  and  some- 
times poisonous.  Broiling  and  baking  are  the  best  methods. 
Small  pan-fish  and  fillets  of  large  white  dry  fish  are  good 
if  fried  ;  but  oily  fish  should  never  be  fried.  Salting  draws 
out  the  nutritive  part  of  fish  the  same  as  it  does  in  meat ; 
and  either,  when  thus  prepared,  should  be  used  as  a  relish, 
and  not  depended  upon  for  nourishment.  Fat  fish  are 
injured  less  than  white  fish,  as  the  fat  is  not  removed  by 
salting. 


i6o  The  Boston  Cook  Booh. 

All  varieties  of  fish  need  an  accompaniment  of  starch}^ 
foods,  like  bread  and  potatoes  ;  and  white  fish  need  beside 
to  be  cooked  with  butter  or  fat  to  make  them  desirable  as 
food.  The  juices  of  fish,  shell-fish  particular!}-,  are  of  an 
alkaline  nature ;  and  this  renders  lemon  juice  or  vinegar 
a  desirable  condiment  as  a  neutralizing  agenc}. 

The  flesh  of  good,  fresh  fish  is  firm  and  hard,  and  will 
rise  at  once  when  pressed  with  the  finger.  If  the  ej'es  be 
dull  and  sunken,  the  gills  pale,  and  the  flesh  flabby  or 
soft,  the  fish  is  not  fresh. 

Fish  should  be  cleaned  as  soon  as  possible,  in  strongly 
salted  water.  They  should  be  washed  (not  soaked)  by 
wiping  with  a  cloth  wet  in  salt  water.  Then  wrap  them 
in  a  cloth  which  is  sprinkled  with  salt,  and  put  them  in 
a  cool  place.  If  put  in  the  ice- chest,  they  will  taint  the 
butter  and  milk.  Put  ice  around  them,  if  necessary  ;  but 
do  not  let  them  touch  the  ice,  as  fresh  water  and  ice  will 
soften  them.  When  once  the}-  lose  their  hard,  firm  con- 
sistency, they  are  considered  unfit  to  eat  by  those  who 
know  what  good  fish  really  are. 

Frozen  fish  should  be  thawed  in  cold  water.  Fresh- 
water fish  having  a  muddy  taste  or  smell  are  improved  by 
soaking  in  salt  and  water.  Salt  fish  should  be  soaked  in 
fresh  water,  with  the  shin  side  up,  to  draw  out  the  salt, 
and  should  be  eaten  only  occasionally,  for  the  reason 
before  stated. 

To  Glean  a  Fish.  —  If  the  fish  have  scales,  remove  them 
before  opening.  Scrape  with  a  small,  sharp  knife  from 
the  tail  to  the  head ;  hold  the  knife  flat  and  slanting, 
resting  it  on  the  fish,  that  the  scales  may  be  taken 
upon  the  knife  ;  scrape  slowly,  that  the  scales  may  not 
fly  over  everything  near,  and  rinse  the  knife  often  in  cold 
water. 

When  the  fish  is  to  be  served  whole,  do  not  remove  the 
head  and  tail.  Smelts  and  small  fish  served  whole  are 
opened  under  the  gills,  and  the  contents  squeezed  out  by 
pressing  from  the  middle  with  the  thumb  and  finger.  Large 
fish  are  split  open  from  the  gills  half-way  down  the  lower 


I 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  i6l 

part  of  the  bod}^,  the  entrails  removed,  and  the  inside 
scraped  and  cleaned.  Open  far  enough  to  remove  all  the 
blood  on  the  backbone.  Mau^'  leave  the  sound,  which  is 
the  white  part  adhering  to  the  bone ;  but  it  is  better  to 
remove  it. 

To  Skin  a  Fish.  —  Cut  a  thin,  narrow  strip  down  the 
backbone,  taking  off  the  dorsal  fin.  Then  open  the  lower 
part  half-way  down.  Slip  the  knife  under  and  up  through 
the  bon}^  part  of  the  gills,  and  hold  this  bony  part  between 
the  thumb  and  finger,  and  strip  the  skin  off  toward  the 
tail.     Then  do  .the  same  on  the  other  side. 

Small  fish,  like  mackerel  and  white-fish,  when  dressed 
for  broiling,  should  be  split  through  the  back. 

To  Bone  a  Fish.  —  Clean,  and  strip  off  the  skin  ;  lay  the 
fish  flat  on  a  board ;  begin  at  the  tail,  and  run  the  knife  in 
under  the  flesh  close  to  the  bone,  and  scrape  it  away  clean 
from  the  bone,  holding  the  flesh  carefull}',  not  to  break 
the  flakes.  When  the  flesh  on  one  side  is  removed,  slip 
the  knife  under  the  bone  on  the  other  side,  and  raise  the 
bone,  leaving  the  flesh  on  the  board  ;  then  pull  out  all  the 
small  bones  left  in  the  flesh,  which  you  can  easily  feel  with 
the  fingers.  Fish  with  many  fine  bones,  like  shad  and  her- 
ring, are  not  boned  ;  but  from  cod,  cusk,  mackerel,  white- 
fish,  and  haddock  they  may  be  easily  removed. 

Fillets  of  Fish  are  the  flesh  separated  from  the  bone,  and 
served  whole  or  divided,  as  the  case  maj^  require.  Flomi- 
ders  or  sole,  chicken  halibut,  and  bass,  should  have  the 
fillets  on  each  side  divided  lengthwise ;  making  four  long 
thin  pieces,  or  fillets.  Other  fish  are  cut  into  thin  slices 
or  small  squares.  Very  small  fish  may  be  split,  the  bone 
removed,  and  the  whole  fish  rolled  up  from  the  tail  to  the 
head  and  fastened  with  a  skewer. 


Broiled  Fish. 

First  clean  the  fish.  Wash  with  a  cloth  wet  in  salt  water, 
and  dry  on  a  clean  fish  towel,  kept  for  no  other  purpose. 
Mackerel,  white-fish,  small  blue-fish,  trout,  small  cod,  and 


1 62  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

shad  should  be  spht  down  the  back,  and  if  you  prefer,  cut 
off  the  head  and  tail.  Halibut  and  salmon  should  be  cut 
into  inch  slices,  the  skin  and  bone  removed,  and  turned 
often  while  broiling.  Cut  flounder,  bass,  and  chicken  hal- 
ibut into  fillets.  Oily  fish  need  onlj^  salt  and  pepper ;  but 
dry  white-fish  should  be  spread  with  soft  butter  or  olive  oil 
before  broiling. 

Use  a  double  wire  broiler,  and  grease  well  with  salt  pork 
rind.  Put  the  thickest  edge  of  the  fish  next  the  middle  of 
the  broiler,  and  always  broil  the  flesh  side  first,  as  the  skin 
burns  easity.  Cook  the  flesh  side  until  it  is  brown.  The 
time  should  vary  wdth  the  thickness  of  the  fish ;  move  the 
broiler  up  and  down,  that  all  parts  ma}^  be  equal]}'  browned  ; 
then  turn,  and  cook  on  the  other  side  just  enough  to  crisp 
the  skin.  Small  fish  require  from  five  to  ten  minutes  ; 
thicker  fish,  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  The  fire  should  be 
hot  and  clear.  If  the  fish  be  very  thick,  hold  it  farther 
from  the  fire  ;  or  ^hen  nicely  browned,  put  the  broiler  in 
the  oven  on  a  dripping-pan,  and  cook  till  the  flesh  sepa- 
i-ates  easily  from  the  bones.  Mackerel,  trout,  and  fresh 
herring  are  sometimes  broiled  whole.  Clean  without  open- 
ing more  than  is  necessary.  Wipe  and  dry  well.  Gash 
through  to  the  bone  at  intervals  one  inch  apart  on  each  side, 
and  rub  salt ^  pepper^  and  butter  or  oil  in  the  incisions  ;  wrap 
in  buttered  paper,  and  broil  carefully  from  ten  to  twenty 
minutes.  When  ready  to  serve,  loosen  the  fish  from  the 
broiler  on  each  side,  open  the  broiler,  and,  leaving  the  flesh 
side  of  the  fish  uppermost,  slide  it  ofl"  without  breaking.  Or 
open  the  opposite  way,  hold  a  platter  over  the  skin  side, 
and  invert  platter  and  broiler  together.  Spread  with  butter^ 
salt,  and  pepper ;  or  add  chopped  parsley  or  ivatercresses  ; 
or  serve  with  Maitre  d'hotel,  Tartare,  Tomato,  or  Curry 
sauce.     Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. 

Baked  Fish. 

Cod,  haddock,  cusk,  blue-fish,  small  salmon,  bass,  and 
shad  may  be  stuffed,  and  baked  whole. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  163 


Stuffing  for  Baked  Fish  weighing  from  four  to  six  Pounds. 


1  cup  cracker  crumbs. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  saltspoonful  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  onion. 


1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley. 
1  teaspoonful  capers. 
1  teaspoonful  pickles. 
^  cup  melted  butter. 


This  makes  a  dry,  crumbly  stuffing.  If  a  moist  stuffing 
be  desired,  use  stale  (not  dried)  bread  crumbs^  and  moisten 
with  one  beaten  egg  and  the  butter  ;  or  moisten  the  cracliers 
with  warm  water. 

Oyster  Stuffing.  —  One  pint  of  oysters,  one  cup  of  seasoned 
and  buttered  cracker  crumbs.  Drain  and  roll  each  oyster  in 
the  crumbs.  Fill  the  fish  with  the  03'sters,  and  sprinkle 
the  remainder  of  the  crumbs  over  the  oysters. 

General  Directions.  —  Fish  bake  through  more  evenly, 
brown  better,  and  are  more  easily  served,  if  placed  upright 
in  the  pan  instead  of  on  one  side.  Fish  that  are  broad 
and  short,  like  shad,  may  be  kept  in  place  b}^  propping 
with  stale  bread  or  pared  potatoes.  But  all  others  that  are 
narrow  in  proportion  to  the  length  ma}^  be  skewered  or 
tied  into  the  shape  of  a  letter  S  ;  run  a  threaded  trussing- 
needle  through  the  head,  middle  of  the  body  and  tail  in 
the  direction  indicated  b}^  the  dotted  line  above ;  then 
draw  the  string  tight,  and  fasten  the  ends.  Fish  thus 
prepared  will  keep  their  shape  after  baking. 

Have  an  iron  sheet  with  rings  at  the  ends  for  handles, 
and  just  large  enough  to  fit  into  the  dripping-pan.  Rub 
the  sheet  well  with  salt  pork,  and  put  pieces  of  pork  under 
the  fish  to  keep  it  from  sticking.  This  sheet  will  enable 
you  to  lift  the  fish  from  the  pan  and  place  it  on  the  platter 
without  breaking.  If  you  have  no  sheet,  put  two  broad 
strips  of  cotton  cloth  across  the  pan,  before  laying  in  the 
fish.  When  done,  lift  out  on  the  cloth.  Do  not  put  water 
in  the  pan,  unless  you  wish  to  steam  instead  of  bake  the 
fish.  Put  two  or  three  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  over  and 
near  the  fish,  and  when  the  flour  has  browned,  baste 
often  with  the  pork  fat.  Bake  till  brown,  and  baste 
often. 


164  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

No.  1. — Clean,  wipe,  and  dry  the  fish;  rub  with  salt; 
stuff  and  sew.  Cut  gashes  two  inches  apart  on  each  side. 
Skewer  into  shape  of  8,  and  put  it  on  the  fish  sheet.  Rub 
all  over  with  soft  butter.,  salt.,  and  pepper.  Put  narrow  strips 
of  fat  salt  porh  in  the  gashes.  Dredge  well  with  flour. 
Put  it  into  a  hot  oven  without  water ;  baste  when  the 
Hour  is  browned,  and  baste  often  afterwards.     Remove  it 


Fig.  7.     Baked  Fish. 

carefully  from  the  fish  sheet,  and  place  it  on  a  hot  platter. 
Draw  out  the  strings  or  skewer,  wipe  off  all  the  water  or 
fat  which  runs  from  the  fish,  and  remove  the  pieces  of 
pork.  Pour  Hollandaise  sauce  around  (not  over)  the 
fish,  or  serve  a  drawn  butter  sauce  flavored  with  lemon, 
in  a  sauce-boat ;  and  pile  Saratoga  potatoes  lightly  around 
the  fish.  Garnish  the  head  of  the  fish  with  parsley  or 
watercresses. 

To  serve  the  Fish.  —  Make  an  incision  along  the  backbone 
the  entire  length  of  the  fish  ;  then  draw  the  fish  away  from 
the  bone  on  each  side,  cutting  at  right  angles  with  the 
bone.  Raise  the  bone  to  reach  the  stuffing,  and  serve  a 
little  of  the  fish,  stuffing,  and  sauce  to  each  person.  The 
skeleton  should  be  left  entire  on  the  platter. 

No.  2.  —  Remove  the  head,  tail,  and  skin.  Rub  well  with 
salt  and  lemon  juice.  Stuff  with  oyster  stuffing^  and  sew 
securely.  Skewer  it  into  shape,  if  long  enough,  or  put 
it  upright  on  a  greased  fish  sheet,  with  bread  to  keep 
it  in  place.  Or  remove  the  bone,  place  the  fish  on  a 
platter,  and  lay  the  prepared  oysters  between  the  laj^ers 
of  fish.  Season  cracker  crumbs  with  salt.,  pepper,  and 
chopped  parsley.,  and  moisten  with  melted  butter.     Brush  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  165 

fish  with  beaten  egg^  then  sprinkle  with  the  crumbs.  Set 
the  platter  in  the  oven  over  a  pan  of  hot  water  to  keep  the 
platter  from  cracking.  Bake  from  forty  to  sixty  minutes. 
Serve  with  tomato  or  Hollandaise  sauce  poured  around 
the  fish. 

No.  3.  Baked  Halibut.  —  Three  or  four  pounds  of  halibut. 
Dip  the  dark  skin  in  boilmg  water ^  and  scrape  clean.  Rub 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  it  into  a  clean  pan,  and 
pour  milk  over  it  till  half  an  inch  deep.  Bake  about  an 
hour,  basting  with  the  milk.  Remove  the  bone  and  skin, 
and  arrange  on  the  platter  in  the  original  form.  Serve 
with  plain  drawn  butter,  egg  sauce,  or  cream  sauce,  and 
garnish  with  slices  of  boiled  eggs.  The  milk  keeps  the 
fish  moist,  is  a  good  substitute  for  pork,  and  makes  the 
fish  brown  better.  Use  just  enough  milk  to  baste,  and 
let  it  cook  away  toward  the  last.  Or  sprinkle  buttered 
crumbs  over  the  top,  when  the  fish  is  nearly  done,  and 
serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

A  large  cod,  or  any  whole  fish  too  large  for  a  small 
famU}^,  may  be  cooked  as  follows :  Remove  the  skin  and 
bones  from  the  middle  and  thickest  part ;  stuff  and  bake. 
Use  the  bones  and  head  for  a  chowder.  Cut  the  tail 
piece  into  slices,  salt  well,  and  fr}-^  or  broil  them.  Or  crimp 
them  by  soaking  in  salted  water ;  then  simmer  in  water 
with  salt  and  lemon  juice ^  and  serve  cold  with  Tartare 
sauce. 

Fried  Fish. 

Mackerel,  salmon,  blue-fish,  and  all  oily  fish  should 
never  be  fried.  Smelts,  perch,  and  other  small  pan -fish 
may  be  fried  whole.  When  fried  smelts  are  used  as  a 
garnish,  fry  them  in  the  shape  of  rings  by  pinning  the  tail 
in  the  mouth.  Cod,  halibut,  etc.,  should  be  skinned  and 
boned,  and  cut  into  slices  one  inch  thick  and  two  or  three 
inches  square.  Flounder  and  bass  may  be  cut  in  fillets,  as 
described  on  page  161,  and  each  fillet  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  fastened  with  a  small  wooden  skewer. 
Small  fish  may  be  boned  without  parting  in  the  middle, 


1 66  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

and  rolled  from  tail  to  head.  Fish  for  fi\ying  should  be 
thoroughl}^  cleaned  and  dried,  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  covered  first  with  flour  or  fine  bread  crumbs, 
then  dipped  in  beaten  Qgg^  then  in  crumbs  again.  If  this 
does  not  cover  them  completel}^,  repeat  the  process. 

When  the  fish  has  been  kept  on  ice,  let  it  become  slightly 
warm  before  frying,  as  otherwise  it  will  chill  the  fat  and 
become  greas}'.  Fry  in  deep,  smoking  hot  fat.  Observe 
the  directions  given  for  ftying  on  page  15,  testing  the  fat 
first  with  bread  ;  and  after  the  first  plunge  into  the  hot  fat 
set  the  kettle  back  to  keep  from  burning ;  then  reheat 
before  frying  any  more.  Fr}^  from  two  to  five  minutes. 
Drain  and  serve  with  tomato,  or  Tartare,  or  any  acid 
sauce.  Garnish  with  slices  of  pickle  or  lemon,  and 
parsle}'. 

Arrange   small  fish  with   heads  and  tails    alternating ; 

or  two  or  three  on  a 
skewer,  one  skewer 
for  each  person ;  or 
in  a   circle  round  a 

Fig.  S.     SmaU  Fish  served  whole.  silver  CUp,    placed  in 

the  centre  of  the 
platter  and  holding  the  sauce.  Slices  or  rolled  fillets  may 
be  arranged  in  a  circle,  with  the  sauce  in  the  centre. 

Boiled  Fish. 

Boiling  is  the  most  insipid  and  wasteful  way  of  cooking 
fish.  To  make  boiled  fish  palatable,  a  rich  sauce,  like 
lobster,  oyster,  or  shrimp  sauce,  is  needed  for  all  kinds 
except  salmon  and  blue-fish.  Salmon  is  so  much  richer 
and  more  oily  than  other  fish  that  boiling  does  not  injure 
it.  Hollandaise  and  sauce  piquante  are  appropriate  for 
salmon.  A  fish  kettle  with  a  drainer  for  lifting  out  the 
fish  is  quite  essential.  Or  3'ou  may  put  a  small  piece  of 
fish  in  a  wire  basket  or  on  a  plate ;  tie  the  plate  in  a 
square  of  cloth,  and  lift  cloth,  plate,  and  fish  together. 
Never  try  to  boil  a  fish  whole,  as  nothing  can  be  more 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  167 

unsightly  than  the  head  of  a  boiled  fish.  Clean  the  fish 
thoroughly,  and  remove  the  head,  tail,  and  skin.  Rub 
well  with  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Fish  should  be  of  uniform 
thickness,  to  boil  nicely.  A  small  salmon  or  the  middle  cut 
of  a  large  one,  or  the  thickest  part  of  cod  or  blue-Jish,  or  a 
thick  piece  of  halibut,  should  be  selected  for  boiling.  Cod, 
haddock,  and  cusk,  unless  perfectly  fresh,  will  break  in 
boiling. 

If  fish  be  put  into  cold  water,  the  juices  are  drawn  out 
into  the  water.  If  cooked  in  rapidly  boiling  water,  the 
fish  breaks  on  the  outside  before  the  middle  is  done.  The 
best  and  most  economical  wa}^  is  to  cook  it  in  a  steamer 
over  boihng  water.  If  that  is  not  convenient,  put  the 
fish  into  boiling  salted  water,  and  simmer  till  done.  Fish 
is  cooked  when  the  flesh  separates  easily  from  the  bones, 
and  should  be  taken  up  immediately,  and  well  drained  be- 
fore serving.  A  very  good  way  of  boiling  fish  is  to  steep 
it  for  five  minutes  in  strongly  salted  boiling  water,  with  one 
or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  then  plunge  it  into 
fresh  boiling  water  without  salt,  and  simmer  till  done. 
Less  scum  rises  in  the  fresh  water,  and  the  fish  looks 
whiter.  Allow  about  six  minutes  to  a  pound  for  boiling  ; 
more  if  in  a  cubical  form  than  for  a  thin  narrow  piece  of 
the  same  weight. 

Serve  boiled  fish  on  a  folded  napkin,  and  the  sauce  in  a 
sauce-boat.  Parisienne  potatoes  boiled  or  fried  and  piled 
like  cannon  balls,  alternating  with  parsley  and  button 
mushrooms  ;  or  sliced  pickles,  fried  oysters,  Saratoga  po- 
tatoes, slices  of  lemon,  or  hard-boiled  eggs  may  be  used 
as  a  garnish.  If  the  fish  break  and  look  unsightly,  re- 
move the  bones,  and  flake  it ;  pile  it  lightly  on  a  platter, 
and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish. 

To  boil  Fish  au  Court  Bouillon.  — Fish  are  improved  by 
cooking  in  water  fiavored  with  vegetables  and  spices. 
Mince  one  onion,  one  stalk  of  celery,  and  two  or  three  sprigs 
of  parsley.  Fry  them  in  a  little  butter  ;  add  two  tablespoon- 
fids  of  salt.,  six  peppercorns,  a  bay  leaf,  three  cloves,  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,   and  one  pint  of  vinegar  or  sour 


1 68  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

wine.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  skim  well,  strain,  and  keep 
to  use  in  boiling  fish.  Rub  the  fish  with  salt  and  lemon 
juice^  and  put  it  into  the  boiling  liquor,  and  simmer  till 
the  flesh  separates  from  the  bone. 

Stewed  Fish.  —  Any  dry  white  fish  or  fresh-water  fish 
may  be  stewed,  and  made  into  a  very  palatable  and  eco- 
nomical dish.  Remove  the  skin,  head,  and  bones  from 
a  four-pound  Jish.  Cover  the  bones  and  head  with  cold 
water,  and  cook  them  for  half  an  hour.  Slice  and  scald 
two  small  onio7is.  Drain,  and  fry  them  till  yellow,  in  the 
fat  obtained  from  a  two-inch  cube  of  salt  park.  Pour  it  all 
into  the  kettle  with  the  bones.  Cut  the  fish  into  pieces 
two  inches  square,  and  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  them  in  a  clean  kettle  with  a  little  butter  to  keep  them 
from  sticking,  and  strain  the  boiling  bone  water  over 
them,  using  just  enough  to  cover.  Add  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon  ^  and  when  boiling  thicken  with  one  heaping  table- 
spoonfid  of  butter  and  two  of  flour  cooked  together.  Sim- 
mer fifteen  minutes.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
one  tablespoonful  each  of  chopped  parsley,  and  tomato  or 
mushroom  catchup.^  if  desired ;  or  add  one  quart  of  drained 
oysters,  and  simmer  till  the  oysters  are  plump.  A  Matelote 
of  fish  is  the  French  name  for  fish  stewed  with  wine. 

Fish  a  la  Creme. 

Four  to  six  pounds  of  fish,  one  to  one  and  a  half  pints  of 
cream  sauce,  and  one  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  moistened  in 
one  third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  attractive  and  convenient 
methods  of  serving  any  kind  of  dry  white  fish,  —  cod,  had- 
dock, or  cusk.  Clean  the  fish ;  cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  with  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  till  the  flesh  sepa- 
rates easily.  Drain,  and  when  cool  remove  the  skin  and 
bones,  and  pick  apart  in  flakes.  Sprinkle  well  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Make  a  rich  white  sauce.  Put  a  layer  of 
fish  on  a  platter  suitable  for  serving.  Cover  with  the 
white  sauce,  letting  the  fish  soak  up  all  it  will ;  then  arrange 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  169 

another  layer  of  fish  and  sauce.  Moisten  cracker  crumbs 
in  melted  butter,  and  spread  over  the  top  with  a  fork. 
Set  the  platter  in  the  oven  over  a  pan  of  hot  water,  to 
keep  the  platter  from  cracking,  and  bake  till  the  crumbs 
are  brown.  Garnish  with  parsley.  The  whites  of  two  or 
three  eggs^  beaten  stiff  and  salted,  are  sometimes  used  in 
the  place  of  crumbs,  but  are  not  so  i^alatable.  Two  or 
three  tahlespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese  may  be  mixed  with 
the  crumbs,  if  you  like  the  flavor. 

The  sauce  maj-  be  mixed  with  the  fish ;  but  be  careful 
not  to  mash  the  fish  or  get  it  too  moist.  Then  the  fish 
may  be  piled  on  the  platter,  higher  and  broader  at  one 
end  and  giving  the  outline  of  a  flat  fish ;  or  arranged  in 
the  form  of  a  fish  shaped  like  the  letter  S,  and  covered 
with  the  crumbs.  Or,  if  the  fish  be  not  broken  in  boiling, 
take  it  up  carefull}^  on  the  drainer,  remove  the  head,  skin, 
and  small  bones  from  one  side,  put  a  platter  over  the  fish 
and  invert  platter  and  fish  together ;  then  remove  the 
skin  and  the  backbone  from  the  other  side,  leaving  the  fish 
as  whole  as  possible.  Cover  with  the  sauce  and  crumbs, 
and  bake  as  above.  .  This  is  not  so  desirable  as  the  first 
method,  because  some  fine  bones  are  liable  to  be  over- 
looked, and  the  sauce  is  not  so  well  mixed  with  the  fish. 

Renuiants  of  Cooked  Fish. 

Remnants  of  cold  boiled  or  baked  fish  (using  stuffing 
and  sauce  also)  may  be  freed  from  skin  and  bones,  flaked, 
and  used  in  any  of  the  following  ways  :  — 

Scalloped  Fish.  —  Vutjish  and  stuffing  into  a  shallow  dish 
in  alternate  layers,  with  cream  sauce  to  moisten ;  cover 
with  buttered  crumbs^  and  bake  till  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

Fish  in  Potato  Border.  —  Warm  the  Jish  slightl}^  in  a 
white  sauce.,  and  put  it  in  the  centre  of  a  dish  with  a  border 
of  mashed  potatoes.  Or,  if  you  have  enough  material  for 
a  lajge  platter,  put  the  border  on  the  edge  and  a  higher 
mound  of  potatoes  in  the  centre,  and  fill  the  space  between 
with  the  Jish.  Sprinkle  buttered  crumbs  lightly  over  the 
whole  and  set  in  the  oven  till  brown. 


170  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Chartreuse^  or  Casserole  of  Fish ^  No.  1.  — One  cup  of  an}' 
cold  Jish^  flaked,  seasoned,  and  moistened  with  a  little 
cream  ;  the  same  quantit}'  of  mashed  potatoes  ;  and  two  hard- 
hoiled  eggs.  Butter  a  small  mould  and  put  in  alternate  lay- 
ers of  potatoes,  fish,  and  slices  of  Qgg.  Steam  twent}- 
minutes,  turn  out  upon  a  hot  platter,  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

No.  2.  —  Mix  one  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs^  one  pint  of 
cold  Jlsh,  flaked,  and  two  eggs.  Season  to  taste  with  Wor- 
cestershire or  tomato  catchujj,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper.  Put 
into  a  buttered  mould.  Boil  thirtj'  minutes,  and  serve 
with  an}''  fish  sauce. 

Kedgeree.  —  Warm  cold  Jlaked  jish  slightly  over  hot 
water ;  and  just  before  serving  stir  in  one  egg^  beaten 
with  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  milk  and  a  bit  of  butter., 
and  serve  in  a  rice  border.  Steam  the  rice,  one  cupful^  in 
tvjo  cupfuls  of  highly  seasoned  stocky  in  a  double  boiler  thirty 
minutes,  or  till  tender  and  dr}-. 

Curried  Fish. — Warm  any  cold  fiaked  Jish  in  curry 
sauce ^  page  190. 

Creamed  Fish  with  Oysters.  —  Add  an  equal  amount  of 
oysters  to  the^sA,  and  cook  in  white  sauce  till  the  oysters 
are  plump.     Garnish  with  points  of  toast. 

Spiced  Fish.  —  Steep  six  cloves,  six  allspice  kernels^  six 
peppercorns^  and  one  tahlespoonful  of  brown  sugar  in  one  cup 
of  sharp  vinegar  ten  minutes,  and  pour  it  over  one  pint  of 
any  cold  flaked  jish. 

Crimped  Fish. 

Soak  slices  of  any  firm  white  fresh  jish  in  very  strongly 
salted  water.  Put  them  into  boiling  salted  water  enough 
to  cover,  with  two  tablespoonjuls  of  vinegar^  and  boil  about 
ten  minutes.  Drain ;  arrange  on  a  platter ;  remove  the 
skin  and  bones.  Serve  hot  with  oyster  or  lobster  sauce ^ 
or  cold  with  a  Mayonnaise  or  Tartare  sauce  poured 
into   the   cavity  left  by  the  bone.     Garnish  with  water- 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  171 


Potted  Fish. 

Three  shad  or  six  small  mackereU  uncooked  ;  one  third  of  a 
cwp  of  salt  with  half  a  saltspooriful  of  cayenne  pepper  mixed 
with  it,  and  half  a  cup  of  whole  spices^  —  cloves^  peppercorns, 
and  allspice  mixed  in  about  equal  proportions.  Vine- 
gar to  cover.  Clean,  remove  the  skin,  split  in  halves,  cut 
each  half  into  three  pieces,  and  remove  all  the  larger  bones. 
Pack  the  fish  in  la3^ers  in  a  small  stone  jar.  (Earthenware 
must  not  be  used  on  account  of  the  vinegar.)  Sprinkle 
the  salt  and  spices  over  each  layer.  Add  one  onion  sliced 
thin,  if  3' ou  do  not  dislike  the  flavor.  Add  vinegar  enough 
to  completely  cover  the  fish.  Tie  a  thick  paper  over  the 
top,  or  tie  a  cloth  over  and  cover  with  a  crust  of  dough  to 
keep  in  all  the  steam.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  five 
or  six  hours.  Remove  the  dough-crust,  and  when  cooled 
cover,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

This  will  keep  some  time,  if  the  fish  be  kept  under  the 
vinegar  ;  the  bones  will  be  dissolved,  and  it  makes  an  ex- 
cellent relish  for  lunch  or  tea. 

Pules  for  Fish  Salad ^  Croquettes,  and  Chowder  are  given 
elsewhere. 


Salt  Fish  Balls. 


1  cup  raw  salt  fish. 

1  pint  potatoes. 

1  teaspoonf  ul  butter. 


1  egg,  well  beaten. 

'^  saltspoonful  pepper. 

More  salt,  if  needed. 


Wash  the  fish,  pick  in  half-inch  pieces,  and  free  from 
bones.  Pare  the  potatoes,  and  cut  in  quarters.  Put  the 
potatoes  and  fish  in  a  stewpan,  and  cover  with  boiling 
water.  Boil  twenty-five  minutes,  or  till  the  potatoes  are 
soft.  Be  careful  not  to  let  them  boil  long  enough  to  be- 
come sogg3\  Drain  ofl"  all  the  water  ;  mash  and  beat  the 
fish  and  potatoes  till  ver3^  light.  Add  the  butter  and 
pepper,  and  when  slightl3^  cooled  add  the  (igg  and  more 
salt,  if  needed.  Shape  in  a  tablespoon  without  smoothing 
much,  slip  them  off  into  a  basket,  and  fr3^  in  smoking  hot 


172  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Lard  one  minute.  Fiy  only  five  at  a  time,  as  more  will 
cool  the  fat.  The  lard  should  be  hot  enough  to  brown  a 
piece  of  bread  while  you  count  forty.  Or,  first  dipping 
the  spoon  in  the  fat,  take  up  a  spoonful  of  the  fish  and 
plunge  it  into  the  hot  fat.     Drain  on  soft  paper. 

These  fish  balls  should  be  mixed  while  the  potatoes  and 
fish  are  hot.  If  j'ou  wish  to  prepare  them  the  night 
before,  omit  the  egg,  and  in  the  morning  warm  the  fish 
and  potato  in  a  double  boiler,  then  add  the  Qgg.  Keep  the 
fish  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water  while  picking  it  apart,  and 
it  will  need  no  further  soaking. 

Contrar}^  to  all  old  theories,  boiling  the  fish  with  the 
potato  does  not  harden  it.  When  well  mashed  and  beaten 
with  a  strong  fork,  the  fish  will  only  be  recognized  in  the 
potato  b}^  the  taste,  and  not  by  the  presence  of  hard,  lumpy 
pieces.  Never  chop  salt  fish.  If  picked  apart  into  small 
pieces  and  then  rubbed  with  a  potato  masher  till  it  is  re- 
duced to  fine  threads,  it  will  blend  with  an}^  mixture 
better  than  it  will  when  chopped.  These  are  the  most 
quickly  prepared  and  the  most  delicious  fish  balls  ever 
made,  and  are  worthy  the  superlative  adjectives  which 
have  been  given  them  by  enthusiastic  pupils. 

Fish  Hash.  —  The  same  mixture  as  above,  cooked  in  a 
little  salt  pork  fat  in  a  frying-pan  till  brown,  and  turned 
out  like  an  omelet. 

Fish  Souffle.  —  Prepare  the  fish  as  for  fish  balls  ;  add  two 
iahlespoonfuls  of  cream  and  two  eggs.,  beaten  separatel}^ ;  and 
bake  in  a  buttered  dish. 

To  prepare  Salt  Fish  for  Cooking. 

Soak  over  night  in  cold  water  with  the  skin  side  up^  that 
the  salt  may  be  drawn  out ;  or,  if  3'ou  can,  strip  the  skin 
ofi"  before  soaking.  By  changing  the  water  often,  less  time 
will  be  required.  Salt  mackerel  and  other  small  corned  fish 
should  be  broiled.  Salt  codfish  should  be  put  on  the  stove 
in  fresh  water  and  kept  warm,  but  not  boiling,  till  softened. 
Then  remove  the  bones  and  skin,  and  flake  in  delicate 
pieces.     Serve  with  egg  or  cream  sauce,  potatoes,  sweet  beets, 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  173 

carrots^  and  onions,  and  crisp  salt  pork  scraps,  and  you  have 
the  old-fashioned  salt  fish  dinner. 

Creamed  Salt  Fish. — Serve  07ie  cup  of  the  picked  up 
fish  in  a  rich  cream  sauce  with  potato  border  or  on  toast. 

Mock  Oyster  Stew.  {Mrs.  S.  M.  Bailey.')  — Prepare  one 
cup  of  salt  fish  by  washing,  shredding,  and  simmering  till 
soft ;  when  ready  to  serve,  put  it  in  a  shallow  dish  with 
one  pint  of  oyster  crackers  or  three  butter  crackers  split  and 
browned,  and  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  hot  milk.  Add  a 
tablespoonfid  of  butter  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and 
serve. 

Scorched  Salt  Fish.  —  Pick  a  small  piece  of  the  thickest 
part  of  salt  fish  into  long  flakes.  If  very  salt,  soak  a  few 
minutes  in  cold  water.  Brown  over  hot  coals.  Spread 
with  butter,  and  serve  hot.  Fish  thus  prepared  is  a  nice 
relish  with  potatoes  which  have  been  roasted  in  the  ashes. 
It  will  also  tempt  a  convalescent.  Smoked  salmon  or  hali- 
but may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

Tongues  and  Sounds.  —  Soak  them  in  warm  water  several 
hours,  or  till  freshened  ;  scrape  off  the  skin.  Cut  them  in 
small  pieces  and  heat  slowly  in  milk  or  water.  Make  a 
thin  white  sauce  to  pour  over  them,  and  serve  on  toast 
garnished  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Fish  Roes,  Fried. 

Wash  the  roes  and  cook  them  ten  minutes  in  boiling 
salted  water  with  one  tablespoonfid  of  vinegar.  Then 
plunge  them  into  cold  water.  Drain,  and  roll  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  seasoned  crumbs,  and  fry  till  brown  in  smok- 
ing hot  fat. 

Scalloped  Roes. — Boil  the  roes  as  in  the  preceding  re- 
ceipt. Drain,  and  break  up  hghtly  with  a  fork.  Sprinkle 
a  layer  of  the  roe  in  a  shallow  dish ;  then  rub  the  yolk  of 
hard-boiled  egg  through  a  fine  strainer.  Add  a  sprinkhng 
of  parsley  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Moisten  with  a  thin 
white  sauce.  Then  another  laj'er  of  roe,  egg,  seasoning, 
and   sauce.      Cover   with   buttered  crumbs    and   bake    till 


174 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


brown.     If  a  larger  dish  be  required,  use  with  the  roes, 
any  cold  flaked  fish^  or  a  small  quantity  of  cooked  rice. 

Small  Fresh  Fish  Baked  in  a  Crust. 

Clean  the  fish,  and  wipe  dry.  Cut  gashes  one  inch  apart 
on  each  side  ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  rich 
biscuit  crust  with  baking-powder,  or  make  a  pastry  crust; 
roll  it  out  half  an  inch  thick ;  wrap  the  fish  in  the  crust, 
pinch  the  edges  together,  and  bake  about  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Table  of  the  Cost,  etc.,  of  Fish. 


Cost. 

Weight. 

How  sold. 

When  in 
Season. 

Cod. 

8  cts.  per  lb. 

3  to  20  lbs. 

Whole. 

Haddock. 

6  to  8  cts.  per  lb. 

5  to  8  lbs. 

Whole. 

Cusk. 

8  cts.  per  lb. 

5  to  8  lbs. 

Whole. 

Winter. 

Halibut. 

12  to  20  cts.  per  lb. 

By  the  lb. 

Flounders. 

6  to  10  cts.  per  lb. 

^  to  5  lbs. 

Whole. 

Salmon. 

25  to  50  cts.  per  lb. 

Bv  the  lb. 

May  to  Sept. 

Shad. 

$1.25      in      March, 
25  cts.  in  May. 

Whole. 

Spring. 

Blue-fish. 

7  to  15  cts.  per  lb. 

4  to  10  lbs. 

Whole. 

June  to  Oct. 

Tautog. 

12  cts.  per  lb. 

Whole. 

Julv  to  Sept. 

White-fish. 

20  cts.  per  lb. 

4  lbs. 

Whole. 

Winter. 

Bass. 

12  to  25  cts.  per  lb. 

3  to  8  lbs. 

Whole. 

Sword-fish. 
Smelts. 

15  cts.  per  lb. 

10  to  25  cts.  per  lb. 

Average 
8  to  a  lb. 

By  the  lb. 

July  to  Sept. 
Sept.  to  March. 

Perch. 

20  cts.  per  dozen. 

Summer. 

Pickerel. 

15  cts.  per  lb. 

1  to  4  lbs. 

Whole. 

Trout,  Brook. 

75  cts.  per  lb. 

Whole. 

Spring. 

Mackerel. 

5  to  25  cts.  each. 

Whole. 

April  to  Oct. 

Eels. 

15  cts.  per  lb. 

Ho  1  lb. 

Whole. 

1 

Lobsters. 

12  cts.  per  lb. 

1  to  2  lbs. 

Oysters. 

35  to  50  cts.  per  qt. 

Sept.  to  May. 

Clams. 

20cts.perqt.  ;40cts. 
per  pk.  in  the  shell. 

Crabs. 

$1.25    to    $1.50  per 
dozen. 

Summer. 

Herring. 

20  cts.  per  dozen. 

Mar.  and  Apr. 

Salt  Cod  Fish. 

10  cts.  per  lb.,  best. 

Smoked  Fish. 

20  to  35  cts.  per  lb. 

Where  no  time  is  specified  the  fish  are  always  in  season. 


Ths  Boston  Cook  Book,  175 


SHELL   FISH. 

Oysters^  Clams^  Scallops^  Lobsters,  Crabs,  Shrimps,  and 
Prawns  am  the  principal  varieties  of  shell  fish  used  as 
food. 

Oysters. 

These  shell  fish  are  found  in  perfection  in  the  cool  waters 
of  the  Northern  Atlantic  coast.  The  Blue  Points  from 
Long  Island  are  considered  the  best  in  the  New  York 
market.  The  Wareham  and  Providence  River  are  equally 
esteemed  in  Boston.  Oysters  are  neither  healthful  nor 
well  flavored  from  Ma}^  to  September ;  at  all  other  times 
they  are  used  more  extensively  and  are  more  highly  prized 
than  any  other  shell  fish.  They  are  nutritious,  and  are 
easity  digested  when  fresh  and  eaten  raw,  or  when  onh^ 
slightly  cooked.  When  over-cooked,  the}^  are  tough  and 
leathery.  Oysters  should  never  be  kept  long  after  being 
taken  from  the  shell ;  and  if  to  be  used  raw,  should  not 
be  opened  till  just  before  using. 

Oysters  cooked  in  the  Shells.  — Wash  and  scrub  the  shells, 
and  put  them  in  a  pan  with  the  round  side  down  (to  hold 
the  juice),  and  cook  either  in  a  hot  oven,  on  the  top  of  a 
hot  stove,  on  a  gridiron  over  the  coals,  or  in  a  steamer, 
ten  to  twenty  minutes.  When  the  shells  open,  the  03'sters 
are  done.  Kemove  the  upper  shell ;  season  the  03^ster  on 
the  lower  shell  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar,  and 
serve  at  once.  Or  take  from  the  shells,  put  into  a  hot 
dish,  season,  and  serve  immediatel3^  There  is  no  other 
way  of  cooking  the  oyster  in  which  the  natural  flavor  is 
so  full}^  developed. 

Raw  Oysters.  —  Open  the  oysters  ;  look  them  over  care- 
fully ;  remove  am^  fine  pieces  of  shell  which  ma}^  adhere  to 
them ;  then  season  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  let 


176  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

them  stand  half  an  hour  in  the  ice  chest.  Serve  on  fancy 
oyster  plates,  or  on  the  deep  half-shell,  with  slices  of  lemon. 
Serve  with  small  squares  of  buttered  brown  bread. 

Oysters  on  Ice,  —  Put  a  rectangular  block  of  clear  ice., 
having  smooth,  regular  surfaces,  in  a  large  pan.  With  a 
hot  brick  or  flat-iron  melt  a  cavit}'  large  enough  to  hold 
the  desired  number  of  oysters.  Pour  the  water  from  the 
cavit}",  and  fill  with  oysters,  which  should  first  be  drained, 
and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  a  thick  napkin 
on  a  platter,  put  the  ice  upon  this,  cover  the  dish  with 
parsley  or  smilax,  and  garnish  with  lemon.  The  ice  is  some- 
times roughl}^  chipped  to  resemble  a  rock.  If  the  dinner 
be  served  from  the  sideboard,  individual  plates  of  ice  are 
made. 

To  prepare  Oysters  for  Coohing.  —  Pour  half  a  cup  of  cold 
water  over  one  quart  of  03'sters  ;  then  with  clean  hands 
take  out  the  o3^sters  separatel}^  and  remove  any  bits  of 
shell  or  seaweed.  Serious  accidents  have  often  resulted 
from  the  presence  of  pieces  of  shell.  The  crabs  which 
are  found  among  the  oysters  are  considered  a  delicacy 
and  should  be  saved.  The  03'ster  liquor  is  seldom  used, 
as  enough  comes  from  the  oysters  in  cooking ;  but,  if  de- 
sired, it  should  be  strained  before  using.  The  03^sters  may 
then  be  cooked  in  an^^  of  the  following  ways. 

To  cook  or  parboil  Oysters  in  their  Liquor.  —  Put  them 
in  a  saucepan  without  water  ;  stir  them,  or  shake  the  pan 
slightl}^ ;  as  soon  as  heated,  sufficient  liquor  comes  from 
them  to  keep  them  from  burning.  When  the  edges  curl  or 
ruffle,  and  the  oysters  look  plump  instead  of  flat,  they 
are  cooked.  Season  with  salt.,  pepper^  and  butter^  and 
serve  as  a  plain  roast ;  or  pour  on  toast.,  and  call  it  a 
fancy  roast. 

For  Oyster  Stew,  see  page  154. 

Smothered  Oysters.  —  Put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
covered  saucepan  with  half  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper., 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt.,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper. 
When  hot,  add  one  pint  of  oysters  carefuU}^  prepared. 
Cover  closely,  and  shake  the  pan  to  keep  the  oysters  from 


I 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  177 

sticking  ;  cook  two  or  three  minutes,  or  till  plump.     Ser^^e 
on  toasted  crackers. 

Creamed  Oysters.  —  Make  one  cup  of  thick  cream  sauce 
(see  page  190),  and  season  with  salt^  pepper.,  cayenne.,  and 
celery  salt.  Wash  and  pick  over  one  pint  of  oysters,  and 
parboil  until  plump.  Skim  carefully  ;  drain  and  add  them 
to  the  sauce.  Serve  on  toast.,  and  garnish  the  dish  with 
points  of  toast;  or  the  toast  ma}"  be  omitted,  and  bread 
crumbs  browned  in  butter  sprinkled  over  the  03'sters. 
When  served  in  patty  shells  or  in  a  vol-au-vent^  make  the 
cream  sauce  thicker. 

Fricasseed  Oysters.  —  Cook  one  pint  of  oysters  in  hot  but- 
ter, till  plump,  as  directed  for  smothered  03'sters.  Drain, 
and  keep  the  oysters  hot,  and  add  enough  cream  to  the 
03'ster  liquor  to  make  one  cupful.  Cook  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour  in  07ie  tablespoonful  of  hot  butter.  Add  slowl}'  the 
hot  cream  and  03'ster  liquor.  Season  with  one  teaspoonfid 
of  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  the  sauce 
into  one  well-beaten  egg,  add  the  hot  oj^sters,  and  heat  one 
minute.  Serve  on  toast,  if  for  breakfast ;  or  in  paper 
cases,  OY  patties,  if  for  lunch  or  dinner. 

Scalloped  Oysters.  —  One  pint  of  solid  oysters,  washed 
and  drained  ;  07ie  third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter;  one  cup  of 
cracker  or  stale  bread  crumbs,  moistened  in  the  melted  but- 
ter. Butter  a  shallow  dish ;  put  in  a  layer  of  crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  03'sters  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  and, 
if  you  like,  add  Worcestershire  sauce,  lemon  juice,  wine,  or 
mace.  Then  put  in  another  la3"er  of  crumbs,  then  03^sters 
and  seasoning,  with  a  thick  la3'er  of  crumbs  on  the  top. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  twent3^  minutes,  until  the  crumbs 
are  brown.  Man}^  prefer  to  heat  the  03^ster  liquor  and 
the  butter  with  an  equal  quantit3^  of  milk  or  cream,  and 
use  more  cracker.  Moisten  each  la3'er  of  cracker  with  the 
hot  liquid.  Reserve  the  larger  part  of  the  butter  for  the 
top  la3^er  of  crumbs.  In  this  wa3'  a  larger  dish  ma}^  be 
prepared  with  the  same  quantit3'  of  03"sters. 

Oysters  en  Coquille. — Prepare  as  for  scalloped  oysters. 
Put  one  or  two  very  large  or  several  smaller  oysters  in 

12 


178  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

oyster  or  scallop  shells ;  season,  and  cover  with  buttered 
crumbs.  Bake  till  the  crumbs  are  brown.  Place  the  shells 
on  small  plates,  and  serve  one  to  each  person. 

Large  scallop  shells  ma}'  be  obtained  at  the  fish  market, 
then  cleaned  and  used  several  times.  Tin,  granite,  or 
silver  shells  may  also  be  used. 

Oysters  and  Mushrooms  in  Crusts. — Bake  Parker- House- 
roll  dough  in  round  pans,  or  as  small  round  biscuit  placed 
some  distance  apart.  When  cold,  cut  a  shce  from  the  top 
of  each,  and  remove  the  soft  inside  without  breaking 
through  the  crust.     Fill  with  the  following  mixture  :  — 

Parboil  half  a -pint  of  oysters.  Strain,  and  save  the  liquor. 
Cut  the  oysters  fine,  and  mix  with  them  half  a  can  of 
chopped  mushrooms.  Mix  the  oyster  liquor  and  mush- 
room juice  with  enough  cream  to  make  one  pint  in  all. 
Pour  this  hot  liquid  slowly  on  one  taUespoonfd  of  hutter 
and  three  of  flour  cooked  together.  Season  highl}^  with 
salt.,  pepper,  lemon  juice ^  and  cayenne.  Pour  this  into  the 
crusts,  and  serve  at  once.  This  dish  is  acceptable  to 
those  who  cannot  eat  oysters  in  puff-paste  patties. 

Pigs  in  Blankets,  or  Huitres  au  Lit.  —  Season  large  oys- 
ters with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  very  thin  slices  of  fat 
bacon  ;  wrap  each  oyster  in  a  slice  of  bacon,  and  fasten 
with  a  wooden  skewer.  Put  in  a  hot  omelet  pan,  and 
cook  just  long  enough  to  crisp  the  bacon.  Serve  on  small 
pieces  of  delicate  toast. 

Fried  Oysters.  —  Wash  the  oysters,  drain,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  let  them  stand  twenty  minutes.  Roll 
first  in  seasofied  crumbs,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg  mixed  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  milk  ;  roll  in  crumbs  again,  and  fvy  one 
minute  in  smoking  hot  lard.  Drain  on  paper,  and  garnish 
with  chopped  or  sliced  pickle,  or  chowchow.  Serve  with  cold 
slaw  or  celery  salad. 

Fried  oysters  are  much  better,  and  spatter  less  in  frying, 
if  parboiled  shghtly  and  drained  before  rolling  in  the 
crumbs.  When  only  a  few  are  wanted,  and  those  espe- 
cially nice,  select  the  large  oysters,  roll  them  in  fine  crumbs, 
then  in  Mayonnaise  dressing,  then  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  179 

Sauted  Oysters. — Prepare  as  for  frying,  and  brown  on 
each  side  in  hot  butter ;  or  roll  in  the  cracker  only,  and 
brown  them. 

Oysters  in  Fritter  Batter^  see  page  107. 

Broiled  Oysters. — Pick  over,  and  drain  large  oysters. 
Dip  in  melted  butter^  then  in  fine  cracker  crumbs  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  fine  wire  gridiron ;  put 
the  03^sters  in  closel}',  and  broil  till  the  juice  flows.  Some 
prefer  to  broil  them  without  the  crumbs,  but  more  juice  is 
lost  in  this  way. 

Pickled  Oysters.  —  Cook  one  quart  of  oysters  in  their 
liquor,  till  plump.  Remove  the  oysters,  and  add  to  the 
liquor  half  a  cup  of  good  cider  vinegar.  Skim  as  it  boils, 
and  add  one  teaspoonfid  of  salt^  two  blades  of  mctce,  ten 
cloves.)  ten  peppercorns^  ten  allspice  berries^  and  a  few  grains 
of  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  five  minutes.  Pour  the  liquor 
over  the  oysters,  and  when  cold  seal  in  glass  jars,  and  put 
in  a  cool  dark  place.     They  will  keep  two  weeks. 

Clams. 

Thin  shell  clams,  and  round  shell  clams,  or  quahaugs, 
furnish  a  delicious  and  wholesome  form  of  food  if  eaten 
onl}^  when  fresh.  They  are  more  easity  opened  and  have 
a  finer  flavor  when  cooked  in  the  shells. 

Steamed  Clams.  —  Wash  and  scrub  the  shells.  Put  them 
in  a  kettle  without  water,  cover  closely,  and  cook  till  the 
shells  open.  Take  them  out  with  a  skimmer,  pour  the 
clam  water  into  a  pitcher,  and  let  it  settle.  Straining  is 
not  sufficient,  as  the  fine  sand  will  go  through  the  finest 
strainer ;  but  the  water  will  be  clear  if  care  be  taken  not 
to  disturb  the  sediment.  Remove  the  clams  from  the 
shells,  peel  ofl*  the  thin  skin  around  the  edge,  and  cut  off 
the  whole  of  the  black  end.  Scissors  are  better  than  a 
knife  for  this  purpose.  Rinse  each  clam  in  a  little  of  the 
clam  water,  and  if  \Qvy  large,  cut  the  tough  part  into 
small  pieces.  When  the  water  is  clear,  joour  it  into  a 
saucepan,  add  the  clams,  and  heat  again  till  just  hot,  but 


i8o  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

do  not  let  them  boil.  Serve  with  brown  hread^  or  toasted 
crackers;  and  let  each  person  season  them  to  taste  with 
melted  butter^  pe^/?e?',  and  vinegar. 

Scalloped  Clams.  —  Prepare  the  clams  as  in  steamed 
clams.  Make  a  white  sauce,  as  for  fish  (see  page  189)  ; 
put  the  clams  in  a  shallow  dish  or  in  clean  shells  ;  cover 
v/ith  the  sauce  and  buttered  crumbs^  and  bake  till  brown. 

For  Clam  Soup,  Clam  Choivder,  and  Clam  Fritters,  see 
the  Index. 

A  Clam  Bake. 

An  impromptu  clam  bake  may  be  had  at  any  time  at 
low  tide  along  the  coast  where  clams  are  found.  If  j'ou 
wish  to  have  genuine  fun,  and  to  know  what  an  appetite 
one  can  have  for  the  bivalves,  make  up  a  pleasant  party 
and  dig  for  the  clams  yourselves.  A  short  thick  dress, 
shade  hat,  rubber  boots,  —  or,  better  still,  no  boots  at  all, 
if  you  can  bring  your  mind  to  the  comfort  of  bare  feet, 
—  a  small  garden  trowel,  a  fork,  and  a  basket,  and  j^ou  are 
ready.  Let  those  who  are  not  digging  gather  a  large  pile 
of  driftwood  and  seaweed,  alwa3's  to  be  found  along  the 
shore.  Select  a  dozen  or  more  large  stones,  and  of  them 
make  a  level  floor  ;  pile  the  driftwood  upon  them,  and  make 
a  good  brisk  fire  to  heat  the  stones  thoroughly.  When  hot 
enough  to  crackle  as  3'ou  sprinkle  water  upon  them,  brush 
off  the  embers,  letting  them  fall  between  the  stones.  Put 
a  thin  layer  of  seaweed  on  the  hot  stones,  to  keep  the 
lower  clams  from  burning.  Rinse  the  clams  in  salt  water 
b}^  plunging  the  basket  which  contains  them  in  the  briny 
pools  near  by.  Pile  them  over  the  hot  stones,  heaping 
them  high  in  the  centre.  Cover  with  a  thick  layer  of  sea- 
weed, and  a  piece  of  old  canvas,  blanket,  carpet,  or  dry 
leaves,  to  keep  in  the  steam.  The  time  for  baking  will 
depend  upon  the  size  and  quantit}^  of  the  clams.  Peep  in 
occasionally  at  those  around  the  edge.  When  the  shells 
are  open,  the  clams  are  done.  The}^  are  delicious  eaten 
from  the  shell,  with  no  other  sauce  than  their  own  briny 
sweetness.     Melted  butter,  pepper,  and  vinegar  should  be 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  i8i 

ready  for  those  who  wish  them ;  then  all  ma}'  "  fall  to." 
Fingers  must  be  used.  A  Rhode  Islander  would  laugh  at 
any  one  trying  to  use  a  knife  and  fork.  Pull  off  the  thin 
skin,  take  them  by  the  black  end,  dip  them  in  the  prepared 
butter,  and  bite  off  close  to  the  end.  If  3^ou  swallow  them 
whole,  they  will  not  hurt  you.  At  a  genuine  Rhode  Island 
clam  bake,  blue-fish,  lobsters,  crabs,  sweet  potatoes,  and 
ears  of  sweet  corn  in  their  gauzy  husks  are  baked  with 
the  clams.  The  clam  steam  gives  them  a  delicious  flavor. 
Brown  bread  is  served  with  the  clams,  and  watermelon  for 
dessert  completes  the  feast. 

Scallops. 

This  shell  fish  has  a  round,  deeply  grooved  shell.  The 
muscle  which  unites  the  shell  is  the  only  part  eaten.  Scal- 
lops have  a  sweet  flavor,  and  are  in  season  dming  the  fall 
and  winter.  They  ma}^  be  stewed  like  oysters,  but  are 
better  fried. 

Fried  Scallops.  —  Pick  over,  and  wash  quickl}^ ;  drain 
between  towels  ;  season  Jine  cracker  crumbs  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Dip  the  scallops  in  the  crumbs,  then  in  heate.i  egg^ 
and  again  in  crumbs.  Yvy  in  smoking  hot  fat,  and  serve 
at  once. 

Lobsters. 

The  markets  are  now  so  well  supplied  with  these  deli- 
cious shell  fish,  that  they  may  be  obtained  in  good  condi- 
tion all  the  3^ear.  The  canned  lobster  is  also  convenient 
in  an  emergency,  for  use  in  soups  and  salads.  Lobsters 
are  put  alive  into  boiling  salted  water,  and  cooked  twenty 
minutes  from  the  time  the  water  boils.  They  should  not 
be  eaten  until  cold,  and  never  be  kept  more  than  eighteen 
hours  after  boiling.  Lobsters  are  diflacult  of  digestion, 
and  should  be  eaten  with  mustard,  caj^enne  pepper,  and 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 

To  Choose  a  Lobster.  —  Select  one  of  medium  size,  heavy 
in  proportion  to  the  size.  Those  with  hard,  solid  shells, 
streaked  with  black,  will  be  found  full  of  meat ;  those  with 


1 82  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


thin  shells  are  water3\  If  the  tail  spring  back  quickly 
when  straightened,  the  lobster  is  fresh. 

To  Open  a  Lobster.  —  Wipe  the  shell  with  a  wet  cloth. 
Break  off  the  large  claws,  separate  the  tail  from  the  bod}' 
and  the  bod}^  from  the  shell,  leaving  the  stomach,  or  lady, 
in  the  shell ;  then  remove  the  small  claws.  Save  the 
green  liver  and  coral.  Crush  the  tail  hy  pressing  the 
sides  together,  then  pull  it  open  on  the  under  side,  and 
take  out  the  meat  in  one  piece.  Draw  back  the  flesh 
on  the  upper  end  'of  this  meat,  and  remove  the  intestinal 
canal,  which  runs  the  entire  length.  This  is  sometimes 
black,  and  sometimes  the  color  of  the  meat.  Break  off  all 
the  gills  on  the  bod}^  before  picking  the  meat  from  the 
joints,  as  they  are  liable  to  drop  off  with  the  meat,  and 
are  too  wooll}^  to  be  palatable.  The  gills,  stomach,  and 
intestines  are  the  only  parts  not  eaten.  Break  the  bod}' 
in  the  middle,  and  pick  the  meat  from  the  joints,  being- 
careful  not  to  take  any  of  the  bones.  When  the  shells  of 
the  large  claws  are  thin,  cut  off  a  strip  down  the  sharp 
edge,  and  remove  the  meat  whole ;  or  break  them  by 
hammering  on  the  edge.  Never  pound  them  in  the  mid- 
dle, as  that  crushes  the  meat.  If  the  lobster  shell  is  to 
be  used  for  serving  the  meat,  cut  down  the  under  side  of 
the  tail  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  remove  the  meat  without 
breaking  the  outside  shell.  Trim  the  inside,  and  clean 
the  shell.  The  body  shell  may  be  cleaned,  split  in  halves, 
and  trimmed  with  sharp  scissors  into  the  shape  of  clam 
shells. 

Plain  Lobster.  —  The  simplest  wa}'  of  serving  lobster  is 
by  many  considered  the  best,  Remove  the  meat  from  the 
shell,  and  arrange  in  a  tasteful  manner ;  or  cut  it  into 
small  pieces.  Let  each  person  season  to  taste  with  salt, 
pepper^  vinegar,  and  oil,  or  melted  butter. 

Stewed  Lobster.  —  Cut  the  lobster  fine  ;  put  it  in  a  stew- 
pan,  with  a  little  milk  or  cream.  Boil  up  once ;  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  pepper,  and  serve  plain  or  on 
toasted  crackers.  Cook  lobster  just  long  enough  to  heat  it, 
as  a  longer  cooking  renders  it  tough. 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh  183 

Creamed  Lobster.  —  For  one  pint  of  lohster  meat  cut  fine, 
make  one  pint  of  white  sauce  (see  page  189).  Season  with 
salt^  cayenne,  and  lemon.  Heat  the  lobster  in  the  sauce, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil.     Serve  on  toast. 

Curried  Lohster. — Make  a  curry  sauce  (see  page  190), 
and  warm  the  diced  lobster  in  the  sauce. 


I 


Fig.  9.    Scalloped  Lobster. 

Scalloped  Lohster.  —  Season  one  pint  of  lohster^  cut  into 
dice,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne.  Mix  with  one  cup 
oi  cream  sauce  (see  page  190)  ;  fill  the  lobster  shells,  using 
the  tail  shells  of  two  lobsters.  Cover  the  meat  with 
cracker  crumbs^  moistened  with  melted  butter.  Bake  till 
the  crumbs  are  brown.  Put  the  two  shells  together  on  a 
platter,  with  the  tail  ends  out,  to  look  like  a  long  canoe. 
Lay  the  small  claws  over  the  side  to  represent  oars.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley.  The  lobster  may  also  be  served  in 
scallop  shells. 

Devilled  Lohster.  —  The  same  as  the  preceding  receipt, 
with  the  addition  of  more  salt,  "pepper,  and  cayenne ;  add, 
also,  chopped  parsley,  onion  juice,  mustard,  and  Worcester- 
shire  sauce. 

For  Lohster  Soup,  Chowder,  Cutlets^  Croquettes^  and  Salad, 
see  the  Index. 

Crabs. 

These  are  found  near  the  coast  of  the  Southern  and 
Middle  States,  and  are  considered  such  a  luxury  in  Mary- 
land that  special  means  are  taken  for  their  propagation. 
They  are  usually  quite   expensive   in   Eastern   markets. 


184  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Crabs,  like  lobsters,  shed  their  shell  annually.  When  the 
new  shell  is  forming,  they  are  called  soft  shell  crabs,  and 
are  highly  esteemed  by  epicures. 

Soft  Shell  Crabs.  —  Use  them  onl}^  when  freshly  caught, 
as  the  shells  harden  after  twenty-four  hours.  Pull  off  the 
sand  bags,  and  the  shaggy  substance  from  the  side ;  then 
wash,  and  wipe  dry  ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  roll  in 
crumbs^  then  in  egg^  again  in  crumbs ;  and  fry  in  smoking 
hot  lard. 

Boiled  Crabs.  — These  should  be  heavy,  of  medium  size, 
and  with  stiff  joints.  Plunge  them  head  first  into  boiling 
water,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes ;  then  remove  the  outside 
shells  and  the  shagg}'  substance,  rinse  in  hot  water,  and 
arrange  on  a  platter.     They  are  eaten  from  the  shell. 

Scalloped  Crabs.  —  Pick  the  meat  from  the  shells,  mince 
it,  and  mix  with  a  crea7n  sauce  ;  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per^ put  the  mixture  in  the  crab  shell  or  in  scallop  shells, 
cover  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs.,  and  bake  till  brown. 

Devilled  Crabs.  —  Prepare  as  for  scalloped  crabs,  add- 
ing mustard.,  cayenne  pepper.^  and  lemon  juice  to  the 
seasoning. 

Crab  Salad.  —  Mix  the  meat  with  a  Mayonnaise  dress- 
ing., pack  in  the  crab  shells,  and  garnish  with  sliced  lemon 
and  cresses. 

Shrimps. 

Shrimps  and  Prawns  are  found  in  the  summer  season  on 
the  Southern  coasts.  They  are  similar  in  form  to  a 
lobster,  but  very  small.  They  should  be  cooked  in  boiling 
salted  water  from  five  to  eight  minutes.  Remove  the 
shells  and  head ;  the  part  that  is  eaten  resembles  in  shape 
the  tail  of  a  lobster.  They  are  used  in  fish  sauces,  and 
are  very  effective  as  a  garnish. 

Shrimp  Salad  and  Shrimps  en  Coquille  may  be  prepared 
like  lobster.  Canned  shrimps  are  generally  used  in  East- 
ern markets. 

Scalloped  Shrimps.  — Make  a  tomato  sauce  (see  page  193). 
Pick  over  one  can  of  shrimps,  and  heat  them  in  the  sauce  ; 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  185 

add  one  glass  of  wine.     Turn  into  a  scallop   dish,  cover 
with  buttered  crumbs^  and  bake  till  the  crumbs  are  brown. 


Reptiles. 

Fried  Frogs.  —  Frogs  are  considered  a  delicacy  by  those 
who  have  cultivated  a  taste  for  them.  If  not  already  pre- 
pared for  cooking,  remove  the  skin  from  the  hind  legs^ 
which  is  the  only  part  used.  Dip  in  crumbs^  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper.,  then  in  egg^  and  again  in  crumbs. 
Wipe  the  bone  at  the  end ;  put  in  a  basket,  and  fry  one 
minute  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Drain,  and  serve  in  a  circle, 
around  a  centre  of  green  peas.  Some  parboil  them  three 
minutes  in  boiling  salted  water  and  a  little  lemon  juice^ 
before  fiying. 

Frogs'  legs  may  also  be  broiled.,  or  they  maj^  be  made 
into  a  white  or  brown  fricassee^  seasoned  with  mushrooms 
or  tomato  catchup. 

Terrapin. 

This  expensive  member  of  the  turtle  family  is  highly 
prized  in  Baltimore  and  Philadelphia,  but  seldom  used 
in  New  England.  Terrapin  may  be  kept  alive  through 
the  winter  by  putting  them  in  a  barrel,  where  they  will 
not  freeze,  and  feeding  them  occasionally  with  vegetable 
parings.  Before  cooking,  soak  them  in  strong  salt  water. 
Put  them  alive  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  rapidl}-  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  the  black  outside  skin  from 
the  shells,  and  the  nails  from  the  claws.  Wash  in  warm 
water ;  then  put  them  on  again,  in  fresh  boiling  water ; 
add  a  little  salt,  and  boil  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
or  until  the  under  shell  cracks.  Open  them  carefully  over 
a  bowl  to  save  the  grav}",  remove  the  under  shell,  the  sand 
bags,  the  head,  and  the  gall  bladder  from  the  liver.  If 
the  gall  bladder  be  broken  in  the  process,  the  whole  dish 
will  be  ruined  by  the  escaping  gall.  Put  the  upper  shells 
on  to  boil  again  in  the  same  water,  and  boil  until  tender  ; 
watch  them   carefully,    and  take    each   out   as   soon    as 


1 86  The  Boston  Cook  Booh. 

tender.  Pick  the  liver  and  meat  from  the  upper  shell,  and 
cut  into  several  pieces.  The  intestines  are  used  with  the 
meat  in  winter,  when  the  turtle  is  in  a  torpid  condition ; 
but  in  the  summer  they  should  be  thrown  away.  Boil  the 
intestines  b}^  themselves  one  hour.  This  should  be  pre- 
pared the  day  before.  Heat  the  meat  in  the  gravy.  To 
each  terrapin  add  one  wineglassful  of  cream  ^  half  a  cup  of 
butter,  a  little  salt^  cayenne^  and  one  wineglassful  of  sherry. 
Use  the  turtle  eggs  if  there  be  any ;  if  not,  the  yolks  of 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  each  terrapin.  Rub  smooth,  mixing 
with  raw  yolk  enough  to  make  into  balls  the  size  of  tur- 
tle eggs.  Add  these  and  the  wine  just  as  3^ou  send  the 
dish  to  the  table. 

,    Green  Turtle  Soup. 

The  green  turtle  is  highly  prized  on  account  of  the  deli- 
cious qualit}^  of  its  flesh ;  but  as  it  is  very  large  and  ex- 
pensive the  canned  turtle  is  more  generally  used. 

One  can  of  green  turtle^  one  quart  of  brown  stock,  two 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour,  one  lemon.  Cut  the 
green  fat  into  dice  and  lay  it  aside.  Simmer  the  remain- 
der of  the  turtle  meat  in  the  stock  for  half  an  hour. 
Brown  the  flour  in  the  browned  butter,  add  it  to  the  soup, 
season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with  thin  slices 
of  lemon,  egg  balls,  and  the  reserved  green  fat. 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  187 


MEAT   AND   FISH   SAUCES. 

Drawn  Butter^  or  water  and  melted  butter  thickened 
with  flour,  and  seasoned,  is  the  simplest  form  of  a  sauce. 

When  milk,  or  cream,  or  white  stock  is  used  in  place  of 
water,  less  butter  is  required,  and  the  sauce  is  called  White, 
or  Cream^  or  Bechamel  sauce. 

By  browning  the  butter,  using  brown  stock,  and  adding 
different  seasoning  materials,  we  have  all  the  varieties  of 
Brown  sauces. 

Many  people  fail  in  making  sauces  by  not  cooking  the 
flour  sufficiently,  and  also  by  serving  them  with  a  mass  of 
oily  butter  on  the  surface.  Usually  the  flour  is  wet  to  a 
smooth  paste  and  stirred  into  the  boiling  liquid.  When 
made  in  this  manner,  the  sauce  should  boil  at  least  ten  min- 
utes to  have  the  flour  thoroughly  cooked.  But  b}^  cooking 
the  dry  flour  in  the  hot  butter  the  starch  in  the  flour  is 
more  quickly  cooked,  and  the  butter  is  all  absorbed  and 
converted  into  an  emulsion.  Sauces  made  in  this  manner 
are  perfectly  smooth,  free  from  grease,  and  have  a  fine 
flavor.  Every  one  should  learn  how  to  make  both  white 
and  brown  sauces.  They  are  adapted  to  nearl}^  qyqvj 
form  of  food.  Meats,  fish,  vegetables,  eggs,  macaroni, 
rice,  toast,  etc.,  are  rendered  more  palatable  by  being 
served  with  an  appropriate  sauce. 


1  pint  hot  water  or 

white  stock. 
3^  cup  butter,  scant. 


Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 

2  tablespoonf  uls  flour. 


Put  half  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  be  careful  not  to  let 
it  become  brown  ;  when  melted,  add  the  drv  flour,  and  mix 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


well.  Add  the  hot  water,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  stir 
rapidly  as  it  thickens.  When  perfectly  smooth,  add  the 
remainder  of  the  butter  in  small  pieces,  and  stir  till  it  is 
absorbed.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper.  When  carefulh' 
made,  this  sauce  should  be  free  from  lumps  ;  but  if  not 
smooth,  strain  it  before  serving. 

The  following  sauces  ma}'  be  made  with  one  pint  of 
this  plain  drawn  butter  as  a  foundation  :  — 

Caper  Sauce  (for  Boiled  Mutton) .  —  Add  six  taUespoon- 
fuls  of  capers.  Pickled  Nasturtium  seeds  may  be  used  in 
place  of  capers. 

Egg  Sauce  (for  Baked  or  Boiled  Fish). — Add  two  or 
three  hard-boiled  eggs^  sliced  or  chopped. 

Parsley  Sauce  (for  Boiled  Fish  or  Fowls) .  —  Add  two 
taUespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley. 

Lemon  Sauce  (for  Boiled  Fowl) .  —  Add  the  juice  and 
pulp  of  one  large  lemon.,  and  the  chicken  liver  boiled  and 
mashed  fine. 

Shrimp  Sauce  (for  Fish) .  —  Add  half  a  pint  of  shri?jips, 
whole  or  chopped,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  few 
graiyis  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Acid  Sauce.  —  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  or 
vinegar,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Mustard  Sauce  (for  Devilled  Turke}^,  Salt  Fish,  etc.).  — 
Add  three  taUespoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper. 

Lobster  Sauce  (for  Boiled  Fish). —  One  pint  of  lobster 
meat,  cut  into  quarter-inch  dice.  Put  the  inner  shells  and 
scraggy  parts  in  one  and  a  half  pints  of  cold  water,  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes.  Strain  and  use  the  water  in  making 
one  pint  of  drawn  butter  sauce.  Add  the  lobster  dice,  the 
dried  and  powdered  coral,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  and 
two  taUespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice. 

Oyster  Sauce  (for  Boiled  Fish,  Turke}',  or  Chicken).  — 
Parboil  one  pint  of  oysters  ;  drain,  and  use  the  03'ster  liquor 
in  making  one  pint  of  drawn  butter  sauce.  Season  with 
celery  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Add  the  03^sters  ;  cook  one 
minute  longer,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish  or  chicken.     Add 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  189 

the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  or  one  glass  of  claret  ivine^  if  jou 
wish  a  richer  sauce. 

Gelery  Sauce  (for  Boiled  Fowl).  —  One  j^int  of  the  ten- 
der part  of  celery,  cut  yqvj  fine.  Cook  in  hailing  salted 
ivater,  enough  to  cover,  till  tender.  Drain ;  add  enough 
hot  water  to  that  in  which  the  celery  was  cooked  to  make 
a  pint,  and  use  it  in  making  one  pint  of  drawn  butter 
sauce.     Add  the  cooked  celerj^  and  the  seasoning. 

Richer  Drawn  Butter  Sauce.  —  Make  a  plain  drawn 
butter  sauce,  and  when  read}'  to  serve,  pour  it  boiling  hot 
into  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Stir  thoroughly, 
season  to  taste,  and  serve  at  once. 

Sauce  Piquante.  —  Add  one  tablespoonful  each  of  vinegar 
and  lemon  juice,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  chopped  capers, 
pickles,  and  olives,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  and  a 
few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper,  to  one  "pint  of  drawn  butter. 


"White  Sauce  (for  Vegetables,  Chicken,  Eggs,  etc.). 


1  pint  milk,  or  half  milk  and  half 
white  stock. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 


2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
ig  teaspoonful  salt. 
^2  saltspoonful  pepper. 


Heat  the  milk  over  hot  water.  Put  the  butter  in  a 
granite  saucepan,  and  stir  till  it  melts  and  bubbles.  Be 
careful  not  to  brown  it.  Add  the  drj"  flour,  and  stir 
quickl}'  till  well  mixed.  Pour  on  one  third  of  the  milk. 
Let  it  boil,  and  stir  well  as  it  thickens ;  tip  the  saucepan 
slightly  to  keep  the  sauce  from  sticking.  Add  another 
third  of  the  milk ;  let  it  boil  up  and  thicken,  and  stir  vig- 
orously till  perfecth^  smooth.  Be  sure  that  all  the  lumps 
are  rubbed  out  while  it  is  in  this  thick  state.  Then  add 
the  remainder  of  the  milk ;  let  it  boil,  and  when  smooth 
add  the  salt  and  pepper,  using  more  if  high  seasoning  be 
desired. 

This  white  sauce  ma}^  be  used  in  place  of  drawn  butter 
in  any  of  the  preceding  rules. 

Bechamel  Sauce.  —  A  white  sauce  made  partlj'  with 
cream   and  partlj^  with   rich   white  stock,  either  veal  or 


IQO  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

chicken,  according  to  directions  for  white  sauce,  is  called 
Bechamel. 

The  water  in  which  celery,  oysters,  or  lobsters  have 
been  cooked  may  be  mixed  with  milk  in  making  sauces 
given  under  these  names- 

For  Fish  a  la  creme  and  other  preparations  of  fish,  boil 
one  slice  of  onion  with  the  milk,  or  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
onion  juice  and  one  tahlespoonful  of  chopped  parsley . 

For  Oysters^  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt,  a  few 
grains  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  one  tablespoonfal  of  lemon 
juice. 

For  boiled  Fowl,  add  half  a  can  of  mushrooms. 

A  richer  white  sauce  is  made  b}'  heating  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  and  pouring  the  hot  sauce  into  them  just  before 
serving. 

Gurry  Sauce  (for  Curried  Eggs,  Chicken,  etc.).  —  Cook 
one  tahlespoonfid  of  chopped  onion  in  one  tahlespoonful  of 
butter  five  minutes.  Be  careful  not  to  burn  it.  Mix  one 
tablespoonful  of  curry  powder  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
and  stir  it  into  the  butter.  Add  one  pint  of  hot  milk  grad- 
ually, and  stir  as  directed  for  white  sauce. 

Cream  Sauce,  No.  1. 


\4  teaspoonful  salt. 
-4  saltspoonful  pepper. 


1  pint  hot  cream. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  butter. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

Make  in  the  same  manner  as  white  sauce,  and  vary  the 
seasoning  for  the  different  dishes  for  which  it  is  to  be 
used,  as  directed  in  white  sauce. 

A  thicker  Cream  Sauce  is  given  under  rules  for  Cro- 
quettes. 

Cream  Sauce,  No.  2. 

Warm  one  cup  of  cream.  Beat  the  yolhs  of  two  eggs, 
strain  them  into  the  warm  cream,  and  cook  over  hot 
water  till  the  eggs  thicken  the  cream  like  boiled  custard. 
Stir  all  the  time  and  when  smooth  and  thickened  remove 
from  the  fire,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve 
with  boiled  celery,  cauliflower,  chicken,  oysters,  fish,  etc. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  191 


Brown  Sauce. 


1  pint  hot  stock. 

2  tablespoonfuls  minced  onion. 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour. 


y^  teaspoonful  salt. 
3^  saltspoonf  ul  pepper. 
1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 
Caramel  enough  to  color. 


Mince  the  onion  and  fry  it  in  the  butter  five  minutes ., 
Be  careful  not  to  burn  it.  When  the  butter  is  brown,  add 
the  dr}'  flour  and  stir  well.  Add  the  hot  stock  a  little  at 
a  time,  and  stir  rapidly  as  it  thickens,  until  perfectly 
smooth.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper,  using  more  if  high 
seasoning  be  desired.  Simmer  five  minutes,  and  strain 
to  remove  the  onion. 

The  stock  for  brown  sauces  may  be  made  from  bones 
and  remnants  of  any  kind  of  meat,  by  soaking  them  in 
cold  water,  and  boiling  until  the  nutriment  is  extracted. 
The  onion  may  be  omitted  if  the  flavor  be  not  desired ; 
but  the  sauce  is  better  with  it  if  it  be  not  burned. 

By  the  addition  of  different  seasoning  materials  to  this 
brown  sauce  a  great  variety  of  sauces  ma}"  be  made.  Half 
the  quantity  given  is  sufficient  for  most  entrees,  or  to 
use  for  an}^  purpose  in  a  small  famil}^  Be  very  careful 
not  to  burn  the  butter,  as  the  desii'ed  color  can  better  be 
obtained  by  adding  caramel. 

Brown  Sauce  Piquante  (for  Beef) .  —  To  one  cup  of 
brown  sauce  add  one  tablespoonful  each  of  chopped  pickles  and 
capers. 

Sauce  Poivrade.  —  Make  one  cup  of  brown  sauce;  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  herbs.,  thyme.,  parsley.,  bay  leaf  and 
cloves.  Simmer  ten  minutes ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
claret^  and  strain. 

Sauce  Robert.  —  To  one  cup  of  brown  sauce,  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 

Brown  Mushroom  Sauce  (for  Beef).  —  To  one  cup  of 
brown  sauce  add  half  a  can  of  mushrooms,  whole  or  quar- 
tered, and  simmer  five  minutes. 

Currant  Jelly  Sauce  (for  Mutton) .  —  Make  one  cup  of 


192  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

brown  sauce,  strain  it,  and  add  half  a  cup  of  melted  currant 
jelly.  Heat  till  the  jelly  is  well  mixed,  and  serve  very 
hot. 

Olive  Sauce  (for  Roast  Duck) .  —  Soak  twelve  olives 
in  hot  water  enough  to  cover,  thirt}*  minutes,  to  extract 
the  salt.  Pare  them  round  and  round,  close  to  the  stone, 
leaving  the  pulp  in  a  single  piece,  which  should  curl  back 
into  the  natural  shape  after  the  stone  is  removed.  Make 
one  cup  of  brown  sauce,  add  the  olives,  and  simmer  ten 
minutes. 

Cumberland  Sauce.  —  To  one  cup  of  brown  sauce  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  two  tablespoonfals  of  currant 
ielly,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  wine. 

Flemish  Sauce  (for  Beef  or  Veal).  —  Cut  a  cupful  of 
the  red  part  of  carrot  into  quarter-inch  dice,  and  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  till  tender.  Make  one  cup  of  brown 
sauce,  add  the  cooked  carrot,  half  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  chopped  pickles  and  grated 
horseradish. 

Sauce  a  la  Italienne.  —  Fry  one  tablespoonful  of  fine  chopped 
shalots  in  one  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil  till  j^ellow.  Add  one 
bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  one  tablespoonfid  of  chopped 
mushrooms ;  fry  five  minutes.  Remove  the  ba}'  leaf,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mix  well,  and  add  one  cup  of 
stock.  When  smooth,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom 
catchup,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy.  Serve 
without  straining. 

Chestnut  Sauce  (for  Roast  Turke}-). — Remove  the  shells 
from  one  pint  of  large  chestnuts.  Scald  or  boil  them 
three  minutes  to  loosen  the  inner  skin.  Remove  the  skin  ; 
break  them  in  halves,  and  look  them  over  carefully.  Cook 
in  salted  boiling  water  or  stock  till  very  soft.  Mash  fine  in 
the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Cook  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  butter,  stir  into 
the  chestnuts  and  cook  five  minutes.  Add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste. 

The  boiled  chestnuts  ma}'^  be  added  to  the  grav}^  made 
from  the  drippings  of  the  poultry,  or  to  one  cup  of  white 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  193 


sauce.  Common  chestnuts  are  much,  sweeter  and  more 
highlj'  flavored,  but  it  takes  a  long  time  to  prepare  them. 

Peanut  Sauce  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Port  Wine  Sauce  (for  Venison).  —  Half  a  cup  of  port 
wine,  half  a  glass  of  melted  currant  jelly,  one  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
half  a  cup  of  thick  brown  stock,  or  half  a  cup  of  the  drippings 
from  the  meat  freed  from  fat.  Heat  all  together  till  very 
hot. 

Espagnole  Sauce.  —  Boil  one  quart  of  strong  consomme  or 
rich,  highlj"  seasoned  brown  stock,  till  reduced  to  one  pint. 
Then  use  it  as  given  under  the  rule  for  brown  sauce,  and 
flavor  with  wine. 


Bread  Sauce  (for  Game). 


1  pint  milk. 


2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  onion. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 


}-2  teaspoonful  salt. 
ig  saltspoonful  pepper. 
%  cup  coarse  bread  crumbs. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 


Boil  the  fine  bread  crumbs  and  onion  in  the  milk  fifteen 
minutes,  and  add  the  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Fry  the 
coarse  bread  crumbs  in  another  tablespoonful  of  butter  till 
brown.  Pour  the  sauce  around  the  birds,  and  sprinkle  the 
brown  crumbs  over  the  whole. 

Soubise  Sauce  (for  Lamb  or  Mutton  Chop). 

Boil  three  large  onions  till  very  soft.  Drain,  and  rub  the 
onion  through  a  sieve.  Stir  the  onion  pulp  into  half  a  pint 
of  white  sauce  made  with  milk  or  cream. 

Tomato  Sauce  (for  Macaroni). 

Stew  half  a  can  of  tomatoea  and  half  a  small  onion  ten 
minutes.  Hub  all  the  tomato  pulp  through  a  strainer. 
Cook  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful of  flour  in  a  granite  saucepan ;  add  the  strained 
tomatoes  gradually,  and  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  shake 
of  white  pepper. 

13 


194  'i^he  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Tomato  Sauce  (for  Chops  or  Fish). 


3^  can  tomatoes. 

1  cup  water. 

2  cloves. 

2  allspice  berries. 

2  peppercorns. 

1  teaspoonful  mixed  herbs. 


2  sprigs  parsley. 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  onion. 

1  tablespoonful  butler. 

1  heaping  tablesp.  cornstarch. 

^2  teaspoonful  salt. 

}2  saltspoonf ul  pepper. 


Put  the  tomato,  water,  spices,  herbs,  and  parsley  on  to 
boil  in  a  granite  saucepan.  Fry  the  onion  in  the  butter 
till  yellow,  add  the  cornstarch,  and  stir  all  into  the  tomato. 
Simmer  ten  minutes  ;  add  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little 
cayenne  pepper,  and  strain  the  sauce  over  boiled  meat  or 
fish. 

HoUandaise  Sauce  (for  Baked  or  Boiled  Fish).  (Miss  Parloa.^ 


^  cup  butter. 
Yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Juice  of  14.  lemon. 


1  saltspoonf  ul  salt. 

3^  saltspoonf  ul  cayenne  pepper. 

^o  cup  boiling  water. 


Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream  in  a  small  bowl  with  a  wooden 
or  silver  spoon.  Add  the  yolks,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat 
well ;  then  add  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  pepper.  About 
five  minutes  before  serving,  add  the  boiling  water.  Place 
the  bowl  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  rapidl}' 
until  it  thickens  like  boiled  custard.  Pour  the  sauce 
around  the  meat  or  fish. 


Tartar  Sauce  (Hot,  for  Broiled  Fish). 


1  tablespoonful  vinegar. 
1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 


1  tablespoonful  Worcestershire 

sauce. 
3^  cup  butter. 


Mix  the  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  Worcestershire 
sauce  in  a  small  bowl,  and  heat  over  hot  water.  Brown 
the  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  and  strain  into  the  other 
mixture. 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  195 

Tartar  Sauce  (for  Broiled  or  Devilled  Chicken). 

One  taUespoonful  each  of  mustard^  Chili  vinegar,  shalot 
vinegar^  and  claret  vjine,  and  two  tablespoonfids  of  Harvey 
sauce.  Heat  in  a  bowl  over  hot  water,  and  pour  it  over 
the  chicken. 

Horseradish  Sauce  (Hot,  for  Beef). 


4  tablesp.  grated  horseradish. 
4  tablesp.  powdered  cracker. 
^^  cup  cream. 
1  teaspoonful  powdered  sugar. 


1  teaspoonful  salt. 

3^  saltspoonful  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 


Mix,  and  heat  over  hot  water. 

Horseradish  Sauce  (Cold). 

Cream  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter  till  ver}^  light ;  add 
two  tablespoonfids  of  grated  horseradish^  one  taUespoonful 
of  very  thick  cream,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Tarragon 
vinegar.     Keep  it  on  the  ice  till  thick  and  cold. 

Sauce  Tartare  (Cold,  for  Fried  or  Boiled  Fish,  Tongue, 
Fish  Salad,  or  Broiled  Chicken). 

3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar, 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  olives. 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  capers. 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  cucum- 
ber pickles. 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley. 


1  teaspoonful  mustard. 

3^  saltspoonful  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  sugar. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Few  drops  onion  juice. 

Yolks  2  raw  eggs. 

}-2  cup  oil. 


Mix  in  the  order  given ;  add  the  yolks,  and  stir  well ; 
add  the  oil  slowly,  then  the  vinegar  and  chopped  ingre- 
dients.    This  will  keep  for  several  weeks. 


Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter  (Cold,  for  Beefsteak). 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley. 
1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 


3^  cup  butter. 

y^  teaspoonful  salt. 

3>^  saltspoonful  pepper. 


Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add  salt,  pepper,  parsley, 
and  lemon  juice.     Spread  it  on  hot  beefsteak. 


196  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce  (Hot). 

Add  the  beaten  yolhs  of  two  eygs  to  the  cold  Maitre  cV Ho- 
tel butter^  and  when  ready  to  serve  add  one  pint  of  draw7i 
butter^  made  with  strong  white  stock. 

Sauce  for  Fish  Balls  (Cold). 


2  teaspoonf  uls  dry  mustard. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  teaspoonful  sugar. 


1  teaspoonful  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soft  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  in  a  granite  saucepan ;  add 
half  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  over  the  fire  till  it 
thickens  and  is  smooth.     Serve  it  cold. 


Mint  Sauce  (for  Lamb). 

1  cup  fresh  chopped  mint.        I  }4  cup  vinegar. 

^4  cup  sugar.  | 

Use  onl}^  the  leaves  and  tender  tips  of  the  mint.  Let  it 
stand  an  hour  before  serving.  Use  more  sugar  if  the  vin- 
egar  ba  very  strong. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  197 


EGGS. 

Whatever  else  you  may  economize  in,  do  not  limit  your 
family  in  respect  to  eggs.  The}'  are  nutritious,  and  even 
at  four  cents  each  are  cheaper  than  meat.  They  should 
be  used  freety  hj  all  except  those  who  know  the}'  cannot 
digest  them.  Using  fredy  does  not  mean  their  unnecessary 
or  extravagant  use  in  rich  cakes,  custards,  etc.,  nor  in  the 
indigestible  form  of  fried  or  what  is  ordinarily  called  hard- 
boiled  eggs  ;  but  it  means  the  frequent  use  of  them  in  any 
of  the  simple  forms  of  boiling,  baking,  omelets,  plain  cake, 
and  other  wholesome  combinations.  It  is  very  poor  econ- 
omy, especially  for  those  who  keep  hens,  to  exchange  eggs 
for  corned  beef  or  salt  fish ;  or  to  use  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar  as  a  substitute  for  eggs  in  sponge  cake,  or  half- 
cooked  flour  in  an  omelet.  They  may  be  served  in  an 
unlimited  variety  of  styles,  are  especially  suitable  for 
breakfast  or  lunch,  attractive  as  a  garnish,  and  when 
combined  with  sugar  and  milk  make  the  most  healthful 
puddings,  desserts,  or  tea  dishes. 

But  though  a  type  of  perfect  food,  eggs  are  not  intended 
to  be  eaten  exclusively,  any  more  than  other  foods.  They 
are  one  of  the  most  highly  concentrated  forms  of  food,  and, 
being  wholly  destitute  of  starch,  should  be  eaten  with 
bread  or  rice, 

The  white  of  the  Qg^  has  but  a  trace  of  fat  in  it,  and 
requires  the  addition  of  l)utter,  milk,  or  fat  meat,  like 
bacon  or  ham.  The  white  of  ^^g  contains  water,  mineral 
ingredients,  and  soluble  albumen :  the  yolk  has,  in  addi- 
tion to  these,  oil  and  sulphur.  The  albumen  is  enclosed 
in  layers  of  thin- walled  cells.  When  beaten,  these  walls 
break,  and  the  albumen,  owing  to  its  glutinous  nature, 
catches  and  holds  the  air,  and  increases  to  many  times  its 
original  bulk. 


19^  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Do  not  use  an  Ggg  till  it  has  been  laid 
white  does  not  become  set  or  thick  till  then,  and  cannot  be 
beaten  stiff.  Eggs  for  poaching  or  boiling  are  best  when 
thirty-six  hours  old.  Albumen,  when  heated,  becomes  a 
dense  solid  ;  if  mixed  and  heated  with  a  liquid,  it  hardens 
and  entangles  in  its  meshes  any  solids  or  impurities  in  the 
liquid,  and  rises  to  the  surface  with  them  as  scum,  or  pre- 
cipitates them.  It  is  thus  the  white  of  egg  clears  soups, 
jellies,  and  coffee.  Strong  acids,  corrosive  sublimate, 
and  creosote  will  also  coagulate  albumen ;  and  there- 
fore, if  any  of  these  poisons  be  taken  into  the  system, 
the  white  of  Qgg,  swallowed  quickly,  will  combine  with 
the  poison  and  protect  the  stomach. 

The  shells  of  newly  laid  eggs  are  almost  full ;  but  as 
the  shells  are  porous,  on  exposure  to  the  air,  the  water 
inside  evaporates,  and  the  eggs  grow  lighter,  while  air 
rushes  in  to  fill  the  place  of  the  water,  and  causes  the 
nitrogenous  elements  to  decompose,  and  the  eggs  soon 
spoil.  This  explains  wh}^  a  good  Qgg  is  heavy,  and  will 
shik  in  water ;  and  why  a  stale  egg  is  lighter,  has  a 
rattling  or  gurgling  sound,  and  floats  in  the  water.  Any- 
thing which  will  fill  up  the  pores  and  thus  exclude  the 
air,  when  applied  to  perfectlj'  fresh  eggs,  will  preserve 
them  indefinitely ;  a  coating  of  liquid  fat  or  gum,  or  a 
packing  in  bran  or  salt,  with  the  small  end  downward,  is 
effectual.  Eggs  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dark  place, 
and  handled  carefully,  as  smj  rough  motion  may  cause 
the  white  and  3'olk  to  become  mixed,  hj  rupturing  the 
membrane  which  separates  them,  and  then  the  egg  spoils 
quickl}^ 

Never  buy  eggs  about  the  freshness  of  which  you  have 
any  doubt,  not  even  in  winter.  One  can  easily  judge 
which  is  the  better  economy,  —  to  pay  twent3'-five  or  thirty 
cents  a  dozen,  and  find  none  of  them  full  and  fresh,  and 
perhaps  half  of  them  realh'  rotten  ;  or  to  paj^  fifty  cents, 
and  obtain  them  freshl}^  laid,  —  not  merely  fresh  from  the 
countr5% — and  all  sound  and  good.  Eggs  with  a  dark 
shell  are  richer  and  have  larger  j'olks.     Eggs  are  of  better 


( 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  199 

flavor  and  more  palatable  in  the  spring,   but  are  good 
and  suitable,  if  perfectly  fresh,  at  any  season. 


Boiled  Eggs  (the  Best  Way). 

Put  the  eggs  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
and  let  them  stand  about  ten  minutes  where  the  water 
will  keep  hot  (180°),  but  not  boiling.  The  white  should 
be  of  a  soft  jelly-like  consistencj',  and  the  yolk  soft  but 
not  liquid.  Experience  will  show  the  exact  time  to  keep 
the  eggs  in  the  water  to  suit  individual  tastes.  They 
should  be  served  immediately- ,  as  the}'  harden  by  being 
kept  in  the  hot  shell.  An  egg,  to  be  cooked  soft,  should 
never  be  cooked  in  boiling  water ^  as  the  white  hardens  un- 
evenl}'  before  the  heat  reaches  the  3'olk. 

Hard-hoiled  Eggs.  —  Cook  eggs  for  twenty  minutes  in 
water  just  below  the  boiling-point,  for  use  in  any  receipt 
which  specifies  hard-boiled  eggs.  The  yolk  of  an  eg^  cooked 
ten  minutes  is  tough  and  indigestible  ;  twenty  minutes  will 
make  the  yolk  dry  and  meal}-  ;  then  it  may  be  more  easil}' 
rubbed  smooth  for  salad  or  other  mixtures,  and  more 
quickly  penetrated  by  the  gastric  fluid.  If  the  shell  of  an 
^gg  be  cracked  before  boiling,  pierce  several  small  holes 
in  the  large  end  to  keep  the  contents  from  bursting  out  at 
the  crack. 

Dropped  or  Poached  Eggs  on  Toast. 

Toast  a  slice  of  bread  for  each  egg,  and  trim  neatly,  or 
cut  with  a  round  cutter  before  toasting.  Have  a  very 
clean  shallow  pan  nearl}-  full  of  salted  and  boiling  water. 
Remove  all  the  scum,  and  let  the  water  simmer.  Break 
each  egg  carefull}^  into  a  cup,  and  slip  it  gently  into  the 
water.  Dip  the  water  over  them  with  a  spoon,  and  when 
a  film  has  formed  on  the  yolk  and  the  white  is  firm,  take 
each  up  with  a  skimmer ;  drain,  trim  the  edges,  and  place 
on  the  toast.  Put  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  on  each  Qgg ;  or  make  a  thin  cream  sauce  and 
pour  it  around  them.     Put  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice 


200  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

in  the  water,  or  poach  the  eggs  in  muffin-rings  to  give 
them  a  better  shape.  An  egg-poacher,  something  like  a 
castor  with  perforated  cups,  is  verj'  convenient. 

No.  2.  —  Spread  the  toast  with  butter  and  anchovy 
paste  or  sardine  paste  ^  and  serve  a  poached  Qgg  on  each 
slice ;  or  spread  the  toast  with  potted  or  finely  minced 
boiled  ham. 

Ham  and  Eggs.  —  Serve  poached  eggs  on  thin  slices  of 
broiled  ot  fried  ham  ;  when  served  on  hot,  highly  seasoned 
boiled  rice^  they  are  called  Spanish  Eggs. 

Eggs  poached  in  Tomatoes^  or  a  la  Dauphine.  {M.  L. 
Clarke.)  —  Stew  slowly  for  ten  minutes  half  a  can  of  toma- 
toes and  one  small  onion.,  cut  fine.  Season  highty  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Break  six  eggs  into  a  bowl  without  beating, 
and  when  ever3^thing  else  is  ready  to  serve,  slip  them  into 
the  hot  tomatoes.  Lift  the  white  carefull}'^  with  a  fork,  as 
it  cooks,  until  it  is  all  firm ;  then  prick  the  yolks  and  let 
them  mix  with  the  tomato  and  white.  It  should  be  quite 
soft,  but  with  the  red  tomatoes,  the  white  and  yellow  of 
the  Q^g->  quite  distinct.     Serve  at  once  on  toast. 

Scrambled  Eggs.  —  Beat  four  eggs  slightly  with  a  fork  ; 
add  A«^a  teaspoonful  of  scdt.,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper^ 
and  half  a  cup  of  milk.  Turn  into  a  hot  buttered  omelet 
pan  and  cook  quickly,  stirring  all  the  time  till  the  egg  is 
firm  but  soft.  Serve  on  toast  or  with  hot  minced  ham  or 
veal.  Any  of  the  ingredients  given  in  fancj'  omelets  may 
be  mixed  with  the  beaten  eggs  before  cooking. 

No.  2.  —  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  an  omelet  pan  ; 
when  hot,  add  three  whole  eggs ;  stir  quickly  till  the  mix- 
ture is  firm  but  soft.  Add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve  at  once. 

Omelet. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  till  light- colored  and  thick ; 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt.,  and 
one  fourth  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  till  stiff*  and  dry.  Cut  and  fold  them  lightly 
into  the  yolks  till  just  covered.      Have   a  clean,  smooth 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


20I 


Fig.  10.     Plain  Omelet. 


omelet  pan.  When  hot,  rub  it  round  the  edge  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter  on  a  broad  knife ;  let  the  butter  run 
all  over  the  pan  and  when  bubbling  turn  in  the  omelet 
quickl}-  and  spread  it  evenly  on  the  pan.  Lift  the  pan 
from  the  hottest  part  of  the  fire  and  cook  carefully,  until 
slightly  browned 
underneath ;  slip 
the  knife  under 
to  keep  it  from 
burning  in  the 
middle.  Put  it  on 
the  oven  grate  to 
dry  (not  brown) 

the  top.  When  the  whole  centre  is  dry  as  you  cut  into  it, 
run  a  knife  round  the  edge,  then  under  the  half  nearest 
the  handle,  and  fold  over  to  the  right.  Hold  the  edge  of 
a  hot  platter  against  the  lower  edge  of  the  pan,  and  in- 
vert the  omelet  upon  the  platter.  Or  add  ouly  half  of  the 
beaten  whites  to  the  yolks,  and  when  nearly  cooked  spread 
the  remainder  over  the  top  ;  let  it  heat  through  ;  fold  over, 
and  the  white  will  burst  out  round  the  edge  like  a  border 
of  foam,  making  2ifoam  omelet^  or  any  fancy  name  you  may 
choose  to  give  it. 

If  you  have  no  omelet  pan,  or  no  convenience  for  dry- 
ing the  omelet  in  the  oven,  use  a  smooth  iron  spider  or 
frying-pan  with  a  tin  cover,  and  double  the  quantities 
given.  Heat  the  pan  and  the  cover  verj^  hot.  Butter  the 
pan,  turn  in  the  mixture,  cover  it,  and  place  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  for  five  minutes,  or  till  firm.  Fold  as  usual. 
Omelets  should  be  onl}^  slightly  browned,  never  burned, 
as  the  flavor  of  scorched  Qgg  is  not  agreeable. 

One  tahiespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  or  a  teaspoonful  of 
fine  grated  onion,  or  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
sweet  corn  may  be  added  to  the  yolks  before  cooking. 

Thin  slices  of  cold  ham,  or  three  spoonfuls  of  chopped  ham, 
veal,  or  chicle  en ;  stewed  tomatoes  or  raw  tomatoes  sliced; 
chopped  mushrooms,  shrimps,  oysters  which  have  been  par- 


boiled and  drained  ;    cooked  clams,  chopped  fine  ;   or  gratea 


202  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


cheese,  —  ma}^  be  spread  on  the  omelet  before  folding, 
giving  all  the  varieties  of  fancy  omelets,  each  variet3'  taking 
the  name  of  the  additional  ingredient. 

jy^,  2.  —  Beat  six  eggs  until  light  and  foamy  with  a  Dover 
egg-beater  ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  scant  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  and  one  cup  of  milk.  Fry  a  large  spoon- 
ful at  a  time  in  a  hot  pan  or  on  a  griddle,  and  roll  over 
quickl}'  like  a  French  pancake.  This  is  a  convenient  way 
where  the  family  come  irregularly  to  breakfast.  The  mix- 
ture may  stand  for  some  time  if  beaten  again  thoroughlj- 
before  frying. 

Creamy  Omelet,  {Mrs.  Ewing.)  — Beat/<??.«r  eggs  slightly 
with  a  spoon  till  you  can  take  up  a  spoonful.  Add  a 
scant  half-teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  salts2)oo?iful  of  pepper, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream,  and  mix  well.  Butter 
a  hot  omelet  pan,  and  before  the  butter  browns  turn  in 
the  mixture.  Then  with  the  point  of  a  fork  pick  or  hft 
up  the  cooked  egg  from  the  centre  and  let  the  uncooked 
egg  run  under.  This  leaves  the  butter  on  the  pan,  and 
is  better  than  stirring.  Continue  the  lifting  until  the  whole 
is  of  a  soft  creamy  consistency ;  then  place  it  over  a 
hotter  part  of  the  fire  to  brown  slightly  ;  fold  and  turn  out 
as  usual. 

Sweet  or  Jelly  Omelet.  —  Allow  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
sugar  to  each  egg,  and  omit  the  pepper.  Mix  and  cook 
as  in  Omelet  No.  1,  and  when  ready  to  fold  put  two  or 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  an}'  kind  of  preserves,  marmalade, 
or  jelly  on  the  top.     Fold  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Orange  Omelet.  —  The  thinly 
grated  rind  of  one  orange  and 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
juice,  three  eggs,  and  three  tea- 
spoonfids  of  powdered  sugar. 
range    me  e .  Beat  the  yolks;  add  the  sugar, 

rind,  and  juice ;  fold  in  the  beaten  whites,  and  cook  as 
in  Omelet,  No.  1.  Fold,  turn  out,  sprinkle  thickly 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  score  in  diagonal  lines  with  a 
clean  red-hot  poker.     The  burnt  sugar  gives  to  the  omelet 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  203 

a  delicious  flavor.  Or  cat  the  orange  into  sections,  re- 
move the  seeds  and  tough  inner  skin ;  cut  each  section 
into  pieces,  and  mix  with  the  3'olks  before  cooking ;  or 
spread  part  of  the  orange  over  the  omelet  before  folding, 
and  sprinkle  the  remainder  over  the  sugared  top. 

This  is  a  convenient  dessert  for  an  emergency,  and  may 
be  prepared  in  ten  minutes  if  one  have  the  oranges. 

Omelet  Souffie.  —  Allow  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  or  vanilla  for  flavoring, 
and  two  ivhites  to  each  yolk.  To  make  a  small  omelet, 
beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  till  light  and  thick ;  add  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  lemon  or  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  till 
stifi'  and  dry,  and  fold  them  lightly  into  the  3' oiks.  Put  it 
by  the  tablespoonfuls  lightl}'  into  a  well-buttered  baking- 
dish.  Cook  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twelve  minutes,  or 
till  well  pufi'ed  up  and  a  straw  comes  out  clean.  Serve  at 
once,  as  it  falls  quickly. 


Baked  Eggs. 

vSmall  stone  china  dishes  or  egg-shirrers,  holding  one  oi 
two  eggs  for  each  person,  are  convenient  for  this  method 
of  serving  eggs  ;  or  use  a  common  platter  placed  over  hot 
water  ;  or  bake  in  the  shells  in  a  moderate  oven  ten  minutes, 
flrst  pricking  several  holes  with  a  large  pin  in  the  large  end 
of  the  Qgg^  to  keep  the  air  within  from  bursting  the  shell 
as  it  expands  c 

No.  1.  — Break  each  egg  into  a  cup,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  j^olk,  and  put  the  eggs  on  a  hot  buttered  dish 
suitable  for  serving.  Put  a  little  salt  on  each  Qgg.  Bake 
until  the  white  is  firm.  Add  a  little  butter  and  serve 
at  once.  Garnish  each  Q^g  with  thin  strips  of  hreakfast 
bacon. 

No.  2. —  Cover  the  buttered  dish  Yf'itli  fine  cracker  crumbs. 
Put  each  Qgg  carefully  in  the  dish,  and  cover  lightty  with 
seasoned  and  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  till  the  crumbs  are 
brown. 


204  The  Boston  Cook  Booh. 

No.  3.  — Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
salt  slightl}'.  Spread  it  roughly  on  a  platter ;  make  a 
nest  or  caAdt}^  for  each  yolk  some  distance  apart.  Season, 
and  bake  till  the  white  is  brown. 

No.  4.  — Cover  the  dish  with  any  poultry  gravy  you  may 
chance  to  have,  or  with  white  sauce.,  and  have  a  slice  of 
toast  or  bread  sauted  for  each  Qgg.  Set  the  platter  in  the 
oven  over  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  when  toast  and  gravy 
are  hot  drop  the  eggs  on  the  toast,  and  bake  till  the  eggs 
are  set. 

Eggs  en  Coquille. —  Cut  slices  o^ stale  bread  in  large  rounds  ; 
then  with  a  smaller  cutter  cut  half-wa}'  through  and  scoop 
out  the  centre,  leaving  them  shaped  like  Si  pate  shell,  with 
the  cavity  large  enough  to  hold  one  agg.  Dip  these  bread 
shells  in  raw  egg.,  beaten  with  a  little  milJc,  and  saute,  or 
fry  them  in  hot  fat.  Put  them  on  a  platter  covered  with 
hot  white  sauce  or  poultry  gravy.,  and  serve  a  poached  egg 
in  each  shell ;  or  put  a  raw  egg  in  each  and  bake  till  the 
eggs  are  set.  Haifa  cup  of  chopped  or  sliced  mushrooms 
may  be  cooked  in  the  grav3\  The  shells  may  be  toasted  if 
you  prefer. 

No.  2. — Take  half  a  cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs.,  an  equal 
amount  of  fine  chopped  ham  or  tongue.,  and  a  little  pepper, 
salt,  parsley,  mustard,  and  melted  butter.  Make  it  into  a 
smooth  paste  with  hot  milk  or  cream.  Spread  the  mixture 
on  some  scallop  shells.  Break  the  eggs  carefully,  and  put 
one  in  the  centre  of  each  shell ;  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  smdfne  cracker  crumbs  moistened  with  melted 
butter.  Set  in  the  oven,  and  bake  five  or  six  minutes,  or 
until  the  egg  is  firm.  Or  put  the  bread  and  meat  mixture 
in  a  baking-dish,  shaping  it  a  little  to  hold  six  or  seven 
raw  eggs ;  cover  lightly  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  till 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  are  firm. 

Eggs  and  Minced  Meat.  —  Chop  one  pint  of  cold  chicken , 
ham.  or  veal  fine,  and  rub  it  to  a  smooth  paste  ;  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  o^  chopped  parsley , 
salt  ?ind  pepper  to  taste,  and  two  beaten  eggs.  If  too  dry, 
moisten  with  a  little   cream  or  stock  or  gravy,  but  do  not 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  205 

have  it  too  soft  to  shape.  Heat  it  in  a  frying-pan  just 
enough  to  warm  through,  letting  it  dry  ofi'  if  too  moist. 
Form  it  on  a  hot  platter  into  a  flat  mound  ;  hollow  the  cen- 
tre, leaving  a  ridge  of  the  mixture  round  the  edge.  Keep 
it  hot,  and  put  three  or  four  poached  eggs  in  the   centre. 


Fig.  12.     Eggs  and  Minced  Meat. 

Garnish  with  triangles  of  toast  laid  round  the  base  of  the 
meat.  Or,  if  you  have  a  larger  quantity  of  meat,  prepare 
as  above,  and  make  .a  mound  one  inch  deep  on  a  round 
dish  and  a  smaller  mound  above  that,  and  place  eggs 
baked  in  cups,  or  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  halves,  or  egg- 
baskets  on  the  space  between  the  mounds.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Pannikins.  —  Warm  minced  ham  or  tongue  or  veal  in  a 
thich  cream  sauce,  and  pile  it  in  the  centre  of  a  plattei". 
Heat  and  butter  some  earthen  cups,  break  an  Qg^  in  each, 
and  bake  till  the  egg  is  firm.  Turn  them  out  and  arrange 
round  the  meat. 

Various  Ways  of  Serving  Hard-boiled  Eggs. 

Curried  Eggs.  — Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Remove 
the  shells  and  cut  into  halves  or  slices.  Fry  one  teaspoon- 
fid  of  chopped  onion  in  one  tahlespoonfid  of  butter^  being 
careful  not  to  burn  it ;  add  07ie  heaping  tahlespoonful  of 
flour  or  one  even  tahlespoonful  of  cornstarch  mixed  with  half 
a  tahlespoonfid  of  curry  powder.  Pour  on  slowly  one  cup 
and  a  half  of  white  stock  or  milk  or  cream  ;  add  salt  and 
vepper  to  taste.     Simmer  till  the  onions  are  soft.     Add 


2o6  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

the  eggs,  and  when  warmed  through  serve  in  a  shallow 
dish ;  or  arrange  the  eggs  on  hot  toast ^  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  them  ;  or  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake 
till  the  crumbs  are  brow^n. 

Egg  Vermicelli. — Boil  three  eggs  twent}'  minutes.  Sepa- 
rate the  yolks  and  chop  the  whites  fine.  Toast  four  slices 
of  bread;  cut  half  into  small  squares  and  half  into  points 
or  triangles.  Make  07ie  cup  of  thin  white  sauce  with  one 
cup  of  cream  or  milk,  one  teaspoonfid  of  butter,  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a 
saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Stir  the  whites  into  the  sauce,  and 
when  hot  pour  it  over  the  squares  of  toast.  Rub  the 
yolks  through  a  fine  strainer  over  the  whole,  and  garnish 
with  a  border  of  toast  points  and  a  bit  of  parsley  in  the 
centre. 

Or  cut  the  bread  into  rounds  before  toasting.  Pour  the 
white  sauce  on  the  hot  platter,  and  put  the  rounds  of  toast 
on  the  sauce  some  distance  apart.  Put  a  little  of  the 
chopped  white  on  each  slice,  pile  it  high  on  the  edge,  rub 
the  yolks  through  a  fine  strainer  over  the  centre,  and  k\' 
small  sprigs  of  fine  parsley  between  the  toast. 

Stuffed  Eggs.  —  Boil  six  eggs  twent}^  minutes.  Re- 
move the  shells  and  cut  carefulh^  lengthwise.  Remove 
the  yolks,  and  put  the  two  whites  of  each  Qgg  together, 

that  the}^  ma}'  not  become 
mixed.  Mash  the  yolks, 
and  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
soft  butter,  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice,  and  half  the 
quantity  of  potted  or  dev- 
illed ham  or  tongue.  Or,  if 
minced  chicken,  lamb,  or  veal 
be  used,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and 
cayenne  or  chopped  parsley.  Fill  the  whites  with  the  mix- 
ture, smooth  them,  and  press  the  two  halves  together, 
being  careful  to  fit  them  just  as  they  were  cut.  Spread 
the  remainder  of  the  yolk  mixture  on  a  shallow  dish  and 
place  the  eggs  on  H.     Cover  with  a  thin  white  sauce,  or 


Pig.  13.     Stuffed  Eggs  garnislied  with 
Parsley. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  207 

any  chicken  or  veal  gravy  ;  sprinkle  huttered  crumbs  over  the 
whole,  and  bake  till  the  crumbs  are  a  delicate  brown. 

No.  2.  — After  the  eggs  are  filled  with  the  mixture  and 
put  together  as  above,  roll  each  egg  in  fine  bread  crumbs 
and  beaten  egg  and  in  crumbs  again,  then  repeat  the  pro- 
cess, and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Drain,  and  serve  hot 
with  tomato  sauce  or  garnished  with  parsley. 

Scotch  Eggs.  —  One  cup  of  lean  cooked  ham  chopped 
\QYj  fine  ;  six  hard-boiled  eggs.  Cook  one  third  of  a  cup  of 
stale  bread  crumbs  in  one  third  of  a  cup  of  milk  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Mix  it  with  the  ham  ;  add  half  a  teaspoonfid  of 
mixed  mustard.,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne.,  and  one  ram 
egg.  Mix  well.,  remove  the  shells  from  the  eggs,  and  cover 
with  the  mixture.  Frj^  in  hot  fat  two  minutes.  Drain, 
and  serve  hot  or  cold,  for  lunch  or  picnics.  Cut  them  into 
halves  lengthwise,  and  arrange  each  half  on  a  bed  of  fine 
parsley.  The  contrast  between  the  green,  red,  white,  and 
yellow  gives  a  verj-  prett}-  effect. 

No.  2.  — Boil  six  eggs  twent}^  minutes.  Make  a  force- 
meat with  one  cup  of  an}^  kind  of  cold  meat  finel}'  chopped ^ 
half  a  cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs  cooked  to  a  paste,  in  one 
third  of  a  cup  of  milk  and  one  raw  egg^  beaten  light,  using 
just  enough  of  the  ^,^^^  to  unite  the  mixture,  being  careful 
not  to  have  it  too  soft. 

If  chicken  be  used,  season  with  chopped  parsley  and  a 
pinch  of    herbs;    season  ham  with   mustard  and  cayenne;' 
veal.,    with    lemon  juice   or  horseradish;    and  salmon,   with 
lemon   and  cayenne. 

Divide  the  eggs  crosswise  or  lengthwise,  or  leave  them, 
whole.  Cover  each  half  or  whole  egg  thickly  with  the 
force-meat,  and  place  them  on  a  buttered  tin  pan  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  till  slightly  browned.  Arrange  on  a  hot 
platter  with  a  white  sauce  poured  around  (not  over)  them. 

Scalloped  Eggs.  — Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Make 
one  pint  of  white  sauce  with  stock  and  cream  or  milk.,  and 
season  to  taste.  Moisten  one  cup  oi  fine  cracker  crumbs 
in  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter  or  cream.  Chop 
fine  one  cup  of  ham.,  tongue.,  poultry.^  or  fish.     Remove  the 


2o8  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

yolks  of  tlie  eggs,  and  chop  the  whites  fine.  Put  a  layer  of 
buttered  crumbs  in  a  buttered  scallop  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
chopped  whites^  white  sauca^  minced  meat^  yolks  rubbed 
through  a  fine  strainer,  and  so  on,  until  the  material  is  all 
used,  having  the  buttered  crumbs  on  the  top.  Bake  till 
the  crumbs  are  brown. 

Egg  Balls  in  Baskets. — Boil  three  eggs  twenty  minutes. 
Remove  the  shells,  cut  ofi*  a  thin  slice  at  each  end,  that 
the  eggs  may  stand  upright,  and  cut  in  halves  crosswise. 
Remove  the  j^olks,  and  stand  the  cups  or  baskets  thus  made 
around  the  edge  of  a  platter.  Rub  the  yolks  to  a  smooth 
paste ;  add  an  equal  amount  of  cooked  ham  or  tongue., 
chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.,  salt,  pep- 
per., and  mustard  to  taste.  Make  into  balls  the  size  of 
the  original  yolks,  and  fill  the  cups.  Make  one  cup  of 
white  sauce.,  with  cream  or  milk  and  white  stock,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  it  in  the  centre  of  the  eggs. 
Set  the  platter  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  and  when  read}' 
to  serve  put  a  tiny  bit  of  parsley  on  each  ball. 

In  place  of  the  meat,  you  may  use,  if  you  prefer,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  a  speck  of  cayenne  pepper, 
and  moisten  with  vinegar  and  olive  oil. 

Eggs  k  la  Creme. 

Boil  three  eggs  twent}^  minutes.  Cut  off"  a  slice  at  each 
end,  and  cut  the  eggs  in  halves  crosswise.     Remove  the 

yolks,  and  cut  them  in 
thin  slices.  Mix  with 
them  an  equal  amount 
of  small  thin  pieces  of 
cold  chicken,  ham,  salmon, 
or  lobster,  and  season  to 
taste.  Fill  the  white 
cups  with  the  mixture.  Place  them  on  a  shallow  dish  and 
pour  one  cup  of  thick  cream  sauce  (page  190)  around  them. 
The  sauce  should  come  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  cups.  Or 
cut  the  eggs  in  halves,  and  place  them  with  the  cut  side 
down  and  serve  in  the  sauce. 


Fig.  14.     Eggs  a  la  Creme. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  209 


Eggs  in  a  Nest. 

Boil  six  eggs  twent}^  minutes.  Remove  the  shells. 
Separate  the  yolks  without  breaking ;  or  rub  them  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  little  olive  oil  to  moisten,  and 
shape  into  small  balls.  Cut  the  tvhites  in  tliin  narrow 
slices,  and  mix  with  them  an  equal  quantit3'  of  fine 
shredded  chicken^  ham.,  or  salmon.,  and  a  tahlespoonful  of  fine 
sp7^igs  of  parsley.  Pile  this  mixture,  which  should  be  light 
and  dry,  on  a  platter  in  a  circular  or  oval  ring,  and  put 
the  3'olks  in  the  centre.  Set  the  platter  in  a  steamer,  to 
heat  the  mixture.  Make  a  pint  of  thick  white  sauce  ;  pour 
enough  of  it  round  the  edge  of  tlie  dish  to  come  half-wa}' 
up  the  nest,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce-boat. 

The  same  materials  may  be  served  cold  as  Devilled 
JEggs.  Mix  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  made  mustard  with 
the  yolks  and  also  with  the  shredded  meat ;  add  a  sprink- 
ling of  vinegar .f  and  garnish  the  dish  with  parsley  or  water- 
cresses.  Or  serve  as  a  salad, '  garnished  with  cresses  or 
lettuce^  and  sprinkle  a  French  dressing  over  the  whole. 

Egg  Salad  ma}^  be  served  in  this  form.  Cut  the  yolks  in 
dice,  and  mix  them  lightl}''  with  diced  chicken,  scdmon^  fish^ 
or  lobster;  fill  the  white  cups  heaping  with  the  mixture, 
and  serve  on  a  hed  of  lettuce  or  cresses^  with  French  or 
Mayonnaise  dressing. 


14 


2IO  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


MEAT. 

Meat  is  a  general  term  applied  to  the  flesh  of  animals 
used  for  food.  It  includes  the  muscular  flesh,  sinews,  fat, 
heart,  liver,  stomach,  brains,  and  tongue.  Meat  is  divided 
into  three  classes  :  — 

Meat^  including  beef,  veal,  mutton,  lamb,  and  pork. 

Poultry,  including  chicken,  turke}^  geese,  and  ducks,  or 
all  domestic  fowls. 

Game^  including  partridges,  grouse,  pigeons,  quail,  or 
other  birds,  venison,  and  an3^  wild  meat  that  is  hunted 
in  the  forest  or  field. 

Meat  consists  of  several  substances,  — jihrine,  albumen^ 
gelatine,  fat,  and  Xh^  juice  ofjiesh. 

Flhrine  exists  in  the  blood  and  flesh.  In  the  former 
it  is  soluble,  owing  to  the  alkaline  nature  of  the  blood  ; 
it  is  deposited  b}^  the  blood,  made  into  flesh,  and  becomes 
insoluble  flesh- fibrine,  and  forms  the  basis  or  fibre  of  mus- 
oular  tissue.  It  is  separated  into  bundles  hy  membranes, 
and  into  larger  separate  masses  by  cellular  tissue,  in 
which  fat  is  deposited.  Its  true  color  is  white ;  but  the 
blood  in  the  veins  which  penetrate  everj'  part  of  the  fibre 
gives  it  a  reddish  tinge.  This  ma}^  be  seen  by  washing 
a  piece  of  lean  meat  in  cold  water.  The  red  coloring 
matter  is  soon  drawn  into  the  water,  and  the  meat  is  a 
mass  of  white  fibre.  Fibrine  is  hardened  and  contracted 
by  intense  heat,  but  softened  by  moderate  and  long- 
continued  heat.  Meat  that  has  tough  fibre  should  simmer 
and  not  boil. 

Albumen  exists  in  the  flesh  and  in  the  blood.  It  is  the 
soluble  portion  of  the  flesh.  It  dissolves  in  cold  water, 
but  hardens  in  hot  water. 

Gelatine  is  a  peculiar  substance  found  in  the  tendons 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  211 

and  gristl^'  parts  of  flesh,  the  shin,  and  the  sinewy  parts 
about  the  joints,  and  in  the  nutritive  parts  of  bones.  It 
may  be  dissolved  hj  soaking  in  cold  water,  and  then  boil- 
ing gently  for  several  hours.  The  solution  hardens  when 
cold.  Gelatine  hardens  in  a  dry  heat,  and  such  parts  of 
meat  as  contain  it  in  abundance  should  be  stewed,  rather 
than  roasted  or  broiled. 

Fat  of  meat  is  contained,  a  good  measure  of  it,  in  the 
adipose  tissue  of  almost  all  flesh  which  is  used  as  food. 
It  is  liquefied  by  heat,  and  resolved  into  various  acid  and 
acrid  bodies.  It  is  a  warmth-giver,  and  is  therefore  most 
appropriately  used  in  cold  seasons  and  climates. 

The  juice  of  the  flesh  consists  of  water,  a  small  propor- 
tion of  albumen,  and  a  mixture  of  other  compounds.  It 
is  not  the  blood,  for  it  still  exists  after  the  blood  has  been 
withdrawn.  It  may  be  obtained  by  chopping  lean  meat 
fine,  putting  it  in  a  closel}'  covered  jar  without  water,  and 
heating  it  graduall}'.  If  heated  above  160°,  the  albumi- 
nous matters  in  it  harden  and  turn  brown.  The  solid 
residue,  consisting  of  fibres,  tissue,  etc.,  is  white,  tasteless, 
and  inodorous.  This  separated  juice  is  strongly  acid, 
while  the  blood  is  always  alkahne.  It  contains  many  sub- 
stances which  are  very  valuable  as  food,  and  the  savory 
principle,  or  ozmazome^  which  gives  flavor  to  the  meat  and 
causes  it  to  differ  in  different  animals.  Meat  should 
alwa3^s  be  cooked  in  such  a  manner  as  to  retain  the  largest 
proportion  of  this  juice.  The  juice  is  drawn  out  into  the 
brine  in  salting,  and  this  renders  salt  meat  less  nutritious. 
The  juice  when  the  water  has  been  separated  from  it  by 
evaporation,  is  termed  extract  of  meat. 

The  flesh  of  all  young  animals  is  more  tender,  but  not 
so  nutritious  as  that  of  maturer  animals.  Nearly  all  parts 
of  an  animal  may  be  used  as  food.  • 

Meat  is  in  season  all  the  year ;  but  certain  kinds  are 
better  at  stated  times.  Pork  is  good  only  in  autumn  and 
winter ;  vea/,  in  the  spring  and  summer ;  venison^  in  the 
winter  ;  fowls,  in  autumn  and  winter  ;  lamb,  in  the  summer 
and  fall ;  mutton  and  beef  at  any  time. 


212 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Fig.  15.     Diagram  of  Ox. 


1.  Tip  of  Sirloin. 

2.  Middle  of  Sirloin. 

3.  First  Cut  of  Sirloin. 

4.  Back  of  Rump. 

5.  Middle  of  Rump. 

6.  Face  of  Rump. 

7.  Aitch  Bone. 

8.  Lower  Part  of  Round, 
8J.  Top  of  Round. 

9.  Vein. 

10.  Poorer  Part  of  Round. 

11.  Poorer  Part  of  Vein. 


12.  Shin. 

13.  Boneless  Flank. 

14.  Tliick  Flank  witli  Bone. 

15.  First  Cut  of  Ribs. 

c.  Chuck  Ribs. 

d.  Neck. 

16.  Rattle  Rand. 

17.  Second  Cut  of  Rattle  Rand. 

18.  Brisket  (a.   the  navel  end ;   h    the 

butt  end). 

19.  Forf  Shin. 


Fig.  16.    Hind  Quarter  of  Beef. 


The  figures  in  the  hind  quarter  correspond  to  those  in 
the  same  section  of  the  whole  ox. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


All  meat  should  be  removed  from  the  brown  paper  in 
which  it  is  wrapped  as  soon  as  it  comes  from  the  market, 
or  it  will  taste  of  the  paper  and  the  paper  will  absorb  the 
meat  juices.  Wipe  all  over  with  a  clean  wet  cloth. 
Chops  and  steaks  will  keep  sweet  much  longer  if  examined 
at  once,  and  an}^  parts  that  are  not  clean  and  sweet 
removed.  In  warm  weather  look  at  the  meat  often.  Put 
it  on  a  dish  near,  but  never  directty  upon,  the  ice. 


Cost  of  Meat  and  Game. 


Shin  of  beef, 

3  to    6  cts.  per  lb. 

Lamb,  leg. 

14  to  30  cts.  per  lb 

Middle  cut  of  siiin,  7  to  10     " 

Lamb,  chops. 

15  to  40    "        " 

Lower  part  of 

Lamb,  fore 

round, 

13  to  15    " 

quarter, 

10  to  25    " 

Vein, 

20  to  25    " 

Veal,  knuckle, 

12  to  17    " 

Top  of  round, 

20  to  25    " 

Veal,  cutlet, 

22  to  28    " 

Aitch  bone. 

8  to  10    "         '• 

Veal,  breast. 

9  to  14   " 

Face  of  rump, 

17  to  22   " 

Sweetbreads, 

25  to  70    "    whole. 

Middle,      '' 

25  to  28   " 

Calf's  liver, 

25  to  70    "        " 

Back, 

22  to  30    " 

Calf's  heart, 

5  to    8    ''      each. 

Sirloin, 

28  to  33    " 

Calf's  head, 

25  to  60   " 

Whole  tenderloin 

,75  c.  to  $1.00    " 

Fresh  pork, 

9  to  15    ''    per  lb. 

Small 

30  to  45  cts.      " 

Salt  pork, 

11  to  15   '■ 

Tip  of  sirloin, 

22  to  30    " 

Bacon,  bag. 

17  to  20    " 

First  cut  of  rib, 

17  to  25    " 

Bacon,  slices, 

15  to  18    "        " 

Second  cut  of  rib,  15  to  20    "        " 

Ham,  bag. 

17  to  20    " 

Chuck  rib, 

7  to  14   " 

Ham,  sliced, 

20  to  25    "        " 

Second  cut,  rib 

Lard, 

11  to  15    '•         " 

corned. 

12  to  15    " 

Leaf  lard, 

10  to  15    " 

Brisket, 

8  to  12    "         " 

Sausage, 

12  to  20    " 

Boneless  brisket. 

15    " 

Turkeys, 

20  to  35    " 

Flank, 

6  to  11    " 

Fowl, 

12  to  30    " 

Liver, 

10  to  12    " 

Chickens, 

18  to  75    " 

Tripe,  plain, 

6  to  18    " 

Ducks,  wild, 

25  c.  to  $1.50  each. 

Tripe,  honej^-comb,         15    "        " 

Ducks,  tame. 

20  to  37  cts.  per  Ibc 

Heart, 

3  to  10    " 

Ducks,  Canvas- 

Suet, 

■  7  to  12    " 

back, 

$1.50  to  $2.00  each. 

Mutton,  leg. 

12  to  20   " 

Grc)use, 

75  c,  to  $1.25      " 

Mutton,  loin, 

14  to  20    " 

Partridge, 

75  c.  to  $1.25      " 

Mutton,  saddle. 

15  to  20    " 

Pigeon,  wild. 

75  c.  to  $2.00  per  d. 

Mutton,  chops, 

15  to  25    "        " 

Pigeon,  tame. 

12i-  to  25  cts.  each. 

Glutton,  fore 

Squab, 

S2.50  to  $4.50  per  d. 

quarter. 

8  to  12   "        " 

Quail, 

$1.50  to  $3.00     " 

Mutton,  neck, 

6  to    9    " 

214 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


BEEF. 


Good  beef  should  be  bright  red,  well  marbled  toh  3^el- 
lowicih-white  fat,  and  with  a  thick  outside  layer  of  fat. 
The  flesh  must  be  firm,  and  when  pressed  with  the  finger 
no  mark  should  be  left.  The  suet  should  be  dry,  and 
crumble  easily. 

A  side  of  beef  is  divided  into  the  hind  quarter  and 
fore  quarterc  The  hind  quainter  consists  of  the  round, 
the  rump,  and  the  loin.  The  fore  quarter  is  divided 
into  the  back  half  and  the  rattle  rand.  In  cutting  up  a 
hind  quarter,  the  flank  is  first  removed.  The  cut  should 
slant  two  or  three  inches  toward  the  tip.     The  upper  part 

of  the  flank  has 
the  ends  of  the 
short  ribs,  and  is 
used  for  corning. 
The  lower  end  of 
the  flank  has  no 
bones.  This  ma}' 
be  stuffed,  rolled, 
and  boiled,  either 
fresh  or  corned. 
The  round  is  sep- 
arated from  the 
rump  in  the  line 
from  7  to  9.  The  aitch  bone  (7)  lies  between  the  back 
and  middle  cut  of  the  rump  and  the  top  of  the  round.  It 
is  usually  sold  whole ;  it  makes  a  good  roast  for  a  small 
family,  considering  the  price  (10  cents),  and  is  the  best 
piece  for  a  beef  stew. 

The  first  cuts  of  the  vein  (9)  which  joins  the  face  of 
the  rump  make  good  steak.      The  top  of  the  round  is 


Fig.  17.    Aitch  Bone. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  215 

the  inside  of  the  thickest  part  of  the  leg  (8^,  behind  8 
in  the  diagram) .  As  seen  on  the  counter,  it  is  above  the 
bone.  It  consists  of  one  large  section  or  muscle  with  a 
thick  edge  of  fat.  The  best  round  steaks  lie  between  this 
point  and  the  ridge  of  fat.  The  third  slice  is  considered 
the  best.  After  cutting  bejond  this  ridge  comes  the 
beginning  of  another  muscle,  which  is  very  tough.  One 
ma}'  easil}^  detect,  hy  the  separ'ation  of  this  narrow  strip  of 
meat  along  the  top  of  the  slice,  whether  the  meat  came 
from  the  best  part  of  the  top  of  the  round.     It  maj^  be  the 


Fig.  18.     Round,  showing  the  beginning  of  the  tough  muscle  on  the  top. 

best  the  marketman  has  ;  but  it  is  not  the  best  cut,  though 
often  palmed  off  in  place  of  the  third  slice.  The  under 
part  of  the  round  has  two  sections  or  muscles,  the  one 
nearest  the  bone  being  larger  than  the  outside  section. 
The  skin  is  thin,  with  veiy  little  fat.  Steaks  from  this  cut 
are  sometimes  sold  as  good  round  steak  to  the  ignorant 
buj'er ;  but  keep  in  mind  that  in  the  top  cut  there  is  one 
large  muscle  with  thick  fat,  instead  of  two  smaller  muscles 
and  thin  fat,  and  you  will  not  be  deceived.  This  under 
cut  of  the  round  is  excellent  for  braising.  It  is  well  shaped, 
requires  no  trimming,  and  is  the  cheapest  cut,  as  every 
scrap  of  it  ma}'  be  eaten.  Below  this,  as  we  follow  down 
the  leg,  are  nice  pieces  for  stews,  pie  meat,  etc. 

The  marrow  bone,  running  through  the  round  to  the 
shin,  contains  the  best  marrow.     The  next  best  is  in  the 


2l6 


The  Boaton  Cook  Book, 


foreshin.  The  bind  shin  differs  from  the  fore  shin  in  hav- 
ing a  thick  tendon,  which  separates  entirety  from  the  end 
of  the  leg,  and  unites  again  at  the  joint,  forming  a  loop  by 
which  the  hind  quarter  is  hung  on  the  meat  hook.     The 

middle  cut  of  the 
shin  ma}'  be  used 
for  stews  and  brais- 
ing, and  the  lower 
part  for  soups. 

The  rump  is  usu- 
alty  separated  from 
the  loin,  and  divid- 
ed into  the  back, 
middle,  and  face 
of  the  rump.  The 
back  of  the  rump,  one  of  the  best  pieces  for  roasting,  has 
part  of  the  backbone  and  sometimes  the  rump  bone,  as 
some  marketmen  will  not  cut  it  out  before  weighing. 
The  small  end  nearest  the  loin  has  the  most  tender  meat. 


Fig,  19.     Back  of  Rump. 


Fig.  20. 


First  Cut  of  Sirloin,  showing  the  Tjulging  muscle 
on  upper  edge. 


The  middle  cut  has  no  bone,  but  it  is  not 
tender.     It  is  better  for  braising  than  for  roasting.     Some- 
times the  rump  is  not  divided,  and  is  cut  into  steaks.     If 
cut  parallel  with  the  backbone,  it  will  be  tough.     If  cut  at 
right  angles,  and  from  the  end  nearest  the  loin,  it  makes  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


217 


In     21 


MiloiiiRoist  second  Cut 


best  steaks,  and  is  well  worth  the  extra  price  charged  for 
cutting  in  this  manner.     The  face  of  the  rump  has  a  thick 
piece  of  fat  in  the  middle,  often  purposel}^  covered  by  a 
thin  cutting  from  the  ten- 
derloin.    This  is  a  cheap 
piece  for  roasting,  but  not 
of  the  best  quality. 

The  sirloin  is  separated 
from  the  rnmp  in  a  slant- 
ing direction.  Never  buy 
the  first  slice,  as  it  always 
has  a  small  narrow  bone 
near  the  top  hi  addition  to 
the  rib,  and  a  larger  por- 
tion of  tough  flank  and 
gristle  than  the  middle  or 
second  cuts.  As  it  lies  on 
the  counter  you  ma}"  easih' 

tell  if  it  be  the  first  slice  by  the  small  bone  ;  and  if  you 
press  on  the  top  of  the  meat  near  the  middle,  a  small  sec- 
tion of  meat  bulges  out.  This  is  the  end  of  the  muscle 
forming  the  face  of  the  rump  and  vein,  and  is  very  tough. 
The  second  cut  of  sirloin  has  the  most  tenderloin,  and 
only  a  straight  rib  at  right  angles  with  the  backbone. 
Any  part  after  the  first  slice  is  taken  oflT,  until  you  come 
to  the  tip,  is  called  the  second  cut,  and  is  sold  for  roasts 
or  steak.  The  tip  is  very  juic3^  The  whole  hind-quarter 
is  hung  up  by  the  shin,  the  juices  all  flow  down,  and  the 
tip  holds  a  large  portion.  The  muscles  which  are  the  least 
used  have  the  most  tender  fibre  and  the  least  juice.  These 
muscles,  lying  along  the  loin  or  middle  of  the  backbone, 
above  the  ribs,  and  forming  the  top  of  the  sirloin,  are  more 
tender,  but  less  juicy,  than  those  of  the  rump  and  round. 
The  tenderloin,  lying  along  the  middle  of  the  back  under 
the  sirloin,  from  below  the  tip  to  the  face  of  the  rump,  is 
protected  b}^  its  bed  of  suet  below,  and  its  roof  of  bones 
above.  It  is  a  muscle  very  little  used,  is  verj^  tender, 
but  dry,   and  entirel}"  without  flavor.      This  is  removed 


2i8  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

whole,  and  sold  as  the  long  fillet ;  or  divided,  and  the 
smaller  part,  Ij'ing  under  the  rump,  sold  as  the  short 
fillet. 

In  cold  weather  it  is  economy  to  buy  a  large  sirloin. 
Remove  the  fillet,  or  tenderloin,  and  cook  that  first,  as  it 


Fig.  22.    Tip  of  Sirloin. 

spoils  easily ;  corn  the  flank,  or  use  it  for  a  stew ;  and 
roast  the  upper  part.  If  very  large,  roast  it  slightly  the 
first  time,  and  it  ma}^  be  roasted  again  for  a  second  dinner. 

The  Fore  Quarter. 

The  back  half  of  the  fore  quarter  has  the  backbone  on 
the  upper  edge.  The  best  roasting  piece  is  the  first  cut  of 
the  rib,  which  joins  the  tip  of  the  sirloin,  and  is  sometimes 
sold  for  the  tip.  The  tip  has  only  one  thick  muscle  above 
the  rib,  and  the  bones  are  usually  slanting.  One  side  of 
the  first  cut  of  the  rib  looks  just  like  the  tip ;  the  other 
side  has  the  beginning  of  another  tough  muscle  next  to  the 
skin,  and  the  bones  are  straight.  There  are  ten  ribs  in 
the  fore  quarter ;  three  are  left  in  the  sirloin.  This  first 
cut  may  be  one,  two,  three,  or  four  ribs  ;  but  two  are 
enough  to  roast  for  a  small  family.  The  shoulder  blade 
begins  in  the  fifth  rib,  and  above  this  lie  what  are  called 
the  chuck  ribs.    The  meat  above  the  blade  is  tough,  and 


Tlie  Boston  Cook  Book. 


219 


only  suitable  for  stews.     The  part  underneath  is  cut  into 
small  steaks,  and  is  often  offered  for  sale  as  sirloin  steaks. 
The  shoulder  of  mutton,  just  above  the  fore  shin,  is  good 
for  braising  and  pie 
meat. 

The  rattle  rand  is 
divided  into  three 
long  narrow  strips, 
thick  and  lean  at 
the  upper  end,  and 
thin  and  fat  at  the 
lower  end,  all  of 
which  are  usually 
corned.  The  upper 
part,  called  the  rat- 
tle, is  divided  into 
three     cuts.       The 

thick  upper  end  is  preferred  by  those  who  like  lean  corned 
beef.  The  second  cut  has  straight  ribs  running  through  it, 
and  three  distinct  layers  of  meat  with  fat,  and  is  considered 
the  choicest  piece  hy  those  who  like  ' '  a  streak  of  fat  and 


Fig.  23.     First  Cut  of  Rib. 


Fig.  24.     Chuck  Rib,  with  six  ribs  removed. 


a  streak  of  lean."  The  middle  strip  has  a  thick  layer  of 
fat,  and  only  one  layer  of  lean,  and  the  bones  are  slanting. 
This  is  not  a  desirable  piece.  The  lower  strip  is  the 
brisket,  the  upper  end  of  which  is  thick ;  the  lower  end, 


220  The,  Boston  Cook  Book, 

toward  the  middle  of  the  creature,  is  called  the  navel  end. 
Brisket  pieces  alwaj's  have  what  is  called  a  selvedge  on 
the  lower  side,  and  the  breast  bones  running  at  right  angles 
with  the  rib.  After  a  little  experience  in  marketing  one 
maj^  easity  distinguish  the  various  cuts  of  beef.  It  is  well 
to  know  what  you  want,  and  to  know  whether  3'ou  get 
what  you  have  ordered. 

Roast  Sirloin  of  Beef. 

Six  or  eight  pounds  from  the  tip  or  second  cut  of  the  sirloin. 
Wipe,  trim,  and  tie  or  skewer  into  shape.  If  there  be  a 
large  piece  of  the  flank,  cut  it  off,  and  use  it  for  soups  or 
stews.  If  you  i^refer  to  use  it  for  this  purpose  after  roast- 
ing, draw  it  round  underneath  and  fasten  it  with  a  skewer. 
La}'  the  meat  on  a  rack  in  a  pan,  and  dredge  all  over  with 
salt^  pepper^  and  jlour.  Put  it  in  a  very  hot  oven  with  two 
or  three  tablespoonfids  of  drippings  or  pieces  of  the  beef  fat 
placed  in  the  pan.  Place  a  rack  under  the  pan,  or  turn  the 
heat  off  from  the  bottom  of  the  oven.  Put  the  skin  side 
down  at  first,  that  the  heat  ma}'  harden  the  juices  in  the 
lean  part.  When  the  flour  is  brown  on  the  pan  and  the 
meat  is  seared,  baste  with  the  fat  and  reduce  the  heat. 
Baste  often,  and  dredge  twice  with  salt  and  flour.  When 
seared  all  over,  turn  and  bring  the  skin  side  up  for  the 
final  basting  and  browning.  Bake  fifty  or  sixty  minutes, 
if  liked  very  rare ;  an  hour  and  a  quarter  to  an  hour  and 
a  half,  if  liked  well  done.  If  there  be  any  danger  of 
burning  the  fat  in  the  pan,  add  a  little  hot  water  after 
the  flour  is  browned.  Meat  may  be  roasted  and  carved 
better  if  placed  in  the  pan  and  on  the  platter  with  the 
skin  up  instead  of  the  flesh  side. 

Carve  a  sirloin  roast  by  cutting  several  thin  slices  parallel 
with  the  ribs.  Then  cut  down  near  the  backbone  and  sep- 
arate the  slices.  Cut  out  the  tenderloin  from  under  the 
bone,  and  slice  it  in  the  same  manner.  Many  turn  the 
sirloin  over  and  remove  the  tenderloin  first.  Serve  a  little 
of  the  crisp  fat  on  the  flank  to  those  who  wish  it. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  221 

Rih  Roast.  —  Remove  the  backbone  and  ribs.  Skewer  or 
tie  into  a  round  shape,  and  prepare  as  for  sirloin.  Allow 
a  longer  time  for  roasting,  as  the  meat  is  in  a  more  com- 
pact form  without  the  bones.  Place  it  skin  side  up  on  the 
platter,  and  carve  thin  slices  from  the  flesh  side. 

Tlie  Back  of  the  Rump.  —  This  is  the  best  and  cheapest 
piece  for  roasting,  as  the  meat  is  all  good  and  there  is  not 
as  much  bone  as  in  other  pieces.  It  is  usuaUy  too  large 
for  a  small  famity  ;  but  in  cold  weather  it  ma^'  be  used  to 
advantage,  b}^  cutting  steaks  from  the  thickest  end,  using 
the  small  end  for  a  roast  and  the  bones  for  soup. 

In  carving  the  rump,  when  the  bone  has  not  been  taken 
out,  a  deep  cut  should  be  made  at  the  base,  to  loosen  the 
meat;  then  the  slices  may  be  cut  lengthwise  or  crosswise. 
When  the  famil}'  is  large  and  all  the  meat  is  to  be  used, 
it  is  well  to  cut  it  lengthwise.  Should  onl}^  a  small  quan- 
tit}^  be  needed,  cut  only  from  the  small  end,  and  save  the 
tougher  parts  for  a  stew.  Man}^  think  it  more  economical 
to  serve  the  poorer  parts  the  first  da}',  as  they  are  then 
more  palatable,  reserving  the  tender  meat  to  be  served 
cold. 

Roast  from  the  Round.  —  A  slice  three  inches  thick,  from 
the  best  part  of  the  top  of  the  round,  may  be  dredged  with 
salt.^  pepper,  and  flour.,  and  roasted.  Carve  in  thin  slices, 
the  same  as  steak.  It  is  rather  tough,  but  juic}"  and  well 
flavored. 

Yorkshire  Pudding.  —  Beat  three  eggs  ver}'  light.  Add 
one  scant  teaspoonfid  of  salt  and  one  pint  of  milk.  Pour  half 
a  cup  of  this  mixture  on  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  four,  and 
stir  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  mixture 
and  beat  well.  Bake  in  hot  gem  pans  fortj'-five  minutes. 
Baste  with  the  drippings  from  the  beef.  This  is  a  more 
convenient  wa}'  than  to  bake  in  the  pan  under  the  beef, 
and  gives  more  crust.     Serve  as  a  garnish  for  roast  beef. 

Gravy  for  Roast  Beef  —  When  the  meat  is  done,  put  it 
on  a  plate,  and  keep  it  hot  while  making  the  gravy.  Hold 
the  corner  of  the  dripping-pan  over  a  bowl ;  let  the  liquid 
in  the  pan  settle ;  then  pour  off  all  the  fat  and  save  it. 


222  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

When  no  water  is  used  in  baking  and  the  oven  is  ver}^  hot^ 
this  liquid  will  be  the  fat  from  the  meat.  The  brown  flour 
will  settle,  and  some  will  adhere  to  the  pan.  Pour  one  pint 
of  hot  water  or  stock  into  the  pan,  and  scrape  off  all  the  sedi- 
ment. Pour  this  water  into  a  saucepan  from  which  it  may 
be  poured  easily,  and  place  it  on  the  stove  to  heat.  Put 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  the  hot  fat  into  a  small  frying-pan, 
and  when  browned  stir  in  two  heaping  tahlespoonfuJs  of  dry 
floiir^  or  enough  to  absorb  all  the  fat.  Stir  until  the  flour 
is  brown  and  well  mixed  ;  then  add  the  hot  liquid  grad- 
ually, and  stir  as  it  thickens.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper^ 
and  simmer  flve  minutes.  Strain  if  not  perfectly  smooth. 
Gravy  can  be  made  in  the  dripping-pan  ;  but  such  pans  are 
usualh"  large,  inconvenient  to  handle,  and  take  up  more 
space  than  can  be  spared  on  the  top  of  the  stove,  and  are 
much  harder  to  wash  when  the  grav}-  has  been  made  in 
them.  To  make  it  in  the  pan,  pour  off  nearlj-  all  the  fat. 
Put  the  pan  on  the  stove  and  add  dry  flour  until  the  fat  is 
all  absorbed.  Then  add  hot  water  or  hot  stocky  and  stir  as  it 
thickens.  Cook  five  to  eight  minutes,  and  strain.  It  is  well 
for  those  who  like  gravies  to  make  a  large  quantit}-,  as  it 
is  useful  in  warming  over  the  remnants  of  the  roast.  But 
there  is  no  sauce  or  made  grav}-  equal  to  the  natural 
juices  contained  in  the  meat,  which  should  flow  freely 
into  the  platter  when  the  meat  is  carved. 


Fig.  25.     Fillet  of  Beef. 


Fillet  of  Beef. — Wipe,  and  remove  the  fat,  veins,  and 
tough  tendinous  portion  in  the  middle.  Trim  into  shape. 
Lard  the  upper  side  (see  page  25).  Dredge  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  flour.     Put  several  pieces  of  pork  in  the  pan  under 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  225 

the  meat.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 
If  you  prefer,  omit  the  pork  and  put  the  choice  pieces  of 
beef  fat  over  the  meat.  Serve  with  mushroom  sauce.  Or 
brush  the  fillet  with  beaten  egg^  and  sprinkle  seasoned  and 
buttered  crumbs  all  over  it,  and  bake  thirt}'  minutes.  Or 
stuff  the  incisions  left  by  the  removal  of  the  veins  and 
tendons  with  any  stuffing  or  force-meat.  Dredge  with  salt 
and  flour ^  and  bake. 

Broiled  Steak. 

Wipe,  trim  off  the  superfluous  fat,  and  remove  the  bone. 
Save  the  flank  end  for  broiled  meat  cakes.  Grease  the 
gridiron  with  some  of  the  fat.  Broil  over  a  clear  fire, 
turning  every  ten  seconds.  Cook  three  or  four  minutes,  if 
liked  rare  ;  longer,  if  well  done.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter. 
Season  with  butter.,  salt,  and  pepper^  or  serve  with  Maitrp 
d'Hotel  butter.  Steaks  should  be  cut  at  least  an  inch 
thick.  Many  prefer  them  much  thicker.  Sirloin,  cross 
cut  of  the  rump,  and  top  of  the  round  are  all  good  steaks. 
The  round  is  juicy,  but  has  a  net  work  of  tough  white  fibre, 
which  makes  it  difficult  to  masticate.  If  the  steak  be  very 
tough,  pound  it  with  a  meat  hammer  (a  hammer  with  sharp 
teeth  for  cutting)  or  cut  across  it  several  times  with  a 
sharp  knife  on  each  side.  The  intense  heat  will  sear  the 
surface  quickl}',  and  prevent  the  escape  of  the  juices. 

Man}^  prefer  not  to  remove  the  bone  in  a  sirloin  steak ; 
but  it  burns  quickl}^,  and  is  better  for  the  soup  kettle  if 
not  cooked,  and  the  steak  is  more  easily  carved  when  the 
bone  is  removed.  Carve  in  narrow  slices,  giving  each 
person  a  bit  of  tenderloin,  fat,  and  upper  part. 

Broiled  Fillet  of  Beef  —  Cut  slices  from  the  tenderloin. 
Wipe  the  meat ;  grease  the  gridiron  ;  broil  over  a  clear 
fire,  turning  ever}^  ten  counts,  for  three  or  five  minutes. 
Spread  with  Maitre  d' Hotel  butter. 

Broiled  Meat  Cakes.  —  Chop  lean,  raw  beef  quite  fine. 
Season  with  scdt,  pepper,  and  a  little  chopped  onion,  or  onion 
juice.  Make  it  into  small  flat  cakes,  and  broil  on  a  well- 
greased  gridiron  or  on  a  hot  ftying-pan.     Serve  very  hot 


224  ^^^  Boston  Cook  Book. 

with  hutter  or  Mattre  d' Hotel  sauce.  The  flunk  end  of  the 
sirloin  is  better  when  cooked  in  this  manner  than  when 
broiled  with  the  other  part  of  the  steak. 

Hanihuryh  Steak.  —  Pound  a  slice  of  round  steak  enough 
to  break  the  fibre.  Fr}'  two  or  three  onions.,  minced  fine, 
in  hutter  until  slightlj"  browned.  Spread  the  onions  over 
the  meat,  fold  the  ends  of  the  meat  together,  and  pound 
again,  to  keep  the  onions  in  the  middle.  Broil  two  or 
three  minutes.     Spread  with  butter.,  salt.,  and  pepper. 


Braised  Beef. 

Four  to  six  pounds  of  beef  from  the  lower  part  of  the 
round  or  face  of  the  rump.  Trim,  and  rub  well  with  salt., 
pepper,  and  flour.  Cut  two  small  onions  into  dice,  and  fty 
them  until  light  brown  in  salt  pork  fat  or  drippings.  Skim 
them  out  into  a  braising-pan  or  large  granite  pan ;  then 
brown  the  meat  all  over,  adding  more  fat  if  needed.  Put 
the  meat  into  the  pan  on  skewers,  to  keep  it  from  stick- 
ing, with  the  onions  around.,  not  under,  the  meat.  Add 
one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  one  tahlespoonful  of  mixed 
herbs.,  which  should  be  tied  in  a  small  piece  of  strainer 
cloth.  Cover  closely,  putting  a  brick  on  the  cover  to  keep 
it  down,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  four  hours,  basting 
ever}^  twent}^  minutes.  Turn  over  after  two  hours  ;  add 
more  water  as  it  evaporates,  so  as  to  have  one  pint  left  for 
gravy.  When  tender,  take  up  the  meat,  remove  the  fat 
and  bag  of  herbs  from  the  grav}" ;  add  more  salt  and  pep- 
per., and  if  desired  add  lemon  juice.,  tomato.,  or  mushrooms  ; 
thicken  with  two  tahlespoonfuls  of  flour.,  wet  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Cook  ten  minutes,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the 
meat.  Garnish  with  potato  balls,  boiled  onions,  or  with  veg- 
etables a  la  Jardiniere.  Horseradish  sauce  may  be  served 
with  the  meat.  This  is  a  very  nutritious,  palatable,  and 
convenient  way  of  cooking  the  cheaper  parts  of  beef,  a 
cushion  of  veal,  tongues,  fowls,  liver,  and  some  other  kinds 
of  meat.  The  meat  is  equally  good  cold  or  hot ;  there  is 
no  waste  if  care  be  taken  not  to  let  it  become  hard  and  dry 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  225 

by  being  exposed  to  the  air.  This  method  of  cooking 
commends  itself  especiallj'  to  those  who  ''  are  tired  of 
roasted,  boiled,  or  fried  meat." 

Beef  a  la  Mode. 

Four  to  six  pounds  from  the  under  part  of  the  round  of 
heef^  cut  thick.  Wipe,  and  trim  off  the  rough  edges.  Put 
it  in  a  deep  earthen  dish,  and  pour  ovei  it  spiced  vine- 
gar, made  hy  boiling  for  five  minutes  one  cup  of  vinegar, 
one  onion  ^  chopped  fine  ^  three  teaspoonfids  of  salt,  and  half  a 
teaspoon/id  each  of  vnustard,  pepper,  cloves,  and  allspice. 
Let  the  meat  stand  several  hours,  turning  it  often.  Then 
daub  it  with  ten  or  twelve  strips  of  salt  pork,  cut  one  third  of 
a7i  inch  wide,  and  as  long  as  the  meat  is  thick,  inserting 
them  with  a  larding-needle  or  carving-steel.  Or  make 
large  incisions  and  stuff  with  bread  crumbs,  highly  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper,  onions,  thyme,  marjoram,  etc.,  moistened 
with  hot  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  one  well-beaten 
egg.  Tie  it  into  good  shape  with  a  narrow  strip  of  cotton 
cloth,  to  keep  in  the  stuffing.  Dredge  with  flour.  Cut 
two  onions,  half  a  carrot,  and  half  a  turnip  fine,  and  fry 
them  in  fat  or  drippings  until  brown.  Put  them  in  the 
stewpan.  Then  brown  the  meat  all  over  in  the  fat ;  put 
it  on  a  trivet  in  the  pan,  and  half  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Add  one  tablespoonful  of  mixed  herbs,  tied  in  a  small 
strainer  cloth.  Cover  closel}^  and  simmer  four  hours,  or 
until  tender.  Take  it  up  carefull3%  remove  the  strings,  and 
put  it  on  a  large  platter.  Remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy, 
add  more  seasoning,  and  thicken  with  flour  wet  in  a  little 
cold  water ;  boil  eight  minutes,  and  strain  it  over  the  meat. 
Garnish  with  potato  balls  and  small  onions. 

Beef  Stew  with  Dumplings. 

The  aitch  bone  is  the  nicest  piece  for  a  beef  stew.  There 
is  some  ver}^  juic}'  meat  on  the  upper  side  in  the  large 
muscle  which  lies  next  to  the  top  of  the  round,  and  it  will 
serve  a  small  family  for  a  roast,  and  then  may  be  made 

15 


12^  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

into  a  stew.  The  flavor  obtained  b}-  roasting  adds  much 
to  the  stew  ;  for  this  reason,  wiien  the  meat  has  not  been 
cooked,  brown  it  in  a  little  fat  before  stewing.  The  bones 
should  never  be  chopped  and  splintered,  but  sawed  care- 
fully, and  all  the  fine,  crumblj^  pieces  removed  before 
cooking.  Other  good  pieces  for  stews  are  two  or  three 
pounds  from  the  middle  cut  of  the  shin^  or  the  fiank  end  of 
a  large  sirloin  roast,  or  the  upper  part  of  the  chuck  rib. 
Any  part  that  has  bone  and  fat,  as  well  as  lean,  either 
cooked  or  uncooked,  makes  the  best-flavored  stew.  The 
fat  and  bones  may  be  removed  before  serving,  and  such 
pieces  are  much  better  than  dr}^  lean  meat.  Remove  the 
meat  from  the  bones,  and  put  them  with  part  of  the  fat 
into  the  stewpan.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  and  if  not 
previoush^  cooked,  dredge  with  salt^  pepper^  andjlour,  and 
brown  all  over  in  salt  pork  fat  or  drippings.  Put  it  into 
the  stewpan.  Cut  two  onions,  one  small  white  turnip,  and 
half  a  small  carrot  (if  you  like  the  flavor)  into  half-inch 
dice.  Cook  them  slightly  in  the  dripping,  and  add  them 
to  the  stew.  Add  hoiling  water  enough  to  coA^er,  and  sim- 
mer  two  or  three  hours,  or  till  the  meat  is  tender.  Remove 
the  bones,  and  skim  off  the  fat.  While  the  meat  is  cook- 
ing pare  six  or  eight  small  potatoes,  and  soak  them  in  cold 
water.  When  the  meat  is  tender,  pour  boiling  water  over 
them,  and  boil  five  minutes  to  take  out  the  acrid  taste. 
Drain,  and  add  them  to  the  stew.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  When  dumplings  are  to  be  served  with  the  stew, 
add  them  when  the  potatoes  are  nearty  done.  The  liquor 
should  come  up  just  even  with  the  potatoes,  that  the  dump- 
phngs  may  rest  on  them.  Cover  closeh^  to  keep  in  the 
steam,  and  cook  ten  minutes  without  lifting  the  cover. 
Take  out  the  dumplings,  put  the  meat  and  potatoes  in 
the  centre  of  a  hot  platter,  and  the  dumplings  round  the 
edge. 

Remove  the  fat,  and  add  more  salt  and  pepper,  if  needed, 
to  the  broth  ;  and  if  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  flour 
wet  smooth  in  cold  water,  and  boil  five  minutes o  Add  one 
cup  of  strained  tomato  and  one  teaspoonful  of  chovped  parsley. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  227 

Pour  the  gravy  over  the  nieat,  putting  part  of  it  in  a  sauce 
tureen  if  there  be  more  than  the  platter  will  hold. 

Dumplings.  —  One  pint  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt., 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  (or  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking -p ow der) .  Mix  with 
one  scant  cup  of  sweet  milk  into  a  dough  soft  enough  to 
handle  easil}'.  Pat  it  out  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  in  small 
rounds,  or  mix  softer  and  drop  by  the  spoonful  into  the 
boiling  stew.     Cook  ten  minutes. 


Rolled  Flank  of  Beef. 

Four  ov  five  pounds  of  the  flank.  Wipe,  and  remove  the 
skin,  membrane,  and  extra  fat.  Pound  and  trim  until  of 
uniform  thickness.  Make  a  stuflSng  with  one  cup  of  cracker 
crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  chopped  salt  pork,  half  a 
teaspoonfid  of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  each  of  thyme,  marjoram, 
and  sage,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice,  or  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion,  and  one  egg. 
Moisten  with  hot  water  until  soft  enough  to  spread  over  the 
meat.  Roll  over,  and  tie  or  sew  securely.  Wrap  a  cloth 
around  it.  Put  it  into  boiling  water,  and  simmer  six 
hours  or  until  tender.  Remove  the  cloth,  press  it,  and 
when  cold  remove  the  strings.  Serve  cold,  cut  in  thin 
slices.  Corned  flank  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 
The  stuflSng  may  be  omitted,  and  the  meat  covered  with 
vinegar  spiced  and  flavored  with  onion,  and  after  remain- 
ing in  the  pickle  several  hours,  rolled,  and  boiled  as  above. 

Smothered  Beef,  or  Pot  Roast. 

Four  to  six  pounds  from  the  middle  ov  face  of  the  rump, 
the  vein,  or  the  round.  Wipe  with  a  clean  wet  cloth. 
Sear  all  over  by  placing  in  a  hot  frying-pan  and  turning 
till  all  the  surface  is  browned.  Put  in  a  kettle  with  one 
cup  of  water,  and  place  it  where  it  will  keep  just  below  the 
boiling-point.  Do  not  let  the  water  boil  entirely  awa3^ 
but  add  only  enough  to   keep  the    meat   from    burning 


228  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Have  the  cover  fitting  closel}^  to  keep  in  the  steam.  Cook 
until  veiy  tender,  but  do  not  let  it  break.  Serve  hot  or 
cold.  The  meat  when  cold  is  delicious,  cut  in  quarter- 
inch  slices,  and  sauted  in  hot  butter. 

Spiced  Beef. 

Four  to  six  pounds  from  the  middle  cut  of  the  shin.  Wash 
the  meat  on  the  outside,  and  cut  off  any  part  of  the  skin 
which  is  not  sweet  and  clean.  Pick  off  all  the  fine  frag- 
ments of  bone.  Cut  the  meat  into  several  pieces  ;  cover 
with  boiling  water.  Skim  carefully  as  it  boils,  and  then 
simmer  until  the  meat  falls  to  pieces,  and  the  liquor  is 
reduced  to  half  a  pint.  Remove  the  meat ;  season  the 
liquor  highty  with  salt.,  pepper.,  sage,  and  thyme.  Add  it 
to  the  meat,  and  mix  with  a  fork  till  the  meat  is  all 
broken.  Pack  in  a  brickloaf  pan.  When  cold,  cut  in 
thin  slices. 

Corned  Beef. 

Select  a  piece  of  beef  which  has  a  fair  proportion  of  fat,  — 
the  brisket  or  second  cut  of  rattle  rand.  If  ver\'  salt,  soak 
in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Put  on  to  boil  in  fresh  cold 
water,  enough  to  cover  it ;  skim  carefully  when  it  begins  to 
boil,  and  cook  slowl}',  simmering  (not  boiling)  until  so 
tender  that  you  can  pick  it  to  pieces  with  a  fork.  Let  the 
water  boil  away  toward  the  last,  and  let  the  beef  stand  in 
the  water  until  partially  cooled.  Lift  it  out  of  the  water 
with  a  skimmer,  and  pack  it  in  a  brickloaf  pan ;  let  the 
long  fibres  run  the  length  of  the  pan ;  mix  in  the  fat  so 
that  it  will  be  well  marbled.  Put  a  thin  board,  a  trifle 
smaller  than  the  inside  of  the  pan,  over  the  meat,  and  press 
by  putting  a  heavy  weight  on  the  board.  When  cold,  cut 
in  thin  slices.  It  has  a  very  attractive  appearance,  and  is 
a  delicious  wa}-  of  preparing  the  meat.  It  is  also  the  most 
appetizing  way  of  serving  the  fat  of  the  meat,  which  in 
corned  beef  is  the  most  nutritious  part  and  is  often  un- 
touched if  offered  in  a  mass  on  the  edffe  of  the  lean. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  229 

An  Old-fashioned  Boiled  Dinner.     {Mrs.  Poor.) 

Notwithstanding  that  this  dish  has  fallen  into  ill-repute 
with  many  people,  it  mai/  be  prepared  so  as  to  be  both  pal- 
atable and  nutritious  for  those  who  exercise  freel3\  It  is 
more  suitable  for  cold  seasons.  The  most  healthful  and 
economical  wa}',  though  perhaps  not  the  old-fashioned  wa^', 
is  to  boil  the  beef  the  day  before. 

Four  pounds  of  corned  beef  ,  two  or  three  beets,  a  small  cab- 
bage, two  small  carrots,  one  small  white  French  turnip,  six  or 
eight  potatoes  of  uniform  size,  and  one  small  crooked-neck 
squash. 

Wash  and  soak  the  corned  beef  in  cold  water,  and  put  it 
on  to  boil  in  fresh  cold  water  ;  skim,  and  simmer  until  ten- 
der, but  not  long  enough  for  it  to  fall  to  pieces.  Let  it 
cool  in  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Put  it  into  a 
flat  shallow  dish,  cover  it  with  a  board,  and  press  it. 
Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  meat  liquor,  and  save  it  to 
clarify  for  shortening.  Save  the  meat  liquor,  but  do  not 
let  it  stand  in  an  iron  kettle  or  tin  pan.  Boil  tl;ie  beets 
the  day  before,  also,  and  cover  them  with  vinegar.  The 
next  da}^  prepare  the  vegetables.  Wash  them  all,  scrape 
the  carrots,  and  cut  the  cabbage  into  quarters  ;  pare  the 
turnip  and  squash,  and  cut  into  three-quarter-inch  slices, 
and  pare  the  potatoes.  Put  the  meat  liquor  on  to  boil 
about  two  hours  before  dinner  time  ;  when  boihng,  put  in 
the  carrots,  afterward  the  cabbage  and  turnip,  and  half  an 
hour  before  dinner  add  the  squash  and  potatoes.  When 
tender,  take  the  vegetables  up  carefully ;  drain  the  water 
from  the  cabbage  by  pressing  it  in  a  colander.  Slice  the 
carrots.  Put  the  cold  meat  in  the  centre  of  a  large  dish, 
and  serve  the  carrots,  turnips,  and  potatoes  round  the  edge^ 
with  the  squash,  cabbage,  and  pickled  beets  in  separate 
dishes  ;  or  serve  each  vegetable  in  a  dish  b}^  itself.  This 
may  all  be  done  the  same  day  if  the  meat  be  put  on  to 
boil  verj^  early,  removed  as  soon  as  tender,  the  fat  taken 
off,  and  the  vegetables  added  to  the  boiling  meat  liquor, 
beginning  with  those  which  require  the  longest  time  to 


230  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

cook.  This  will  depend  very  much  upon  their  freshness. 
But  whichever  wa}'  the  dish  is  prepared,  boil  the  beets 
alone,  remove  the  meat  and  fat  before  adding  the  vege- 
tables, and  serve  each  as  whole  and  daintil}-  as  possible. 
The  next  morning  use  what  remains  of  the  vegetables  as  a 
vegetable  hash. 

Vegetable  Hash.  — Equal  parts  of  cabbage.,  beets ^  and  tur- 
nips., and  as  much  potato  as  there  is  of  all  the  other  vege- 
tables. Chop  all  ver}^  fine;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper; 
put  a  spoonful  of  drippings  in  the  fr3ing-pan,  and  when 
hot  add  the  hash,  and  cook  slowl}^  until  warmed  through. 

Tongue  in  Jelly. 

Wash  a  fresh  tongue,  and  skewer  the  tip  to  the  root. 
Cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water  ;  remove  the  skin  ; 
trim  and  tie  it  in  good  shape.  Season  two  quarts  of  soup 
stock  highl}^  with  salt.,  pepper.,  herbs.,  and  wine  or  lemon. 
Clear  it  with  eggs^  and  stifi'en  with  the  proportion  of  Cox's 
gelatine.,  as  given  for  Aspic  Jelly.  Pour  a  little  jellj'  into 
a  mould ;  when  cool,  la}"  in  the  cold  tongue,  and  add  the 
remainder  of  the  jellj'  slowlj'. 

Smoked  Tongue.  —  Smoked  tongues  are  much  more  pala- 
table, though  not  so  economical  as  when  fresh.  Bend  the 
tip  of  the  tongue  around,  and  tie  it  to  the  root.  Put  it  in 
cold  wat&r  and  place  over  the  fire.  When  the  water  boils, 
pour  off  the  water,  and  put  it  on  again  in  cold  water. 
Boil  until  tender,  or  about  two  hours.  Remove  the  skin, 
roots,  and  fat.  Pour  a  white  sauce  over  the  tongue,  and 
serve  it  hot ;  or  serve  it  cold  with  a  salad  dressing. 
Tongues  may  also  be  braised  (see  Braised  Beef,  page  224) 
and  served  hot  or  cold. 

Lyonnaise  Tripe. 

Tripe  should  always  be  boiled  twent}^  to  thirty  minutes 
before  cooking,  or  it  will  be  tough. 

Cut  the  tripe  in  small  pieces  ;  boil  twenty-five  minutes, 
and  drain.     Fry  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion  in  one 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  2^1 

heaping  taUespoonful  of  butter  till  yellow.  Add  the  tripe, 
one  taUespoonful  of  vinegar,  and  one  taUespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Simmer  five  minutes, 
and  serve  plain  or  on  toast. 

Broiled  Tripe.  — Boil  the  tripe  twenty  minutes  ;  dry  it, 
spread  with  soft  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  broil  until 
brown. 

Tripe  in  Batter. — Boil  the  tripe  twenty  minutes.  Cut 
in  pieces  two  inches  square,  dip  in  batter,  and  fry  in  salt 
porh  fat  in  a  frying-pan. 

Batter.  —  One  egg,  one  quarter  of  a  cup  of  water,  one 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  flour  to 
make  almost  a  drop  batter. 

Liver. 

Soak  ten  minutes  in  boiling  water  to  draw  out  the 
blood.  Drain ;  remove  the  thin  skin  and  veins.  Cut 
into  pieces  for  serving.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
roll  in  flour,  and  fty  in  salt  pork  or  baco7i  fat.  Drain,  and 
serve  with  a  brown  gravy,  seasoned  with  onion,  lemon 
juice,  or  vinegar.  Or  spread  with  butter,  and  broil,  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

Kidneys. 

Beef  and  sheep's  kidneys  are  often  recommended  for 
food  on  account  of  their  cheapness.  Epicures  are  fond 
of  them.  The  taste  for  them  is  an  acquired  taste,  which 
it  is  not  desirable  to  cultivate.  The  latest  decision  of 
physicians  is  that  they  are  not  suitable  to  eat ;  as*' from 
their  constant  use  in  the  animal  system  as  excretory  or- 
gans,—  organs  which  separate  from  the  blood  that  which, 
if  it  remained  in  the  blood,  would  poison  the  system, — 
they  are  often  liable  to  become  diseased." 


232  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


MUTTON   AND   LAMB. 

Mutton  stands  next  to  beef  in  nutritive  qualities,  and 
with  many  has  even  more  value  as  food,  because  more 
easily  digested.  In  mutton  about  one  half  the  weight  is 
in  fat,  while  with  beef  it  is  onh'  one  third. 

The  choicest  mutton  comes  from  the  mountainous  re- 
gions of  Pennsjdvania,  Virginia,  and  North  Carolina. 
Good  mutton  should  be  large  and  heav}^,  the  fat  clear 
white  and  very  hard,  the  flesh  fine-grained  and  bright 
red.  Poor  mutton  has  but  little  fat,  and  little  flesh  as 
compared  with  the  bone. 

Mutton  is  cut  at  the  market  by  splitting  down  the  back, 
and  dividing  at  the  loin  into  the  hind  and  fore  quarters ; 
or  the  hind  and  fore  quarters  are  separated  without  split- 
ting, and  the  loin  is  taken  out  whole  and  sold  as  the  sad- 
dle of  mutton.  The  leg,  loin,  and  saddle  are  best  for 
roasting,  and  are  better  if  kept  for  some  time  before  cook- 
ing. The  leg,  if  to  be  boiled,  should  be  fresh.  The  fore 
quarter  is  good  boned  and  stuflTed ;  then  steamed,  and 
browned  in  the  oven.  The  neck  and  bones  are  used  for 
broths  and  stews.  Chops  are  cut  from  the  ribs  and  from 
the  loin.  The  rib  chops  are  sometimes  cut  long,  with  the 
flank  on.  The  bone  is  removed  and  the  meat  rolled. 
These  roll  chops  are  not  economical,  as  the  flank  forms  the 
greater  part.  French  chops  are  cut  short  from  the  rib^ 
and  the  flesh  is  scraped  clean  from  the  end  of  the  bone. 
The  best-flavored,  most  tender,  and  cheapest  in  the  end, 
are  the  chops  from  the  loin.  They  have  very  little  bone, 
and  a  piece  of  tenderloin. 

Mutton  has  a  strong  flavor,  disagreeable  to  many.  It 
is  said  to  be  caused  by  the  oil  from  the  wool,  which  pen- 
etrates the  skin.  The  pink  skin  above  the  fat  should 
always  be  removed  from  chops,  and  wherever  it  is  pos- 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  233 

sible,  scrape  it  off  without  cutting  into  the  lean.  The 
caul,  or  lining  membrane  of  the  abdomen,  is  fastened 
round  the  meat,  particularly  on  the  leg,  partly  to  increase 
its  weight.  This  is  often  left  on  in  roasting  to  help  baste 
the  meat ;  but  it  gives  a  strong  flavor,  and  should  always 
be  removed,  and  the  kidney  fat  used  if  needed.  If  care 
be  taken  in  selecting  only  the  best  mutton,  and  in  cook- 
ing it  in  the  best  manner,  many  who  have  become  preju- 
diced against  it  could  eat  it  with  as  much  relish  as  beef. 
Mutton  may  be  cooked  rare,  but  lamb  should  always  be 
well  cooked.  The  end  of  the  bone  in  a  leg  of  mutton  is 
smooth  and  oval,  and  is  separated  at  the  joint ;  while 
lamb  may  be  known  from  mutton  by  the  flat,  irregularly 
grooved  end  of  the  bone,  which  is  broken  off  squarelj^, 
instead  of  separated  at  the  joint.  Sometimes  the  bone 
is  cut  off  close  to  the  second  joint,  and  then  you  will  have 
to  depend  upon  the  word  of  3^our  butcher. 

Saddle  or  Loin  of  Mutton  or  Lamb. 

Trim  off  all  the  pink  skin  and  superfluous  fat.  Remove 
the  ends  of  the  ribs,  the  cord,  and  veins  along  the  back. 
Wipe,  and  rub  the  inside  with  salt.  Roll  the  flank  under 
on  each  side,  and  sew  it  across  the  middle.  Dredge  with 
salt^  pepper^  and  Jloiir  ;  place  it  in  the  pan,  with  the  inside 
up,  in  order  to  thoroughly  cook  the  fat.  Baste,  and 
dredge  often.  When  the  fat  is  brown  and  crisp,  turn, 
and  cook  the  upper  part  till  brown.  Keep  a  buttered 
paper  over  it  to  prevent  burning. 

Carve  long  slices  parallel  with  the  backbone,  then  slip 
the  knife  under  and  separate  the  slices  from  the  ribs. 
Di\^de  the  slices,  and  serve  with  some  of  the  crisp  fat. 

A  loin  of  mutton  ma}^  be  stuffed  and  rolled,  having  first 
removed  the  ends  of  the  ribs.  Bake,  and  serve  in  slices 
cut  at  right  angles  with  the  backbone. 

Leg  of  Mutton,  Stuffed  and  Roasted. 

Remove  the  bone  ;  wipe  inside  and  out  with  a  wet  cloth  ; 
sprinkle  the  inside  with  salt ;  stuff  and  sew.     Put  it  on  a 


234  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


rack  in  a  dripping-pan,  with  some  of  the  kidney  suet  on 
the  meat  and  in  the  pan.  Dredge  with  salt^  'pe'pper^  and 
flour ^  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Baste  as  soon  as  the  flour 
is  brown,  and  baste  often.  Bake  one  hour,  if  liked  rare ; 
one  hour  land  a  quarter,  if  well  done. 

Stuffing.  —  One  cup  of  cracker  or  stale  bread  crumbs. 
Season  with  one  saltspoonful  each  of  salt,  pepper^  thyme^  or 
marjoram,  and  moisten  with  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  melted 
butter.     Add  hot  water  if  a  moist  stuffing  be  desired. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton  or  Lamb.  —  Wipe,  remove  the  fat, 
and  put  into  well-salted  boiling  water.  Skim,  and  simmer 
twelve  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat.  One  quarter  of  a 
cup  of  rice  is  sometimes  boiled  with  the  mutton,  or  the 
meat  may  be  tied  in  a  cloth  to  keep  it  from  becoming 
discolored.  Serve  with  a  thick  caper  sauce  poured  over  the 
mutton.     Garnish  with  parsley.    Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

Carve  slices  from  the  thickest  part  of  the  leg  down  to 
the  bone  ;  then  slip  the  knife  under  and  remove  the  slices 
from  the  bone.  The  thickest  part  of  the  leg  should  be 
toward  the  back  of  the  platter. 

What  to  do  with  a  Fore  Quarter  of  Mutton. 

Mutton  Duch.  —  Select  a  fore  quarter  of  mutton  with 
the  whole  length  of  the  leg  bone  left  on.  Ask  the  butcher 
to  cut  off  what  is  called  a  raised  shoulder,  that  is,  raised 
from  the  backbone  and  ribs,  cutting  it  far  up  on  the 
shoulder  to  take  in  the  whole  of  the  shoulder  blade,  bone, 
and  gristle.  You  may  cut  it  yourself  by  removing  the 
neck,  the  back  bones,  the  ribs,  and  breast  bones,  leaving 
the  shoulder  blade  in  the  upper  part.  Then  scrape  the 
flesh  from  the  shoulder  blade,  and  separate  the  blade  at 
the  joint.  Lay  it  aside  for  further  use.  Remove  the  meat 
from  the  leg  bone,  turning  the  meat  over,  as  you  would 
turn  a  glove  over  your  hand.  Be  careful  not  to  cut 
through  the  thin  skin  at  the  end  of  the  leg.  When  within 
three  inches  of  the  lower  joint,  saw  the  bone  off,  and  saw 
or^  trim  the  bone  below  the  joint  into  the  shape  of  a  duck's 
bill.     Bend  the  joint  without  breaking  the  skin.     Wipe  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh  235 

meat  and  rub  inside  with  salt.  Make  a  moist  stuffing  and 
put  it  in  between  the  la3^ers  of  meat.  With  a  coarse  needle 
threaded  with  twine  gather  the  edges  of  the  meat,  di'aw 
them  together,  fill  the  cavity  with  stufling,  and  shape  the 
meat  into  a  long  oval  form  like  the  body  of  a  duck.  Bend 
the  leg  at  the  lower  joint  to  represent  the  duck's  head  and 
neck,  and  keep  it  in  place  with  skewers.     Run  one  skewer 


Fig.  26.    Mutton  Duck. 

through  the  side  at  the  top  of  the  body,  and  put  one  into  the 
body  on  each  side  of  the  neck.  Wind  a  string  around  the 
bill,  and  fasten  it  to  the  skewers.  Scrape  the  shoulder  blade 
clean,  trim  the  bony  end  into  a  sharp  point,  and  notch  the 
gristle  at  the  opposite  end.  Insert  this  in  the  body  to 
represent  the  tail,  and  fasten  with  twine.  Put  the  bones 
and  scraps  of  meat  in  water  in  a  steamer  or  kettle.  Place 
the  duck  on  a  plate,  and  steam  it  over  the  bones  one  hour 
to  make  it  tender.  Dredge  with  salt,  pepper^  and  flour ^ 
and  bake  one  hour,  or  till  brown ;  use  the  water  in  the 
kettle  for  basting  if  needed,  or  for  a  grav}^  Tie  paper 
over  the  head  and  tail  to  prevent  burning.  This  ma}''  be 
made  of  lamb,  and  if  tender  will  require  no  steaming. 
Garnish  with  parsley  and  Scotch  eggs^  or  with  any  kind  of 
force-meat  halls,  crumbed  and  fried,  or  with  egg-shaped 
potato  croquettes. 

This  Mock  Duck  is  an  attractive  way  of  serving  what  is 
usualty  considered  an  inferior  piece  of  meat,  and  solves  the 
vexing  problem,  "  how  to  carve  a  fore  quarter  of  mutton." 


236  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Tbe  bones  may  be  entirely  removed,  and  the  meat 
stuffed,  and  sewed  in  an  oval  shape,  then  steamed  and 
browned  ;  this  will  prove  just  as  palatable  to  those  who  do 
not  crave  something  new.  In  serving,  cut  it  across  in 
medium  slices. 

Braised  Mutton. — Bone  and  stuff  the  leg  or  the  fore 
quarter,  as  directed  in  the  preceding  receipts  ;  cut  the  bone 
at  the  joints.  Add  oysters  to  the  stuffing  if  preferred, 
and  cook  the  same  as  braised  beef.  The  breast  of  mut- 
ton may  be  boned  and  rolled  without  stuffing  and  then 
braised. 

Lamh  or  Mutton  Chops.  —  Wipe  with  a  wet  cloth;  re- 
move the  skin  and  extra  fat ;  have  a  fiying-pan  hissing 
hot,  without  any  fat ;  put  in  the  chops  and  cook  one 
minute,  turn,  and  sear  the  other  side  ;  cook  more  slowly 
until  done,  five  minutes  if  liked  rare.  Stand  them  up 
on  the  fat  edge  to  brown  the  fat,  without  over-cooking 
the  meat.  When  nearly  done,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  each 
side.  Drain  on  paper,  and  serve  hot,  either  plain  or  with 
tomato  or  Soubise  sauce. 

Mutton  Outlets,  Breaded.  — Trim  the  cutlets,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  in  crumbs,  beaten  egg,  and  crumbs 
again,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat,  four  to  six 
minutes  if  rare,  eight  to  ten  if  well  done.  Ar- 
range in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  tomato 
sauce  around  them,  or  place  them  around  a  mound 
of  mashed  potatoes  or  spinach.  Trim  the  bones 
with  a  paper  ruffle;  or  arrange  them  with  the 
bone  end  up,  stacked  like  baj^onets,  and  gar- 
nish with  stuffed  tomatoes. 

Chops  en  Papillote.  — Wipe,  trim,  wrap  in  but- 
tered papers,  and  broil  from  three  to  five  min- 
utes ;  season,  and  serve  plain  or  trimmed  with  paper 
ruffles.  Or  make  a  thick  sauce  with  one  cup  of  boiling 
stock,  thickened  with  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  cooked  together  and  flavored 
with  mushrooms.,  parsley,  and  lemon  juice.  La}^  the  cutlets 
on   clean  papers,    spread   the  sauce  over  them,   fold  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh. 


237 


edges,  place  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Serve 
in  the  papers.  If  the  chops  be  tough,  dip  them  in  olive  oil 
before  broiling. 

Fricassee  of  Mut- 
ton or  Lamb  with 
Peas.  —  Cut  two 
pounds  of  the  breast 
of  mutton  or  lamb 
into  square  pieces. 
Dredge  with  salt 
and  jiour.,  and 
brown  in  butter 
or  drippings.  Put 
them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  07ie  onion 
sliced,  cover  with 
hoilinq  water,  and 

..,      ,.  Fig  28.     Chop. 

Simmer   until    the 

bones  slip  out.  Remove  the  bones,  strain  the  liquor,  skim 
off  the  fat,  and  when  the  liquor  boils  again,  add  the  meat, 
salt^  and  'pepper^  and  stew  until 
nearlj-  tender ;  then  add  one  quart 
of  'peas^  or  one  pint  of  boiled  mac- 
aroni cut  into  half -inch  pieces,  or 
one  pint  of  asparagus  tips^  and  sim- 
mer fifteen  minutes. 

Mutton  Stew  for  Two. —  Two  mut- 
ton chops,  cut  from  near  the  shoul- 
der. Put  them  in  a  shallow  pan 
having  a  tight  cover.  Pour  on 
boiling  water  to  the  depth  of  one 
inch  ;  cover  and  simmer  one  hour  ; 
add  more  water  as  it  boils  awsij. 
using  onty  enough  to  keep  the 
meat  from  burning.  Add  two 
slices  of  French  turnip,  two  small 
onions  whole  ;  and  when  the  meat  and  turnip  are  nearly 
tender,  add  two  common-sized  potatoes,  having  first  soaked 


Fig.  29.     Chop  in  Paper. 


238  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

and  scalded  them.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little 
pepper.  Remove  the  vegetables  without  breaking  ;  let  the 
water  boil  nearly  away,  leaving  enough  for  a  gravy.  Re- 
move the  fat,  thicken  the  grav}^  with  jiour^  and  if  needed 
add  salt  and  tomato  catchup.     Pour  it  over  the  meat. 

Gurry  of  Mutton.  — Fry  one  large  onion^  cut  fine,  in  one 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Mix  one  tablespoonful  of 
curry  powder^  one  teaspoonful  of  salt^  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour ^  and  stir  it  into  the  butter  and  onion.  Add  gradu- 
ally one  pint  of  hot  water  or  stock.  Cut  two  pounds  of  lean 
mutton  into  small  pieces,  and  brown  them  in  hot  fat ;  add 
them  to  the  sauce,  and  simmer  until  tender.  Place  the 
meat  on  a  hot  dish,  and  arrange  a  border  of  boiled  rice 
or  Turkish  pilaf  ixvomid  the  meat.  Slices  of  cold  cooked 
mutton  ma}^  be  used  instead  of  the  fresh  meat.  Veal 
curry  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

Ragout  of  Mutton.,  made  from  the  fore  quarter,  or  any 
cooked  mutton,  may  be  prepared  as  directed  for  beef 
stew,  adding  carrots  and  turnips  cut  small,  and  seasoning 
highly. 

Sheep's  Tongues,  Braised. 

Wash,  dredge  with  salt  and  flour ^  and  brown  in  salt  pork 
fat,  with  one  or  two  minced  onions.  Put  them  in  a  pan 
with  water  or  stock  to  half  cover ;  add  one  sprig  of  parsley, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper  ;  cover  and  cook  two  hours,  or  until 
tender.  Remove  the  skin,  and  trim  neatly  at  the  roots. 
Place  a  mound  of  spinach  in  the  centre  of  the  dish  ;  ar- 
range the  tongues  around  the  spinach,  alternating  with 
diamonds  of  fried  bread. 

Lambs'  Tongues,  Boiled. — Boil  six  tongues  in  salted 
water,  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  until  tender.  Serve 
cold  with  Tartar  sauce.  Or  pickle  them  by  covering  with 
hot  spiced  vinegar. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  239 


VEAL. 

Veal  is  always  in  the  market,  bat  is  better  in  the 
spring.  The  fat  should  be  white  and  clear  ;  and  the  lean, 
pink  or  flesh  color.  If  the  flesh  be  white,  the  calf  has 
been  bled  before  being  killed,  and  the  meat  is  unfit  to  eat. 
Veal  contains  less  nitrogen,  but  more  gelatine,  than  beef. 
It  has  very  little  flavor,  and  needs  to  be  highlj^  seasoned 
to  make  it  even  palatable.  Veal  stands  lowest  among 
heat-producing  meats,  and  should  be  eaten  with  potatoes 
or  rice,  which  stand  highest,  or  with  bacon  and  jelly,  which 
furnish  in  their  fat  and  sugar  the  carbon  wanting  in  the 
flesh.  It  should  always  be  thoroughly  cooked,  as  under- 
done veal  is  not  wholesome.  At  its  lowest  price  veal  is 
never  a  cheap  food  when  we  take  into  consideration  the 
small  amount  of  nutriment  it  contains,  the  large  amount  of 
fuel  required  to  cook  it,  and  the  danger  of  being  made  ill 
b}^  its  use. 

The  lower  part  of  the  leg  or  knuckle  and  all  the  gristl}^ 
portions  are  used  for  soups.  Cutlets,  or  steaks,  the  fillet, 
fricandeau,  or  cushion,  are  cut  from  the  thickest  part  of 
the  leg.  The  loin  is  used  for  chops  or  roasts,  the  breast 
for  roasts,  and  the  neck  for  stews  and  soups.  Calf  s  head 
and  pluck  includes  the  lights,  heart,  and  liver.  The  head 
is  used  for  soup,  the  heart  and  liver  for  braising.  The 
hghts  are  now  seldom  used. 

Roast  Veal. 

The  loin,  breast,  and  fillet  (a  thick  piece  from  the  upper 
part  of  the  leg)  are  the  best  pieces  for  roasting.  The 
bone  should  be  removed  from  the  fillet,  and  the  cavity 
filled  with  a  highly  seasoned  and  very  moist  stuffing.  Tie 
or  skewer  into  a  round  shape.     Dredge  with  salt^  pepper^ 


240  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

and  flour.  Put  strips  of  pork  over  the  top,  and  bake. 
Allow  half  an  hour  to  a  pound.  Cover  with  a  buttered 
paper  to  keep  the  meat  from  burning.  Add  water,  when 
the  flour  has  browned,  and  baste  often.  Serve  with  horse- 
radish or  tomato  sauce. 

Fricandeau  of  Veal.  —  This  is  made  of  a  thick  piece  of 
lean  meat  from  the  top  of  the  leg.  Trim  it  off  high  in  the 
centre  and  thin  on  the  edges,  and  lard  the  top.  Braise  it 
in  stock  highly  seasoned  with  bacon^  onions^  and  herbs  (see 
Braised  Beef).     Serve  it  with  tomato  or  horseradish  sauce. 

Veal  Stew  or  Fricassee. 

The  ends  of  the  r^6s,  the  neck^  and  the  knuckle  ma}^  be 
utilized  in  a  stew.  Cut  the  meat  —  two  pounds  —  in  small 
pieces,  and  remove  all  the  fine  bones.  Cover  the  meat 
with  boiling  water ;  skim  as  it  begins  to  boil ;  add  two  small 
onions.,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt^  and  07ie  saltspoonful  of  pep- 
per. Simmer  until  thoroughlj^  tender.  Cut  four  potatoes 
in  halves  ;  soak  in  cokl  water,  and  parboil  them  five  min- 
utes ;  add  them  to  the  stew.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour  wet  in  cold  water,  and  more  seasoning  if  desired ; 
and  just  before  serving  add  one  cup  of  cream,  or  if  milk  be 
used  add  07ie  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Remove  the  bones 
before  serving.  To  make  Veal  Pot-Pie  add  dumplings.,  as 
in  Beef  Stew.  If  intended  for  a  fricassee.,  ix\  the  veal  in 
salt  pork  fat  before  stewing,  and  omit  the  potatoes.  Add 
one  egg  to  the  liquor  just  before  serving,  if  j^ou  wish  it 
richer. 

Veal  Cutlets.     {Joanna  Sweeny.') 

One  slice  of  veal  from  the  leg.  Wipe,  and  remove  the 
bone,  skin,  and  tough  membranes.  Pound  and  cut,  or  shape 
into  pieces  for  serving.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Roll  in  fine  crumbs^  then  dip  in  beaten  egg.,  then  in  crumbs 
again.  Fry  several  slices  of  salt  pork^  and  fiy  the  cutlets 
brown  in  the  pork  fat.  When  brown,  put  the  cutlets  in  a 
stewpan.  Make  a  brown  gravy  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter^    or    the   fat   remaining  in   the   pan  if  it   be   not 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  241 

burned,  and  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Pour 
on  gradaallj'  a  cup  and  a  half  of  stock  or  water.  Season 
with  Worcestershire  sauce  or  lemon  or  horseradish  or  tomato. 
Pour  the  gravy  over  the  cutlets,  and  simmer  fortj^-five  min- 
utes or  till  tender.  Take  them  out  on  a  platter,  remove 
the  fat  from  the  grav}',  add  more  seasoning  if  needed,  and 
strain  over  the  cutlets.     Garnish  with  lemoii  fxnd  parslei/. 

Calfs  Liver,  Braised. 

Wipe  with  a  clean  wet  cloth.  Lard  the  rounded  side 
with  bacon  or  salt  pork.  Fry  one  onion  in  salt  pork  fat. 
Put  the  liver  and  fried  onion  in  a  braising-pan ;  add  hot 
water  or  stock  to  half  cover,  ojie  teaspoonful  of  salt^  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper.^  and  one  taUespoonful  of  herbs.  Cover, 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  two  hours,  basting  often. 
When  readj^  to  serve,  strain  the  liquor,  season  with  lemon 
juice^  and  pour  it  over  the  hver. 

Calf's  Hearty  Braised.  —  Wash,  remove  the  veins  and 
arteries,  and  stuff  with  cracker  crumbs^  seasoned  with  onion 
juice.,  salt,  pepper,  and  herbs,    and  moistened  with  butter. 


Fig.  30.     Calf's  Heart. 

Lard  with  bacon  or  salt  pork.  Dredge  with  salt  and  flour. 
Fry  one  onion  in  salt  pork  fat  or  dripping  ;  brown  the  meat 
in  the  pork  fat.  Cook  it  as  liver  is  cooked,  by  the  preced- 
ing receipt. 

Calf's  Head. 

Scrape  and  clean  a  calfs  head.  Take  out  the  brains  and 
tongue,  and  put  them  in  cold  water.  Remove  all  the  dark 
membrane  from  the  inside,  and  the  gristle  around  the  nose 

16 


242  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

and  eyes.  Soak  two  hours  in  lukewarm  water  to  whiten 
it.  Put  the  head,  tongue,  and  heart  on  to  boil  in  cold 
water,  and  skim  carefull}'.  Add  one  tahlespoonful  of  herbs 
tied  in  a  piece  of  strainer  cloth,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt^ 
and  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the 
liver,  let  it  stand  ten  minutes,  and  when  the  head  is  nearly 
done,  add  the  liver.  When  done,  take  up  the  head ;  re- 
move the  skin  in  as  nice  pieces  as  possible.  Put  the 
pieces  of  head  meat  on  the  platter ;  lay  the  skin  over  them. 
Cut  the  heart,  tongue,  and  liver  in  slices,  and  place  them 
round  the  edge  of  the  dish.  If  the  head  is  to  be  served 
with  the  bones,  tie  it  in  a  floured  cloth,  and  boil  it  until 
tender,  but  not  long  enough  for  the  skin  to  fall  off.  Serve 
it  plain ;  or  score  the  top,  brush  with  beaten  egcj^  sprinkle 
buttered  cracker  crumbs  over  it,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
Serve  with  it  a  brown  sauce  piquante^  tomato  sauce,  or 
brain  sauce. 

Brain  Sauce.  — Clean  the  brains,  remove  the  red  mem- 
brane, and  soak  in  cold  water.  Put  them  into  one  pint  of 
cold  water  with  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  ten  minutes  ;  then  plunge  into 
cold  water.  Make  one  pint  of  drawn  butter  sauce ;  flavor 
with  lemon  and  parsley ;  add  the  brains  chopped  fine,  and 
when  hot  serve. 

Calf's  Bead,  Minced.  —  Chop  what  is  left  of  the  head, 
tongue,  and  liver  very  fine,  and  warm  it  in  a  sauce  made 
with  the  meat  liquor  ;  season  with  lemon  or  horseradish,  salt, 
and  pepper. 

Sweetbreads. 

The  sweetbreads  found  in  veal  are  considered  the  best. 
They  are  two  large  glands  lying  along  the  back  of  the 
throat  and  in  the  breast.  The  lower  one  is  round  and 
compact,  and  called  the  heart  sweetbread,  because  nearer 
the  heart.  The  upper,  or  throat,  sweetbread  is  long  and 
narrow,  and  easily  divided  into  sections.  The  connecting 
membrane  is  sometimes  broken,  and  each  gland  sold  as  a 
whole  sweetbread.   But  there  should  alwa^^s  be  two.    Sweet- 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  243 

breads  were  formerly  thrown  away  as  worthless :  but  the 
demand  for  them  has  increased  so  that  now  they  are  a  lux- 
ury. They  have  a  delicate  flavor,  and  as  they  spoil 
quickly,  should  be  put  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  pur- 
chased, and  parboiled  before  using  in  any  form,  to  insure 
their  being  thoroughly  cooked.  They  are  sometimes  left 
on  the  breast  of  veal,  and  may  then  be  roasted  with  the 
meat. 

To  Prepare  Sweetbreads. — Put  them  in  cold  water;  re- 
move the  pipes  and  membranes.  Cook  them  in  boiling 
salted  water,  with  one  tahlespoonfid  of  lemon  juice,  twenty 
minutes,  and  plunge  into  cold  water  to  harden.  The}^  may 
then  be  cooked  in  either  of  the  following  ways  :  — 

Larded.  —  Lard,  and  bake  until  brown,  basting  witli 
brown  stock.     Serve  with  peas. 

Fried.  —  Eoll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  egg,  and  a  second 
time  in  crumbs,  and  fiy  in  deep  fat,  or  saute  in  a  little  fat. 

No.  2.  —  Cut  in 
half -inch  slices,  roll 
in  seasoned  crumbs, 
egg,  and  crumbs  again. 
Put  three  slices  on  a 
small  skewer,  alter- 
nating with  three  thin 

slices     of      bacon     one  Yig.  Zl.    Sweetbreads  and  Bacon. 

inch  square.     Yiy  in 

deep  fat.     Serve  on  the  skewers,  with  tomato  sauce. 

Creamed.  —  Cut  in  small  pieces,  and  serve  in  a  white 
sauce,  on  toast  or  in  toast  patties  or  in  puff-paste  shells  or 
as  a  vol-au-vent. 

Broiled.  —  E-ub  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper ;  wrap  in 
buttered  paper,  and  broil  ten  minutes.  Serve  with  Maitre 
^ Hotel  butter. 

Scalloped  or  in  Cases.  —  Cut  or  break  the  sweetbreads 
into  small  sections.  Mix  with  a  rich  cream  sauce  made 
with  eggs  (see  page  190).  Put  them  in  a  scallop  dish,  in 
shells,  or  in  paper  cases.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and 
bake  until  the  crumbs  are  brown. 


244 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


With  Mushrooms.  —  Prepare  as  for  creamed  or  scalloped^ 
and  add  half  or  an  equal  amount  of  jjiushrooms^  chopped 
or  cut  into  quarters.     Garnish  with  toast  points. 

Braised.  —  Lard  with  bacon.  Put  in  a  covered  pan 
with  fried  onions,  and  parsley,  and  a  pifich  of  herbs,  tied 
in  a  cloth.  Half  cover  with  stock.  Bake  forty  or  fifty 
minutes. 

Fritters. — Break  into  sections,  and  mix  with  a  fritter 
batter  (page  106).     Fry  by  small  spoonfuls  in  deep  fat. 

Sweetbread  Croquettes,  see  Index. 

To  serve  sweetbreads,  either  larded,  broiled,  or  fried, 
arrange  around  a  centre  of  tomato  sauce,  mushrooms,  or 


Fig.  32.     Sweetbreads  on  Macaroni 


peas.  Or  put  the  sweetbreads  in  the  centre  on  a  nea 
of  boiled  macaroni.  Sprinkle  the  macaroni  with  cheese 
and  pour  white  sauce  or  tomato  sauce  over  it ;  or  garnish 
the  sweetbreads  with  stuffed  tomatoes. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  245 


POBK. 

Pork  is  an  unwholesome  meat,  and  should  never  be 
eaten  by  children,  or  people  with  weak  digestion,  nor, 
indeed,  by  any  one  except  in  cold  weather.  Salt  pork, 
bacon,  and  ham  are  less  objectionable  than  fresh  pork. 
If  fresh  pork  be  desired,  obtain  it,  if  possible,  from  a 
source  where  you  can  be  sure  the  anirnal  has  been  kept 
in  a  cleanly  manner  and  fattened  on  corn.  Fresh  pork 
should  be  3^oung  and  firm,  the  fat  white,  the  lean  a  pale 
red,  and  the  skin  white  and  clear.  The  fat,  when  salted, 
should  be  a  delicate  pink,  and  the  rind  should  be  thin. 
Soft,  flabby  flesh,  and  yellowish  fat  with  kernels,  indicate 
that  the  pork  is  not  of  the  best  quality.  Unlike  other 
meat,  pork  is  divided  into  fat  and  lean.  The  flank  and 
the  thick  layer  of  fat  above  the  flesh  are  salted.  The 
sides  of  very  young  pigs  are  smoked,  as  well  as  salted,  and 
are  called  bacon.  The  hams  and  shoulders  are  salted 
and  smoked.  The  head  and  feet  are  pickled  or  boiled, 
and  made  into  souse  or  head  cheese.  After  the  fat  is 
removed,  the  loin  and  ribs  are  used  for  roasting  or  for 
chops.  The  leaf  fat  from  the  kidneys  is  heated  until 
melted,  then  strained,  cooled,  and  used  as  lard.  The 
trimmings  of  lean  and  fat,  when  chopped  and  highly 
seasoned,  are  called  sausage  meat. 

Roast  Pig, 

Select  a  pig  from  three  to  five  weeks  old.  Clean  well, 
and  stufi*  with  hot  mashed  potatoes,  or  stale  bread,  highly 
seasoned  with  sage^  salt,  pepper,  and  onions.  If  bread  be 
used,  moisten  with  warm  water,  melted  butter,  and  one  beaten 
egg.     Stufi"  and  sew.     Skewer  the  fore  legs  forward,  and 


246  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

the  hind  legs  backward.  Rub  all  over  with  butter^  saU^ 
pepper^  and  flour.  Put  it  into  a  pan  with  a  little  water ; 
the  oven  should  not  be  very  hot  at  first,  as  it  should  be 
thoroughl}'  warmed  through  before  browning.  Baste  very 
often,  and  at  first  use  melted  butter  to  make  the  skin  tender 
and  soft.  Be  careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  Bake  two  and  a 
half  or  three  hours.  Arrange  in  a  bed  of  parsley  and 
celery  leaves^  with  a  ' '  tuft  of  cauliflower  in  the  mouth  and  a 
garland  of  parsley  round  the  neck."  Serve  with  apple  sauce 
or  pickles.  In  carving,  cut  off  the  head,  then  the  hams 
and  shoulders ;  split  down  the  back,  and  separate  the 
ribs. 

Boast  Pork.  — The  chine,  or  loin,  and  the  spare  ribs  are 
the  best  pieces  for  roasting.  Rub  well  with  pepper,  or  saye, 
salt,  and  Jlour,  and  bake  twent}^  minutes  for  each  pound. 
Baste  often,  and  do  not  have  the  oven  as  hot  as  for 
other  meat.  Roast  pork  is  more  wholesome  when  eaten 
cold. 

Pork  Chops  or  Steaks.  —  If  pork  chops  are  to  be  broiled, 
thej^  should  be  cut  very  thin,  salted,  and  peppered,  wrapped 
in  greased  paper,  and  broiled  until  thoroughly  cooked,  — 
from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  To  fry  or  saute  them,  cook 
them  in  a  hot  fr3ing-pan  in  a  little  hot  lard  or  salt  pork  fat. 
Cook  slowly  after  they  are  brown,  and  be  careful  not  to 
burn  them.  If  a  gravy  be  desired,  pour  oflf  nearly  all  the 
fat  left  in  the  fr}dng-pan,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
and  when  brown  add  hot  water  until  of  the  desired  consist- 
ency. Season  with  salt,  pepper^  vinegar,  and  chopped 
pickles. 

Breakfast  Bacon.  —  Cut  off  the  rind  and  smoked  part ; 
slice  very  thin ;  cook  in  a  frying-pan  till  the  fat  is  tried 
out  and  the  bacon  is  dry  and  crisp,  or  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  on  paper,  and  serve  alone  or  as  a  garnish  for 
beefsteak. 

Fried  Salt  Pork.  —  Cut  fat  salt  pork  in  thin  slices  ;  pour 
hot  water  over  them  ;  drain,  and  fry  in  a  pan  until  crisp  ; 
or  roll  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat.  Serve 
with  salt  fish  ox  fried  mush  or  baked  potatoes. 


The  Boston  CooJc  Book.  247 


Boiled  Ham. 

If  very  salt,  let  it  soak  over  night.  Scrub  well ;  trim  off 
the  hard  black  part,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  let  it 
simmer  slowlj',  allowing  half  an  hour  to  the  pound.  Take 
it  from  the  fire  ;  let  it  remain  in  the  water  until  nearly 
cold  ;  then  peel  off  the  skin  and  sprinkle  sugar  and  grated 
bread,  or  cracker  crumbs,  over  the  top,  and  brown  in  the 
oven.  Or  boil  until  nearly  tender ;  remove  the  skin  and 
bake  two  hours ;  baste  often  with  vinegar.  Cover  with 
crumbs,  return  to  the  oven,  and  brown.  Or  omit  the 
crumbs  and  cover  with  a  paste  made  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  brown  flour  and  half  a  cup  of  brown  sugar,  moistened 
with  a  little  port  wine.  Spread  this  over  the  ham,  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  Serve  with  a  brown  sauce  flavored 
with  half  a  glass  of  champagne.  Trim  the  knuckle  with  a 
paper  ruffle.  In  carving,  cut  in  very  thin  shces.  Old 
hams  are  improved  by  adding  a  pint  of  vinegar  and  a  tahle- 
spoonful  of  herbs  to  the  water  in  which  thej^  are  boiled. 
If  the  ham  is  not  to  be  served  whole,  boil  till  it  is  very 
tender ;  let  it  cool,  and  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  and 
press  it,  with  the  fat  well  mixed  with  the  lean. 

To  serve  Cold  Boiled  Ham.  —  Cut  in  thin  slices  ;  season 
highh^  with  cayenne  pepper,  or  with  mustard  and  lemon  juice, 
and  broil  two  minutes. 

Melt  half  a  glass  of  currant  jelly ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
hitter,  a  little  pepper,  and  when  hot  add  several  small  thin 
slices  of  ham.     Let  it  boil  up,  and  serve  at  once. 

Cut  the  nicest  part  of  lean  ham  in  small  thin  slices.  Chop 
the  trimmings  fine,  and  heap  high  in  the  centre  of  a  platter. 
Garnish  with  the  slices  overlapping  each  other  on  the  edge 
of  the  dish. 

Fried  Ham.  —  Cut  the  ham  in  thin  slices,  remove  the 
outside,  gash  the  fat,  and  cook  in  a  frying-pan  till  the  fat 
is  crisp.     If  cooked  too  long,  it  will  become  hard  and  dry. 

Broiled.  Ham.  —  Cut  in  ver}'  thin  slices,  and  broil  three 
or  four  minutes.  Old  or  verj^  salt  ham  should  be  parboiled 
five  minutes  before  being  broiled.     Serve  with  poached  eggs. 


248  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


If  you  like  to  know  what  you  are  eating,  have  3'our 
sausage  meat  prepared  at  home  or  by  some  one  whom  3^ou 
can  trust.  Of  sweet  fresh  pork  take  one  third  fat  and  two 
thirds  lean^  and  chop  fine,  or  have  it  ground  by  your 
butcher.  Season  highh'^  with  salt^  pepper^  and  sage 
(use  the  whole  sage  ;  dry,  pound,  and  sift  it).  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Make  cotton  bags,  one  yard  long  and  four 
inches  wide.  Dip  them  in  strong  salt  and  water,  and  dry 
before  filling.  Crowd  the  meat  into  the  bags  closel}^ 
pressing  it  with  a  pestle  or  potato-masher.  Tie  the  bag 
tightly  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  When  wanted  for  use, 
turn  the  end  of  the  bag  back,  and  cut  off  the  meat  in  half- 
inch  slices,  and  cook  in  a  frying-pan  till  brown.  Core 
and  quarter  several  apples^  and  fry  in  the  hot  fat  and  serve 
with  the  sausages. 

A  safe  rule  in  seasoning  sausage  meat  is  one  even  table- 
spoonful  of  salt^  one  teaspoonful  of  sifted  sage^  and  a  scant 
half-teaspoonful  of  white  pepper  to  each  pound  of  meat. 

Souse. 

Take  the  gristly  part  of  the  pig's  head,  but  not  the  fat ; 
also  the  ears  and  feet.  Remove  the  hard  part  from  the 
feet.  Scald  or  singe  the  hairs,  soak  in  warm  water,  and 
scrape  thoroughl3\  Let  them  remain  in  salt  and  water 
for  ten  hours.  Scrape,  and  clean  again,  and  put  them  a 
second  time  in  freshly  salted  water.  With  proper  care 
they  will  be  perfectly  clean.  Put  them  in  a  kettle  and 
cover  with  cold  water ;  skim  when  it  begins  to  boil ;  set 
back  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  bones  slip  out  easily.  Skim 
out  the  meat,  and  remove  the  hard  gristle,  bones,  and 
any  superfluous  fat.  Season  with  salt^  pepper^  and  vinegar ^ 
and  pack  in  stone  jars.  When  hard,  cut  in  slices,  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

Head  Cheese.  —  Prepare  the  same  as  souse,  omitting  the 
vinegar^  and  season  with  sage.     Put  into  a  strainer  cloth, 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  249 

and  press  out  the  fat.     Pack  it  in  jars  or  moulds.     Serve 
cold,  or  brown  slightly  in  a  fiying-pan. 

Though  seldom  seen  on  modern  tables,  these  dishes 
when  carefully  prepared  are  very  acceptable  to  many  who 
have  pleasant  recollections  of  them  as  served  at  "grand- 
mother's table." 

To  Try  out  Lard. 

Cut  the  leaves  into  small  pieces  ;  remove  all  flesh  and 
membrane  ;  put  a  few  pieces  in  a  kettle  on  the  back  of 
the  stove,  and  when  they  are  heated  through,  put  in  the 
remainder.  Cook  slowly  until  the  scraps  are  crisp  ;  strain 
through  a  fine  cloth  into  tin  pails  or  pans,  and  press  that 
obtained  from  the  scraps  into  a  separate  pail.  Never  put 
water  with  the  leaves,  as  the  object  is  to  expel  that  which 
they  already  contain,  and  there  is  no  danger  of  burning 
if  only  a  few  pieces  be  put  in  at  first,  and  the  kettle  be 
not  over  the  hot  fire.  The  kettle  should  not  be  covered 
until  the  scraps  are  crisp  ;  then  cover  it,  and  if  no  steam 
condenses  on  the  coyer,  the  water  is  evaporated. 

Baked  Pork  and  Beans. 

Soak  one  quart  of  pea  beans  in  cold  water  over  night. 
In  tbe  morning  put  them  into  fresh  cold  water,  and  simmer 
till  soft  enough  to  pierce  with  a  pin,  being  careful  not  to 
let  them  boil  enough  to  break.  If  you  like,  boil  one  onion 
with  them.  When  soft,  turn  them  into  a  colander,  and 
pour  cold  water  through  them.  Place  them  with  the  onion 
in  a  bean-pot.  Pour  boiling  water  over  one  quarter  of  a 
found  of  salt  pork^  part  fat  and  part  lean  ;  scrape  the  rind 
till  white.  Cut  the  rind  in  half-inch  strips  ;  bury  the  pork 
in  the  beans,  leaving  only  the  rind  exposed.  Mix  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt  —  more,  if  the  pork  is  not  ver}^  salt  — 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard  with  one  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
molasses.  Fill  the  cup  with  hot  water,  and  when  well 
mixed  pour  it  over  the  beans  ;  add  enough  more  water  to 
cover   them.     Keep  them   covered   with   water  until  the 


250  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

last  hour ;  then  lift  the  pork  to  the  surface  and  let  it  crisp. 
Bake  eight  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Use  more  salt  and 
one  third  of  a  cup  of  butter  if  you  dislike  pork,  or  use 
half  a  pound  of  fat  and  lean  corned  beef. 

The  mustard  gives  the  beans  a  delicious  flavor,  and 
also  renders  them  more  wholesome.  Many  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  to  the  water  in  which  the  beans  are  boiled, 
to  destro}"  the  acid  in  the  skin  of  the  beans.  Yellow-eyed 
beans  and  Lima  beans  are  also  good  when  baked. 

Much  of  the  excellence  of  baked  beans  depends  upon  the 
bean-pot.  It  should  be  earthen,  with  a  narrow  mouth  and 
bulging  sides.  This  shape  is  seldom  found  outside  of 
New  England,  and  is  said  to  have  been  modelled  after  the 
Assyrian  pots.  In  spite  of  the  slurs  against  "  Boston 
Baked  Beans  "  it  is  often  remarked  that  strangers  enjoy 
them  as  much  as  natives  ;  and  many  a  New  England  bean- 
pot  has  been  carried  to  the  extreme  South  and  West,  that 
people  there  might  have  "baked  beans"  in  perfection. 
They  afford  a  nutritious  and  cheap  food  for  people  wh© 
labor  in  the  open  air. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  251 


POULTRY   AND    GAME. 

The  flesh  of  poultrj^  and  of  game  birds  has  less  red 
blood  than  the  flesh  of  animals  ;  but  as  it  abounds  in  phos- 
phates, it  is  valuable  food,  particular I3'  for  invalids.  The 
flesh  is  drier,  and  not  marbled  with  fat  as  in  that  of  quad- 
rupeds. All  game  has  a  strong  odor  and  flavor,  which  is 
b}'  some  mistaken  for  that  of  tainted  meat.  It  should  be 
kept  till  tender,  but  no  longer,  unless  frozen. 

White-fleshed  game  should  be  cooked  till  well  done ; 
that  with  dark  flesh  may  be  served  underdone.  The 
breast  of  all  birds  is  the  most  juicy  and  nutritious  part. 
"  The  wing  of  a  walker  and  the  leg  of  a  flier  are  consid- 
ered choice  tidbits." 

•  To  Choose  Poultry  and  Game.  —  The  best  chickens  have 
soft  yellow  feet,  short  thick  legs,  smooth  moist  skin,  plump 
breast;  and  the  cartilage  on  the  end  of  the  breast  bone 
is  soft  and  pliable.  This  is  sometimes  broken  in  fowls  to 
deceive  purchasers ;  but  the  difierence  between  a  broken 
bone,  that  slips  when  moved,  and  a  soft  yielding  cartilage 
ma}^  be  very  easily  detected.  Pin  feathers  alwa^^s  indicate 
a  young  bird ;  and  long  hairs,  an  older  one.  The  bodies 
of  capons  are  very  plump  and  fat,  and  larger  in  proportion 
than  those  of  fowls  or  chickens.  The  meat  is  of  finer 
flavor. 

Old  fowls  have  long  thin  necks  and  feet,  and  sharp 
scales  ;  the  flesh  has  a  purplish  tinge,  and  they  usuallj'  have 
a  large  amount  of  fat. 

The  best  turkeys  have  smooth  black  legs,  with  soft, 
loose  spurs,  full  breasts,  and  white  plump  flesh. 

Geese  and  duchs  should  be  young,  not  more  than  a  year 
old,  have  white  soft  fat,  .yellow  feet,  and  tender  wings, 
and  be   thick   and  hard   on  the   breast.     The  windpipe 


252  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

should  break  when  pressed  with  the  thumb  and  linger. 
Wild  ducks  have  reddish  feet.  Tame  ducks  have  thick 
yellowish  feet. 

Young  pigeons  have  light  red  flesh  on  the  breast,  and 
full  flesh-colored  legs.  Old  pigeons  are  thin,  and  the  breast 
very  dark.  Wild  pigeons  are  cheaper,  but  are  dry  and  tough. 
Stall-fed  pigeons  are  the  best.  Squabs  are  young  tame 
pigeons,  and  always  have  pin  feathers. 

Grouse,  partridge,  and  quail  should  have  full  heavy 
breasts,  dark  bills,  and  yellowish  legs. 

Young  rabbits  should  have  smooth,  sharp  claws,  tender 
ears  and  paws,  and  short  necks. 

Venison  should  be  dark  red,  Avith  some  white  fat. 

To  Clean  and  Truss  Poidtry  and  Game.  —  The  practice 
of  sending  poultry  to  market  undressed  is  one  that  de- 
mands as  earnest  opposition  from  housekeepers  as  that  of 
the  adulteration  of  food.  The  meat  is  rendered  unfit  to 
eat,  is  sometimes  infected  with  poison  ;  and  the  increase  in 
weight  makes  poultry  a  ver}^  expensive  food.  All  poultr}' 
should  be  dressed  as  soon  as  killed.  The  feathers  come 
out  more  easilj"  when  the  fowl  is  warm,  and  when  stripped 
off  toyrard  the  head.  If  the  skin  be  very  tender,  pull  the 
feathers  out  the  opposite  way.  Use  a  knife  to  remove  the 
pin  feathers.  Singe  the  hairs  and  down  bj-  holding  the 
fowl  over  a  gas  jet,  or  over  a  roll  of  lighted  paper  held 
over  the  fire.  Cut  off  the  head,  and  if  the  fowl  is  to  be 
roasted,  slip  the  skin  back  from  the  neck  and  cut  the  neck 
off  close  to  the  bod}',  leaving  skin  enough  to  fold  over  on 
the  back.  Remove  the  windpipe ;  pull  the  crop  away 
from  the  skin  on  the  neck  and  breast,  and  cut  off  close  to 
the  opening  into  the  hody.  Be  careful  not  to  tear  the  skin. 
Alwa^^s  pull  the  crop  out  from  the  end  of  the  neck,  rather 
than  through  a  cut  in  the  skin,  which  if  made  has  to  be 
sewed  together.  Cut  through  the  skin  about  two  inches 
below  the  leg  joint ;  bend  the  leg  at  the  cut  by  pressing  it 
on  the  edge  of  the  table,  and  break  off  the  bone.  Then 
pull,  not  cut,  out  the  tendons.  If  care  be  taken  to  cut 
only  through  the  skin,  these  cords  may  be  pulled  out  easily, 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  253 

one  at  a  time,  with  the  fingers.  Or  take  them  all  out  at 
once,  by  putting  the  foot  of  the  fowl  against  the  casing  of 
a  door,  then  shut  the  door  tightly  and  pull  on  the  leg. 
The  tendons  will  come  out  with  the  foot ;  but  if  once  cut 
thej^  cannot  be  removed.  The  drumstick  of  a  roast  chicken 
or  turkey  is  greatl}'  improved  by  removing  the  tendons, 
which  always  become  hard  and  bony  in  baking.  There  is 
a  special  advantage  in  cutting  the  leg  below  the  joint,  as 
the  ends  of  the  bones  afford  more  length  for  tj'ing,  and 
after  roasting  this  is  easily  broken  off,  leaving  a  clean,  un- 
burned  joint  for  the  table.  Cut  out  the  oil  bag  in  the  tail. 
It  is  better  to  dress  a  fowl  for  a  fricassee  first.  Then  you 
learn  the  position  of  the  internal  organs,  and  can  tell  bet- 
ter how  to  remove  them  when  dressing  for  roasting,  as 
with  the  whole  fowl  you  work  b}^  feeling  and  not  b}'  sight. 

To  Cut  up  a  Fowl  for  a  Fricassee.  —  Cut  through  the 
loose  skin  between  the  legs  and  body,  bend  the  leg  over, 
and  cut  off  at  the  joint ;  then  cut  off  the  wings.  Make  an 
incision  in  the  skin  near  the  vent,  and  cut  the  membrane 
Ijdng  between  the  breastbone  and  the  tail,  down  to  the 
backbone,  on  each  side.  Then  j^ou  have  the  intestines, 
gizzard,  liver,  and  heart  exposed,  and  can  easil}'  remove 
them.  Do  not  forget  the  kidne3^s,  lying  in  the  hollow  of 
the  backbone,  and  the  lungs  in  the  ribs.  Cut  the  ribs 
through  the  cartilage,  separate  the  collar  bone,  and  break 
the  backbone  just  below  the  ribs.  Divide  at  the  joints 
in  the  wings  and  legs ;  separate  the  side  bones  from  the 
back,  and  remove  the  bone  from  the  breast.  Never  chop 
the  bones,  but  divide  smoothl}^  at  the  joints. 

To  Dress  a  Fowl  for  Boasting.  —  Make  an  incision  near 
the  vent ;  insert  two  fingers,  loosen  the  fat  from  the  skin, 
and  separate  the  membranes  l^'ing  close  to  the  bod3% 
Keep  the  fingers  up  close  to  the  breastbone,  until  you  can 
reach  in  beyond  the  liver  and  heart,  and  loosen  on  either 
side  down  toward  the  back.  The  gall  bladder  lies  under 
the  lobe  of  the  liver  on  the  left  side,  and  if  the  fingers  be 
kept  up,  and  everything  loosened  before  drawing  out, 
there  will  be  no  danger  of  its  breaking.     The  kidnej's  and 


254  ^^^  Boston  Cook  Booh. 

lungs  are  often  left  in  by  careless  cooks ;  but  everything 
that  can  be  taken  out  must  be  removed.  When  the  fowl 
has  been  cleaned  carefully,  it  will  not  require  much  wash- 
ing. Hold  it  under  the  faucet,  or  rinse  out  the  inside 
quickly  ;  then  wipe  drj^ 

If  the  breastbone  protrude  more  than  is  desirable,  put  a 
small  knife  in  at  the  opening,  and  cut  through  the  cartilage 
in  the  ribs  or  through  the  breastbone.  Or  put  a  pestle 
in  the  inside,  lay  a  towel  over  the  breast,  and  pound  slightly 
until  the  bone  gives  way. 

To  Stuff  a  Fowl. — Place  the  fowl  in  a  bowl,  and  put 
the  stuffing  in  at  the  neck ;  fill  out  the  breast  until  plump 
and  even.  Then  draw  the  neck  skin  together  at  the  end, 
and  sew  it  over  on  the  back.  Put  the  remainder  of  the 
stuffing  into  the  body  at  the  other  opening,  and  if  full,  sew 
it  with  coarse  thread  or  fine  twine.  If  not  full,  sewing  is 
unnecessary,  except  when  the  fowl  is  to  be  boiled. 

To  Truss  a  Fowl.  —  Draw  the  thighs  up  close  to  the  body, 
and  cross  the  legs  over  the  tail,  and  tie  firmly  with  twine. 
Put  a  long  skewer  through  the  thigh  into  the  bod3'  and  out 
through  the  opposite  thigh,  and  another  through  the  wings, 
drawing  them  close  to  the  body.  Wind  a  string  from 
the  tail  to  the  skewer  in  the  thigh,  then  up  to  the  one  in  the 
wing,  across  the  back  to  the  other  wing,  then  down  to  the 
opposite  thigh,  and  tie  firmly  round  the  tail.  If  you  have 
no  skewers,  the  strings  must  be  passed  round  the  body, 
over  the  thighs  and  wings  ;  and  care  must  be  taken,  in 
removing  them,  not  to  tear  the  browned  crust  on  the  breast. 
Sometimes  the  feet  are  cut  off  in  the  joint,  and  the  legs 
passed  into  the  bodj-  and  out  through  an  opening  under 
the  sidebone  near  the  tail,  or  left  in  the  body  and  covered 
with  the  skin. 

To  Clean  the  Giblets.  —  Slip  off  the  thin  membrane  round 
the  heart,  cut  out  the  veins  and  arteries,  remove  the  liver, 
and  cut  off  all  that  looks  green  near  the  gall  bladder. 
Trim  the  fat  and  membranes  from  the  gizzard,  cut  through 
the  thick  part ;  open  it,  and  remove  the  inner  lining  with- 
out breaking.     Cut  off  all  the  white  gristle,  and  use  only 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh  255 

the  thick  fleshy  part.  Wash,  and  put  them  in  cold  water, 
and  simmer  till  tender.  The  neck  and  tips  of  the  wings 
are  often  cooked  with  the  giblets. 

These  directions  apply  to  all  kinds  of  poultry  and  game. 

Wild  ducks,  coot,  and  geese  should  be  washed  thor- 
oughly on  the  outside  before  being  drawn.  Scrub  them 
with  slightly  warm  water  and  soap.  The  skin  is  very  thick 
and  oil}',  and  it  is  impossible  to  get  it  clean  without 
soap. 

The  strong  smell  in  old  fowls  may  be  removed  by  wash- 
ing in  warm  soda  water. 

To  dress  Fowls  or  Birds  for  Broiling.  —  Singe,  wipe,  and 
split  down  the  middle  of  the  back ;  lay  open,  and  then 
remove  the  contents  from  the  inside.  Cut  the  tendons  in 
the  thigh,  or  break  the  joints,  and  remove  the  breastbone 
to  facilitate  the  carving. 

To  Carve  Poultry. —  Place  the  fowl  on  the  platter,  with 
the  head  at  the  left.  Put  the  fork  in  across  the  breast- 
bone. Cut  through  the  skin  round  the  leg  joint.  Bend 
the  leg  over  and  cut  off  at  the  joint.  Then  cut  off  the 
wings,  and  divide  wings  and  legs  at  the  joints.  Carve  the 
breast  in  thin  slices  parallel  with  the  breastbone.  Some 
prefer  to  cut  it  at  right  angles  with  the  bone.  Take  off 
the  wish-bone  ;  separate  the  collar-bone  from  the  breast ; 
slip  the  knife  under  the  shoulder  blade,  and  turn  it  over. 
Cut  through  the  cartilage  which  divides  the  ribs,  separat- 
ing the  breast  from  the  back.  Then  turn  the  back  over, 
place  the  knife  midway,  and  with  the  fork  lift  up  the  tail 
end,  separating  the  back  from  the  bod}-.  Place  the  fork 
in  the  middle  of  the  backbone,  and  cut  close  to  the  back- 
bone, from  one  end  to  the  other,  freeing  the  side  bone. 
As  soon  as  the  legs  and  wings  are  disjointed,  begin  to 
serve,  offering  white  or  dark  meat  and  stuffing  as  each 
prefers.  Do  not  remove  the  fork  from  the  breastbone  till 
the  breast  is  separated  from  the  back.  Use  an  extra  fork 
in  serving.  If  all  the  fowl  be  not  required,  carve  only 
from  one  side,  leaving  the  opposite  side  whole  for  another 
meal. 


256  The  Boston  Cook  Booh 

Gravy  for  Roast  Poultry  and  Game.  — Put  the  giblets^  or 
neck,  liver,  gizzard,  and  heart,  on  to  boil  in  one  quart  of 
water^  and  boil  till  tender,  and  the  water  reduced  to  one 
pint.  Mash  the  liver,  and  if  desired  chop  the  gizzard, 
heart,  and  meat  from  the  neck.  Pour  off  the  clear  fat 
from  the  dripping-pan,  and  put  the  settlings  into  a  sauce- 
pan ;  rinse  out  the  pan  with  the  water  in  which  the  giblets 
were  boiled,  and  pour  this  water  into  the  saucepan  and 
put  on  to  boil.  Put  three  or  four  tahlespoonfuls  of  the  fat 
into  a  small  ftying-pan  ;  add  enough  dry  flour  to  absorb 
all  the  fat,  and  when  brown  add  the  giblet  hquor  gradu- 
all}',  and  stir  till  it  thickens.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. If  not  smooth,  strain  it ;  pour  half  of  it  into  the 
grav}^  boat,  and  add  the  chopped  giblets  to  the  remaining 
half,  and  serve  separatel}',  as  all  maj'  not  care  for  the 
giblet  gravy. 

Roast  Turkey. 

Clean  as  directed  on  page  252.  Stuff  with  soft  bread  ov 
cracker  crumbs  highly  seasoned  with  sage^  thyme.,  salt., 
and  pepper  ;  moisten  the  stuffing  with  half  a  cup  of  melted 
butter.,  and  hot  water  enough  to  make  it  quite  moist.  Add 
one  beaten  egg.  Some  use  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  but 
stuffing  is  more  wholesome  without  it.  Oysters,  chestnuts., 
chopped  celery,  stoned  7'aisins,  or  dates  make  a  pleasing 
variet}'. 

For  Stuffing  and  Trussing,  see  page  254.  Put  the  turkey 
on  a  rack  in  a  pan,  rub  well  with  butter,  and  dredge  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  Put  in  a  hot  oven,  and  when  the 
flour  is  browned  reduce  the  heat,  and  add  a  pint  of  water. 
Baste  with  butter  until  nicel}^  browned  ;  then  with  the  fat 
in  the  pan.  Baste  often,  and  dredge  with  salt  and  fiour 
after  every  basting.  Allow  three  hours  for  an  eight-pound 
turkey.  Cook  till  the  legs  will  separate  from  the  bod3\ 
Prepare  the  gravy  as  directed  above.  Garnish  the  tur- 
key with  parsley  or  celery  leaves  and  sausages  or  force-meat 
balls.  Serve  cranberry  sauce  or  currant  jelly  with  roast 
turkey. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  257 

If  the  giblets  be  not  desired  in  the  gra^y,  they  may  be 
boiled,  chopped  fine,  and  mixed  with  the  stuffing ;  or 
make  them  into  force-meat  balls,  with  an  equal  amount  of 
soft  bread  crumbs.  Moisten,  and  season  highly,  and  brown 
them  in  hot  butter. 

Boiled  or  Steamed  Turkey  or  Fowl. 

Clean;  rub  well  with  salt^  pepper^  and  lemon  juice  ^  and 
stuff  with  oyster  or  bread  stuffing.  It  is  better  without  the 
stuffing,  as  the  oysters  are  usually  over-done,  and  the 
same  flavor  may  be  obtained  from  an  03^ster  sauce  served 
with  the  turkey.  Truss  the  legs  and  wings  close  to  the 
bod}^ ;  pin  the  fowl  in  a  cloth  to  keep  it  whiter  and  preserve 
the  shape.  Put  into  boiling  salted  water.  Allow  twenty 
minutes  to  the  pound.  Cook  slowty  till  tender,  but  not 
long  enough  for  it  to  fall  apart.  Turkeys  are  much  nicer 
steamed  than  boiled.  Serve  with  oyster^  celery^  lemon^ 
or  caper  sauce.  Garnish  with  a  border  of  boiled  rice  or 
macaroni.^  and  pour  part  of  the  sauce  over  the  fowl. 

Fowls  are  sometimes  stuffed  with  boiled  celery^  cut  into 
pieces  an  inch  long ;  or  with  macaroni  which  has  been 
boiled  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Roast  Chicken. 

Singe  ;  remove  the  pin  feathers,  oil  bag,  crop,  entrails, 
legs,  and  tendons.'  Wipe,  stuff,  sew,  and  tie  or  skewer 
into  shape.  Place  it  on  one  side,  on  a  rack  in  a  dripping- 
pan,  without  water.  Dredge,  and  rub  all  over  with  salt, 
pepper,  soft  butter .^  and  flour.  Put  chicken  fat  or  beef  drip- 
pings over  it  and  in  the  pan.  Roast  in  a  hot  oven,  with 
a  rack  under  the  pan.  When  the  flour  is  brown,  check 
the  heat,  baste  with  the  fat,  and  afterwards  with  one  third 
of  a  cup  of  butter,  melted  in  one  cup  of  hot  water.  When 
brown,  turn  the  other  side  up  ;  then  place  it  on  the  back, 
that  the  breast  may  be  browned.  Baste  often,  and  dredge 
wdth  flour  after  basting.  Add  more  water  if  needed. 
Bake  a  four-pound  chicken  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  till  the 

17 


258  The  Boston  Cook  Booh. 

joints  separate  easily.  Lay  buttered  paper  over  it,  if  it 
brown  too  fast. 

Stuffing.  —  Moisten  one  cup  of  cracker  or  soft  bread  crumbs 
with  one  third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter;  season  highly 
with  salt^  pepper^  and  thyme. 

Chestnut  Stuffing.  —  Shell  one  quart  of  large  chestnuts. 
Pour  on  boiling  water,  and  remove  the  inner  brown  skin. 
Boil  in  salted  water  or  stock  till  soft.  Mash  fine.  Take 
half  for  the  stuffing,  and  mix  with  \\,one  cup  of  fine  cracker 
crumbs ;  season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  scdt.,  one  saltspoon- 
ful  of  pepper^  and  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 
Moisten  with  one  third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter.  Profes- 
sional cooks  sometimes  mix  a  little  apple  sauce.,  flavored 
with  wine.,  lemon.,  and  sugar.,  with  a  chestnut  stuffing. 

Chestnut  Sauce.  —  Remove  the  fat  from  the  dripping- 
pan  ;  add  nearly  a  pint  of  hot  water ;  thicken  with  fiour 
which  has  been  cooked  in  brown  butter ;  add  scdt  and  pepper^ 
and  the  remainder  of  the  chestnutso 

Braised  Fowrl. 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  roasting ;  dredge  with  salt^ 
pepper,  and  fiour,  and  brown  slightly  in  hot  butter  or 
chicken  fat  in  a  fiying-pan.  Put  in  a  deep  pan ;  half 
cover  with  water.  Add  the  giblets,  one  onion,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  herbs  tied  in  a  bag.  Cover  with  a  tightly  fitting 
pan,  and  bake  till  tender,  basting  often.  Chop  the  gib- 
lets, thicken,  season,  and  strain  the  gravy  ;  add  the  giblets, 
and  pour  around  the  fowl. 

Chicken  Fricassee. 

Singe,  and  cut  the  chicken  at  the  joints,  in  pieces  for 
serving  Cover  with  boiling  water  ;  add  one  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt^  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Simmer  one 
hour,  or  till  tender,  reducing  the  water  to  nearly  a  pint. 
Remove  all  the  large  bones,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
flour,  and  brown  in  hot  butter.  Put  the  chicken  on  toast 
on  a  hot  platter.     Strain  the  liquor  and  remove  the  fat. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  259 

A.dd  to  the  liquor  one  cup  of  cream  or  milk^  and  heat  it 
again.  Melt  one  large  tablespoonfal  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  ; 
add  two  tahlespoonfuls  of  flour ^  and  when  well  ruixed  pour 
on  slowly  the  cream  and  chicken  liquor.  Add  salt^  pepper^ 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt^  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 
Beat  one  egg ;  pour  the  sauce  slowh^  on  the  egg ;  stir  well, 
and  pour  over  the  chicken.  The  chicken  ma}^  be  browned 
before  cooking,  then  stewed,  and  a  brown  gravy  made  b}' 
browning  the  butter  before  adding  the  flour.  Half  a  can 
of  mushrooms  ma}'  be  added  to  improve  the  flavor,  letting 
them  simmer  in  the  sauce  five  minutes.  Arrange  the  body 
of  the  chicken  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  with  the  wings  at 
the  top,  the  thighs  below,  and  the  ends  of  the  drumsticks 
crossed  at  the  tail. 

If  the  chicken  be  not  fried,  it  is  simply  a  chicken  stew; 
and  dumplings  may  be  added,  or  not,  as  3'ou  prefer.  And 
if  put  into  a  deep  dish  with  a  rich  gravy,  made  as  for 
fricassee,  but  without  the  ^^g.,  and  covered  with  a  rich 
crust  of  pastry  and  baked,  it  is  chicken  pie. 

Chicken  Curry. 

Cut  the  chicken  at  the  joints,  and  remove  the  breast 
bones.  Wipe,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.,  dredge  with 
flour.,  and  brown  lighth^  in  hot  butter.  Put  in  a  stewpan. 
Yry  one  large  onion.,  cut  in  thin  slices,  in  the  butter  left  in 
the  pan  till  colored,  but  not  browned.  Mix  one  large 
tablespoonful  of  flour.,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  curry  powder.,  and  brown  them  in  the  but- 
ter. Add  slowly  one  cup  of  water  or  stock  and  one  cup  of 
strained  tomatoes.,  or  one  sour  apple  chopped,  and  scdt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Pour  this  sauce  over  the  chicken,  and 
simmer  one  hour,  or  till  tender.  Add  one  cup  of  hot  milk 
or  cream.  Boil  one  minute  longer,  and  serve  with  a  bor- 
der of  boiled  rice. 

Rabbit,  veal,  and  lamb  may  be  curried  in  the  same 
way. 


26o  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Broiled  Chicken. 

Singe,  and  split  a  3'oung  spring  chicken  down  the  back. 
Break  tlie  joints  ;  remove  the  breastbone,  clean,  and  wipe 
with  a  wet  cloth.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper^  and  rub 
well  with  soft  butter.  Place  in  a  double  gridiron,  and  broil 
twenty  minutes  over  a  clear  fire.  Spread  with  butter^  and 
serve  very  hot.  Or  cover  with^?2e  bread  crumbs  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  half  an  hour.     Serve  with  Tartar  sauce. 

To  Carve.  —  Separate  the  legs  and  wings,  and  then  sep- 
arate the  breast  from  the  lower  part. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Singe ;  cut  at  the  joints ;  remove  the  breast  bones. 
Wipe  each  piece  with  a  clean  wet  cloth ;  dredge  with  salt, 
pepper.,  and  Jiour.,  and  saute  them  in  hot  salt  pork  fat  till 
brown  and  tender,  but  not  burned.  Arrange  on  a  dish, 
with  boiled  cauliflower  or  potato  halls^  and  pour  a  white 
sauce  over  them.  Or  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  hot/a^,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Broiled  FiUets  of  Chicken. 

Remove  the  bone  from  the  breast  and  thighs.  Hub  the 
meat  with  butter  or  olive  oil ;  season,  and  cover  with  fine 
cracker  dust.     Broil  about  ten  minutes. 


Devilled  Chicken. 

Boil  a  chicken  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water. 
When  cold,  cut  at  the  joints,  baste  with  soft  butter,  and 
broil  till  brown.  Or  cut  any  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken 
at  the  joints,  rub  with  salt  and  butter.,  and  broil  till  warmed 
through.  Pour  hot  Tartar  sauce  over  them.  Or  make 
several  incisions  in  the  flesh,  and  rub  with  mustard  and 
cayenne  pepper  before  broiling. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book  261 


Roast  Goose. 

Singe,  remove  the  pin  feathers,  and  before  it  is  cut  or 
drawn,  wash  and  scrnb  thoroughly  in  warm  soapsuds,  to 
open  and  cleanse  the  pores,  and  render  the  oil  more  easy 
to  be  extracted.  Then  draw,  as  directed  on  page  253. 
Wash  and  rinse  the  inside  in  clear  water,  and  wipe  dry. 
Stuff  with  mashed  potatoes  highly  seasoned  with  onion  ^ 
sage,  salt,  and  pepper,  or  with  equal  parts  of  bread  crumbs, 
chopped  apples,  and  boiled  onions,  seasoned  with  scdt,  sage, 
and  pepper.  Sew  and  truss  ;  put  on  a  rack  in  a  pan,  and 
cover  the  breast  with  slices  of  fat  salt  pork.  Place  in  the 
oven  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  The  pork  fat  is 
quickly  drawn  out  by  the  heat,  flows  over  the  goose,  and 
aids  in  drawing  out  the  oil.  When  considerable  oil  is 
extracted,  take  the  pan  from  the  oven,  and  pour  off  all  the 
oil.  Remove  the  pork,  and  dredge  the  goose  with  flour, 
and  place  again  in  the  oven.  When  the  flour  is  browned, 
add  a  little  hot  water,  and  baste  often.  Dredge  with  flour 
after  basting.  Cook  until  brown  and  tender.  Make  a 
gravy  as  on  page  256.  Garnish  with  watercresses.  Serve 
with  apple  sauce. 

Roast  Ducks. 

Pick,  singe,  and  remove  the  crop,  entrails,  oil  bag,  legs, 
and  pinions.  Wipe,  truss,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
and  flour.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  twent}'  minutes  if  liked 
rare,  or  thirty  minutes  if  preferred  well  done.  Serve  with 
olive  sauce  and  green  peas.  Geese  and  ducks  have  a  strong 
flavor,  and  are  improved  by  stuffing  the  craw  and  body 
with  apples  cored  and  quartered.  The  apples  absorb  the 
strong  flavor,  therefore  should  not  be  eaten.  Celery  and 
onions  are  also  placed  inside  the  duck,  to  improve  its 
flavor. 

Braised  Ducks. 

Ducks  that  are  tough  and  unfit  to  roast  are  improved 
by  being  braised  with  onions,  carrots,  and  turnips.  Or 
they  may  be  stewed,  and  served  with  canned  joeas. 


262  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Larded  Grouse. 

Clean,  wipe,  lard  the  breast  and  legs,  and  truss.  Rub 
with  salt  and  soft  butter^  and  dredge  with  flour.  Roast 
twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven  if  liked  rare,  thirty  minutes 
if  well  done.     Serve  with  bread  sauce. 


Potted  Pigeons. 

Draw  and  clean.  Break  the  legs  just  above  the  feet ; 
leave  enough  below  the  joint  to  tie  down  to  the  tail. 
Wash  and  wipe.  If  old  and  tough,  cover  them  with  vine- 
gar^ spiced  and  flavored  with  onio?i,  and  let  them  stand 
several  hours.  This  makes  them  tender.  Drain  and  wipe  ; 
stuff,  if  you  like,  with  cracker  crumbs  highly  seasoned  and 
moistened  with  butter.  Dredge  with  salt^  pepper^  smdjlour. 
Fry  several  slices  of  salt  pork ;  cut  one  large  onion  fine, 
and  fry  in  the  salt  pork  fat.  Put  the  crisp  fat  in  the  stew- 
pan,  add  the  fried  onion,  then  brown  the  pigeons  all  over 
in  the  fat  left  in  the  pan.  Put  them  in  the  stewpan  ;  add 
boilmg  water  or  stock  enough  to  half  cover  them  ;  add  a 
pinch  of  herbs  tied  in  a  bag.  Simmer  from  one  to  three 
hours,  or  till  the  pigeons  are  tender.  Remove  the  fat 
from  the  broth,  season  to  taste,  and  thicken  with  flour 
and  butter  cooked  together.  Strain  over  the  pigeons,  and 
serve  hot. 

Braised  Pigeons. 

Prepare  the  pigeons  as  for  potted  pigeons,  and  cook  in  a 
braising-pan.  Cook  spinach  (see  page  296)  ;  chop  it  fine, 
and  season.  Spread  the  spinach  on  slices  of  toast ^  and 
lay  the  pigeons  on  the  spinach  one  on  each  slice.  Serve 
the  gravy  in  a  boat. 

Pigeons  Stuflfed  with  Parsley.     (Miss  Ward.) 

Allow  one  pint  of  loose  parsley  for  each  pigeon.  Wash, 
remove  the  large  stems,  and  chop  very  fine,  adding  salt 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  263 

and  pepper  and  two  or  three  tahlespoonfuls  of  water  while 
chopping.  Stuff  the  pigeons  with  the  parsley ;  add  also 
the  heart  and  a  half -inch  cube  of  salt  pork  for  each  pigeon. 
Add  the  water  left  in  the  tray  to  that  in  the  stewpan, 
and  cook  as  in  the  preceding  rule. 

Roast  Birds. 

Draw,  and  wash  quickly ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Pin  a  thin  slice  of  salt  pork  on  the  breast.  Put  on  a  shal- 
low pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
Baste  often.  Serve  on  toast  with  currant  jelly  or  with 
bread  sauce.  Small  birds  may  be  baked  in  sweet  potatoes^ 
or  if  large  cut  in  halves,  using  the  breast  only.  Cut  the 
potatoes  in  halves  lengthwise,  make  a  cavity  in  each 
half,  season  the  bird  with  salt^  pepper^  and  butter;  fit 
it  into  the  potato,  put  the  other  half  over  it,  and  bake 
till  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Remove  the  string,  tie  with  a 
bright  ribbon,  and  serve  in  the  potatoes,  garnished  with 
parsley.     An  inviting  dish  to  serve  to  an  invalid. 

Small  birds  are  also  broiled  or  stewed. 

Quail. 

Quail  may  be  roasted,  broiled,  or  braised  ;  or  the  breasts 
only  maj^  be  removed  and  broiled.  Use  the  bones  and 
trimmings  to  make  stock  for  a  rich  sauce. 

Woodcock. 

Dress,  and  wipe  clean.  Dredge  inside  and  out  with  salt 
and  pepper ;  tie  the  legs  close  to  the  body,  skin  the  head 
and  neck,  and  tie  the  beak  under  the  wings.  Tie  a  piece 
of  bacon  over  the  breast,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  two 
minutes ;  or  roast  in  the  oven,  and  serve  on  toast. 

Venison. 

Venison  is  one  of  the  most  easily  digested  meats.  It 
may  be  cooked  after  the  same  rules  as  mutton  or  beef.     It 


264 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


should  be  cooked  rare,  and  served  very  hot  with  currant 
jelly.  The  saddle,  or  loin,  is  the  choicest  cut  for  roasting 
or  for  steaks.     Steaks  are  also  cut  from  the  leg. 

Venison  steaks  should  be  broiled  the  same  as  beefsteaks, 
and  served  with  Maitre  d' Hotel  butter,  made  with  currant 
jelly  instead  of  lemon  juice.  The  cheaper,  tougher  parts 
of  venison  ma}^  be  stewed  or  braised.  Venison  should  be 
wiped  carefully  before  cooking,  as  the  hairs  are  often  found 
clinging  to  the  meat. 

Rabbits. 

These  may  be  cooked  the  same  as  chickens,  —  stewed, 
fricasseed,  or  larded  and  baked. 


V^Q.  33.    Birds  and  Spinacli  on  Toast. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  265 


ENTREES   AND   MEAT  HECHAUFFE. 


Boned  Turkey  or  Chicken. 

Bone  the  turkc}^  as  directed  on  page  27. 

Stuffing  for  a  Hen  Turkey  weighing  Eight  Pounds.  — The 
meat  from  a  four-pound  chicken^  one  pound  of  raw^  lean 
veal^  one  cup  of  cracker  crumbs.,  two  eggs.,  boiling  stock  enough 
to  moisten,  salt.,  pepper.,  and  thyme  to  taste,  and  one  cup  of 
potted  ham  or  tongue. 

Disjoint  the  chicken ;  remove  the  skin,  tough  sinews, 
and  bones.     Cut  the  meat  from  the  thighs  and  breast  in 


Fig.  34.     Boned  Turkey,  browned  and  served  like  a  Roast  Turkey. 

long  thin  strips,  la}-  it  aside,  and  chop  all  the  remainder 
with  the  A^eal.  Do  not  use  any  salt  pork  unless  3^ou  wish 
the  stuffing  to  taste  like  sausage  meat.  Add  the  cracker 
crumbs  ;  make  it  quite  moist  with  hot  stock,  and  season 
to  taste.  Fill  the  legs  and  wings  of  the  turkey  with  the  force- 
meat. Put  the  fillets,  which  came  out  in  boning,  on  the 
skin  below  the  breast ;  then  a  la3'er  of  force-meat  with 
a  little  of  the  tongue  here  and  there  ;  or  you  ma}^  use  thin 
slices  of  boiled  tongue  or  ham.  Then  a  laj^er  of  the  re- 
served mepot  from  the  chicken,  and  force-meat  again.  Sew 
and  tie  into  the  natural  shape.  Or,  if  for  a  galantine,  turn 
the  legs  and  wings  inside  before  stuffing,  and  roll  up.  Sew 
tightly  in  a  cloth.     Put  the  bones  of  chicken  and  turkey 


266 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


and  all  the  trimmings  from  the  veal  in  a  kettle,  and  cover 
with  cold  water.  Steam  the  turkey  over  the  bones  three 
hours.  Remove  the  cloth,  dredge  with  salt  and  flour,  and 
bake  one  hour  or  until  nicely  browned.  Serve  cold,  and 
garnish  with  parsley,  sparkling  jelly,  carrots,  and  heets  cut 
into  fancy  shapes,  or  with  potato  balls.  Carve  in  slices 
across  the  breast. 

When  the  turkey  is  to  be  moulded  in  jelly,  strain  the 
liquor  in  which  the  bones  were  boiled  ;  reuiove  the  fat, 
clear,  and  stilfen  with  gelatine  as  directed  below.  Make  a 
brown  aspic  jelly  with  soup  stock.  Mould  in  the  dark 
jelly  and  garnish  with  the  light,  or  vice  versa. 

Stuffing  for  Boned  C/iicken. —Vse  more  veal,  omit  the 
chicken,  and  vary  the  amount  of  the  other  ingredients 


Fig.  35.     Boned  Chicken,  larded  and  baked. 


given  in  stuffing  for  turkey,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
fowL  Lardoons  of  pork  ma}^  be  inserted  all  over  the  top 
when  the  chicken  is  to  be  browned  in  the  oven. 

To  Mould  in  Aspic  Jelly.  —  Take  enough  stock  to  fill  the 
mould, — beef  if  for  dark  jell}^,  and  veal  or  chicken,  if  for 
light.  Season  highh^^  with  salt,  pepper,  celery  seed,  herbs, 
lemon,  or  wine.  If  a  darker  shade  be  desired,  add  a  little 
caramel.  For  three  pints  of  stock  mix  the  whites  and  shells 
of  two  eggs  with  the  cold  stock ;  add  one  box  of  Cox's  gela- 
tine which  has  been  soaked  in  one  cup  of  cold  water.  Put 
all  over  the  fire,  and  stir  till  hot.  Boil  till  a  thick  scum 
has  formed ;  remove  that,  and  strain  the  liquor  through  a 
fine  napkin. 

Pack  a  mould  in  a  pan  of  snow  or  broken  ice,  and  pour 
in  jelly  to  the  depth  of  half  an  inch.     When  hard,  garnish 


Fig.  36.     Chicken  in  Jelly. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  267 

ys'iXh  fancy  vegetables  of  different  colors^  slices  of  hard-boiled 
•eggs^  Italian  paste ^  rings  of  macaroni^  etc.  Fasten  each 
oi'Dament  in  place  with  Kquid  jell}^,  and  when  hard  add 
enough  jell}'  to  cover  all.  When  this  is  hard,  place  the 
meat,  or  whatever  you  have  to  mould,  in  the  centre,  being 
■careful  not  to  let  it 
break  the  jell}'.  Keep 
the  meat  in  place  with 
.some  of  the  liquid  jel- 
ly, and  when  hard  add 
■enough  jelly  to  fill  the 
mould.  If  to  be  dec- 
orated on  the  side,  dip 
the  ornaments  in  the  liquid  jell}',  and  if  the  mould  be  ic} 
•cold,  the}"  will  adhere.  The  jelly  must  be  added  slowly. 
Keep  in  the  mould  in  a  cool  place  till  ready  to  serve. 
To  remove  it,  dip  the  mould  quickly  in  warm  (not  hot) 
water,  put  the  dish  over  it,  and  invert  dish  and  mould 
together.     Garnish  with^ars%  and  s-parlding  jelly. 

Tongue.,  boned  turkey  or  chichen.,  birds.,  moulds  of  different 
kinds  of  meat  smdjisk,  etc.,  may  be  served  in  jelly. 

Pressed  Chicken. 

An  Easy  Way  of  Preparing  Boneless  Chicken. — Boil  a 
fowl  in  as  little  water  as  possible  till  the  bones  slip  out 
and  the  gristly  portions  are  soft.  Remove  the  skin,  pick 
the  meat  apart,  and  mix  the  dark  and  white  meats.  Re- 
move the  fat,  and  season  the  liquor  highly  with  salt  and 
pepper;  also  with  celery  salt  and  lemon  juice.,  if  you  like. 
Boil  down  to  one  cupful^  and  mix  with  the  meat.  Butter 
a  mould,  and  decorate  the  bottom  and  sides  with  slices  of 
hard-boiled  eggs  ;  also  with  thin  slices  of  tongue  or  ham  cut 
into  round  or  fancy  shapes.  Pack  the  meat  in,  and  set 
away  to  cool  with  a  weight  on  the  meat.  When  ready  to 
serve,  dip  the  mould  in  warm  water,  and  turn  out  carefully. 
Garnish  with  parsley.,  strips  of  lettuce  or  celery  leaves,  and 
radishes  or  beets. 


268  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Blanquette  of  Chicken. 

Make  one  cup  of  cream,  saucs^  put  it  in  a  doable  boiler, 
and  add  one  pint  of  cooked  chicken  cat  in  strips,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  When  hot,  beat  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs ;  add  two  tahlespoonfuls  of  milk.,  and  stir  into 
the  chicken.  Cook  two  minutes.  Serve  in  rice  or  potato 
border^  or  with  a  garnish  of  toast 


Chicken  Pilau. 

Warm  one  pint  of  canned  chicken^  or  cold  roast  or  boiled 
chioken^  in  one  pint  of  water  till  the  meat  is  very  tender. 
Skim  out  the  meat,  and  add  to  the  liquor  one  pint  of  strained 
tomatoes.  Season  highly  with  salt.,  pepper^  fine  chopped 
onion,  and  curry  or  Ohutney  sauce.  When  boiling,  add 
one  cup  of  well-washed  rice,  and  cook  twent}^  minutes,  or 
till  the  rice  is  soft.  Add  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  half  a 
cup  of  butter  or  cream.  When  hot,  turn  out  on  a  platter ^ 
and  garnish  with  triangles  of  toast. 

Scalloped  Chicken. 

Take  equal  parts  of  cold  chicken,  boiled  rice  or  macaroni, 
and  tomato  sauce.  Put  in  laj^ers  in  a  shallow  dish,  and 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  till  brown.  Cold  roast 
turke}',  using  stuffing  and  grav}^,  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  wa}'. 

Chicken  Pie  for  Thanksgiving.     {Miss  A.  M.  Towne.) 

Two  chickens,  three  pints  of  cream,  one  poimd  of  butter, 
flour  enoagh  to  make  a  stiff  crust.  Cut  the  chicken  at 
the  joints,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  till  tender. 

Crust. —  Three  pints  of  cream,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a.nd  flour  to  mix  it  hard  enough  to  roll  out  easily. 

Line  a  deep  earthen  dish  having  flaring  sides  with  a 
thin  layer  of  paste.  Roll  the  remainder  of  the  paste  half 
an  inch  thick.     Cut  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  into 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  269 

small  pieces,  and  put  them  on  the  dough  quite  close  to- 
gether. Sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  butter,  and  roll 
the  paste  over  and  over.  Roll  out  again  half  an  inch  thick 
and  roU  up.  Cut  off  from  the  ends  of  the  roll,  turn  the 
pieces  over  and  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick  for  rims.  Wet 
the  paste  in  the  dish  with  milk,  and  la^^  the  rims  round 
the  sides  of  the  dish.  Put  on  two,  three,  or  four  rims, 
showing  one  above  another,  the  inside  rim  the  highest. 
Wet  each  rim  to  make  it  adhere.  Fill  the  centre  with  the 
parboiled  chicken.  Take  out  some  of  the  larger  bones. 
Season  the  chicken  liquor  with  salt  and  pepper^  and  pour 
it  over  the  chicken  ;  use  enough  to  nearlj^  cover.  Cut  the 
remaining  quarter  of  butter  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  chest- 
nut, and  put  them  over  the  meat.  Roll  the  remainder  of 
the  crust  to  fit  the  top.  Make  a  curving  cut  in  the  crust 
and  turn  it  back,  that  the  steam  ma^^  escape.  Bake  three 
hours  in  a  brick  oven.  If  baked  in  a  stove  oven,  put  on 
only  two  rims  of  crust  and  bake  two  hours. 


Chicken  Terrapin.     {Miss  Minot.) 

Chop  one  cold  roast  chicken  and  one  parboiled  sweet- 
bread moderately  fine.  Make  one  cup  of  rich  cream  sauce, 
with  one  cup  of  hot  cream ^  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter^  and 
two  tablespoonfids  of  flour.  Then  put  in  the  chicken  and 
sweetbread.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  it  heat  over 
hot  water  fifteen  minutes.  Just  before  serving  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs^  well  beaten,  and  one  wineglass  of  sherry 
wine. 

Calfs  liver ^  parboiled  till  tender,  and  cut  fine,  may  be 
prepared  in  the  same  way,  and  used  alone  or  with  cold 
chicken  or  veal. 

Chicken  Chartreuse. 

Chop  ver}'  fine  nine  ounces,  or  a  heaping  cup.,  of  cold 
cooked  chicken  ;  add  the  inside  of  two  sausages^  or  tiuo  ounces 
of  lean,  cooked  ham.,  chopped  fine,  three  tablespoonfids  of 
powdered  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonfid  of  capers.,   or  one 


270  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

tablespoonfal  of  chopped  parsley,  two  tablespoonfals  of  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar^  a  speck  of  cayenne^  two  eggs^  well  beaten, 
and  enough  hot  soup  stock  to  make  it  quite  moist.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  the  amount  depending  upon  the 
seasoning  in  the  sausages.  The  sausages  ma3'  be  omitted, 
and  a  larger  amount  of  chicken  used.  Butter  a  small 
mould,  and  pack  the  meat  in  closel}^  to  within  an  inch  of 
the  top  to  allow  for  swelling.  Put  it  on  a  trivet  in  a  kettle, 
and  steam  three  hours.  If  no  uncooked  meat  be  used, 
one  hour  will  be  sufficient.  Cool  it  in  the  mould ;  when 
ready  to  serve,  dip  the  mould  quickly  into  warm  water 
and  loosen  the  meat  around  the  edges  with  a  thin  knife 
and  remove  the  mould.  It  may  be  served  plain  or 
moulded  in  jelly   (see  page  266). 

Salmis  of  Game. 

Cut  the  meat  from  cold  roasted  game  into  small  pieces. 
Break  up  the  bones  and  remnants,  cover  them  with  stock  or 
with  cold  water ^  and  add  ci  pinch  of  herbs,  two  cloves^  and 
two  pepperco7'ns.  Boil  down  to  a  cupful  for  a  pint  of  meat. 
Fry  two  small  onions^  cut  fine,  in  two  tablespoonfals  of  but- 
ter till  brown  ;  add  two  tablespoonfals  of  flour.,  and  stir  till 
dark  brown.  Strain  the  liquor  in  which  the  bones  were 
boiled,  and  add  it  graduall}^  to  the  butter  and  flour.  Add 
more  salt  if  needed,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.,  two 
tablespoonfals  of  Worcestershire  sauce.,  and  the  pieces  of 
meat.  Simmer  fifteen  minutes ;  add  six  or  eight  mush- 
rooms^  and  a  glass  of  claret.,  if  3'ou  like,  or  the  juice  of  a  sour 
orayige.  Serve  very  hot  on  slices  of  fried  bread.,  and  gar- 
nish with  fried  bread  and  parsley.  Or  serve  canned  peas 
in  the  centre,  with  the  meat  on  toast  around  the  edge. 

Beef  Olives,  or  Beef  Rolls.  1 

Cut  thin  slices  from  cold  roast  beef,  two  and  a  half  b}^ 
four  inches.     Chop  the  trimmings    and  fat,  allowing  one 

''■  Olives  is  not  an  appropriate  name,  although  in  common  use. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  271 

tahlespoonful  of  the  chopped  mixture  for  each  slice.  Sea- 
son highlj"  with  salt^  pepper^  and  herbs^  and  mix  with  one 
fourth  as  much  cracker  crumbs  as  meat.  Spread  this  on 
each  slice,  nearly  to  the  edge.  Roll  and  tie.  Dredge 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour,  and  fry  brown  in  drippings  or 
salt  pork  fat ;  put  in  a  stewpan,  and  make  a  brown  gravy 
b}"  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  the  fat  left  in  the 
pan,  and  when  brown  pour  on  one  pint  of  hot  luater.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper ;  pour  over  the  rolls  and  simmer  till 
they  are  tender.  Remove  the  strings,  place  the  rolls  on  a 
platter,  season  the  gravy  and  pour  it  over  them. 

Rolls  may  be  made  in  the  same  way  b}'  using  raw  lean 
meat  from  the  round,  cut  in  small  thin  slices  ;  pound  it  to 
break  the  fibre,  and  trim  into  shape.  Rolls  may  be  made 
of  veal  or  thin  slices  of  liver  (parboil  and  remove  the  skin 
before  using  the  liver) .  If  there  be  any  of  the  chopped 
mixture  left,  make  it  into  round  or  oval  balls,  roll  iii 
crumbs,  then  in  egg,  and  again  in  crimibs ;  and  brown  in 
the  oven  or  fry  mfat. 

Beef  Roulette.  —  Take  a  large  thin  slice  of  meat  from 
the  round,  or  any  tough  part ;  pound  it  enough  to  break 
the  fibre,  and  trim  into  rectangular  shape.  Season  and 
spread  with  a  stuffing ;  roll,  tie,  and  cook  as  directed  for 
Beef  Rolls.  Serve  hot  with  a  gravy  ;  or  cold,  cut  into  thin 
slices. 

Fricadilloes,  or  Meat  Balls,  Sausages,   or  Rolls. 

Chop  the  meat  fine  ;  add  a  slice  of  onion  chopped  fine, 
and  if  the  meat  be  lean,  add  one  or  two  slices  of  bacon  ;  sea- 
son highly  with  salt.,  pepper,  sage,  thyme,  lemon  juice,  and 
parsley  ;  add  one  fourth  as  much  bread  crumbs  or  boiled  rice 
as  3'OU  have  meat.  Moisten  with  beaten  egg  and  hot 
water  or  stock  if  needed  ;  shape  like  a  ball,  e^g,  or  cylinder. 
Brown  them  in  drippings  or  butter  in  a  fiying-pan,  or  roll 
them  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  and  fry  in  hot 
deep/a^. 


2/2  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Frizzled  Beef. 

Half  a  pound  of  smoked  beef^  cut  in  thin  shavings. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  it,  and  let  it  stand  ten  minutes. 
Drain  and  heat  it  in  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  butter^  to  curl 
or  frizzle  it.  Add  one  cup  of  hot  cream.  Or  make  a  cup 
of  thin  white  sauce  with  one  cup  of  miV/c,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter.,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Pour  it  over 
one  well-beaten  egg.,  add  the  beef  and  a  little  pepper.,  and 
serve  at  once.  Or  frizzle  it,  and  mix  it  with  two  or  three 
poached  eggs. 

Meat  Pie. 

Cut  cold  cooked  meat  into  small  thin  slices  or  into  half- 
inch  cubes,  remove  all  the  gristle  and  fat  except  the 
crisped  outside  fat,  put  into  a  baking-dish,  and  cover 
with  the  meat  gravy  or  with  tomato  or  brown  sauce  piquante. 
Spread  a  crust  of  mashed  potatoes  over  the  meat,  brush 
with  beaten  egg  or  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs.,  and  cook 
twenty  minutes  or  till  brown. 

Meat  Porcupine. 

Chop  fine  some  lean  cooked  veal.,  chicken.,  or  lamb;  add 
one  fourth  its  amount  of  cracker  or  bread  crumbs.,  or  mashed 

potato.,  and  a  small 
quantity  of  chopped 
bacon  ;  season  highlj^ 
with  salt.,  pepper^  cay- 
enne., andlernon  juice  ; 
moisten  with  beaten 
egg  £ind-stock  or  water 

Fig.  37.     Meat  Porcupine.  ,      ,  ,  . , 

enough  to  shape  it. 
Mould  it  into  an  oval  loaf,  and  put  into  a  shallow  pan  well 
greased.  Cut  strips  of  fat  bacon.,  one  fourth  of  an  inch 
wide  and  one  inch  long.  Make  holes  in  the  loaf  with  a 
small  skewer,  insert  the  strips  of  bacon,  leaving  the  ends 
out  half  an  inch,  and  push  the  meat  up  firmly  round  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  2'jz 

bacon.     Bake  till  brown.     The  bacon  will  baste  the  meat 
sufficiently. 

Ragout  of  Cooked  Meat. 

Cat  one  pint  of  cold  meat  into  half-inch  dice  ;  remove  the 
fat,  bone,  and  gristle.  Put  the  meat  in  a  stewpan  ;  cover 
with  hoiling  water ^  and  simmer  slowly  two  or  three  hours, 
or  till  very  tender  ;  then  add  half  a  can  of  mushrooms^  cut 
fine,  two  tablespoonfids  of  Madeira  wine,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Wet  one  tahlespoonful  of  flour  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  a  little  cold  water ;  stir  it  into  the  boiling  liquor ; 
Md  a  teaspoonfid  of  caramel^  if  not  brown  enough.  Cook 
ten  minutes,  and  serve  plain  or  in  a  border  of  mashed 
potatoes.  The  seasoning  may  be  varied  b}^  using  one  tea- 
spoonfid of  curry  powder.,  a.  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper., 
or  half  a  tumbler  of  currant  jelly .,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Hash. 

Equal  parts  of  meat  and  potatoes.,  or  two  of  potatoes  to 
■one  of  meat.  Remove  all  the  bone,  gristle,  and  skin,  and 
have  only  one-fourth  part  fat  meat.  Chop  very  fine,  and 
mix  well  with  the  potatoes,  which  should  be  hot  and  well 
mashed.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in 
enough  hot  water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  spider ;  add 
one  large  tahlespoonful  of  butter.  When  the  butter  is  melted, 
add  the  hash,  and  let  it  simmer  till  it  has  absorbed  the 
water  and  formed  a  brown  crust.  Do  not  stir  it.  Fold 
like  an  omelet.  Use  corned  meat  or  roast  beef.  If  the 
potatoes  be  cold,  chop  them  with  the  meat. 

Sandwiches. 

Chop  verj^  fine  some  cooked  ham  or  cold  corned  beef  or 
tongue  with  one-fourth  part  fat.  Mix  one  teaspoonful  of  dry 
mustard  and  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  with  cold  water  to  a  stiff 
paste  ;  add  to  it  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter  creamed. 
Cut  stale  bread  in  very  thin  slices ;  spread  with  the  mus- 
tard and  butter  paste,  then  with  the  ham.  Put  two  slices 
together,  and  cut  into  rectangular  pieces. 

i8 


274  The  Bostmi  Cook  Book. 

Scalloped  Mutton. 

Remove  the  fat  and  skin  from  cold  roast  mutton  ;  cut  the 
meat  in  small  thin  slices  ;  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Butter  a  shallow  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs^  then  a  la3^er  of  meat,  then  oysters^  strained  and 
seasoned,  tomato  or  brown  gravy ^  then  crumbs,  meat,  etc., 
having  on  the  top  a  thick  layer  of  crumbs  moistened  in 
one  third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter.  Cold  boiled  macaroni\ 
cut  into  inch  pieces,  may  be  used  in  place  of  oysters. 

Casserole  of  Rice  and  Meat. 

Boil  one  cup  of  rice  till  tender.  Chop  very  fine  half  a 
pound  of  an^'  cold  meat ;  season  highly  with  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper^  one  saltspoonfal  of 
celery  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  o7iion^  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  one  saltspoonful  each  of 
thyme  and  marjoram.  Add  one  beatevi  egg,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  fine  cracker  crumbs,  and  moisten  with  hot  water 
or  stock  enough  to  pack  it  easily.  Butter  a  small  mould, 
line  the  bottom  and  sides  half  an  inch  deep  with  the  rice, 
pack  in  the  meat,  cover  closely  with  rice,  and  steam 
forty-five  minutes.  Loosen  it  around  the  edge  of  the 
mould ;  turn  it  out  upon  a  platter,  and  pour  tomato  sauce 
over  it. 

Casserole  of  Mock  Sweetbreads  with  Potato  Border. 

One  pound  of  uncooked  lean  veal  cut  into  half-inch  cubes, 
and  cooked  with  one  slice  of  onion  in  boiling  salted  water 
till  tender,  then  put  into  cold  water  to  whiten.  Make  one 
cup  of  white  sauce,  and  season  with  one  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
one  saltspoonful  of  celery  salt,  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of 
pepper.  Put  the  veal  and  half  a  cup  of  mushrooms,  cut 
into  quarters,  into  the  sauce.  Heat  over  hot  water 
five  minutes,   or  till  the  meat  and   mushrooms   are  hot. 

Remove  from  the  fire  ;  add  quickly  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice  and  one  well-beaten  egg ;  serve  inside  a  potato  border^ 

or  on  toast  garnished  with  toast  points. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  275 

Potato  Border.  —  One  quart  of  mashed  and  seaaoned 
'potatoes  shaped  into  a  mound  like  a  wall  on  the  edge  of 
a  platter.  Brush  over  with  beaten  white  or  yolk  of  an  egg^ 
and  brown  slightl3^  Fill  with  snnj  kind  of  cooked  meat  or 
fish  warmed  in  a  white  or  brown  sauce. 

Veal  Birds. 

Slices  of  veal  from  the  loin^  cut  very  thin.  Wipe,  re- 
move the  bones,  skin,  and  fat,  and  pound  till  one  fourth 
of  an  inch  thick.  Trim  into  pieces  two  and  a  half  by 
four  inches.  Chop  the  trimmings  fine  with  one  square 
inch  of  fat  salt  pork  for  each  bird.  Add  half  as  much  fine 
cracker  crumbs  as  you  have  meat ;  season  highly  with  salt^ 
pepper^  thyme.,  lemon.,  cayenne^  and  onion.  Moisten  with 
one  egg  and  a  little  hot  water.  Spread  the  mixture  on  each 
slice  nearly  to  the  edge,  roll  up  tightly,  and  tie  or  fasten 
with  skewers.  Dredge  with  salt^  pepper.,  and  flour ;  tiy 
them  slowly  in  hot  butter  till  a  golden  brown,  but  not  dark 
or  burned.  Then  half  cover  with  cream.,  and  simmer 
fifteen  or  twent}'  minutes,  or  till  tender.  Remove  the 
strings,  and  serve  on  toast ;  pour  the  cream  over  them  ;  gar- 
nish with  points  of  toast  and  lemon.  If  the  veal  be  tough, 
dip  in  olive  oil  before  spreading  with  the  stuffingo 

Melton  Veal. 

Take  any  cold  veal.,  either  roasted  or  boiled  ;  chop  it  fine, 
and  season  with  salt.,  pepper^  and  lemon  juice  ;  add  two  or 
three  tablespoonfids  of  cracker  crumbs.,  and  moisten  with  soup 
stock  or  hot  water.  Take  one  third  as  mwohfijiely  chopped 
ham  as  of  veal ;  season  with  mustard  and  cayenne  ;  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  cracker  crmnbs.,  and  moisten  with  hot  stock 
or  water.  Butter  a  mould,  and  line  it  with  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  egg.  Put  in  the  two  mixtures  irregularlj',  so  that 
when  cut  it  will  have  a  mottled  appearance ;  press  in 
closely,  and  steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Set  away 
to  cool ;  remove  from  the  mould,  and  slice  before  serving. 

This  is  an  excellent  dish  for  lunch  or  tea,  and  is  a  con- 


2/6  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

venient  waj^  of  using  pieces  of  veal  that  would  not  other- 
wise be  utilized. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Parboil  two  pounds  of  lean  veal.  Chop  fine  with  one 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork  or  bacon  ;  add  four  butter 
crackers.,  pounded,  two  eggs.,  well  beaten,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of 
nutmeg  or  mace.  Moisten  with  the  meat  liquor,  mould 
into  an  oval  loaf,  and  put  into  a  shallow  tin  pan.  Add 
a  little  of  the  water  in  wliich  the  meat  was  boiled.  Bake 
till  quite  brown,  basting  often.  Serve  hot  or  cold,  cut  in 
slices.  Raw  veal  may  be  used  in  the  same  way,  baking 
it  two  hours  or  more. 

No.  2,  —  Select  a  knuckle  of  veal,  or  anj^  bon}'  piece  that 
has  a  large  'proportion  of  gelatine.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  and 
remove  any  fragments  of  bone.  Cover  with  cold  water, 
boil  quickl}",  skim,  and  add  one  onion,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt^ 
and  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Let  it  simmer  till  the  meat 
slips  from  the  bones,  the  gristl}^  portions  are  dissolved, 
and  the  liquor  reduced  to  one  cupful.  Remove  the  meat, 
pick  out  all  the  bones,  strain  the  liquor,  and  season  highh' 
with  salt,  lemon  juice.,  and  pepper,  and  slightl}^  with  sage  or 
thyme.  Chop  or  pick  the  meat  apart ;  add  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  cracker  and  the  meat  liquor  ;  mix 
well  and  put  into  a  bread  pan.  Put  it  in  a  cool  place,  and 
when  hard  serve  in  thin  slices.  The  gelatine  in  the  meat 
liquor  will  harden,  and  hold  the  meat  together  without 
pressure. 

Meat  Souffle. 

Make  one  cup  of  cream  sauce,  and  season  with  chopped 
parsley  and  onion  juice.  Stir  one  cup  of  chopped  meat 
(chicken,  fresh  tongue,  veal,  or  lamb)  into  the  sauce. 
When  hot,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  cook  one  min- 
ute, and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cool,  stir  in  the  whites, 
beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  about  twenty  min- 
utes, and  serve  immediatelj^  If  for  lunch,  serve  with  a 
■mushroom  sauce. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  277 

Potting. 

Chop  and  pound  to  a  paste  any  fragments  of  cooked 
ham^  tongue^  beef ^  poultry^  game^  or  Jish.  With  ham  use  a 
quarter  part  fat.  Remove  all  gristle  and  skin,  and  pound 
till  free  from  an}^  fibre  and  reduced  to  a  paste.  Season 
highly  with  salt,  peppej^,  cayerme,  and  made  mustard,  and 
moisten  with  a  little  melted  butter  (except  ham,  which  has 
fat  enough).  Pack  closelj'^  in  small  stone  or  earthen  jars. 
Put  the  jars  in  a  steamer,  and  heat  for  half  an  hour.  Then 
press  the  meat  down  again,  and  cover  with  hot  melted 
butter.  This  will  keep  some  time,  and  ma}^  be  served  in 
slices  or  used  for  sandwiches.  Ham  and  tongue  maj'  be 
mixed  with  veal  or  chicken.  Beef,  game,  and  fish  are 
better  alone. 

Potted  Liver. 

Braise  a  calf's  or  lamb's  liver  in  rich,  highly  seasoned 
stock.  When  tender,  cut  fine  and  pound  to  a  paste,  .add- 
ing enough  of  the  strained  liquor  in  which  it  was  cooked  to 
moisten  it ;  add  half  a  cup  of  butter,  melted  and  strained. 
Rub  all  through  a  sieve ;  pack  in  jars  and  pour  melted 
butter  over  the  top. 

Ragout  of  Lamb's  or  Calf  s  Liver. 

Boil  till  tender.  Cut  in  tbin  round  slices.  Make  a  rich 
brown  sauce  ;  season  with  spices  and  wine.  Stew  the  liver 
in  it  till  hot,  and  serve  at  once.  Garnish  with  alternate 
slices  of  lemon  and  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Croquettes. 

These  may  be  made  of  anj-  kind  of  cooked  meat,  fish, 
oysters,  rice,  homin}^  and  many  kinds  of  vegetables,  or 
from  a  mixture  of  several  ingredients.  When  mixed  with 
a  thick  white  sauce  (see  page  278),  which  adds  yqvj 
much  to  the  delicacy  of  meat  or  fish  croquettes,  less  meat 
is  required.  The  sauce  is  a  stiff  paste  when  cold,  and 
being  mixed  with  the  meat  or  fish  the  croquettes  may  be 


2/8 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


handled  and  shaped  perfectly,  and  when  cooked  will  be 
soft  and  cream}^  inside. 

To  Shape  a  Croquette.  —  Croquettes  ma}'  be  shaped  into 
rolls,  or  ovals,  or  like  pears,  with  a  bit  of  parsley  or  a 
clove  in  the  end  to  represent  the  stem.  Take  a  tablespoon- 
fulof\hQ  cold  mixture^  and  shape  into  a  smooth  ball.  If 
the  mixture  stick,  wet  the  palms  of  the  hands  slightly. 
Give  the  ball  a  gentle,  roUing  pressure  between  the  palms 
till  shghtly  cyUndrical ;  then  roll  it  lightly  in  the  crumbs, 
clasp  it  gently  in  the  hand,  and  flatten  one  end  on  the 
board.  Turn  the  hand  over,  and  flatten  the  opposite  end. 
Place  the  croquette  on  a  broad  knife,  and  roll  it  in  beaten 
Qgg,  With  a  spoon  dip  the  egg  over  the  croquette,  drain 
on  the  knife,  and  roll  again  in  the  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep 
hot  fat  (see  page  15).     Drain  on  paper. 

In  rolling  any  kind  of  croquettes,  if  the  mixture  be  too 
soft  to  be  handled  easily,  stir  in  enough  fine  cracker  dust 
to  stiffen  it,  but  never  add  an}-  uncooked  material  like 
flour,  nor  the  dried  bread  crumbs  used  in  rolling,  as  those 
will  make  the  croquettes  too  stiflT. 


Thick  Cream  Sauce  (for  Croquettes  and  Patties). 


1  pint  hot  cream. 

2  even  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

4  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
2  heaping  tablesp.  cornstarch. 


1^  teaspoonf  ul  salt. 
}/2  saltspoonf  ul  white  pepper. 
y^  teaspoonf  ul  celery  salt. 
A  few  grains  of  cayenne. 


Scald  the  cream.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  granite  sauce- 
pan. When  bubbling,  add  the  dry  cornstarch.  Stir  till 
well  mixed.  Add  one  third  of  the  cream,  and  stir  as  it 
boils  and  thickens.  Add  more  cream,  and  boil  again. 
When  perfectly  smooth,  add  the  remainder  of  the  cream. 
The  sauce  should  be  very  thick,  almost  like  a  drop  batter. 
Add  the  seasoning,  and  mix  it  while  hot  with  the  meat  or 
lish.  For  croquettes,  one  beaten  egg  may  be  added  just  as 
the  sauce  is  taken  from  the  fire  ;  but  the  croquettes  are 
whiter  and  more  cream}^  without  the  Qgg.  For  patties, 
warm  the  meat  or  fish  in  the  sauce,  and  use  the  egg  or  not 
as  you  please. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  279 

Chicken  Croquettes.  —  Half  a  pound  of  chicken  chopped 
very  fine,  and  seasoned  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt^  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of 
cayenne  pepper.^  one  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper,  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice,  one  teaspoon fd  of  chopped  parsley,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Make  one  pint  of  verj'  thick 
eream  sauce  (see  page  278) .  When  thick,  add  one  beaten 
egg,  and  mix  the  sauce 
with  the  chicken,  us- 
ing only  enough  to 
make  it  as  soft  as  can 
be  handled.  Spread 
on  a  shallow  plate 
to  cool.     Shape    into 

rolls.        Roll      in     fne  Fig.  38.     Chicken  Croquettes. 

bread  crumbs,  then  dip 

in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again,  and  frj-  one  minute  in 
smoking  hot  J  at.  Drain,  and  serve  with  a  thin  cream 
saucco  Many  prefer  to  cut  the  chicken  into  small  dice. 
If  this  be  done,  use  less  of  the  sauce,  or  the  croquettes 
will  be  difficult  to  shape.  The  white  meat  of  chicken  will 
absorb  more  sauce  than  the  dark.  Mushrooms,  boiled 
rice,  sweetbreads,  calf's  brains,  or  veal  may  be  mixed  with 
chicken.  Cold  roast  chicken,  chopped  fine,  may  be  mixed 
with  the  stuffing,  moistened  with  the  gravy,  and  shaped 
into  croquettes. 

Veal  Croquettes.  —  Chop  cold  veal  fine ;  season  highly 
with  salt,  pepper,  cayemie.,  onion  juice,  celery  salt,  and  pars- 
ley. If  you  like,  add  half  the  amount  of  oysters,  parboiled 
and  drained.  Moisten  with  beaten  egg  and  white  sauce. 
Shape  into  rolls.  Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  egg,  and 
crumbs  again,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Oyster  Croquettes.  — Parboil  and  drain  one  pint  of  oysters. 
Cut  them  into  quarters,  and  mix  with  cream  sauce  enough  to 
hold  them  together.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Shape, 
roll  in  crumbs,  then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry. 

Sweetbread  Croquettes.  —  One  parboiled  sweetbread,  half 
a  can  of  mushrooms,  chopped  fine,  and  half  a  cup  of  warm 


28o  The  Boston  Cook  Boole. 

boiled  rice.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper^  and 
moisten  with  hot  thick  cream  sauce  until  soft  enough  to 
be  handled.  When  cool,  shape,  roll  in  crumbs^  then  in  egg,. 
and  again  in  crumbs^  and  fry.  Calf  s  brains  maj'  be 
parboiled  and  mixed  with  sweetbreads  or  chicken  for 
croquettes. 

Lobster  Croquettes.  —  One  pint  of  lobster  meat^  cut  fine. 
Season  with  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  mus- 
tard., and  a  little  cayenne,  and  moisten  with  one  cup  of 
thick  cream  sauce.  Cool,  and  shape  into  rolls.  Koll  in 
crumbs,  egg.,  and  crurnbs  again,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 
Drain  on  paper. 

Lobster  Cutlets. — Prepare  the  lobster  as  for  croquettes, 
and  spread  it  half  an  inch  thick  on  a  platter.  Cut  inta 
the  shape  of  cutlets.  Roll  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again. 
Fr}^  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Drain,  and  serve  with  a  claw  to 
represent  the  bone. 

Salmon,  or  any  fish  croquettes  or  cutlets  are  made  in 
the  same  way. 

Clam  Croquettes.  —  Steam  the  clams.  Remove  the  shells, 
thin  skin,  black  end,  and  the  dark  substance  from  the  soft 
part.  Cut  the  "leather  straps,"  with  the  scissors,  into 
small  bits.  Mix  these  and  the  soft  part  with  a  thick  cream 
sauce,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  shape  into  rolls. 
Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in 
crumbs  again.     Fry  in  smoking  hot  lard. 

Potato  Croquettes.  —  One  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  one 
taUespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  lohite  pepper,  a 
speck  of  cayenne,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  celery  salt,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  the  yolk 
of  one  egg.  Mix  all  but  the  Qgg,  and  beat  until  very 
light.  When  slightly  cool,  add  the  3^olk  of  the  Qgg,  and 
mix  well.  Rub  through  a  sieve  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley .  Shape  into  smooth  round  balls,  then  into 
rolls.  Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg, 
then  roll  in  crumbs  again.  Fr}'  in  smoking  hot  lard  one 
minute.     Drain  and  serve  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid. 

Oyster  Plant  Croquettes.  —  Scrape,  boil,  mash,  and  season 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  28  r 

the  03'ster  plant.      Shape  into  rolls.     Rollln  crumbs^  dip  in 
egg^  and  again  in  crumhs,  and  fiy  as  usual. 

Prepare  parsnips  in  the  same  waj'. 

Turhish  Croquettes.  —  Stew  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  fifteen, 
minutes  with  one  slice  each  of  onion,  carrot,  and  turnip,  one 
teaspoonful  of  herbs,  one  sprig  of  parsley,  two  cloves,  two  pep- 
percorns, one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  saltspoonful  of  pep- 
per. Rub  through  a  strainer.  Take  one  cup  of  the  strained 
tomatoes,  one  cup  of  brown  soup  stock,  season  highly,  and 
when  boiling  add  one  scant  cup  of  uncooked  rice.  Cook 
till  the  liquor  is  absorbed.  Add  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  and  steam  it,  or  cook  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until 
the  rice  is  soft.  Add  one  beaten  egg  and  a  little  cream 
sauce,  or  thick  tomato  sauce,  using  enough  to  make  it  quite 
moist.  When  cool,  shape  into  rolls.  Roll  in  fine  bread 
crumbs,  then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry  in  smoking 
•hot  fat.  Sometimes  it  is  better  to  parboil  the  rice  for  five 
minutes,  as  it  is  more  difficult  to  soften  it  in  stock  than  in 
clear  water. 

Sweet  Rice  Croquettes.  —  Steam  one  scant  cup  of  well- 
washed  rice  in  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  or  milk  and  water, 
thirt}"  minutes,  or  till  very  soft.  Add,  while  hot,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  the  well- 
beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  a  little  hot  milk,  if  it  need  more 
moisture.  When  cool,  shape  into  small  ovals,  roll  in 
crumbs,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  crumbs  again,  and  fty.  Or,  after 
shaping,  press  the  thumb  into  the  centre  of  each,  and  put 
in  two  boiled  raisins  or  candied  cherries,  or  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  jelly  or  marmalade.  Close  the  rice  over  the  centre,  roll 
in  crumbs,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry. 

Savory  Rice  Croquettes.  —  One  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice 
warmed  in  the  double  boiler  with  two  or  three  tablespoonfids 
of  milk.  When  soft,  add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  fourth  of  a 
saltspoonfid  of  white  pepper,  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.,  and 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  fine  chopped  parsley.  Shape, 
roll,  and  fry  as  usual. 

Rice  or  Macaroni  Croquettes.  —  One  pint  of  cold  boiled 


282  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


rice  or  macaroni  or  spaghetti.  Heat,  and  moisten  with  a 
little  thick  white  sauce;  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg^  two 
taUespoonfals  of  grated  cheese^  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Cool,  shape,  roll  in  crumbs^  dip  in  egg^  roll  in  crumbs  again, 
and  fry. 

Hominy  Croquettes.  — Warm  one  pint  of  cooked  hominy  in 
one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  milk  ;  add  the  beaten  yolk  of 
one  egg^  and  salt  to  taste.     Cool,  shape,  roll,  and  fry. 

Creme  Frete.  —  Boil  one  pint  of  milk  with  an  inch  stick 
of  cinnamon.  Beat  together  hcdf  a  cup  of  sugar.,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch.,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.,  the  ^o//^s 
of  ^A?'ee  ^^'^5?  «  quarter  of  a  cw^  of  co^o?  milk.,  and  o/ie  5a/^ 
spoonful  of  saZ^.  Pour  the  boiling  milk  on  the  mixture,  and 
stir  well.  Strain  into  the  double  boiler,  and  cook  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  often.  -Add  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  buttered  bread  pan 
about  one  inch  deep,  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  ver}' 
hard,  sprinkle  a  bread  board  with,  fine  bread  crumbs.  Turn 
the  cream  out  on  it,  and  cut  into  strips  two  and  a  half 
inches  long  and  one  inch  wide,  or  in  squares  or  diamonds. 
Roll  these  in  crumbs.,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg.,  then  in  crumbs^ 
and  fiy  brown  in  boiling  lard.  Sprinkle  sugar  over  them, 
and  serve  hot. 


Welsh  Rarebit. 


3>^  pound  rich  cream  cheese. 
^  cup  cream  or  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  mustard. 
3^  teaspoonful  salt. 


A  few  grains  of  cayenne. 

legg. 

1  teaspoonful  butter. 

4  slices  toast. 


Break  the  cheese  in  small  pieces,  or  if  hard  grate  it. 
Put  it  with  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Toast  the  bread, 
and  keep  it  hot.  Mix  the  mustard,  salt,  and  pepper  ;  add 
the  egg,  and  beat  well.  When  the  cheese  is  melted,  stir 
in  the  egg  and  butter,  and  cook  two  minutes,  or  until  it 
thickens  a  little,  but  do  not  let  it  curdle  Pour  it  over  the 
toast.     Many  use  ale  instead  of  cream. 

Cheese  Souffle.  —  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan ;  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour ;   when 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  283 

smooth,  add  half  a  cwp  of  milk^  half  a  teaspoojiful  of  salt, 
and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Cook  two  minntes.  Add  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs^  well  beaten,  and  one  cup  oi  grated  cheese. 
Set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  add  the  whites,  beaten  to 
^  stiff  froth.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  twenty- 
five  or  thirt}'  minutes.     Serve  immediately. 

Crackers  a  la  Greme.  —  Split  butter  crackers,  and  spread 
with  butter,  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and  cheese  if  you  like. 
Put  them  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  cover  with  milk,  and 
bake  thirt}"  minutes.  Omit  the  mustard,  pepper,  and  cheese, 
prepare  in  the  same  way,  and  it  is  called  Cracker  Brewis. 

Sardine  Canapees.  — Mix  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs 
with  an  equal  amount  of  sardines  rubbed  to  a  paste  ;  season 
with  lemon  juice,  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  delicate  toast. 
Put  two  pieces  together,  and  cut  in  narrow  strips. 

Turkish  Pilaf. 

One  cup  of  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes,  one  cup  of 
stock,  seasoned  highh"  with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  onion. 
When  boiling,  add  one  cup  of  w^ell-washed  rice  ;  stir  lightly 
with  a  fork  until  the  liquor  is  absorbed,  then  add  half  a 
cup  of  butter:  Set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  or  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  steam  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the  cover, 
-Stir  it  hghtly,  cover  with  a  towel,  and  let  the  steain 
escape.  Serve  as  a  vegetable,  or  as  a  border  for  curry 
•or  fricassee. 

No.  2. — Prepare  as  in  the  preceding  receipt.  Add 
with  the  butter  one  cup  of  cooked  meat  (lamb,  veal,  or 
chicken),  cut  into  half-inch  pieces  and  shredded  very  fine. 
Serve  as  an  entree. 

Sour  Milk  Cheese  (sometimes  called  Dutch,  Curd,  or 
Cottage  Cheese). 

1  quart  thick  sour  milk.  1  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  butter.  1  tablespoonful  cream. 

Place  the  milk  in  a  pan  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  and 
scald   it  until   the    curd   has    separated   from   the  whey. 


284  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Spread  a  strainer  cloth  over  a  bowl,  pour  in  the  milk, 
lift  the  edges  of  the  cloth,  and  draw  them  together ;  drain 
or  wring  quite  dry.  There  will  be  but  half  or  two  thirds 
of  a  cup  of  cMro?,  but  it  is  worth  saving.  It  is  the  flesh- 
forming  or  nutritive  part  of  the  milk.  Put  it  in  a  small 
bowl,  with  the  butter,  salt,  and  cream  ;  mix  it  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  a  spoon.  Take  a  teaspoonful,  and  roll  in  the  hand 
into  a  smooth  ball.  It  should  be  quite  moist,  or  the  balls 
will  crack-  If  too  soft  to  handle,  put  it  in  a  cool  place  for 
an  hour,  and  then  it  will  shape  easilj'.  .  Or  it  may  be 
served  without  shaping,  just  broken  up  lightly  with  a 
fork.  If  scalded  too  long,  the  curd  becomes  ver}-  hard 
and  brittle.  It  is  better  when  freshly  made,  and  is  deli- 
cious with  warm  gingerbread.  An  excellent  lunch  or  tea 
dish.  Season  this  cheese  with  one  tablespoonful  of  finely 
powdered  sage^  if  3^ou  like  the  flavor. 

Forefathers'  Dimier. 

Succotash  is  the  great  dish  in  Plymouth  at  ever}^  cele- 
bration of  Forefathers'  Da}",  December  22.  Tradition 
says  it  has  been  made  in  that  town  ever  since  the 
Pilgrims  raised  their  first  corn  and  beans,  and  it  is 
supposed  the}^  learned  to  make  it  from  the  Indians. 

Strangers  are  rather  shy  of  this  peculiar  mixture ;  but 
it  is  a  favorite  dish  with  the  natives,  and  to  this  day  is 
made  by  some  families  man}^  times  through  the  winter 
season.  Although  the  dish  has  never  been  made  by  the 
writer,  it  has  been  tested  by  her  in  that  ancient  town 
many  times,  and  the  excellence  of  the  following  receipt 
is  unquestionable.  It  is  given  in  the  name  of  Mrs. 
Barnabas  Churchill  of  Plymouth,  a  lady  who  has  made 
it  for  fifty  years  after  the  manner  handed  down  through 
many  generations. 

One  quart  of  large  white  beans  (not  the  pea  beans)  ;  six 
quarts  of  hulled  corn.,  —  the  smutty  white  Southern  corn  ; 
six  to  eight  pounds  of  corned  beef.,  from  the  second  cut  of 
the  rattle    rand ;  one  pound  of  salt  porJc,  fat  and   lean ; 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  285 

chicken  weighing  from  four  to  six  pounds ;  one  large 
white  French  turnip  ;  eight  or  ten  medium-sized  potatoes. 
Wash  the  beans,  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  In 
the  morning  put  them  on  in  cold  soft  water.  When  boil- 
ing, change  the  water,  and  simmer  until  soft  enough  to 
mash  to  a  pulp  and  the  water  is  nearh^  all  absorbed. 
Wash  the  salt  pork  and  the  corned  beef,  which  should 
be  corned  onl}"  three  or  four  days.  Put  them  on  about 
eight  o'clock,  in  cold  water,  in  a  very  large  kettle,  and 
skim  as  the}^  begin  to  boil.  Clean,  and  truss  the  chicken 
as  for  boiling,  and  put  it  with  the  meat  about  an  hour  and 
a  quarter  before  dinner  time.  Allow  a  longer  time  if  a 
fowl  be  used,  and  keep  plenty  of  water  in  the  kettle. 
Two  hours  before  dinner  time,  put  the  beans,  mashed  to 
a  pulp,  and  the  hulled  corn  into  another  kettle,  with  some 
of  the  fat  from  the  meat  in  the  bottom  to  keep  them  from 
sticking.  Take  out  enough  liquor  from  the  meat  to  cover 
the  corn  and  beans,  and  let  them  simmer  where  the}'  will 
not  burn.  Stir  often,  and  add  more  liquor  if  needed. 
The  mixture  should  be  like  a  thick  soup,  and  the  beans 
should  absorb  all  the  liquor,  yet  it  must  not  be  too 
dry. 

Pare,  and  cut  the  turnip  into  inch  slices  ;  add  it  about 
-eleven  o'clock,  and  the  potatoes  (pared)  half  an  hour 
later.  Take  up  the  chicken  as  soon  as  tender,  that  it 
may  be  served  whole.  Serve  the  beef  and  pork  together, 
the  chicken,  turnip,  and  potatoes  each  on  separate  dishes, 
.and  the  beans  and  corn  in  a  tureen.  The  meat  usuall}' 
salts  the  mixture  sufficienth',  and  no  other  seasoning  is 
necessar}'.  Save  the  water  left  from  the  meat,  to  use  in 
warming  the  corn  and  beans  the  next  day,  serving  the 
meat  cold.  This  will  keep  several  da3's  in  cold  weather  ; 
and,  like  man}'  other  dishes,  it  is  better  the  oftener  it  is 
warmed  over,  so  there  is  no  objection  to  making  a  large 
quantit}'.  The  white  Southern  corn  is  considered  the  only 
kind  suitable  for  this  ancient  dinner. 


286  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


HuUed  Com. 

Tie  a  quart  of  oak  wood  ashes  in  a  flannel  bag,  and  put 
it  with  three  gallons  of  cold  water  into  an  iron  kettle.  Let 
it  boil  and  become  l3'e,  or  till  the  water  is  black.  Put  in 
four  quarts  of  corn^  and  boil  till  the  hulls  have  all  started. 
Stir  it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Then  pour  it  into  a 
large  pan  of  cold  water,  and  rub  with  the  hand  thoroughly 
to  loosen  the  hulls.  Change  the  water  five  or  six  times, 
and  wash  and  rub  till  the  corn  is  white  and  clean.  Keep 
in  cold  water  over  night ;  then  put  on  in  fresh  cold  water, 
and  simmer  four  hours,  or  till  soft  and  flour3^  Take  ofl 
the  hulls  and  scum  from  the  water,  and  add  fresh  water 
several  times  during  the  simmering. 

Indian  Meal  Pudding.     {Mrs.  Barnabas  Churchill.) 

Rub  a  tahlespoonful  of  butter  round  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  a  smooth  iron  kettle,  —  granite  or  porcelain  will  do ; 
when  melted,  add  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  This  will 
prevent  the  milk  from  burning.  Add  one  quart  of  milk. 
Let  it  boil  up,  and  almost  over  the  kettle  ;  then  sift  in  one 
pint  of  fine  yellow  granulated  corn  meal^  sifting  with  the  left 
hand,  and  holding  the  meal  high,  that  every  grain  ma^^  be 
thoroughly'  scalded.  Stir  constantl}^ ;  add  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  set  away  till  cold.  Then  add  half  a  pint  of 
Wew  Orleans  molasses  and  07ie  quart  of  cold  milk.  Put  into 
a  well-buttered  deep  pudding-dish,  cover  with  a  plate,  and 
bake  very  slowl}^  ten  or  twelve  hours.  Put  it  in  a  "  Satur- 
day afternoon  oven,"  where  the  fire  will  keep  low  nearl}- 
all  night.  Let  it  remain  over  night,  and  serve  for  a  Sun- 
day breakfast. 

Chickins  forc'd  with  Oysters. 

{Taken  from  a  receipt  hook  written  in  1764.) 

Take  03'sters,  parsle}' ,  Onions,  butter,  pepper,  Salt,  grated 
Bread,  Mushrooms — if  you  can  get  y"",  &  as  mau}^  eggs 
as  you  think  propper,  fill  them  inside,  &  Cut  y"  on  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  287 

breast,  if  you  have  a  mind  to,  &  put  some  of  the  stuffing 
there,  make  gravy  of  Oysters,  butter  &  mace,  pepper, 
roast  them  well. 


Bean  Porridge.     (Mrs.  C.  M.  Poor.) 

Five  pounds  of  corned  beef,  not  too  salt,  or  four  pounds 
of  beef  and  one  of  salt  pork;  one  pint  of  dry  white  beans,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  one  pint 
of  hidled  corn.  Soak  the  beans  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing parboil  in  fresh  water  with  a  pinch  of  soda  till  soft. 
Put  the  corned  beef  and  pork  in  cold  water,  skim  carefully, 
and  simmer  four  or  five  hours,  or  till  tender.  Take  out, 
and  cut  into  two-inch  pieces,  and  remove  the  bone  and 
gristle ;  also  the  fat  from  the  liquor.  Put  the  meat  and 
beans  into  the  meat  liquor,  and  simmer  very  slowly  three 
or  four  hours,  or  till  most  of  the  beans  are  broken.  Half 
an  hour  before  serving  stir  in  fche  meal,  first  wetting  it  in 
cold  water  to  a  smooth  paste.  The  meal  should  thicken 
the  porridge  to  about  the  consistency  of  a  thick  soup.  The 
meat  should  be  cooked  till  it  falls  apart.  Season  to  taste 
with  salt  Sind  pepper.  Add  the  hulled  corn,  and  when  hot 
serve  with  brown  bread.  Sometimes  the  vegetables  usu- 
all}^  served  with  a  boiled  dinner  are  cooked  with  the  meat, 
then  removed,  and  the  beans  cooked  as  above,  in  the  meat 
liquor. 

"  This  old-fashioned  and  ver}^  nutritious  dish  was  one  of 
the  chief  articles  of  winter  food  at  my  grandmother's  farm 
in  Northern  New  Hampshire  eight}^  3'ears  ago.  When 
cooked,  it  was  poured  into  bowls  or  basins  holding  from 
a  pint  to  two  quarts.  A  nice  tow  string  was  laid  in  a  loop 
over  the  edge,  and  the  porridge  was  placed  where  it  would 
freeze.  By  holding  the  dish  in  hot  water  it  would  cause 
the  porridge  to  slip  out ;  then  it  was  hung  up  b}'  the  loops 
in  the  '  butter3^'  and  was  considered  '  best  when  nine 
days  old.'  At  early  dawn  the  '  men  folks  '  who  went  into 
the  forest  '  chopping '  would  take  the  skillet,  or  a  little 
three-legged  iron  kettle,   some   large  slices  of  'rye   and 


2SS  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Indian'  bread  in  tlieir,^ pockets  to  keep  it  from  freezing. 
The  porridge  was  hung,  wrapped  in  a  clean  towel,  upon 
the  sled  stakes.  Their  spoons  were  made  of  wood.  The 
hay  that  lay  on  the  floor  of  the  ox  sled  was  of  use  to  keep 
their  feet  warm,  and  given  to  the  oxen  for  '  bait '  at  noon. 
When  it  was  twelve  o'clock  '  by  the  sun,'  they  kindled  a 
fire  by  the  aid  of  a  '  tinder  box,'  warmed  their  porridge, 
and  with  their  brown  bread  enjoj^ed  this  strong  food  as  no 
modern  epicure  can  his  costl}^  French  dishes." 

Smothered  Chicken.      (Adaline  Miller.) 

Clean  a  chicken,  too  old  for  broiling ;  split  down  the 
back,  and  put  it  breast  upwards  in  a  shallow  pan  ;  pour 
■over  it  07ie  cup  of  hoiUng  water ^  and  cover  tightly  to  keep 
in  the  steam.  Cook  half  an  hour  ;  then  baste  with  the  hot 
water,  rub  all  over  with  softened  butter^  and  dredge  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Baste  often,  keep  closely  covered,  and 
cook  till  tender.  It  should  be  yellow,  not  dark  brown. 
Thicken  the  gravy ;  add  chopped  parsley^  salt,  and  pep- 
per, and  pour  it  over  the  chicken. 

Steamed  Apple  and  Indian  Meal  Pudding.     {Mrs.  Faunce.) 

Scald  two  cups  of  corn  meal  with  boiling  water.  Add 
one  teaspooiiful  of  salt.,  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  molasses, 
and  two  tart  apples  cut  into  eighths  and  cored,  but  not 
pared.  Dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  warm 
water,  and  add  to  the  meal.  Add  more  warm  water  to 
make  a  batter  thin  enough  to  pour.  Pour  into  a  greased 
pail,  place  it  on  a  trivet  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Cook  three  hours.  The  water  must  not  stop  boiling.  To 
be  eaten  with  roast  meat.  The  next  day  warm  what  is 
left  in  the  meat  gravy. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  289 


VEGETABLES. 

Vegetable  food,  in  its  widest  sense,  includes  some  part 
of  eveiy  form  of  plant  growth,  —  herb,  shrub,  or  tree,  — 
used  either  as  vegetables,  fruits,  grains,  condiments,  or 
beverages.  Vegetables,  as  the  term  is  generally  used,  are 
such  plants  as  are  cultivated  for  culinarj^  purposes.  Thej 
comprise  a  variety  of  the  parts  of  the  plant,  —  roots, 
stems,  leaves,  flowers,  and  fruit. 

Before  studying  vegetables  proper,  it  may  be  interesting 
for  those  who  have  never  considered  food  from  a  botan- 
ical point  of  view  to  glance  at  the  various  forms  of  veg- 
etable growth  commonly  used  as  food. 

Beginning  with  roots^  we  find,  among  fleshy  roots,  the 
carrot,  turnip,  parsnip,  beet,  salsify,  and  radish,  which  are 
cooked  in  their  natural  state  or  used  raw.  Also  from 
roots  we  get  ginger,  arrowroot,  and  tapioca.  Eootstocks,  or 
stems  growing  underground,  consist  of  tubers,  like  the 
potato,  yam,  and  artichoke,  and  of  scaly  bulbs,  like  the  onion, 
chives,  leek,  and  garlic.  Stems  we  eat  in  asparagus  ;  and 
whole  trunks  of  trees  are  felled  and  used  in  making  sago, 
which  is  the  pith  of  a  species  of  palm-tree. 

Leaves  include  lettuce,  endive,  spinach,  parsle}",  cabbage, 
and  greens  of  various  kinds.  Dried  leaves  mid  flowers  are 
used  in  the  form  of  tea,  sage,  thyme,  ba}'  leaves,  tobacco, 
marjoram,  savory,  and  other  herbs.  Leaf  stalks  include 
celery  and  rhubarb  ;  Jlower  stalks,  cauliflower  and  globe  arti- 
chokes. The  juices  of  vegetables  furnish  many  forms  of 
food, — sugar,  acids,  honey,  oil,  gum,  and  wines.  The 
bark  we  use  in  cinnamon.  Unexpanded  jlower-buds  are 
pickled,  as  in  capers,  or  dried,  as  in  cloves.  Ripe  cloves 
have  no  aroma. 

Many  seeds  or  berries  are  gathered  green,  and  are  then 
dried  for  use.     Allspice,  or  Jamaica  pepper,  cassia  buds, 

19 


290  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

long  peppers,  and  black  pepper  are  of  this  class.  Mustard 
and  celery  seeds  are  used  as  well  as  the  leaves.  Nutmegs 
are  seeds  ;  and  mace  is  the  aril^  or  covering,  of  the  nutmeg. 
Seed  vessels  are  used  green,  as  in  string  beans,  and  also  dried 
and  ground,  as  in  ca^'enne  pepper.  Farinaceous  seeds  or 
grains  include  wheat,  r3'e,  oats,  corn,  barley,  rice,  and  buck- 
wheat. The}^  have  a  thin  seed  vessel  adhering  closely  to 
the  whole  surface  of  the  seed.  Oleaginous  seeds  contain 
oil  and  starch,  like  the  cocoanut,  walnut,  chestnut,  almond, 
etc.  Leguminous  seeds  are  enclosed  in  pods,  as  peas,  beans, 
lentils,  etc. 

Under  the  general  name  of  fruit  we  eat  xQvy  different 
things.  Fleshy  fruits^  like  grapes,  tomatoes,  gooseberries, 
blueberries,  cranberries,  and  currants,  are  pulpy  seed  vessels. 
Oranges  and  lemons  are  pulpy  seed  vessels^  with  a  thick 
leathery  rind.  Squashes,  melon,  cucumbers,  egg-plant,  etc., 
are  fleshy  fruits  with  a  hard  rind.  Chocolate  is  made 
from  the  seed  of  ^  fleshy  fruit.  In  checkerberries,  quinces, 
and  in  all  parts  of  the  apple  and  pear  but  the  core,  we  eat 
2,  fleshy.^  enlarged  calyx.  In  peaches,  plums,  apricots,  cher- 
ries, and  other  stone  fruits,  we  eat  the  outer  part  of  a  peri- 
carp or  seed  vessel.  Olives  belong  to  this  class,  and  are 
used  green  and  in  the  form  of  oil  expressed  from  the 
fleshy  pericarp.  Coffee  is  the  seed  of  a  stone  fruit.  In 
figs  we  eat  a  hollow  floioer  stalky  grown  pulp3%  and  the 
inside  lined  with  a  great  number  of  flowers.  Mulberries 
are  clusters  of  the  pidpy  flower  leaves  and  stalk  of  minute 
multiple  flowers.  Pineapples  are  mulberries  on  a  large 
scale.  The  strawberry  is  the  receptacle  of  a  flower  grown 
juicy  and  pulpy,  and  bearing  many  one-seeded  seed  vessels 
on  its  surface.  Blackberries  also  are  receptacles,  though 
smaller,  covered  with  clusters  of  little  stone  fruits.  Rasp- 
berries are  the  little  stone  fruits  in  a  cluster  without  the 
receptacle. 

Many  fruits,  when  dried,  are  called  by  different  names. 
Dried  currants  are  small  grapes.  Sultanas  are  larger 
grapes,  and  raisins  are  another  and  larger  variety  of  the 
same  fruit.     Prunes  and  prunellas  are  dried  plums. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  291 


Some  of  the  lower  orders  of  vegetation  afford  valuable 
food.  Irish  and  Ce3ion  mosses  are  seaweeds.  Iceland 
moss  is  a  lichen.  Truffles  and  mushrooms  are  a  species  of 
fungi  of  vegetable  growth,  but  possessing  a  strong  meaty 
or  animal  flavor. 

We  need  a  large  variety  of  vegetables  in  our  food  to 
promote  perfect  health.  Vegetables  are  rich  in  saline 
substances  which  counteract  the  evil  effect  of  too  much 
animal  food.  Some  are  rich  in  organic  acids,  and  man}' 
abound  in  indigestible  ligneous  tissues  which  are  useful 
in  certain  conditions.  Those  which  contain  starch  and 
albumen  and  which  can  be  stored  for  use  during  the  winter 
months  are  considered  the  most  valuable.  All  vegetables 
need  the  addition  of  salt  and  butter,  or  some  form  of  fat, 
and  many  are  rendered  less  indigestible  by  seasoning  with 
pepper.  Peas,  beans,  squashes,  beets,  turnips,  etc.,  which 
contain  sugar,  should  be  slightly  sweetened,  as  much  of 
the  natural  sweetness  is  lost  in  cooking ;  and  those  con- 
taining potash  salts,  as  cabbage  and  lettuce,  need  an  acid 
condiment.  Beans,  peas,  and  other  vegetables,  which  are 
difficult  of  digestion,  are  less  indigestible  if  eaten  in  the 
form  of  purees. 

Green  vegetables  should  be  freshl}'  gathered,  thoroughly 
washed  in  cold  water,  and  cooked  in  freshly  boiling 
salted  water.  It  is  impossible  to  give  a  definite  time 
for  cooking,  as  much  depends  upon  their  age  and  the  time 
they  have  been  gathered.  Wilted  vegetables  require  a 
much  longer  time  than  fresh.  All  vegetables  should  be 
cooked  until  soft  and  tender,  and  no  longer.  This  is 
better  ascertained  by  watching  them  carefully  and  piercing 
with  a  fork  than  by  depending  upon  any  time-table.  Veg- 
etables which  are  eaten  raw  and  are  liable  to  ferment  in 
the  stomach  are  usually  dressed  with  some  condiment,  — 
oil,  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Every  green  vegetable  keeps  its  color  better  if  it  be 
boiled  rapidly  and  uncovered.  Many  use  soda  for  the 
same  purpose,  but  unwisely. 


292  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Potatoes. 

The  potato  is  more  geuerall}'  used  than  an}^  other  veg- 
etable. It  combines  with  other  foods  —  meats  particularly 
—  to  give  the  desired  elements.  But  it  should  not  be  used 
alone,  or  in  too  great  a  proportion,  as  it  gives  very  little 
flesh-forming  material.  When  taken  exclusivelj',  such  a 
large  bulk  of  it  is  required  for  sustenance  that  it  results 
in  increased  size  and  prominence  of  the  stomach,  which 
sometimes  amounts  to  deformity'. 

Potatoes  are  three  fourths  water.  The  solid  matter 
consists  largel}^  of  starch,  with  a  small  quantit}^  of  albumen 
and  mineral  matter  held  in  solution  in  the  juices.  The 
quantit}'  of  starch  increases  during  the  autumn,  and  remains 
stationary  during  the  winter.  In  spring,  w  hen  germination 
commences,  the  starch  is  changed  to  gum,  and  renders 
the  potatoes  mucilaginous.  The  sugar  formed  from  this 
gum  renders  them  sweeter.  Potatoes  which  have  been 
frozen  and  thawed  suddenl}^  are  sweeter  and  more  watery 
than  before,  because  on  exposure  to  the  warmth  and  air 
the  starch  is  changed  to  sugar.  The}^  should  be  kept 
frozen  until  ready  to  use,  or  used  immediately  after  thaw- 
ing in  cold  water.  The  sprouts  on  potatoes  should  be 
removed  as  soon  as  they  appear,  since,  if  the}'  are  allowed 
to  grow,  the}'  exhaust  the  starch,  and  render  the  potatoes 
unfit  for  food.  Potatoes  should  be  kept  in  a  dry,  cool 
cellar. 

Botanicall}^  potatoes  belong  to  the  same  poisonous 
order  as  tobacco  and  deadly  nightshade,  and  contain  an 
acid  juice  which  is  unpleasant  to  the  taste  and  often 
renders  them  indigestible.  This  lies  in  and  near  the  rind 
of  the  potato.  It  is  drawn  out  b}'  heat.  When  the 
potatoes  are  baked  it  escapes  in  the  steam,  if  they  are 
opened  at  once  ;  and  when  they  are  boiled,  it  is  absorbed 
by  the  water.  It  is  not  wasteful,  therefore,  to  peel  pota- 
toes before  cooking,  or  to  take  off  quite  a  thick  peel,  as 
they  are  thus  rendered  more  wholesome.  Taste  the  water 
in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled,  and  you  will  have  no 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  293 

desire  to  use  it  in  3'our  yeast,  bread,  or  stews.  Potatoes 
when  first  peeled  are  white,  but  turn  brown  on  exposure 
to  the  air.  For  this  reason  they  should  be  covered  with 
cold  water  as  soon  as  peeled.  New  potatoes  are  watery, 
as  the  starch  is  not  fulh'  formed.  They  have  a  very  thin 
skin,  which  may  be  rubbed  or  scraped  off. 

Raw  potatoes  which  are  to  be  fried  should  be  thinl}- 
sliced,  and  soaked  in  cold  water  to  draw  out  all  the  starch, 
that  the}'  may  be  crisp  and  not  meal}- .  The  cells  which 
hold  the  starch  grains  are  of  an  albuminous  nature. 
These  cells  are  divided  in  slicing  the  potatoes,  and  the 
starch  is  drawn  out  into  the  water ;  the  albuminous  mem- 
brane hardens  in  frying,  and  makes  the  potatoes  crisp. 

Boiled  potatoes  should  be  drained  the  moment  the  heat 
bursts  all  the  starch  grains,  which  ma}'  easily  be  determined 
by  their  soft  texture  when  pierced  with  a  fork,  else  the 
starch  will  absorb  water,  and  the  potatoes  become  pasty 
and  unwholesome. 

Baked  potatoes  should  be  served  as  soon  as  soft,  and 
the  skin  should  be  slightly  ruptured  by  squeezing  to  let 
the  steam  within  escape,  else  it  will  condense  and  make 
the  potato  watery  and  unwholesome.  Potatoes  which  are 
cut  or  sliced  for  stews  and  chowders  should  be  soaked 
and  scalded  to  remove  the  greenness  before  adding  them 
to  the  stew. 

Boiled  Potatoes.  —  Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size. 
Wash  and  scrub  with  a  brush.  Pare,  and  soak  in  cold 
water.  Put  them  in  boiling  salted  water,  —  one  quart 
of  water  and  one  taUespoonfid  of  salt  for  six  large  potatoes. 
Cook  half  an  hour  or  until  soft,  but  not  until  broken. 
Drain  off  every  drop  of  the  water.  Place  the  kettle  un- 
covered on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  let  the  steam  escape. 
Keep  hot  until  ready  to  serve. 

Potatoes  a  la  JSfeige. — Prepare  the  potatoes  as  above, 
and  when  well  drained  and  mealy  beat  them  thoroughly 
with  a  fork,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  serve  at  once,  piled 
lightly  on  the  dish. 

Rice  Potato.  —  Rub  the  beaten  potato  through  a  squash 


294  ^^^  Boston  Cook  Book. 

strainer  into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Keep 
the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  use  a  potato  masher 
or  pestle  to  facilitate  the  rubbing.  Mashed  and  riced 
potatoes  ma}'  be  browned  by  placing  the  dish  in  the  oven 
a  few  minutes. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  —  To  one  pint  of  hot  boiled  potatoes^ 
add  one  tahlespoonful  of  butter^  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt^ 
half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper^  and  hot  milk  or  cream  to 
moisten.  Mash  in  the  kettle  in  wliich  the}-  were  boiled, 
and  beat  with  a  fork  until  light  and  cream}',  and  turn  out 
lightly  on  a  dish.  Never  smooth  it  over,  as  that  will  make 
it  heavy  and  compact. 

Potato  Balls.  —  One  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  highly 
seasoned  with  salt^  pepper.,  celery  salt,  chopped  parsley,  and 
butter ;  moisten,  if  needed,  with  a  little  hot  milk  or  cream. 
Beat  one  egg  light,  and  add  part  of  it  to  the  potatoes. 
Shape  into  smooth  round  balls.  Brush  over  with  the  re- 
mainder of  the  Qgg,  and  bake  on  a  buttered  tin  until 
brown.     Be  careful  not  to  get  them  too  moist. 

Potato  Puff.  —  Prepare  as  for  potato  balls,  making  it 
quite  moist  with  cream  or  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  two  eggs  separately,  and  stir  them  into  the  potatoes 
when  slightly  cooled.  Tarn  into  a  shallow  baking-dish, 
pile  it  in  a  rocky  form,  and  bake  ten  minutes,  or  until  it  is 
puffed  and  browned.  Add  half  a  cup  of  finely  chopped 
cooked  meat,  to  give  a  variety. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes.  —  Cut  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes 
into  dice,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  one  scant 
tahlespoonful  of  minced  onion  in  one  heaping  tahlespoonful  of 
butter,  until  yellow.  Add  the  potatoes,  and  stir  with  a 
fork  until  they  have  absorbed  all  the  butter,  being  careful 
not  to  break  them.  Add  one  tahlespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  and  serve  hot.  One  tahlespoonfid  of  vinegar 
heated  with  the  butter  gives  the  potatoes  a  nice  flavor. 

Creamed  Potatoes.  — Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  cubes 
measuring  one  third  of  an  inch,  or  into  thin  slices.  Put 
them  in  a  small  shallow  pan,  cover  with  milk,  and  cook 
until  the  potatoes  have  absorbed  nearly  all  the  milk.     To 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  295 

one  pint  of  potatoes  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter^  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt^  half  a  saltspoonfal  of  pepper^  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley. 

Fried  Potatoes.  —  Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  slices 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Have  a  frjdng-pan  hot 
and  well  greased  with  salt  pork  or  hacon  fat.  Cook  the 
potatoes  in  the  fat  until  brown,  then  turn,  and  brown  the 
othea'  side. 

French  Potatoes.  —  Yry  as  above,  pour  a  white  sauce  on 
i\  platter,  and  arrange  the  fried  potatoes  on  the  sauce. 

Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  d' Hotel.  —  Prepare  the  Maitre 
d^Hotel  butter  ;  mix  one  tablespoonful  of  butter^  creamed,  with 
the  whole  yolk  of  one  egg.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice., 
one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley .,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt., 
and  half  a,  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Cut  one  imit  of  cold  boiled 
potatoes  in  thin  slices  or  dice,  or  cut  raw  potatoes  into 
balls  with  a  French  cutter,  and  boil  them  ten  minutes. 
Warm  the  potatoes  in  milk  enough  to  barety  cover  them. 
When  the  milk  is  nearly  absorbed,  stir  in  quickly  the 
Maitre  d' Hotel  butter,  and  serve  at  once. 

Baked  Potatoes.  —  Select  smooth  potatoes  of  uniform 
size.  Wash,  and  scrub  well.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about 
forty-five  minutes,  or  until  soft.  Pinch  them  to  break  the 
•skins,  and  let  the  steam  escape.  Serve  at  once,  and 
never  cover,  as  the  steam  causes  them  to  become  soggy. 

Franconia  Potatoes  {Baked  with  Meat) .  —  Wash,  scrub, 
iiud  pare  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Put  them  in  the  drip- 
ping-pan with  the  meat,  and  baste  when  the  meat  is 
basted.  Or  place  them  in  a  small  tin  pan  beside  the 
meat  or  on  the  grate,  and  baste  with  the  dripping. 

Potatoes  in  the  Half- Shell .,  or  Souffle. — Wash,  scrub, 
and  bake  three  smooth  potatoes.  Cut  in  halves  lengthwise, 
and  without  breaking  the  skin  scoop  out  the  potato  into  a 
hot  bowl.  Mash,  and  add  one  even  tahlpspoonfid  of  butter., 
one  of  hot  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  stiff,  and  mix  it  with  the  potato.  Fill  the  skins 
with  the  potato  mixture,  heaping  it  lightty  on  the  top. 
Brown  slightly. 


296  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Stuffed  Potatoes.  —  Bake  potatoes  of  equal  size  ;  when 
done,  and  still  hot,  ciit  off  a  small  piece  from  the  end  of 
each  potato.     Scoop  out  the  inside.     Mash,  and  mix  with 

it  half  the  quantit}^  of  cooked 
meat^  highly  seasoned  and 
finely  chopped.  Fill  the 
skins  a  little  above  the 
edge.  Set  in  the  oven  to 
brown  the  tops.  Or  omit 
Fig.  39.    stiiflfed  Potatoes.  the  meat,  and  fill  onl}' with 

the  mashed    and   seasoned 
potato.     Replace  the  cover,  and  heat  again. 

Fried  Raw  Potatoes.  —  Pare,  wash,  and  cut  into  the  de- 
sired shape.  Soak  in  cold  salted  water,  drain,  and  dry 
between  towels.  Fry  in  clear  fat,  hot  enough  to  brown 
while  counting  sixtj- .     Drain,  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Saratoga  Potatoes  are  shaved  in  thin  slices.  Parisienne 
Potatoes  are  cut  in  small  balls  with  a  French  vegetable 
cutter.  Macaroni^  or  Shoo  Fly^  Potatoes  are  cut  in  quarter- 
inch  slices,  then  in  quarter- inch  strips.  Crescents  and 
other  shapes  may  be  cut  with  vegetable  cutters. 

These  are  all  to  be  fried ;  but  some  prefer  to  boil  the 
Parisienne  potatoes,  and  serve  in  a  cream  sauce ^  flavored 
with  parsley. 

Sweet  Potatoes  may  be  baked  or  boiled.  The}^  are  better 
baked.  Cold  sweet  potatoes  may  be  cut  in  slices,  warmed 
in  milk^  and  seasoned  with  butter  and  salt,  or  browned  irf 
butter. 

A  Southern  Dish.  {Adaline  Miller.)  —  Cut  cold  baked 
sweet  potatoes  into  quarter-inch  slices,  and  put  them  in  an 
earthen  dish.  Spread  each  layer  with  butter,  and  sprinkle 
slightly  with  sugar,  and  bake  until  hot  and  slightly  browned. 
Sweet  potatoes  are  much  richer  when  twice  cooked. 

Spinach. 

Pick  over,  trim  off*  the  roots  and  decayed  leaves  ;  wash 
thoroughly,  lifting  the  spinach  from  one  pan  of  water  into 
another,   that   the   sand   may  be   left  in  the  water,   and 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  297 

changing  the  water  until  it  is  clear.  -  ^\\t  the  spinach  in  a 
large  kettle  without  water.  Place  it  on  the  stove  where  it 
will  cook  slowl}"  until  the  juice  is  drawn  out,  then  boil 
until  tender.  Drain  and  chop  fine.  For  half  a  peck  of 
spinach  add  one  large  tahlespoonfid  of  butter^  half  a  teu' 
spoonful  of  salt^  and  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  ; 
or  add  a  little  thin  cream  sauce.  Heat  again  and  serve  oa 
toast.  Garnish  with  ha.rd-hoiled  eggs  and  toast  points,  or 
serve  cold  with  French  dressing. 

Spinach  is  nearlj^  all  water,  and  a  smaller  portion  of  the 
potash  salts  —  its  most  valuable  constituent  —  is  lost  when 
it  is  cooked  in  its  own  juices. 

Greens. 
The  leaves  and  stalks  of  j^oung  beets,  milkweed,  dande- 
lions, and  narrow  dock  are  useful  as  food  in  the  early 
spring,  chiefly  for  the  water  and  alkaline  salts  which  thej^ 
contain.  They  should  be  picked  over,  and  washed  care- 
full}^,  cooked  in  boihng  salted  water  until  tender,  then 
drained,  and  seasoned  with  butter  and  salt.  Vinegar  is 
often  used  with  them  as  a  desirable  condiment.  Man}- 
people  consider  it  necessary'  to  boil  a  piece  of  salt  pork  with 
greens,  but  they  are  more  wholesome  when  seasoned  with 
butter.  Dandelions  should  be  cooked  in  plenty  of  water  ; 
but  other  tender  greens  may  be  cooked,  like  spinach,  in 
their  own  juices. 

Asparagus. 

Wash  carefully  and  break  (not  cut)  into  inch  pieces 
as  far  as  each  stalk  can  be  broken.  When  it  will  not  snap 
off  quickl}^,  the  stalk  is  too  tough  to  be  used.  Cook  in 
boiling  salted  water,  deep  enough  to  cover,  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, or  until  tender.  When  the  asparagus  is  not  fresh 
and  tender,  it  is  well  to  boil  the  hardest  part  first,  and  add 
the  tender  heads  after  ten  minutes.  Drain,  season  with 
butter  and  salt^  or  pour  white  sauce  over  it,  and  serve  on 
toast.  Many  people  prefer  to  leave  the  stalks  whole,  and 
tie  them  into  bundles  before  boiling.  When  served  in  this 
way,  unless  all  the  tough  part  be  broken  off  before  cook- 


TJie  Boston  Cook  Book. 


ing,  it  is  inconvenient,  if  not  impossible,  to  cut  the  stalk 

afterward. 

Green  Peas. 

Peas  are  fresh  when  the  pods  are  green,  crisp,  and 
plump.  The  fresh  pods  are  sweet,  and  full  of  flavor. 
Wash  the  pods  before  shelling,  then  the  peas  will  require 
no  washing.  Put  the  peas  into  a  colander,  and  sift  out 
the  fine  particles.  Boil  the  pods  ten  minutes,  skim  them 
out,  and  add  the  peas.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  tender. 
When  nearl}-  done,  add  the  salt.  Let  the  w^ater  boil  nearly 
away,  and  serve  without  draining,  except  when  the  peas 
are  to  be  served  as  a  garnish.  Season  with  hatter^  cremn, 
salt,  and  a  little  sugar. 

Old  peas  should  be  cooked  until  tender,  drained,  mashed, 
and  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  served  as  a  vegetable  or 
made  into  a  puree. 

Peas  are  nutritious,  but  they  are  indigestible  unless  the 
hull  be  broken  before  the}'  are  swallowed. 

Beans. 

String  Beans.  —  Remove  the  strings.  The  surest  way 
to  do  that  is  to  pare  a  thin  strip  from  each  edge  of  the  pods. 
Man}'  persons  think  this  unnecessary ;  but  the  beans  are 
much  more  delicate,  and  two  or  three  strings  are  enough 
to  spoil  the  whole  dish.  Lay  a  handful  of  the  pods  on  a 
board  with  the  ends  even,  and  cut  them  all  at  once  into 
inch  pieces.  Wash,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  from 
one  to  three  hours,  the  time  varj-ing  with  different  vari- 
eties of  beans.  Drain  ;  season  with  butter.,  salt,  and  cream, 
and  serve  hot,  or  serve  cold  as  a  salad.  When  very  young 
and  tender,  the}'  may  be  cooked  in  just  water  enough  to 
keep  them  from  burning. 

Shelled  Beans.  —  Wash,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  ;  al- 
wa3's  use  soft  water.  Add  salt  after  ten  minutes,  and  boil 
,  until  tender.  Let  the  water  boil  nearly  away,  and  serve 
without  draining.  Season  with  butter  and  salt.  Lima 
beans  and  other  white  varieties  are  improved  by  adding 
a  little  hot  cream. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  299 


Green  or  Sweet  Com. 

Remove  the  husk,  and  every  thread  of  the  silk}'  fibre. 
Put  into  boiUng  water,  cover  with  tiie  clean  inner  husks, 
and  cook  from  five  to  fifteen  minutes.  Tr}^  a  kernel,  and 
take  up  the  corn  as  soon  as  the  milk  has  thickened  and 
the  raw  taste  is  destroj'ed.  Corn,  if  boiled  a  long  time,  is 
made  hard  and  its  flavor  impaired. 

Green  Corn  Fritters^  or  Mock  Oysters.  —  Cut  through 
each  row  of  kernels  with  the  point  of  a  sharp  knife.  Then 
with  the  back  of  the  knife  press  out  the  pulp,  and  leave 
the  hull  on  the  cob.  This  is  better  and  easier  than  to 
shave  or  grate  oJff  the  kernels.  To  one  pint  of  corn  pulp 
add  tv30  well-beaten  eggs^  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half 
a  saltspoonful  ot pepper,  and  ttco  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
or  just  enough  to  keep  the  corn  and  egg  together.  Do 
not  add  milk,  as  then  more  flour  will  be  required,  and  this 
destroys  the  flavor  of  the  corn.  Fry  in  small  cakes  on  a 
buttered  griddle,  and  brown  well  on  each  side  ;  or  add 
more  flour,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat.  When 
highlj'  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  these  fritters  have 
the  flavor  of  03-sters.  Make  in  the  same  wa}^  with  canned 
corn,  finely  chopped.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  as 
the  canned  corn  is  less  moist  than  the  fresh. 

Succotash.  — This  may  be  m^de  b}'  mixing  equal  quan- 
tities of  shelled  beans  and  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  having 
first  cooked  and  seasoned  them  separateh'.  Or  cut  the 
raw  corn  from  the  cob,  by  scoring  each  row  and  pressing 
the  pulp  out  with  the  back  of  the  knife,  leaving  the  hulls 
on  the  cob,  and  when  the  beans  are  nearly  soft,  add  the 
corn,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Add  cream,  butter,  salt, 
and  sugar  to  taste. 

In  winter,  when  the  A^egetables  are  dry  and  hard,  soak 
the  corn  and  Lima  beans  over  night.  Put  the  beans  on 
in  cold  water,  changing  it  twice.  As  soon  as  it  boils,  add 
the  corn,  and  cook  slowly  several  hours,  or  till  soft.  Sea- 
son with  butter,  sugar,  and  salt.  Canned  Lima  beans  and 
canned  corn  are  also  used. 


300  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Corn,  beans,  and  peas  are  delicious  and  wholesome  sum- 
mer vegetables.  Much  of  the  prejudice  against  their  use 
among  children  results  from  imperfect  mastication,  which 
renders  them  indigestible.  Every  row  of  kernels  should 
be  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  if  the  corn  be  served  on  the 
cob,  and  every  pea  or  bean  should  be  mashed  with  a  fork 
to  insure  their  perfect  digestion.  Thus  eaten,  these  vege- 
tables are  valuable  food,  and  will  cause  no  trouble. 

Tomatoes. 

Raw  Tomatoes.  —  Scald  and  peel  at  least  an  hour  be- 
fore using.  Keep  them  on  the  ice,  and  serve  with  sugar ^ 
salt,  vmegar,  or  with  Mayonnaise  dressing.  If  very 
large,  the}'  ma}'  be  sliced  before  serving. 

Stewed  Tomatoes.  —  Pour  boiling  water  over  them, 
remove  the  skins  and  the  hard  green  stem.  Cut  them 
into  quarters,  and  stew  in  a  granite  pan  fifteen  minutes, 
until  the  pulp  is  soft  and  the  juice  is  partly  boiled  away. 
Add  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  sugar  if  desired.  The 
tomato  ma}^  be  thickened  with  cracker  crumbs  or  with 
cornstarch  wet  in  a  little  cold  water. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes.  —  Season  07ie  quart  of  tomatoes 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  saltsjjoonful  <di  pepper, 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice. 
Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  sprinkle  withJ^?^e  crumbs.  Pour 
in  the  tomatoes.  Moisten  ooie  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  with 
half  a  cup  of  melted  butter.  Spread  over  the  top,  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  Raw  tomatoes  sliced  may  be  used  in 
layers,  alternating  with  crumbs  and  seasoning. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes.  —  Cut  a  thhi  slice  from  the  stem  end 
of  large,  smooth  tomatoes.  Remove  the  seeds  and  soft 
pulp,  and  mix  with  the  pulp  an  equal  amount  of  buttered 
cracker  crumbs.  Season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar, 
and  onion  juice.  Fill  the  cavity  with  the  mixture,  heap- 
ing it  in  the  centre,  and  sprinkle  buttered  crumbs  over  the 
top.  Place  the  tomatoes  in  a  granite  pan,  and  bake  until 
the  crumbs  are  brown.     Take  them  up  carefully  with  a 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  301 

broad  knife,  and  serve  very  hot.  A  small  quantity  of 
cooked  meat  finelj'  chopped  may  be  used  with  the 
crumbs. 

Onions. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  and  remove  the  skins. 
Put  them  in  boiling  salted  water.  When  they  have 
boiled  live  minutes,  change  the  water,  and  change  again 
after  ten  minutes.  Boil  half  an  hour,  or  until  tender,  but 
not  until  broken.  Drain  off  the  water,  add  milk  enough 
to  cover,  and  cook  five  or  ten  minutes  longer.  Season 
with  butter^  salt,  and  pepper.  Serve  plain  or  as  a  garnish 
for  beef.  Or  omit  the  seasoning,  and  pour  white  sauce 
over  them. 

Baked  or  Scalloped  Omons.  —  Boil,  and  if  large  cut 
into  quarters.  Put  into  a  shallow  dish,  cover  with  lohite 
sauce  and  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Onions  are  rich  in  flesh-forming  elements,  are  soothing 
to  the  mucous  membrane,  and  are  otherwise  medicinal. 
The}'  impart  an  agreeable  flavor  to  man}-  kinds  of  food. 

Cauliflower. 

The  leaves  should  be  green  and  fresh,  and  the  heads 
creamy  white.  When  there  are  dark  spots,  the  cauliflower 
is  wilted.  Pick  off"  the  outside  leaves,  soak  in  cold  salted 
water,  top  downwards,  for  one  hour,  to  cleanse  it  thor- 
oughly. Tie  it  in  a  twine  bag,  to  prevent  breaking.  Cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  fifteen  or  twent}^  minutes,  or  until 
tender.  If  not  boiled  in  a  bag,  remove  the  scum  before 
it  settles  on  the  cauliflower.  Serve  in  a  shallow  dish,  and 
cover  with  a  cream  or  Hollcmdaise  sauce.  Or  add  a  little 
grated  cheese,  and  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  moistened 
in  melted  butter,  and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are  brown. 
Or  when  cold,  serve  as  a  salad  y^\\h  Mayonnaise  dressing. 
Cauliflower  ma}'  be  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  served  as  a 
ofarnish  around  broiled  chicken  or  sweetbreads. 


302  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Cabbage. 

Select  a  small  heavy  cabbage.  Remove  the  outside 
leaves,  cut  into  quarters,  cut  off  the  tough  stalk,  soak  in 
cold  salted  water  half  an  hour.  Cook  till  tender  in  boil- 
ing salted  water,  changing  the  water  twice.  Drain,  cut 
or  chop  fine,  season  with  salt  and  butter^  or  cover  with 
white  sauce  and  buttered  crumbs^  and  bake  till  the  crumbs 
are  brown. 

The  cauliflower  and  cabbage  contain  more  gluten,  and 
are  therefore  more  nutritious,  than  any  other  vegetable 
food.  They  should  be  eaten  with  fat  and  oily  food,  and 
require  an  acid,  like  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  as  a  condi- 
ment. Cabbage  is  considered  indigestible,  and  man}'  boil 
with  it  a  small  piece  of  red  pepper  to  counteract  this 
effect.  If  the  water  in  which  cabbage  is  boiled  be  changed 
two  or  three  times,  less  of  the  strong  odor  and  flavor  is 
retained.  With  proper  treatment  this  vegetable  may  be 
served  as  temptingly  as  an}'  other.  It  is  more  wholesome 
when  served  in  its  raw  state  as  a  salad  than  when  cooked. 

Celery. 

Scrape  clean,  and  cut  the  stalks  into  inch  pieces  ;  cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  half  an  hour,  or  until  tender. 
Drain  and  mix  with  a  white  sauce  ;  or  dip  them  in  fritter 
batter^  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Celery  is  usually  eaten  raw,  as 
a  salad,  but  is  more  digestible  when  cooked.  Celery  is 
particularly  good  for  nervous  or  rheumatic  people. 

Egg  Plant. 

Cut  the  plant  into  slices  one  third  of  an  inch  thick,  with- 
out removing  the  skin.  Sprinkle  salt  over  each  slice,  pile 
them,  and  cover  with  a  weight  to  press  out  the  juice.  Drain, 
and  dip  each  slice  first  infne  crumbs^  then  in  beaten  egg., 
and  again  in  crumbs.,  and  saute  them  in  hot  fat.  Egg 
plants  belong  to  the  same  family  as  the  potato  and  tobacco, 
all  of  which  contain  a  bitter  juice,  more  or  less  poisonous. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  303 

Egg  Plant  Fritters.  {Adaline  Miller.)  —  Put  the  egg 
plant  whole  into  boiling  salted  water,  mixed  with  one 
tablespoo7iful  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice ;  cook  twent}^ 
minutes  or  until  tender  ;  mash  and  drain.  To  one  pint  of 
egg  plant  add  half  a  cup  ot  flour.,  two  eggs.,  well  beaten, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fr}^  in  small  cakes  in  hot 
fat.,  browning  well  on  both  sides. 

Artichokes. 

The  Jerusalem  Artichoke  is  a  tuber,  something  like  the 
potato  ;  but  as  it  contains  no  starch,  it  is  not  meal3\  Peel 
and  throw  at  once  into  cold  water  and  vinegar  to  preserve 
the  color.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  watch 
closely,  and  take  them  out  as  they  become  soft,  for  if  left 
in  longer  they  will  harden  again.  Serve  with  a  white  sauce. 
Jerusalem  artichokes  ma}^  be  used  as  a  salad,  or  they  ma}^ 
be  pickled. 

Globe  Artichokes.  —  These  are  thick,  flesliy-petalled 
flowers  which  grow  on  a  plant  that  resembles  the  thistle. 
The  thickened  receptacle  and  scales  of  tlie  involucre  form 
the  edible  portion.  Soak  the  artichokes,  cut  off  the  out- 
side leaves,  trim  away  the  lower  leaves  and  the  ends  of 
the  others.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water,  with  the  tops 
downward,  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  leaves  can  be  drawn 
out.  Drain,  remove  the  choke,  and  serve  with  drawn 
butter. 

Mushrooms. 

Peel  the  top  and  stalk,  break  in  small  pieces,  place 
them  in  a  stewpan,  sprinkle  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  let  them  stand  half  an  hour,  until  the  juice  is  drawn 
out.  Stew  the  mushrooms  in  the  juice  and  a  little  butter 
until  tender,  add  cream  to  cover,  and  when  the  cream  is 
hot  serve  on  toast.  Mushrooms  are  considered  difficult  of 
digestion.  They  are  a  fungous  gi'owth,  and  have  a  wood}' 
odor  and  a  meaty  flavor.  The}'  are  used  largely  in  sauces. 
Unless  familiar  with  the  difference  between  the  edible  and 
the  poisonous  mushrooms,  it  is  safer  to  use  the  canned 
mushrooms,  or  to  obtain  the  fresh  at  a  reliable  market. 


304  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

The  eatable  mushroom  first  appears  veiy  small,  and  of 
a  round  button  shape,  on  a  short  underground  stalk.  At 
this  stage  it  is  all  white.  It  grows  rapidl}',  and  soon  the 
skin  bi'eaks  around  the  base  of  the  button,  which  there 
spreads  like  an  umbrella,  and  shows  underneath  a  fringed 
fur  of  a  fine  salmon-color,  which  changes  to  a  chocolate 
and  then  to  a  dark  brown  color,  when  the  mushrooms  have 
attained  some  size.  Thej'  are  in  perfection  before  the  last 
change.  The  skin  should  peel  easil3\  Those  with  j^ellow 
or  white  fur,  and  which  grow  in  low,  damp  shadj^  places, 
should  be  avoided.  The  good  mushrooms  spring  up  in 
open  sunny  fields  in  August  and  September.  Do  not  trust 
to  any  written  description,  but  search  the  fields  with  some 
one  who  can  unerringly  distinguish  them. 

The  common  puff'-ball,  when  white  and  hard,  though  not 
so  delicate  as  the  mushroom,  makes  a  palatable  dish.  It 
should  be  peeled  with  a  silver  knife,  cut  in  slices  half  an 
inch  thick,  dipped  in  crumbs  and  egg^  or  in  d^  batter^  and 
fried.     Serve  at  once. 

Winter  Squash. 

If  the  shell  be  soft,  peel  the  squash,  remove  the  seeds, 
and  steam  or  cook  in  boiling  salted  water.  If  the  shell  be 
hard,  split  the  squash,  remove  the  seeds,  and  steam  or 
boil  until  soft.  Scrape  out  the  soft  part  from  the  shell, 
mash,  and  season  to  taste.  A  pint  of  squash  needs  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter^  a  few  grains  of  pepper^  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar^  and  salt  to  taste.  Squash 
may  be  baked  in  the  shell,  then  mashed,  and  seasoned  as 
above. 

Summer  Squashes  are  good  onty  when  young,  fresh, 
and  tender.  Wash,  and  cut  into  quarters  or  small  pieces. 
The  skin  and  seeds  need  not  be  removed.  Cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  twentj'  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Place  the 
squash  in  a  strainer  cloth,  mash  it  thoroughh^,  squeeze  the 
cloth  until  the  squasn  is  dry.  Add  a  little  cream  or  butter^ 
salt  and  pepper^  and  heat  again  before  serving. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  305 

Carrots  and  Turnips. 

Carrots  and  turnips  contain,  instead  of  starch,  a  gelati- 
nous gummy  substance,  called  pectine.  They  are  useful 
in  soups,  giving  them  a  fine  flavor  and  color.  Soups  in 
which  carrots  are  used  are  gelatinous  when  cold.  Carrots 
are  not  a  favorite  vegetable  for  the  table  ;  but  if  3'oung 
and  tender,  the}^  are  palatable  when  boiled,  and  served  in 
a  white  sauce.  They  should  be  washed  and  scraped  (not 
pared)  before  boiling.  Old  carrots  are  sometimes  boiled, 
and  served  with  corned  beef  and  salt  fish.  Their  rich 
color  makes  them  effective  as  a  garnish.  The  red,  outside 
part  is  considered  the  best,  as  the  inside  is  stringy. 

Turnips  contain  but  little  nutriment.  They  are  very 
water}^,  and  having  no  starch  are  agreeable  food  to  be 
eaten  with  potatoes.  The}"  contain  no  salt,  and  therefore 
need  more  than  other  vegetables.  Being  wholly  deficient 
in  starch  and  fat,  the}^  are  good  with  fat  meat,  corned  beef, 
roast  pork,  and  mutton. 

Turnips  in  White  ■  Sauce.  —  Wash  and  cut  French  tur- 
nips into  half  or  three-quarter  inch  slices  ;  pare  and  cut 
each  slice  into  strips,  and  then  into  cubes.  Boil  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and  pour  white  sauce 
over  them.  Turnips  ma}"  also  be  mashed,  drained,  and 
seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Parsnips. 

Parsnips  contain  starch  and  sugar,  a  small  portion  of 
gluten,  and  less  water  than  carrots  or  turnips.  They  are 
eaten  with  salt  fish  and  corned  beef.  Those  which  have 
remained  in  the  ground  through  the  winter  are  considered 
the  best.  They  should  be  washed  and  scrubbed  thor- 
oughh',  but  are  more  easily  peeled  after  boihng.  Cut 
them  into  half-inch  cubes,  and  serve  in  v^hite  sauce. 

Parsnip  Fritters.  —  After  boiling  the  parsnips,  plunge 
them  into  cold  water  and  the  skins  will  slip  off  easily, 
mash  them,  and  season  to  taste  with  butter,  salt.,  and 
pepper.     Flour  the  hands,  and  shape  the  mashed  parsnip 

20 


3o6  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

into  small,  flat  oval  cakes.  Roll  them  in  flour,  and  fry 
them  in  butter  until  brown ;  or  dip  them  in  7nolasses^  and 
then  fry. 

Salsify,  or  Oyster  Plant. 

Scrape,  and  throw  at  once  into  cold  water,  with  a  little 
vinegar  in  it  to  keep  them  from  turning  black.  Cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  one  hour,  or  until  tender.  Drain, 
mash,  and  season,  and  fry  like  parsnip  fritters  ;  or  cut 
into  inch  lengths,  and  mix  with  a  white  sauce  ;  or  dip  the 
pieces  m  fritter  batter^  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Beets. 

Wash,  but  do  not  cut  them,  as  that  destroys  the  sweet- 
ness and  color.  Cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender.  Young 
beets  will  cook  in  one  hour,  old  beets  require  a  longer 
time  ;  and  if  tough,  wilted,  or  string}^  they  will  never  boil 
tender.  When  cooked,  put  them  in  a  pan  of  cold  water, 
and  rub  olf  the  skin.  Young  beets  are  cut  in  slices,  and 
served  hot  with  butter^  salt,  and  pepper,  or  cut  in  small 
cubes  and  served  in  a  white  sauce.  They  are  often  pickled 
in  vinegar,  spiced  or  plain,  and  served  cold ;  or  the}^  may 
be  cut  into  dice,  and  mixed  with  other  vegetables  for  a 
salado 

E,ice. 

Rice  should  be  thoroughly  washed.  Turn  the  rice  into 
a  coarse  strainer,  and  place  the  strainer  in  a  deep  dish  of 
cold  water.  Rub  the  rice,  and  lift  it  in  the  strainer  out  of 
the  water,  changing  the  water  till  it  is  clear.  It  is  impor- 
tant to  observe  all  the  steps  of  this  process,  for  in  this 
way  all  the  grit  is  deposited  in  the  water,  leaving  the  rice 
thoroughly  cleansed.  Drain,  and  cook  in  either  of  the 
following  waj'-s,  each  of  which,  if  followed  carefully,  will 
msure  white,  distmct  kernels  of  thoroughh'  cooked  rice. 

Boiled  Rice.  —  Have  two  quarts  oi  water  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  boiling  rapidly  in  an  uncovered  kettle. 
Throw  in  one  cup  of  loell-ioashed  rice,  and  let  it  boil  so 
fast  that  the  kernels  fairly  dance  in  the  water.     Skim  care- 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  307 

fully,  and  stir  with  a  fork,  never  with  a  spoon,  as  that 
mashes  the  kernels.  Cook  twelve,  hfteen,  or  twenty  min- 
utes, according  to  the  age  of  the  rice,  and  add  more  boiling- 
water  if  needed.  Test  the  grains  often,  and  the  moment 
they  are  soft,  and  before  the  starch  begins  to  dissolve  and 
cloud  the  water,  pour  into  a  squash  strainer.  Drain,  and 
place  the  rice  —  still  in  the  strainer  —  in  a  pan  in  the  hot 
closet  or  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Stir  it  before  serving, 
to  let  the  steam  escape  and  the  kernels  become  dry.  Be 
careful  not  to  cook  the  rice  enough  to  burst  the  grains, 
as  then  nothing  can  prevent  them  from  sticking  together. 

Steamed  Rice.  —  Pour  tioo  cups  of  boiling  wetter  on  one 
cup  of  well- washed  rice;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Cook  in  the  double  boiler  thirty  minutes,  or  till  soft.  Re- 
move the  cover,  stir  with  a  fork  to  let  the  steam  escape, 
and  dry  off  the  rice.  Eice  will  usuaUj'  absorb  twice  its 
bulk  of  water ;  but  when  cooked  in  milk  or  stock  a  little 
more  moisture  will  be  required. 

Some  of  the  nitrogenous  and  mineral  constituents,  of 
which  rice  has  but  a  small  amount,  are  lost  in  the  boiling 
water,  and  unless  the  water  be  used  for  soup,  to  boil  rice 
is  a  wasteful  process.  Steaming  is  a  much  easier  method, 
and  is  more  economical.  Many  dishes  may  be  prepared 
from  combinations  of  rice  and  various  seasoning  materials. 

Savory  Bice.  —  Steam  one  scant  cup  of  rice  and  two 
cups  of  rich  white  or  brown  stock  highly  seasoned  with 
salt^  cayenne^  chopped  parsley^  and  ground  herbs.  Stir 
in  one  tablespoonfal  of  butter  with  a  fork,  just  before 
serving. 

N'o.  2.  —  Fr}'  0}ie  tablespoonfal  of  chopped  onion  in 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  until  3^ellow ;  add 
one  scant  cup  of  uncooked  rice.,  and  stir  until  slightly 
colored ;  then  add  one  pint  of  chicken  stock,  and  pour 
all  into  the  double  boiler,  and  steam  thirty  minutes. 

Salmon  Bice.  —  Use  half  stock  and  half  strained  toma- 
toes ;  season  highly  with  curry-,  and  cook  like  Savorj^Rice. 

Bice  loith  Cheese.  —  Steam  the  rice  after  either  of  the 
preceding  receipts,  and  put  it  in  a  shallow  dish  in  layers, 


3o8  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

alternating  with  grated  cheese  and  tomato  sauce^  or  with 
sUces  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  thin  cream  sauce.  Heat  in 
the  oven  with  or  without  a  crust  of  buttered  crumbs. 

Macaroni,  Spaghetti,  and  Vermicelli. 

These  are  thick  pastes  made  from  wheaten  flour  mixed 
with  a  small  quantity  of  water.  Thej^  are  made  to  take 
various  shapes  by  being  forced  through  holes  in  metallic 
plates.  These  plates  are  arranged  over  a  fire  ;  and  the 
macaroni,  as  it  issues  from  the  holes,  is  partiallj'  baked, 
and  afterward  hung  to  dr}^  over  rods.  Vermicelli  is  used 
in  soup  and  puddings ;  macaroni  and  spaghetti  as  vege- 
tables. 

Macaroni  is  a  nutritious  and  economical  food,  and  should 
be  used  more  extensivelj"  than  it  is.  Do  not  wash  it,  as 
the  boiling  water  will  better  take  off  an3^thing  that  needs 
to  be  removed.  Alwa3's  cook  it  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender,  before  serving  it  in  an}^  way.  Drain,  and 
pour  cold  water  over  it  to  keep  it  from  becoming  pasty. 
Macaroni,  as  frequently  prepared,  in  long  pieces,  which 
utterly  refuse  to  come  out  of  the  dish  in  a  proper  manner 
when  served,  is  not  attractive.  Nor  is  it  palatable  when 
it  is  only  slightly  seasoned,  and  is  dried  in  the  oven  with- 
out a  covering  of  sauce  or  crumbs. 

Macaroni.  —  Break  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  maca- 
roni in  three-inch  pieces,  and  put  into  three  pints  of  boil- 
ing salted  water.  Boil  twent}^  minutes,  or  until  soft. 
Drain  in  a  colander,  and  pour  cold  water  through  it  to 
cleanse  and  keep  it  from  sticking.  Cut  into  inch  pieces. 
Lay  the  strips  on  a  board,  parallel  to  each  other,  and  cut 
through  them  all  at  once.  Put  in  a  shallow  baking-dish 
and  cover  with  a  white  sauce^  made  with  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  hot  milk.,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter^  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  cooked  according  to  directions  for  White 
Sauce  (see  page  189).  Add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Mix  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  fine  cracker  crumbs  with  a  third 
of  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  and  sprinkle  over  the  top.  Bake 
till  the  crumbs  are  brown. 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  309 

If  cheese  be  liked  with  it,  use  half  a  cup  of  grated  Par- 
mesan or  aii}^  other  chy  'cheese.  Put  part  of  it  with  the 
macaroni,  and  mix  the  remainder  with  the  crumbs. 

No.  2.  —  Mix  two  hard-hoiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  with 
the  macaroni.  Sprinkle  each  la3xr  with  salt  and  pepper^ 
an:"!  add  a  little  made  mustard.,  if  3'ou  wish.  Cover  with 
milk  and  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are 
brown. 

No.  3. — Pour  a  rich  lohite  sauce  over  the  macaroni, 
and  serve  grated  cheese  on  a  separate  dish. 

Macaroni  and  Tomatoes.  —  Boil  as  above,  and  cover 
with  tomato  sauce.  Fry  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
onion  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Add  one  large  tahle- 
spoonfxd  oi  flour  ;  when  well  mixed,  add  gradually  a  cup 
and  a  half  of  strained  tomato  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Pour  over  the  macaroni,  and  warm  in  the  oven ;  or 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Spaghetti.  —  This  is  a  variety  of  macaroni  about  one 
eighth  of  an  inch  in  diameter.  It  is  usually  served  un- 
broken. Take  a  handful  of  the  long  sticks,  plunge  the 
ends  into  rapidly  boiling  salted  water.  As  they  soften, 
bend  and  coil  the  spaghetti  in  the  water,  without  breaking 
it,  until  it  is  all  softened.  Boil  until  tender.  Drain,  pour 
cold  water  through  it,  and  serve  without  cutting,  if  you  are 
skilled  in  the  art  of  winding  it  around  your  fork,  as  the 
Italians  do.  •  Serve  the  same  as  macaroni,  with  cream,  or 
tomato  sauce,  cheese,  and  crumbs. 

Salads. 

Green  vegetables  which  are  eaten  raw  and  dressed 
with  oil,  acids,  salt,  and  pepper,  are  classed  as  salads. 
Potatoes,  string  beans,  beets,  asparagus,  cauliflower,  and 
many  other  vegetables  which  have  been  cooked,  are  eaten 
cold  with  a  salad  dressing.  Lobster,  oysters,  salmon,  and 
other  kinds  of  cooked  fish,  eggs,  chicken,  and  delicate 
meats  are  combined  with  lettuce,  cresses,  or  celery,  and 


3IO  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

salad  dressing,  and  furnish  man}'  appetizing  and  refreshing 
varieties  of  this  useful  form  of  food. 

There  is  a  strong  prejudice  with  many  against  the  use 
of  oil.  It  is  not  strange  when  we  remember  the  rancid 
oil  sometimes  offered  us.  Pure  olive  oil  is  seldom  to  be 
obtained,  if  we  are  to  believe  all  that  the  opposers  of  adul- 
teration assert.  No  doubt  much  that  is  sold  as  olive  oil 
is  made  from  cotton  seed ;  but  if  it  were  sold  under  its 
right  name  and  at  a  reasonable  price  there  would  be  no 
objection  to  its  use.  When  properl}^  purified,  and  sweet, 
it  may  be  as  wholesome  as  olive  oil.  The}^  are  both  veg- 
etable oils,  which  are  alwa3'S  considered  more  nutritious 
than  animal  oils.  Oil  is  one  of  the  best  forms  of  fat  we 
can  use,  and  aids  in  digestion.  Oil,  when  taken  onlj^  in 
lobster  salad  or  at  late  suppers,  as  is  often  the  case,  is 
held  accountable  for  the  horrors  and  torment  following 
such  a  use  ;  but  if  used  seasonabh'  and  moderateh',  there 
will  be  no  ill  effects. 


French  Dressing. 


1  saltspoonful  salt, 

%  sahspoonf  ul  pepper. 

3  tablespoonf  uls  oil. 


3^  teaspoonful  onion  juice. 
1  tablespoonful  vinegar. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  adding  oil  slowly. 

This  dressing  is  suitable  for  vegetable  and  e^gg  salads, 
and  is  also  used  to  marinate,  or  pickle,  a  meat  or  fish  salad. 
The  onion  may  be  omitted,  and  lemon  juice  may  be  used 
instead  of  vinegar.  A  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard 
added  to  a  French  dressing  is  liked  by  man}^ 


Boiled  Dressing. 


Yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten.. 

1  teaspoonful  mustard. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

3^  saltspoonful  cayenne. 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 


2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter 

or  oil. 
1  cup  cream  or  milk. 
}4  cup  hot  vinegar. 
Whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 


Cook  in  the  double  boiler  until  it  thickens  like  soft  cus- 
tard.   Stir  well.    This  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  two  weeks, 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  311 

and  is  excellent  for  lettuce,  celery,  asparagus,  string  beans, 
and  cauliflower. 

Boiled  Dressing  for  Cold  /Slate.  —  Boil  half  a  cup  of 
vinegar  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar^  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  each  of  salt  and  mustard.,  and  half  a  saltspoonful 
of  pepper.  Rub  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  htitter  to  a  cream, 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  flour.,  and  pour  the  boiling  vinegar 
on  it.  Cook  five  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  one  icell-heaten 
egg.  The  3'olk  only  ma}'  be  used,  and  the  white  saved  for 
clearing  coffee.  Mix  this  dressing,  while  hot,  with  one 
pint  of  red  cabbage^  shaved  or  chopped,  or  with  a  mixed 
vegetable  salad.  Cold  slaw  is  delicious  served  with  fried 
03'sters  or  fish. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 


1  teaspoonful  mustard. 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  sugar. 

1^  teaspoonful  salt. 

3^  saltspoonful  cayenne. 


Yolks  of  2  raw  eggs. 

1  pint  olive  oil. 

2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 


Mix  the  first  four  ingredients  in  a  small  bowl.  Add  the 
eggs.  Stir  well  with  a  small  wooden  spoon.  Add  the  oil, 
a  few  drops  at  a  time,  stirring  until  it  thickens.  If  b}'' 
chance  you  add  too  much  oil,  do  not  attempt  to  stir  it 
all  in  at  once,  but  take  it  up  gradually.  When  the  dress- 
ing is  thick,  thin  it  with  a  little  lemon,  then  add  oil  and 
lemon  alternateh',  and  lasth'  the  vinegar.  When  readj'  to 
serve,  add  half  a  cup  of  lohipped  cream.,  if  3'ou  like.  The 
cream  makes  it  whiter  and  thinner.  The  oil  should 
thicken  the  egg  almost  immediatel}',  and  the  mixture 
should  be  thick  enough  to  be  taken  up  in  a  ball  on 
tlie  spoon,  before  adding  the  vinegar.  Should  the 
^%g  not  thicken  quickty,  and  have  a  curdled  appearance, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  the  unbeaten  lohite  of  egg  or  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar  will  often  restore  the  smooth  consistencj^ 
Be  careful  not  to  use  too  much,  as  it  will  make  the  dressing 
thin.  The  dressing  liquefies  as  soon  as  mixed  with  vege- 
tables or  meat ;  therefore  it  should  be  made  stiff  enough 
to  keep  in  shape  until  used.     Man}'  prefer  to  use  a  Dover 


312  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

egg-beater,  and  others  succeed  best  with  a  fork.  The 
mixture  soon  becomes  too  hard  to  use  an  egg-beater  to 
advantage.  Lobster  coral,  dried  and  pounded  to  a  powder, 
will  give  a  Mayonnaise  a  bright  red  color.  Spinach  green, 
green  peas  mashed,  or  chopped  parsley  will  color  it  green. 
Never  mix  the  Mayonnaise  dressing  with  the  meat  or 
fish  until  ready  to  serve,  and  then  only  part  of  it,  and 
spread  the  remainder  over  the  top. 

Mayonnaise  Tartare  is  simply  the  addition  of  cJcopped 
olives^  pickles^  parsley^  capers^  and  onions  to  the  May- 
onnaise. 

Lettuce  Salad.  —  Pick  over  and  wash  each  leaf  with- 
out breaking.  Shake  off  the  water  and  drain  in  a  net. 
Keep  the  lettuce  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve. 
Just  before  serving,  dry  between  two  towels.  Arrange  the 
leaves  in  a  salad  bowl,  the  larger  leaves  around  the  edge 
and  the  light  ones  in  the  centre.  Serve  with  boiled  dress- 
ing., or  French  dressing.,  or  sugar.,  salt.,  and  vinegar  to 
taste.  Lettuce  should  be  served  cool,  fresh,  and  crisp. 
Never  cut  it,  as  that  causes  the  leaves  to  wait  quickly. 
Tear  them  apart. 

Eadishes  or  olives  may  be  served  with  lettuce ;  and 
when  a  brilliant  effect  is  desired,  garnish  with  a  few  nas- 
turtium blossoms.  When  lettuce  is  used  with  other  mate- 
rials, never  mix  them  until  ready  to  serve. 

Dressed  Celery.  —  Use  only  the  white,  crisp  part  of  the 
celery  stalks.  The  green  parts  ma\^  be  made  into  a  puree 
or  used  in  soups.  Scrape  off  the  brown  discolored  part, 
and  wash  thoroughly.  Keep  in  cold  water,  and  when 
ready  to  serve,  drain  and  arrange  in  a  celery  glass.  Serve 
with  salt.  Or  cut  the  celery  in  thin  slices,  moisten  with 
French  or  Mayonnaise  dressing,  and  garnish  with  lettuce, 
cresses,  or  celery  leaves.  Lettuce  and  celery  may  be 
served  with  the  roast  if  desired. 

Cucumber  Salad.  —  Cut  off  an  inch  from  each  end  of 
the  cucumber,  and  pare  off  a  thick  paring,  as  a  bitter  juice 
lies  near  the  skin.  Cut  in  thin  sUces,  or  shave  with  a 
vegetable  cutter.     Keep  in  cold  water  until  ready  to  serve. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  313 

Drain,  and  place  in  the  bowl  with  ice.  Serve  with  salt^ 
pepper,  and  vinegar,  or  with  a  French  dressing.  Young 
onions  thinly  sliced  are  sometimes  mixed  with  cucumbers. 

Cucumber  and  Tomato  Salad.  —  Place  a  bed  of  crisp 
lettuce  in  a  salad  dish,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  cucumbers, 
then  sliced  tomatoes,  and  pour  a  French  dressing,  or  a 
Mayonnaise,  over  the  whole.  Tomatoes  peeled  and  cut 
into  halves,  and  served  with  a  spoonful  of  Mayonnaise 
on  each  half,  make  an  attractive  salad. 

Potato  Salad. —  One  pint  of  cold  boiled  p)Otatoes,  cut 
in  half-inch  dice  or  shaved  in  thin  slices,  and  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  the  yolk  of  one  hard-boiled  egg, 
one  heaping  tablespoonfid  of  chopped  parsley ,  half  a  cup 
of  cold  beet  dice,  and  a  French  dressing.  Put  alternate 
layers  of  potato,  beet,  yolk  of  Qgg,  rubbed  through  a 
fine  strainer,  parsley,  and  French  dressing,  until  the 
materials  are  all  used.  Have  parsley  and  Qgg  on  the 
top,  and  leave  half  of  the  dressing  for  the  last  la3'er. 
Or  arrange  the  potatoes,  parsley,  and  Qgg  in  the  centre 
of  the  dish,  then  a  circle  of  beets  and  lettuce  around  the 
edge,  with  French  dressing  sprinkled  over  the  whole. 
Sliced  onions,  red  cabbage  chopped,  capers,  dice  of 
turnips,  and  carrots  cut  into  fancy  shapes  or  rubbed 
through  a  strainer,  may  be  used  with  potatoes  for  a 
salad. 

JVo.  2.  —  One  pint  of  hot  potatoes,  mashed  or  cut  in 
slices,  hcdf  a  cup  of  chopped  cabbage,  half  a  cup  of 
chopped  celery,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
one  cucumber  pickle,  and  one  hard-boiled  egg,  chopped 
fine.  Mix  well,  and  add  enough  of  Boiled  Dressing 
No.  2  to  moisten.  Keep  on  the  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 
Place  two  tablespoon  fids  on  a  leaf  of  lettuce,  and  serve 
in  the  leaf. 

Many  professional  cooks  prefer  to  mix  a  potato  salad 
while  the  potatoes  are  hot,  as  the  salad  looks  more 
appetizing,  will  keep  longer,  and  have  less  of  the  soggy 
peculiar  taste  than  when  made  with  cold  potatoes. 
Rubbing  a  cut  onion  or  a  little  garlic  round  the  salad 


314  '^hs  Boston  Cook  Book. 

bowl  is  sufficient  where  onh^  a  slight  flavor  of  onion  is 
desired.  Vegetable  salads  are  suitable  for  lunch  or  tea, 
or  ma}'  be  served  as  a  course  at  dinner. 

Egg  Salad. — Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Cut  the 
whites  in  thin  slices,  or  chop  them  very  fine.  Arrange 
a  bed  of  cresses  on  a  dish.  Make  nests  of  the  whites, 
and  put  one  whole  yolk  in  the  centre  of  each  nest ;  or  rub 
the  yolks  through  a  fine  strainer  over  the  whites.  Sprinkle 
a  French  dressing  over  the  whole.  Serve  small  balls  of 
cottage  cheese  with  the  salad. 

Oyster  Salad.  —  Steam  or  parboil  one  pint  of  oysters. 
Drain,  cool,  and  marinate  them  with  a  French  dressing. 
Serve  with  cresses.,  celery.,  or  lettuce.,  and  a  Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Fish  Salad.  —  One  quart  of  an}^  kind  of  cold  cooked 
fish.,  flaked  and  freed  from  bones  and  skin,  and  placed  on 
a  bed  of  lettuce.  Pound  the  yolks  of  three  hardr-hoiled 
eggs.,  and  three  sardines  (bones  and  skin  removed)  to  a 
smooth  paste.  Mix  this  paste  with  the  Boiled  or  the 
Mayonnaise  dressing.,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  Gar- 
nish with  slices  of  letnon. 

Chicken  Salad.  —  One  pint  each  of  cold  boiled  or 
roasted  chicken  and  celery.,   or  half  as  much   celery  as 


Fig.  40.     Chicken  Salad. 

chicken.  Cut  the  chicken  into  quarter-inch  dice.  Scrape, 
wash,  and  cut  the  celery  in  dice.  Mix  and  marinate  with 
a  French  dressing^  and  keep  on  the  ice  until  ready  to 
serve.  Make  a  Mayonnaise  dressing.,  and  mix  part  of  it 
with  the  chicken ;  arrange  the  salad  in  a  dish,  pour  the 
remainder  of  the  dressing  over  it,  and  garnish  with  celery 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


315 


leaves  and  capers,  or  lettuce,  and  yolli  of  hard-boiled  egg- 
rubbed  through  a  fine  strainer. 

Lobster  Salad.  —  Cut  one  pint  of  lohster  meat  in  dice, 
season  with  a  French  dressing,  and  keep  it  on  ice  until 
read}^  to  serve,  then  mix  with  half  of  the  Mayonnaise 
dressing.  Make  nests  or  cups  of  the  crisp  lettuce  leaves  ; 
break  the  poorer  lettuce  leaves  and  mix  with  the  lobster. 


Fig.  41.    Lobster  Salad. 


Put  a  large  spoonful  of  the  lobster  in  each  leaf,  with  a 
tahlespooyiful  of  the  Mayonnaise  on  tTie  top.  Garnish 
with  capers  and  pounded  coral,  sprinkled  over  the  dress- 
ing, and  with  lohster  claws  smd  j^arsley  round  the  edge. 

Salmon  Salad.  —  Prepare  in  the  same  way  with  cooked 
or  canned  salmon,  freed  from  bones,  skin,  and  oil. 

Salad  Sandwiches.  —  Mix  a  small  quantity  of  Mayon- 
naise dressing  with  finely  chopped  lohster  or  chicken. 
Cover  a  small  slice  of  bread  with  lettuce,  then  the  salad, 
lettuce,  and  bread  again.  Wrap  them  in  tin  foil  or  oiled 
paper,  and  serve  at  picnics  or  when  travelling. 


3i6  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


PASTRY   AND   PIES. 

Puff  Paste,  when  skilful!}'  made,  is  light  and  tender, 
and  so  delicate  that  it  cannot  be  touched  without  crushinsr. 
It  should  be  thoroughl}^  baked,  and  is  therefore  more  suit- 
able for  tarts  and  patties  and  the  upper  crust  of  pies.  Eat 
it  sparingly  ;  unless  you  have  a  good  digestion,  and  exer- 
cise freely,  never  eat  it.  It  is,  however,  less  injurious 
than  the  ordinar}'  pastry  seen  on  manj'  tables,  as  it  con- 
tains no  more  shortening  than  much  of  the  pastrj-  made 
with  a  "guess  measure"  of  lard.  It  is  not  so  much  the 
amount  of  fat  the  paste  contains  that  makes  it  indigestible, 
as  the  inferior  quality  of  the  fat,  such  as  rancid  butter  or 
impure  lard,  or  the  soggy,  greasy,  half-cooked  paste. 

Pastry  that  is  light,  dry,  and  flaky  is  more  easily  sepa- 
rated by  the  gastric  fluids  than  that  which  is  heavy.  Many 
housekeepers  use  lard  in  making  pastrj',  as  it  is  cheaper 
than  butter,  and  juakes  a  softer  and  more  tender  crust. 
Butter  is  more  wholesome,  and  is  preferable  if  3'ou  wish  to 
make  a  brown  crust.  A  mixture  of  half  lard  and  half 
butter  answers  very  well  for  common  paste,  but  for  pufl" 
paste  butter  alone  should  be  used.  In  French  receipts  for 
puff  paste  eggs  are  considered  essential,  but  there  is  no 
necessity  for  their  use. 

It  requires  practice  to  make  puff  paste  well ;  and  as 
there  are  so  many  other  dishes  more  easily  made  and 
vastly  more  important,  it  is  better  not  to  waste  time 
and  strength  upon  it.  Let  your  ambition  as  a  house- 
keeper soar  higher  than  perfection  in  making  puff  paste. 
But  those  who  will  have  it  ma}'  observe  the  following 
directions. 

Puff  Paste. —  One  pound  oi  \h.Q  best  butter^  one  pound 
of  pastry  flour  ^  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  about  one 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  317 

cup  of  ice  water.  By  measure,  use  one  quart  ol  flour  and 
one  pint  of  butter.  Scald  the  bowl,  then  fill  with  cold 
water.  Dip  the  hands  into  hot  and  then  into  cold  water  ; 
this  makes  bowl  and  hands  smooth,  and  keeps  the  butter 
from  sticking.  Wash  the  butter,  bj'  working  it  in  the  cold 
water,  till  soft  and  wax3^  Divide  into  four  parts  ;  pat 
each  part  into  a  long  and  narrow  piece,  and  wrap  in  a 
clean  napkin. 

Have  three  shallow  oblong  pans  that  will  fit  the  one  into 
the  other.  Fill  the  largest  and  smallest  of  the  pans  with 
broken  ice.  Put  the  butter,  covered  with  the  napkin,  into 
the  other,  and  place  it  between  the  two  pans  of  ice  to 
harden.  Mix  the  salt  with  the  flour,  then  break  in  one 
quarter  of  the  butter.  Rub  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers, 
and  keep  plent}^  of  flour  between  the  fingers  and  the  but- 
ter. Many  prefer  to  chop  it,  that  the  warmth  of  the  hand 
may  not  soften  the  butter.  When  the  butter  and  flour 
are  well  mixed,  and  fine  and  dry  like  meal,  pour  in  the  cup 
of  ice  water  slowly.  Mix  with  a  knife,  and  cut,  rather 
than  stir.  Wet  onh^  part  of  the  flour  at  first  and  toss  it 
to  one  side  of  the  bowl,  then  wet  another  part ;  and  when 
it  is  all  of  the  proper  consistenc}^  cut  and  mix  it  together 
till  it  can  be  taken  up  clean  from  the  bowl  with  the  knife. 
Add  the  last  of  the  water  cautiously,  wetting  only  the  drj- 
flour,  and  use  less  or  more  than  the  cupful  as  the  flour 
may  require.  If  the  butter  be  softened  by  the  heat  in 
rubbing,  it  will  moisten  the  flour,  and  less  water  will  be 
required.  But  it  should  not  be  allowed  to  soften.  The 
mixture  should  be  light  and  dry,  like  separate  minute 
crumbs  of  butter  coated  with  flour. 

Use  a  large  smooth  rolling-board  and  a  glass  rolling- 
pin.  Put  half  a  cup  of  flour  in  the  dredger,  and  sprinkle 
the  middle  of  the  board  with  a  light  coating  of  flour.  Toss 
the  ball  of  paste  in  the  flour  with  a  knife  until  floured  all 
over,  then  pat  with  the  rolling-pin  into  a  flat  cake  an  inch 
thick.  Have  the  end  of  the  board  next  j-ou,  that  you  maj^ 
roll  the  paste  the  required  length.  Hold  the  handles  of 
the  pin  firmly,  and  roll  with  a  light  quick  stroke  as  far  as 


3i8  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

your  arms  will  allow, — the  whole  length  of  the  paste,  if 
possible,  at  every  stroke.  Do  not  attempt  to  roll  the  paste 
when  it  is  in  a  ball  or  a  cubical  form,  but  pat  it  lightly,  to 
make  as  large  and  flat  a  surface  as  possible  before  rolling. 
Roll  out  to  the  thickness  of  one  third  of  an  inch,  and  to  a 
rectangular  form.  La}^  one  of  the  quarters  of  butter  in  a 
little  flour  on  the  corner  of  the  board,  and  roll  quickly  into 
a  long  thin  piece  ;  scrape  it  up  with  a  knife,  and  la}^  along 
the  middle  of  the  whole  length  of  the  paste.  Fold  over 
one  side  of  the  paste,  then  the  other,  letting  the  edges  just 
meet  in  the  middle  of  the  butter.  Do  not  pat  it  down . 
Then  fold  each  end  to  the  middle  and  double  again.  Pound 
into  a  flat  cake  and  roll  again  one  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 
Roll  another  piece  of  butter  thin,  lay  it  on  the  paste,  fold 
the  sides  over,  then  the  ends  over,  and  then  together,  and 
repeat  the  process  with  the  remaining  pieces  of  butter. 
When  the  butter  is  all  rolled  in,  the  paste  ma}'  be  folded, 
patted,  and  rolled  out,  two,  three,  or  seven  times,  as  your 
strength  will  permit.  Twice  is  enough  for  pies,  three  or 
four  times  for  patties  ;  but  more  are  needed  for  a  vol-au- 
vent. 

When  the  butter  is  of  the  right  texture,  fine,  smooth, 
and  firm,  not  dry  and  crumbly,  and  the  mixing  and  rolling 
are  done  so  quickly  and  deftly  that  the  butter  does  not 
soften,  the  paste  will  not  stick,  and  ver}-  little  flour  will  be 
required  in  rolling.  Do  not  strike  a  hard  blow  in  rolling, 
nor  press  the  paste  down  to  the  board,  but  roll  with  a 
light  gentle  stroke.  When  the  paste  does  not  slip  along  the 
board,  you  may  know^  it  is  sticking,  and  it  must  be  lifted 
at  once,  the  board  scraped  clean,  and  floured  shghtly. 

Should  the  paste  become  soft  and  stick3^^  fold  again, 
and  pat  it  out  to  the  size  of  the  pan,  and  put  it  in  the 
napkin  between  the  two  pans  of  ice.  It  will  harden  in  ten 
minutes,  and  then  ma}'  be  rolled  easil}^  After  all  the  but- 
ter is  in  the  dough,  cut  in  two  pieces,  then  roll  and  fold 
one,  while  the  other  is  in  the  ice  pan.  Keep  the  board 
and  pin  wiped  dr}',  and  use  only  a  little  flour,  but  use 
enough  to  keep  the  paste  from  sticking. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  319 

Keep  the  edges  even  while  rolling,  and  fold  evenlj' ,  that 
there  may  be  an  equal  number  of  layers  in  all  parts.  Each 
time  the  paste  is  folded  over  the  butter  a  small  amount  of 
air  is  enclosed  and  is  retained,  unless  the  fold  be  patted 
down  and  allow  the  air  to  escape  at  the  end.  These  bub- 
bles of  air  may  be  plainly  seen  when  the  ball  of  dough  is 
patted  and  rolled  out,  and  care  must  be  taken  not  to  let 
the  air  escape.  For  this  reason  roll  lightly  and  always 
from  you^  as  a  hard  motion  back  and  forth  is  more  liable 
to  break  the  bubbles.  Roll  with  a  fan-like  sweep,  a  little 
to  the  right  and  left,  to  widen  it  and  keep  the  rectangular 
shape  ;  then  roll  gently  on  the  edge  nearest  3'ou,  to  make 
it  of  uniform  thickness.  The  more  of  the  bubbles  3'ou  can 
retain  in  the  paste,  the  lighter  and  more  puffy  it  will  be. 
The  number  of  folds  or  layers  of  butter  and  paste  makes 
the  paste  flaky,  but  the  amount  of  air  in  it  makes  it  rise 
and  puff  in  baking. 

The  paste  should  be  folded  and  rolled  till  no  streaks  of 
butter  can  be  seen.  After  the  last  rolling,  place  it  on  the 
ice  to  harden,  as  it  may  then  be  cut  and  shaped  more 
easily. 

To  Bake  Puff  Pfiste.  —  The  dough  should  be  icy  cold 
when  it  is  put  into  the  oven.  If  the  patties  soften  after 
being  shaped,  place  them  between  the  pans  of  ice  till  the}" 
are  hard.  The  oven  should  be  about  as  hot  as  for  rolls, 
with  the  heat  greater  underneath,  that  the  paste  may  rise 
nearty  to  its  full  height  before  browning  ;  then  quicken  the 
fire  to  brown  the  tops,  and  turn  the  heat  from  underneath 
or  put  a  pan  or  grate  under  to  prevent  burning.  If  the 
oven  be  too  hot,  the  paste  will  burn  before  it  is  risen ;  if 
too  slow,  it  will  melt  and  spread. 


Patty  Shells,  Tarts,  Vol-au-vents,  and  other  Forms  of 
Puff  Paste. 

There  are  two  waj^s  of  shaping  the  paste  for  patties 
and  tarts.  First,  roll  puff  paste  one  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  stamp  out  circular  pieces  with  a  cutter,  two  and 


320  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

one  half  inches  in  diameter.  With  a  smaller  cutter  stamp 
out  the  centres  from  half  of  these  pieces,  leaving  rings  half 
an  inch  wide.  Dip  the  cutters  in  hot  water,  and  cut 
quickly,  that  the  edges  ma}'  not  be  pressed  together  or 
cut  unevenly.  Rub  a  little  white  of  egg  on  the  top  of 
the  large  rounds  near  the  edge,  put  on  the  rings,  and  press 
them  lightl}'  to  make  them  adhere,  but  be  careful  not*  to 
get  an}-  egg  on  the  edges,  as  that  will  prevent  them  from 
rising.  Put  round  pieces  of  stale  bread,  cut  half  an  inch 
thick,  in  the  centre,  to  keep  the  paste  from  rising  and  fill- 
ing the  cavity.  Bake  on  shallow  pans  lined  with  paper, 
and  when  done  remove  the  bread  and  soft  paste  under- 
neath. Bake  the  small  pieces  cut  from  the  centre  on  a 
pan  by  themselves,  as  the}'  take  less  time  for  baking.  In 
serving  place  them  on  the  top  of  the  shells  for  a  cover. 

Another  way  is  to  roll  the  paste  one  fourth  of  an 
inch  thick,  cut  with  a  round  cutter,  and  then  with  the 
smaller  cutter  cut  nearly  through  the  centre  of  each  round, 
making  a  rim  half  an  inch  wide.  After  baking  remove  the 
centre  crust  and  soft  part  underneath,  without  breaking 
through,  as  then  the  shell  will  not  hold  any  liquid  mixture. 
Some  persons  prefer  this  method  ;  but  there  is  less  waste 
when  cut  in  the  first  way,  as  the  parts  cut  out  may  be 
baked  for  covers,  and  usually  prove  to  be  the  most  delicate 
part  of  the  paste.  Or,  if  covers  are  not  wanted,  these  cen- 
tres may  be  rolled  out  thinner,  and  used  as  bottom  pieces. 

The  paste  for  patties  is  usually  rolled  one  fourth  of  an 
inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  plain  cutter.  Two  or  three  rims 
may  be  put  on  when  a  deeper  shell  is  desired.  Any  kind 
of  delicate  cooked  meat  or  fish  ( chicken,  sweetbreads, 
oysters,  lobster,  etc.)  may  be  cut  into  small  pieces,  and 
warmed  in  a  thick  cream  sauce  (see  page  278),  and  served 
hot  in  patty  shells,  with  a  cover  of  the  paste. 

Tarts  are  made  thinner,  and  cut  with  a  fluted  cutter. 
The}'  are  filled  with  jelly  or  preserves,  and  served  cold 
without  a  cover. 

Cupid's  Wells.  —  Cut  the  rounds  of  puflT  paste  of  three 
or  four  diflferent  sizes  ;  use  the  largest  one  for  the  bottom, 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  321 

and  cut  the  centres  from  the  others,  leaving  the  rims  of 
different  widths,  and  put  them  on  the  whole  round,  with 
the  narrowest  at  the  top.     Bake,  and  fill  with  jell}'. 

Vbl-au-vent.  —  This  is  made  from  the  lightest  form  of 
puff  paste,  cut  to  any  size  and  shape  desired,  a  large  oval 
being  generalh'  preferred.  Mark  the  outline  with  an  oval 
mould  or  pan,  and  cut  quickl}"  with  a  knife  dipped  in  hot 
water.  Put  on  two  or  three  rims,  wetting  the  edge  of  each 
with  white  of  egg.  Make  an  oval  hoop  of  stiff  paper,  two 
inches  high,  and  slightl}'  larger  than  the  vol-au-vent,  and 
place  around  i^  to  prevent  scorching.  Bake  a  large  vol- 
au-vent  nearl}'  an  hour. 

Cakes  a  la  Polonaise.  —  Roll  puff  paste  ver}^  thin,  cut 
into  pieces  three  inches  square,  wet  the  centre,  turn  each 
corner  over,  press  the  point  down  in  the  centre,  and  put 
a  ver}^  small  round  of  paste  on  the  centre.  Bake,  and 
when  cool  put  dots  of  jelly  on  each  corner. 


Fig.  42.     Bow-Knots. 

Bow-Knots.  —  Cut  thin  puff  paste  into  half-inch  strips, 
and  shape  them  on  the  baking-pan  into  the  form  of  a 
double  bow-knot.  When  baked,  put  jelly  on  each  loop 
of  the  bow. 

Bissoles.  —  Roll  the  scraps  of  puff  paste  thin,  and  cut 
into  rounds.  Put  a  spoonful  of  whatever  material  is  to  be 
used  in  the  centre  of  half  of  the  number,  wet  the  edges, 
and  cover  with  the  remaining  rounds,  first  cutting  a  cross 
in  the  middle,  or  stamping  out  a  small  piece  with  a  vege- 
table cutter  or  pastry  tube.  Any  kind  of  cold  meat  may 
be  cut  fine,  seasoned  to  taste,  moistened  with  a  white 
sauce,  and  used  in  the  rissoles.  Or  they  may  be  filled 
with  stewed  and  sweetened  fruit,  or  mince  meat  prepared 

21 


322  The  Bostmi  Cook  Book, 

as  for  pies.  They  may  be  cut  into  larger  rounds,  the 
filling  placed  on  one  half,  and  the  edges  folded  together 
like  turnovers.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Plaits.  — Roll  very  cold  puff  paste  thin,  and  cut  into 
half-inch  strips.    Braid  them  together,  and  bake  quickl3\ 

Cheese  Straws.  —  Eoll  scraps  of  puff  paste  thin, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  cayenne  pepper  if  you 
like,   fold,  roll  out,  and  sprinkle  again,  and  repeat  the 

process.  Then  place  on  the 
ice  to  harden.  When  cold, 
roll  into  rectangular  shape 
one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick ; 
place  it  on  a  baking-pan,  and 

Fig.  43.    Cheese  Straws.  ^ith   a   pastry    CUttcr   dipped 

in  hot  water,  cut  into  strips 
four  or  five  inches  long  and  less  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
wide.  Bake,  and  serve  piled  cob-house  fashion.  Some- 
times, when  the  paste  is  very  hard,  they  are  cut  as  narrow 
as  possible,  laid  on  the  pan  in  groups  of  five  or  six,  with 
one  straw  laid  over  the  middle  to  represent  a  bundle  of 
straws,  and  baked  in  that  form. 

Pies. 
For  Pies,  roll  the  pufl^  paste  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  then  roll  up,  and  cut  from  the  end  of  the  roll.  Turn 
each  piece  on  the  side,  so  that  the  folds  show  in  rings,  and 
pat  out  flat,  then  roll  to  fit  the  plate.  Keep  the  paste  in  a 
circular  form,  and  roll  evenly  in  every  direction.  Make 
slightly  larger  than  the  plate,  as  the  paste  shrinks  when 
taken  from  the  board,  and  should  be  fulled  in  rather  than 
stretched  to  the  required  size.  After  a  little  practice  it 
is  just  as  easy  to  judge  of  the  amount  of  paste  required  for 
one  crust,  and  roll  it  in  this  wa}?"  to  fit  the  plate,  as  to  roll 
so  large  a  quantity  that  the  edges  have  to  be  trimmed  off 
and  mixed  with  the  remainder  of  the  paste.  Roll  some  of 
the  paste,  and  cut  into  strips  three  quarters  of  an  inch  wide  ; 
wet  the  under  crust  and  place  the  rim  on  the  edge.  Use 
one  rim  for  pies  which  are  to  be  covered,  and  two,  if  you 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  323 

like,  for  pies  without  an  upper  crust.  Fill  the  plate  with 
the  material  to  be  used.  -  Roll  the  upper  crust  larger  than 
the  plate,  make  a  cut  in  the  centre  to  let  the  steam  escape, 
wet  the  rims,  put  the  crust  on  the  edge  even  with  the 
rim  and  slighth-  fuller  in  the  centre,  to  allow  for  shrinking 
in  baking ;  otherwise  the  crust,  as  it  is  forced  up  bj  the 
steam  within,  will  draw  away  from  the  edge. 

Wet  every  spot  of  the  rim  and  edge,  and  press  closely 
but  lightly  together,  to  keep  the  juices  from  boiling  out. 
All  pies,  meat  pies  especially,  with  a  top  crust  should  have 
several  holes  cue  in  the  crust  to  let  the  steam  escape. 
All  fruit  pies  are  better  flavored  if  made  with  fresh,  rather 
than  stewed,  fruits.  If  to  be  filled  with  juicy  fruit,  or 
cream,  the}"  are  more  wholesome  prepared  as  follows : 
Bake  the  two  crusts  separately,  stew  the  fruit,  fill,  and  put 
the  two  together.  Or  fill  with  a  mock  filling  of  pieces  of 
clean  cloth,  bake,  remove  the  cloth,  and  just  before  serving 
fill  with  the  prepared  fruit. 

Pies  should  bake  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
or  till  brovm.  Use  tin  plates,  as  pies  bake  better  on  the 
bottom  in  them.  No  greasing  is  needed,  and  the  pies 
should  be  changed  to  earthen  plates  as  soon  as  done. 

Pastry  for  One  Pie.  —  Oyie  heaping  cup  of  p)a8try 
flour,  one  saltspoonful  of  laMng -pounder,  one  saltspoon- 
fid  of  salt,  and  from  one  third  to  one  half  of  a  cup  of 
butter  and  lard  mixed.  Mix  the  baking-powder  and  salt 
with  the  flour,  and  rub  in  the  lard.  Mix  quite  stiff  with 
cold  water.  Roll  out,  put  the  butter  on  the  paste  in  little 
pieces,  and  sprinkle  with  flour.  Fold  over,  and  roll  out. 
Roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll.  Divide  in  two  parts,  and  roll  to 
fit  the  plate. 

Cream  Paste.  —  Mix  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
half  a  saltspoonfid  of  so6?a  with  one  cup  of  crea?n,  and 
stir  in  flour  enough  to  mix  to  a  stiff  paste.  Roll  half 
an  inch  thick.  Cut  half  a  cup  of  butter  into  small  pieces, 
and  put  it  on  the  paste.  Sprinkle  with  flour,  fold  and  roll 
out  thin  ;  roll  up,  cut  a  piece  from  the  end,  and  roll  to  fit 
the  plate. 


324  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Plain  Paste.  {^Mrs.  T'dton.)  — Beat  the  \uhite  of 
one  egg  with  one  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Work  it  into  one 
quart  of  flour  with  the  hands,  till  fine  as  meal.  Add 
about  one  ciq)  of  ice  ivater.  Roll  out,  and  put  half  a 
pound  of  butter  on  the  paste  in  little  pieces,  either  all  at 
once  or  half  of  it  at  a  time.  Dredge  lightly  with  flour. 
Fold  the  edges  over,  roll  up,  pat,  and  roll  out. 

Lemon  Pie^  No.  1.  —  Mix  one  heaping  tablespoonfid 
of  cornstarch  with  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  add  one  scant  cupj 
of  hoiling  ivater^  and  boil  five  minutes.  Add  one  tea- 
spoonfid  of  butter.,  the  juice  of  one  large  lemon.,  and  one 
egg^  well  beaten.     Bake  between  two  crusts. 

No.  2.  {Miss  M.  L.  Clarke.)  —  Mix  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch.,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt.,  and  one 
cup  and  a  half  of  sugar ;  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water, 
and  boil  five  minutes.  Add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
two  large  lemo7is.  When  slightly  cooled,  add  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  then  the  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Cut  them  in  as  for  an  omelet.  Line  the  plate  with  crust 
and  rim,  add  the  filling,  and  bake  about  twenty  min- 
utes. If  desired,  cover  when  cool  with  a  meringue,  made 
with  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  one  third  of  a  cup  of 
sugar. 

No.  3.  {Miss  Hamnnond.) —  Mix  one  cup  and  a  half 
of  sugar  and  tico  heuping  teaspoonfils  of  flour  ;  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  the  whites  of  tioo  eggs., 
beaten  stifi",  the  grated  rind  of  one  and  the  jidce  of  two 
lemons.,  and  one  cup  of  ice  water.  Line  two  plates  with 
a  crust  and  rim,  fill,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Make 
a  meringue  with  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  one  cup  of 
powdered  sugar. 

Chess  Pie.  —  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  until  light 
and  thick  ;  add  half  a  cup  of  fine  granulated  sugar.,  and 
beat  again  ;  add  one  third  of  a  cup  of  butter  rubbed  to  a 
cream,  and  half  a  teaspooiful  of  vanilla.  Bake  on  a  plate 
lined  and  bordered  with  puff"  paste.  When  done,  cover 
with  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stifi",  and  mixed  with 
half  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  325 

lemon  juice.  Brown  slightl}^,  and  cat  while  hot,  but  serve 
cold. 

Apple  Pie.  —  Cut  sour  apples  in  quarters,  remove  the 
cores  and  skins,  and  cut  each  quarter  in  two  pieces 
lengthwise.  Fill  the  plate,  putting  the  pieces  of  apple 
round  the  edge  in  regular  order,  and  piling  slightl}'  in 
the  middle.  The}'  will  cook  as  quickly  as  when  sliced, 
though  many  are  unwilling  to  believe  it.  When  the  apples 
are  dry,  add  a  little  water.  Cover  with  crust  without  wet- 
ting the  edges,  and  bake  about  half  an  hour.  When  done, 
boil  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  of 
water  five  minutes.  Add  the  grated  rind  of  one  quarter 
of  a  lemon.,  or  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  When 
the  pie  is  done,  remove  to  an  earthen  plate,  pour  this  syrup 
through  a  cut  in  the  top,  or  raise  the  upper  crust  and 
pour  it  over  the  fruit,  or  simply  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
bits  of  butter.  To  sweeten  before  baking,  sprinkle  half  a 
cup  of  sugar ^  mixed  with  a  little  spice  or  grated  lemon 
rind  over  the  apple.  Bind  the  edge  of  the  crusts  with 
a  narrow  strip  of  wet  cloth,  to  keep  in  the  S3Tup.  Or  wet 
the  edge  of  the  lower  crust,  sprinkle  with  flour,  put  on  a 
rim,  wet  and  flour  that  also  ;  fill  with  fruit,  sweeten,  put  on 
the  upper  crust,  and  press  the  edges  firmly  together. 

Rhubarb  Pie.  — Peel  the  rhubarb,  cut  into  inch  pieces, 
pour  boiling  water  over  it,  and  let  it  stand  ten  minutes. 
Drain,  fill  the  plate,  sprinkle  thickly  with  one  cup  of 
sugar.,  dot  with  bits  of  butter.,  cover  with  a  crust,  and 
bake. 

Squash  Pie.  —  One  cup  and  a  half  of  stewed  and 
sifted  squash,  not  watery,  but  dry  and  mealy,  one  cup>  of 
boiling  milk.,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.,  one  saltspoonfid  of  cinnamon,  and  one  egg  beaten 
slightly.  Mix  in  the  order  given.  Line  a  plate  with 
paste,  put  on  a  rim,  and  fill  with  the  squash.  Pumpkin 
pies  are  made  in  the  same  wa}'. 

Custard  Pie.  —  Beat  three  eggs  slightly,  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt^  and  one 
saltspoonful  of  nutmeg,  if  liked.     Pour  on  three  cups  of 


326  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

scalded  milk;  strain  into  a  deep  plate,  lined  with  paste. 
Bake  slowh',  and  the  moment  it  puffs  and  a  knife  blade 
comes  out  clean,  it  is  done. 

Berry  Pies. — Pick  over  the  berries  and  sprinkle 
slightl}^  with  flour  ;  add  sugar  to  taste,  — about  07ie  cup 
for  a  quart  of  fruit.  Do  not  spoil  the  fruit  flavor  by 
using  spices.     Bake  in  a  deep  plate,  with  two  crusts. 

Mince  Meat  for  Pies. 


1  cup  chopped  meat. 
13^2  ^^P  Taisins. 
13^  cup  currants. 
1)^  cup  brown  sugar. 
1/^  cup  molasses,  or 
1  cup  granulated  sugar. 
3  cups  chopped  apples. 

1  cup  meat  liquor. 

2  teaspoonf  uls  salt. 


2  teaspoonf  uls  cinnamon. 
3^  teaspoonf  ul  mace. 

3^2  teaspoonf  ul  powdered  cloves. 
1  lemon  (grated  rind  and  juice). 
3^  piece  citron. 
3^  cup  brandy. 
3^  cup  wine. 

3  teaspoonf  uls  rose  water. 


Mix  in  the  order  given.  Use  enough  of  the  meat  liquor 
to  make  quite  moist.  Substitute  one  cup  of  cider  for  the 
wine  and  brand}',  if  you  prefer.  Cook  it  in  a  porcelain 
kettle  until  the  apple  and  raisins  are  soft.  Do  not  add 
the  wine,  brand}',  and  rose  water  until  the  mixture  is 
cooked.  One  cup>  of  chopped  suet  or  half  a  cup  of  butter 
ma}'  be  added  if  preferred ;  but  if  the  fat  on  the  meat  be 
used,  or  the  pies  are  to  be  eaten  cold,  suet  is  not  needed. 
Meat  from  the  vein  or  the  lower  part  of  the  round  that  has 
a  little  fat  and  no  bone  is  the  best  for  pie  meat. 

Plain  Mince  Pie.  —  0)ie  cup  of  chopped  meat  (cold 
steak  or  roast  beef  which  has  been  simmered  till  tender), 
two  cups  of  chopped  apple^  one  teaspoonful  each  of  salt^ 
allspice^  and  cinnamon .,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar .^  half  a 
cup  of  small  whole  raisins,  half  a  cup  of  currants^  mois- 
tened with  one  cup  of  cider,  or  one  cup  of  sweet  pickle 
vinegar.,  or  half  a  cup  of  water.,  juice  of  one  lemon.,  and  two 
or  three  spoonfuls  of  any  remnants  of  jelly  oy  preserve. 

JEccles  Pie.  (Miss  Barnes.)  —  Two  cups  of  seedless 
raisins   and  half  a  pomid  of  citron,  chopped  very  fine  ; 


I 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  327 

add  one  cup  .of  sugar^  the  juice  of  one  lemon ^  and  a  little 
water.  Stew  five  minutes.  Line  small  patty  pans  with 
puff  paste,  fill  with  the  fruit  mixture,  cover,  and  bake. 

Fanchonnettes.  — Line  small  patt}^  pans  with  puff  paste, 
Tolled  very  thin ;  fill  them  with  lemon  prepared  as  for 
Lemon  Pie,  No.  1  ;  cover  with  a  thin  crust,  and  bake 
quickly.  Or  fill  them  as  directed  for  Lemon  Pie,  No.  2, 
and  bake  without  an  upper  crust. 


328  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


PUDDING-  SAUCES. 


Hard  Sauce  (for  Hot  Puddings). 

^  cup  butter.  I  3^  teaspoonf  ul  lemon  or  vanilla, 

%  cup  powdered  sugar.  |      or  a  little  nutmeg. 

Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream  in  a  warm  bowl ;  add  the 
sugar  gradual!}^,  then  the  flavoring.  Pack  it  smoothl}^  in  a 
small  dish,  and  stamp  it  with  a  butter  mould  or  the 
bottom  of  a  figured  glass.  Keep  it  on  ice  till  ver^'  hard. 
Or  pile  it  lightly  on  a  small  fancy  dish,  and  you  may  call 
it  Snowdrift  Sauce. 

Lemon  Sauce. 


2  cups  hot  water. 
1  cup  sugar. 

3  heaping  teasp.  cornstarch. 


Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 


Boil  the  water  and  sugar  five  minutes,  and  add  the  corn- 
starch, wet  in  a  little  cold  water.  Cook  eight  or  ten 
minutes,  and  add  the  lemon  rind  and  juice  and  the  butter. 
Stir  until  the  butter  is  melted,  and  serve  at  once.  If  the 
water  boil  away  and  the  sauce  become  too  thick,  add  more 
hot  water  till  of  the  right  consistency. 

Whipped  Cream  Sauce. 

1  cup  cream.  I      }4,  cup  powdered  sugar. 

1  teaspoonf  ul  lemon  or  vanilla.      )      White  of  1  egg. 

Mix  the  cream,  vanilla,  and  sugar,  and  whip  it  without 
skimming  off  the  froth.  Add  the  beaten  white  of  the  qq,^ 
and  beat  all  together.  Serve  it  on  any  pudding  usuall}' 
eaten  with  sugar  and  cream. 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh,  329 


Apricot  Sauce. 

1  cup  apricot  juice.  |  1  teaspoonful   cornstarch   or 

}^  cup  sugar.  J  flour. 

Boil  all  together  five  minutes  and  strain.  Use  any  kind 
of  fruit  juice  or  syrup  in  the  same  manner. 

Creamy  Sauce. 

^  cup  butter.  I  2  tablespoonfuls  wine, 

}^  cup  powdered  sugar,  sifted.       |  2  tablespoonfuls  cream. 

Cream  the  butter ;  add  the  sugar  slowly,  then  the  wine 
and  cream.  Beat  well,  and  just  before  serving  place 
the  bowl  over  hot  water  and  stir  till  smooth  and  creamy, 
but  not  enough  to  melt  the  butter.  When  the  wine  and 
cream  are  added,  the  sauce  has  a  curdled  appearance. 
This  is  removed  by  thorough  beating,  and  hj  heating  just 
enough  to  blend  the  materials  smoothly.  It  is  not  intended 
to  be  a  hot  sauce  ;  and  if  the  sauce  become  oily  in  heating, 
place  the  bowl  in  cold  water  and  beat  again  until  smooth 
like  thick  cream.  Omit  the  wine  if  desired,  and  use  half 
a  cup  of  cream,  and  one  teaspoonftd  of  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Serve  on  any  hot  pudding. 

Foamy  Sauce,  I^o.  1. 

Whites  of  2  eggs.  I  1  cup  boiling  milk. 

1  cup  sugar.  '  Juice  of  1  lemon. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  till  foamy,  but  not  dry ;  add 
the  sugar,  beat  well ;  add  the  milk  and  lemon  juice. 


%  cup  butter. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 


Foamy  Sauce,  No.  2. 

2  tablespoonfuls    wine,   or   fruit 

juice,  or  syrup. 
3^  cup  boiling  water. 
White  of  1  e^g  beaten  to  a  foam. 


Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar,  vanilla,  and  wine. 
Just  before  serving  add  the  boiUng  water,  stir  well,  then 
add  the  o^gg^  and  beat  till  foamy. 


330 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Half  a  cup  of  jelly  melted  in  one  fourth  of  a  cup  of  boil- 
ing water  and  poured  into  the  butter  and  sugar  mixture, 
makes  a  pleasing  variety. 

Yellow  Sauce.     {Mrs.  Towne.) 

>£  pound  butter.  I      1  gill  brandy  or  wine. 

1^  pound  brown  sugar.  A  little  nutmeg. 

Yolk  of  1  egg.  I 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  stir  over  hot  water 
till  liquid,  then  add  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  beaten.  Stir  till  it 
thickens  ;  add  brandy  or  wine  and  nutmeg,  and  serve. 


Wine  Sauce. 


1  egg. 

1  saltspoonful  grated  nu^^raeg. 

%  cup  wine. 


1  cup  boiling  water. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  cornstarch. 

3^  cup  butter. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Wet  the  cornstarch  in  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boil- 
ing water.  Boil  ten  minutes.  Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream  ; 
add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the  Qgg.,  well  beaten,  and 
the  nutmeg.  When  the  cornstarch  has  cooked  ten  min- 
utes, add  the  wine,  and  pour  the  whole  into  the  butter, 
sugar,  and  Qgg^  stirring  until  well  mixed. 

Caramel  Sauce.  (Miss  Parloa.)  —  Put  half  a  cup  of 
sugar  in  an  omelet  pan,  and  stir  over  the  fire  till  melted 
and  light  brown.  Add  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and 
simmer  ten  minutes. 

Molasses  Sauce.  —  Mix  one  cup  of  molasses^  the  juice 
of  one  lemon  or  one  tablespoonf %d  of  vinegar.^  half  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt^  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil 
ten  minutes  and  serve  with  plain  rice  or  apple  pudding. 

Plain  Pudding  Sauce.  (Miss  Hammond.)  —  Melt 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter;  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  oi  flour ^  and  one  cup  and  a  half  of  hot  water.  Cook 
as  for  drawn  butter ;  then  add  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
brown  sugar.  Stir  till  the  sugar  is  melted,  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  and  a  little  nutmeg. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  331 


HOT   PUDDING-S. 


Cottage  Pudding. 


2  heaping  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonf uls  baking-powder. 

3^  teaspoonf  ul  salt. 

1  Qg^. 


^  cup  sugar. 

3  tablespoonf  uls  melted  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 


Mix  the  salt  and  baking-powder  with  the  flour.  Beat 
the  Qgg^  add  the  sugar,  melted  butter,  and  milk,  and  stir 
into  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  shallow  dish.  Serve  with  lemon, 
wine,  or  foamy  sauce. 

Dutch  Apple  Cake. 

This  is  used  as  a  pudding  (see  page  86).  It  is  easily 
prepared,  attractive,  and  delicious,  served  with  lemon, 
sauce. 

Scalloped  Apple,  or  Apple  Sandwich. 

Mix  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  cin- 
namon  or  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon.  Melt  half  a 
€up  of  butter,  and  stir  it  into  one  p)int  of  soft  bread  crumbs y' 
prepare  three  pints  of  sliced  apples.  Butter  a  pudding- 
dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  sliced  apple,  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar ;  then  another  layer  of  crumbs,  apple, 
and  sugar  until  the  materials  are  used.  Have  a  thick  layer 
of  crumbs  on  the  top.  When  the  apples  are  not  juicy,  add 
half  a  cup  of  cold  vjater;  and  if  not  tart  apples,  add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lem,on.  Bake  about  an  hour.  Cover  at 
first,  to  prevent  burning.  Serve  with  cream.  Ripe  ber- 
ries and  other  acid  fruits  may  be  used  instead  of  apples, 
and  oatmeal  or  cracked  wheat  mush  in  the  place  of  bread 
crumbs. 


332  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Steamed  Apple  Pudding,  or  Dumpling.    {Mrs.  S.  M  Bailey.) 

Fill  a  two-quart  granite  pan  two  thirds  full  of  sour  apples 
cut  into  eighths,  and  add  half  a  cup  of  water.  Butter  the 
edge  of  the  pan  and  the  inside  of  the  cover.  Cover  with 
a  biscuit  crust,  made  of  one  pint  of  flour,  tico  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking-powder,  and  half  a  teaspoojful  of  salt;  wet 
with  one  scant  cup  of  milk,  just  stiff  enough  to  roll  out. 
Cover  closety  and  steam  one  hour,  or  cook  on  top  of  the 
stove  half  an  hour,  with  a  trivet  under  the  pan  to  keep  the 
apple  from  burning.  Serve  at  once  with  lemon  or  molasses 
sauce.  Put  a  large  round  plate  over  the  pan  ;  invert  them, 
leaving  the  crust  on  the  plate  with  the  apples  at  the  top. 
Cut  like  a  pie. 

The  crust  may  be  shortened,  the  apples  sweetened  with 
molasses,  and  then  baked  in  the  oven ;  and  it  is  called 
Pandowdy. 

Steamed  Carrot  Pudding.     {Mr.  Cole.) 


3^  pound  flour. 

%  pound  chopped  suet. 

}4,  pound  currants. 


y^  pound  sugar, 
teaspoonful  salt. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  steam  in  a  buttered  mould 
three  horn's.     Serve  with  wine  sauce. 


Bread  and  Fruit  Pudding. 

Soak  one  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs  in  one  pbit  of  hot 
milk;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  saltspoonful  of  spice. 
When  cool,  add  three  eggs,  well  beaten.  Add  tioo  cups 
of  fruit,  either  chopped  apples,  raisins,  currants,  canned 
peaches,  or  apricots,  —  one,  or  a  mixture  of  two  or  more 
varieties.  When  using  canned  fruit,  drain  it  from  the 
syrup,  and  use  the  latter  in  making  a  sauce.  Varj"  the 
sugar  according  to  the  fruit.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pud- 
ding-mould, and  steam  two  hours. 

No.  2.  —  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  add  one  cup  and 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  333 

a  half  of  sugar ^  the  grated  rind  Sind  juice  of  o?ie  lemon ^ 
one  saltspoonful  of  salt^  one  cup  each  of  chopped  apples^ 
currants^  and  grated  bread  crumbs.  Mix  well,  then  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs^  beaten  stiff.  Boil  in  a  buttered 
pudding-mould  three  hours,  or  bake  two  hours.  Serve 
with  lemon  oy  foamy  sauce. 

Eve's  Pudding.  —  Add  half  a  cup  of  butter  or  one  cup 
of  chopped  suet  to  the  preceding  rule. 

Bird's-Nest  Pudding. 

Six  or  seven  apples^  cored  and  pared,  and  put  into  a 
buttered  pudding-dish.  Mix^ve  teaspoonfids  of  flour  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt^  wet  it  to  a  smooth  paste  with  cold 
milk^  and  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.,  well  beaten,  then 
the  lohites^  and  more  milk,  using  one  pint  in  all.  Pour  it 
over  the  apples,  and  bake  one  hour.  Serve  with  hard  or 
creamy  sauce. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding. 

Pick  over  and  wash  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  pearl 
tapioca.  Pour  one  quart  of  boiling  loater  over  it,  and 
cook  in  the  double  boiler  till  transparent ;  stir  often,  and 
add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Core  and  pare  seven 
apples.  Put  them  in  a  round  baking-dish,  and  fill  the 
cores  with  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Pour  the  tapioca  over 
them  and  bake  till  the  apples  are  ver}-  soft.  Serve  hot  or 
cold,  with  sugar  and  cream.  A  delicious  variation  may 
be  made  by  using  half  pears,  or  canned  quinces,  and  half 
apples. 

Apple  Me'ringue. 

Core,  pare,  and  bake  seven  apples.,  on  a  shallow  plate, 
till  soft,  but  not  till  broken.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs; 
add  three  tablespoonfids  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  ont 
pint  of  scalded  milk.  Pour  it  over  the  baked  apples. 
Bake  till  the  custard  is  firm.  When  cool,  add  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  till  foamj' ;  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  povjdered  sugar  gradually,  flavor 


334  ^^  Boston  Cook  Book. 

with  lemon,  and  beat  till  stiff.  Set  the  pudding-dish  on  a 
board  in  the  oven,  and  brown  the  meringue.  The  whites 
of  eggs  for  a  meringue  should  be  cool,  and  beaten  till  light 
and  foamy,  but  not  stiff;  then  add  sugar  gradually,  in  the 
proportion  of  one  tahlespoonful  for  each  egg,  and  beat  till 
stiff  enough  to  keep  its  shape. 

No.  2. — Pare  and  core  the  apples,  fill  the  cavity  with 
sugar  and  spice  mixed,  or  with  sugar,  butter,  and  lemon. 
Bake  the  apples,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  with  the 
whites  of  the  eggs ;  make  the  yolks  into  a  boiled  custard 
for  a  sauce,  or  serve  with  cream.  This  ma3^  be  served  hot 
or  cold.  Brown  the  meringue  b^-  holding  a  hot  stove  cover 
over  it. 

Apple  Porcupine. 

Arrange  eight  or  ten  apples  (baked  as  in  the  preceding 
rule,  or  cored,  pared,  and  cooked  carefully  in  syrup,  see 
Compote  of  Apples)  in  a  mound  on  a  dish  for  serving.  Put 
quince  jelly  among  the  apples.  Cover  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  lohites  of  four  eggs  and  half  a  cup  of  poic- 
dered  sugar.  Stick  blanched  almonds  into  the  meringue. 
Put  the  dish  on  a  board  in  the  oven,  and  brown  slightly, 
or  hold  a  hot  iron  over  it.  Serve  with  boiled  custard 
sauce. 

Friar's  Omelet. 

Steam  tart  apples,  mash,  and  drain  quite  dry.  Take 
one  pint  of  the  pulp,  and  mix  with  it  the  yolks  of  three 
weM-beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon  /  then  add  the  beaten  whites.  Brown  one  cup  of 
soft,  fine  bread  crumbs  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
an  omelet  pan.  Butter  a  plain  mould  thickly  with  cold 
butter,  and  sprinkle  over  the  bottom  and  sides  as  many  of 
the  browned  crumbs  as  will  adhere.  Fill  with  the  prepared 
apple  ;  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  twenty  min- 
utes. When  cold,  turn  out  on  a  platter,  and  serve  with 
cream.  It  may  be  baked  in  a  pudrllng-dish,  and  eaten 
hot. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  335 


Apricots  a  la  Neige. 

Boil  one  cup  of  rice  fifteen  minutes,  or  steam  till  tender 
(see  page  307).  Wring  small  pudding-cloths  (one  third 
of  a  yard  square)  out  of  hot  water,  and  la.y  them  over  a 
small  half-pint  bowl.  Spread  the  rice  one  third  of  an  inch 
thick  over  the  cloth.  Put  an  apricot  in  the  centre,  filling 
the  cavity  in  each 
half-apricot  with 
rice.  Draw  the 
cloth  around  till 
the  apricot  is 
covei-ed  smooth- 
ly   with    the   rice.  fjg.  44.     Apple  Snowballs. 

Tie   tightl}',   and 

steam  ten  minutes.  .Remove  the  cloth  carefully,  and  turn 
the  balls  out  on  a  platter,  and  serve  with  apricot  sauce. 
This  amount  of  rice  will  make  four  or  five  balls.  Apples, 
cored  and  pared,  may  be  substituted  for  apricots.  They 
should  be  steamed  half  an  hour.  These  are  more  whole- 
some than  apple  or  fruit  dumplings,  made  with  a  flour 
crust.     They  are  called  Apple  Snowballs. 

Plain  E-ice  Pudding. 

Half  a  cup  of  well-washed  rice^  half  a  cup  of  sugar,. 
a  little  salt^  and  one  quart  of  milk.  Soak  half  an  hour. 
Bake  about  two  hours,  slowly  at  first  till  the  rice  has  soft- 
ened and  thickened  the  milk ;  then  let  it  brown  slightly. 
This  is  creamy  and  delicious,  though  it  is  often  called 
JPoor  Man's  Pudding.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

JSTo.  2.  —  Three  tahlespoonfxds  of  rice,  a  little  salt,  three 
tablespoon  fids  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  milk,  and  three  sour 
apples,  pared  and  quartered,  or  one  cup  of  small,  whole 
raisins.  Put  all  into  a  deep  pudding-dish,  well  buttered. 
Cover,  and  bake  sloicly  four  or  five  hours,  till  the  milk  i& 
all  absorbed  and  the  rice  is  red  or  colored.  Serve  hot 
with  butter. 


33^  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Rice  and  Fruit  Pudding. 

Steam  one  scant  cup  of  rice  in  two  cups  of 
water ^  in  the  double  boiler,  thirty  minutes.  Add,  while 
hot,  one  tahlespoonful  of  butter.,  one  scant  teaspoonful  of 
salt^  07ie  beaten  egg^  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  five 
minutes.  Butter  a  plain  pudding-mould,  sprinkle  it  with 
bread  crumbs,  or  line  with  macaroons.  Put  in  a  layer  of 
rice  half  an  inch  thick,  then  a  layer  of  apricots  or  peaches 
or  pineapple,  then  rice,  fruit,  etc.,  till  the  mould  is  full,  hav- 
ing crumbs  on  the  top.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Turn  out  on  a  platter,  and  serve  with  boiled 
custard  flavored  with  vanilla^  or  with  an  apricot  sauce. 

Rice  Souffle. 

Boil  half  a  cup  of  rice  in  one  quart  of  boiling  salted 
water  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and  drain  it.  Put  the 
rice  in  the  double  boiler  with  one  pint  of  milk.,  cook  ten 
minutes  ;  add  the  yolks  of  four  or  six  eggs  beaten  with 
four  or  six  tablespoonfids  of  povudered  sugar  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cook  five  minutes,  and  set  away 
to  cool ;  add  half  a  teaspooyftd  of  va7iilla  or  lemon. 
Half  an  hour  before  serving,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
stiff",  and  cut  them  lighth'  into  the  cooked  mixture.  Bake 
in  a  well-buttered  pudding-dish  half  an  hour.  Serve  im- 
mediately with  creamy  sauce. 

Rice  Custard. 

Soak  half  a  cup  of  cold  cooked  rice  in  one  pint  of  hot 
milk  till  every  grain  is  distinct.  Add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs.,  beaten  with  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  sitgar  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.,  and  cook  like  soft  custard.  While  still  hot,  stir 
in  the  whites^  beaten  stiff,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Or  turn 
the  hot  custard  into  a  dish,  and  when  cool  cover  with 
a  meringue  of  the  whites.  Brown  slightly,  and  serve 
€old. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  337 


Custard  Souffle.     (Miss  Parloa.) 

Rub  tioo  scant  tahlespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add 
two  tahlespoo7vfuls  of  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one 
cup  of  hot  milk.  Cook  eight  minutes  in  the  double  boiler, 
stirring  often.  Separate  the  yolks  and  ichites  of  four 
eggs^  and  put  the  whites  awa}'  in  the  ice-chest.  Beat  the 
yolks^  add  tico  tahlespoonfuls  of  sugar^  and  add  to  the 
milk,  and  set  awa}'  to  cool.  Half  an  hour  before  serving, 
beat  the  whites  stiffs  and  cut  them  in  lightly.  Bake  in  a 
buttered  x^udding-dish  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes, 
and  serve  at  once  with  creamy  sauce.  This  mixture  ma}^ 
be  put  into  buttered  paper  cases,  and  baked  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.     Serve  in  the  papers. 

Sponge  Pudding.     (Miss  Alice  Walcott.) 


3^  cup  sugar. 

}4  cup  flour. 

1  pint  milk,  boiled. 


1^  cup  butter. 
Yolks  of  5  eggs. 
Whites  of  5  eggs. 


Mix  the  sugar  and  flour,  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  Cook  until  it  thickens  and  is 
smooth  ;  add  the  butter,  and  when  well  mixed  stir  it  into 
the  well-beaten  3'olks  of  the  eggs,  then  add  the  whites 
beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  cups,  or  in  a  shallow  dish,  or  in 
paper  cases,  in  a  hot  oven.  Place  the  dish  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water  while  in  the  oven.     8erve  with  creamy  sauce. 

Bread  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  fine  stale  bread  crumbs^  soaked  one  hour  in 
one  quart  of  milk.  Beat  two  eggs ;  mix  one  quarter  of 
a  cup  of  sugar ^  one  teaspoonful  of  salt^  one  saltspoonfnl 
of  nutmeg  or  cinnamon^  and  07ie  tablespoonful  of  softened 
butter.  Stir  into  the  eggs,  and  then  stir  all  into  the  milk. 
Bake  one  hour  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish. 

Add  one  cup  of  raisins^  and  3'ou  have  a  Plum  Pudding. 
The  raisins  should  be  first  boiled,  at  least  one  hour,  in 
water  to  cover,  till  plump  and  soft,  as  they  will  not  cook 

22 


338  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

sufficiently  in  tlie  baking.  Four  eggs  may  be  used  when 
a  richer  pudding  is  desired.  And  this  becomes  the  Queen 
of  .Puddings  by  leaving  out  the  whites,  and  after  baking 
spreading  a  layer  of  jam  over  the  top,  then  a  meringue  of 
the  whites,  and  browning  slightly. 

French  Bread  Pudding.  —  Butter  small  thin  slices  of 
nice  hread^  spread  with  apple  jelly  ^  and  la}'  them  looseh' 
in  a  quart  pudding-dish,  filhng  it  about  half  full.  Pour 
over  them  one  quart  of  boiled  custard^  and  cover  wdth  a 
meringue.  Brown  the  meringue  and  serve  cold.  Or  put 
the  prepared  bread  in  a  buttered  mould  lined  with  maca- 
roons, cover  with  the  custard,  steam  one  hour,  and  serve 
hot. 

Plymouth  Indian  Meal  Pudding.     {Mrs.  Faunce.) 

Mix  one  cup  of  yellow  corn  meal.,  one  cup  of  molasses., 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Pour  on  one  quart  of  boiling 
milJc^  add  one  tablespoonful  oi  butter^  three  pints  of  cold 
milk.,  and  one  cup  of  cold  vmter.,  or  two  eggs.  Bake  in  a 
deep,  well-buttered  pudding-dish,  holding  at  least  three 
quarts.  Bake  ver}'  slowl}'  seven  or  eight  hours.  Do  not 
stir,  but  cover  with  a  plate  if  it  bake  too  fast.  One  cup 
of  currants  may  be  used  to  give  variet3\ 

Baked  Indian  Meal  Pudding  (made  quickly). 

Boil  one  quart  of  m^ilk^  Pour  it  gradually  on  three 
tahlespoonfuls  of  granulated  Indian  meal.  Put  it  back 
in  the  double  boiler,  and  boil  one  hour,  stirring  often. 
Tiien  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter.,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ^  half  a  cup  of  molasses^  two  eggs.,  and  one 
quart  of  cold  milk.  Mix  well,  pour  into  a  well-buttered 
dish,  and  bake  one  hour.     Eat  with  cream  or  butter. 

Whole-Wheat  Pudding.     {}liss  Helen  Spaulding.') 

Mix  two  cups  of  wihole-wheat  flour.,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda.,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  one  cup  of 
milk.,  half  a  cup  of  molasses.,  and  one  cup  of  stoned  and 
chopped  raisins.,  or  one  cup  of  ripe  berries.     Steam  two 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


339 


hours  and  a  half,  and  serve  with  cream  or  any  plain 
pudding  sauce.  One  cup  of  dates,  figs^  stewed  prunes,  or 
chopped  apple  makes  a  pleasing  variety.  This  is  an 
economical  pudding,  wholesome  for  children  and  invalids 
when  served  with  cream ^  and  rich  enough  to  suit  any  one 
when  served  with  creamy  or  foamy  sauce. 


Steamed  Fruit  Pudding. 


1  pint  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 
V^  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 


2  eggs. 

}4.  f^up  sugar. 

1  pint  berries,  or  ripe  fruit  or  cut 

small,  or 
1  cup  raisins,  stoned  and  halved. 


Mix  the  baking-powder  and  salt  with  the  flour ;  add  the 
milk  and  melted  butter.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add 
the  sugar,  and  beat  them  well  into  the  dough.  Then  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  and  then  the  fruit, 
well  rolled  in  flour.  Steam  two  hours,  and  serve  with 
lemon  or  foamy  sauce. 

Steamed  Suet  and  Fruit  Pudding. 


2j^  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

y^  teaspoonful  salt. 

^  saltspoonf  ul  cinnamon. 


1  cup  chopped  suet,  or 

%  cup  butter. 

1  cup  chopped  raisins  or  currants. 

1  cup  water  or  milk. 

1  cup  molasses. 

Sift  the  sodk,  salt,  and  spice  into  the  flour,  rub  in  the 
butter,  and  add  the  raisins.  Mix  the  milk  with  the 
molasses,  and  stir  it  into  the  dry  mixture.  Steam  in  a 
buttered  pudding- mould  three  hours.  Serve  with  foamy 
sauce. 

If  water  and  butter  be  used,  three  cups  of  flour  will  be 
required,  as  these  thicken  less  than  inilJc  and  suet.  This 
pudding  is  sometimes  steamed  in  small  stone  cups. 

Cabinet  Pudding. 

Butter  a  melon  mould,  and  decorate  it  with  candied 
fruit,  or  with  raisins  boiled  till  soft  and  seeded  ;  then  put 


340  The  Boston  Cook  Booh 

in  a  layer  of  lady  fingers  or  stale  sponge  cake,  then  a 
few  pieces  of  fruit,  and  repeat  till  the  mould  is  nearlj^  full. 
Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  into  the  yolks  of  three  eggs^ 
beaten  with  three  tahlespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  half  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Pour  over  the  cake  in  the  mould.  Set 
the  mould  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
half  an  hour,  then  bake  one  hour,  keeping  it  in  the  pan  of 
hot  water.  Or  steam  it  one  hour.  Serve  hot  with  wine 
or  foamy  sauce. 

Six  macaroons  or  six  cococmut  cakes  ma}'  also  be  used, 
and  the  custard  may  be  flavored  with  wi^ie. 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding.     {Mrs.  J.  M.  Towne.) 

One  pint  and  a  half  of  grated  bread  crumbs  (soft,  not 
dried) ,  one  pint  of  chopped  suet,  one  pint  and  a  half  of 
currants  and  stoned  raisins  mixed,  half  a  cup  of  citron 
shaved  thin,  one  scant  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonfid 
of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonfid  of  grated  nutmeg,  five  eggs, 
two  even  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  made  into  a  thin  batter 
with  milk,  and  half  a  glass  of  brandy.  Mix  in  the  order 
given,  and  boil  or  steam  four  hours.  Serve  with  yellow 
sauce. 

Thanksgiving  Plum  Pudding.     {Mrs.  S.  M.  Bailey.) 

Six  butter  crackers,  rolled  fine,  and  soaked  in  three 
jyints  of  milk.  Cream  one  quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter  with 
one  cup  of  sugar ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  of  mixed  spice,  and  six  well-beaten  eggs.  Stir 
it  all  into  the  milk,  and  add  oiie  pound  of  the  best  raisins. 
Bake  in  a  deep  pudding-dish,  well  greased  with  cold 
butter.  Bake  very  slowty  in  a  moderate  oven  three  or 
four  hours.  Stir  several  times  during  the  first  hour,  to 
keep  the  raisins  from  settling.  Make  half  of  this  receipt 
and  steam  it  in  a  pudding- mould.  Butter  the  mould,  and 
line  it  with  macaroons. 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh,  341 


CUSTARDS,   JELLIES,   AND   CREAMS. 


Irish  Moss  Blanc-Mange. 

^  cup  Irish  moss.  I  1  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  quart  milk.  I  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Soak  the  moss  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes  ;  pick  over, 
wash,  tie  in  a  lace  bag,  and  put  it  into  the  double 
boiler  with  the  milk.  Boil  until  the  milk  thickens  when 
dropped  on  a  cool  plate.  Add  the  salt ;  strain  and  flavor. 
Mould  in  small  cups  or  in  egg-shells.  Break  off"  a  piece 
as  large  as  a  ten-cent  piece  on  one  end  of  the  egg-shell, 
pour  out  the  egg,  rinse  the  shells,  stand  them  upright  in  a 
pan  of  meal,  and  fill  with  the  blanc-mange.  Serve  blanc- 
mange with  sugar  and  cream,  also  with  apple  or  grape 
jelly  /  or  put  half  a  peach  or  an}"  candied  fruit  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  cup  before  filling. 

Blanc-mange  may  be  made  by  using  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sea-moss  farina.  Stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk, 
and  cook  twenty  minutes.  Or  use  three  tahlespoonfuls  of 
Hecker'' s  farina  in  the  same  way.  Cornstarch  and  gela- 
tine are  often  used,  but  they  are  neither  palatable  nor 
nutritious  without  eggs. 

Chocolate  Pudding.  —  Use  the  same  proportion  of  moss 
and  milk  as  in  the  preceding  rule.  Put  one  square  of 
chocolate  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoon  fids  each  of 
sugar  and  water.  Stir,  and  boil  until  smooth  ;  add  a  little 
of  the  milk,  until  thin  enough  to  pour  easil}- ,  then  mix  it 
well  with  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  Add  the  moss,  and 
boil  till  thick. 


342  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Danish  Pudding,  or  Fruit  Tapioca. 


^  cup  pearl  tapioca. 
\y^  pint  boiling  water. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 


^  cup  sugar. 

}^  tumbler  currant  jelly. 


Pick  over  and  wash  the  tapioca.  Put  it  in  the  double 
boiler  with  the  boiling  water,  and  cook  one  hour,  or  till 
soft  and  transparent,  stirring  often.  Add  the  salt,  sugar, 
and  currant  jelly.  Stir  till  the  jelly  is  all  dissolved.  Pour 
into  a  glass  dish,  and  keep  on  ice.  Serve  very  cold  with 
sugar  and  cream.  Half  a  cup  of  lemon  juice ^  or  any  acid 
fruit  syrup,  or  one  cup  of  cam%ed  apricot,  peach,  or  quince, 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  jelly.  Or,  in  summer,  use  one 
pint  of  ripe  berries.^  or  any  sm.all  fruits^  adding  more  sugar 
as  required. 

Fruit  Pudding.  —  Cook  one  quart  of  rip)e  berries  or 
canned  peaches  or  apricots  with  one  pint  of  water.,  and 
sugar  to  taste,  till  the  fruit  is  well  scalded.  Skim  out  the 
fruit  into  a  dish  for  serving.  Wet  one  scant  cupful  of 
fine  granulated  wheat  flour  in  a  little  cold  water,  stir  it 
into  the  boiling  syrup  ;  cook  ten  minutes,  and  pour  it  over 
the  fruit.     Serve  very  cold  with  cream. 


Boiled  Custard. 


1  pint  milk. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

3  tablespoonf  uls  sugar. 


%  saltspoonful  salt. 
y^  teaspoonful  vanilla. 


Scald  the  milk.  Beat  the  3'olks,  add  the  sugar  and 
salt,  and  beat  well.  Pour  the  hot  milk  slowly  into  the 
eggs,  and  when  well  mixed  pour  all  back  into  the  double 
boiler,  and  stir  constantly  till  smooth  and  thick  like  cream. 
Strain,  and  when  cool  add  the  flavoring.  Do  not  stir  the 
egg  into  the  hot  milk,  as  there  is  danger  of  curdling,  and 
a  part  of  the  q^^  will  be  left  in  the  bowl.  Scalding  the 
milk  hastens  the  process,  so  that  less  stirring  is  required. 
When  nearly  thick  enough,  the  foam  on  the  top  disappears, 
and  the  custard  coats  the  spoon  ;  but  the  surest  test  is 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  343 

given  by  the  sense  of  feeling.  You  are  conscious  that  the 
custard  is  thicker  by  the  way  the  spoon  goes  through  it. 
Do  not  leave  the  custard  an  instant ;  take  it  off  as  soon  as 
it  is  smooth,  as  it  will  thicken  in  cooling,  and  curdles 
quickty  if  cooked  a  moment  too  long  or  if  left  in  the  boiler. 
Have  a  fine  strainer  placed  in  a  bowl  or  pitcher  before  you 
begin  to  cook  the  custard,  that  you  may  strain  it  quickly. 

Boiled  custard,  when  to  be  used  as  a  sauce,  should  be 
thin  enough  to  pour ;  when  to  be  served  as  a  custard,  it 
should  be  cooked  a  moment  longer,  to  make  it  thicker. 

Four  or  QY^nfive  eggs  to  a  pint  of  milk  may  be  used 
when  a  rich  custard  is  desired.  But  three  are  sufficient 
for  nearl}'  all  purposes. 

Boiled  custard  is  much  smoother  when  only  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  are  used.  Many  combinations  may  be  made  b}" 
adding  the  whites  of  the  eggs  after  the  custard  is  cold. 
Beat  the  whites  stiff,  put  them  on  a  sieve,  and  cook  over 
steam,  or  pour  boiling  water  through  them.  The  water 
will  cook  and  stiffen  the  Qgg,  and  when  well  drained  it  ma}' 
be  piled  in  rocky  form  on  the  custard.  Or  the  white  may 
be  poached  hj  dipping  it  by  the  spoonful  into  boiling  milk. 
vServe  the  custard  in  a  large  glass  dish,  and  pile  the  white 
in  a  mass,  or  put  spoonfuls  of  it  here  and  there  on  the  cus- 
tard, with  bright-colored  jelly  on  the  white  ;  or  serve  in 
small  glass  custard  cups  with  the  white  and  jelly  on  the 
top.  Or  pour  the  custard  over  slices  of  sponge  cake 
(soaked  in  wine,  if  3'ou  prefer) ,  and  cover  with  a  meringue 
of  the  whites  sweetened  and  flavored.  Floating  Island^ 
Flummery^  Tipsy  Pudding,  and  hosts  of  other  dishes 
are  only  fanc}^  names  given  to  the  different  combinations 
of  cake,  boiled  custard,  and  meringue. 

An}-  of  the  following  ingredients  may  be  used  as  flavor- 
ing ;  this  will  give  a  variety  of  dishes,  which  want  of  space 
prevents  us  from  giving  as  separate  receipts  :  half  a  square 
of  chocolate,  melted  ;  the  three  tahlespoonfuls  of  sugar 
melted  to  a  caramel  before  mixing  with  the  yolks  ;  one  cup 
of  grated  cocoanut,  or  cocoanut  caJces  crumbled  ;  six  mac- 
aroons soaked  in  vnne ;  one  cup  of  chopjped  ahnonds  or 


344  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


any  of  the  varieties  of  candied  fruits;  four  OTanges^ 
peeled,  seeded,  and  cut  fine  ;  one  pint  of  any  canned  fruit ; 
one  pint  of  lemon^  icine^  or  orange  jelly ^  cot  in  cubes. 
Or  color  the  meringue  phik  by  beating  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  bright-colored  jelly  with  the  whites ;  or  brown  it 
with  a  salamander  or  hot  poker,  or  by  putting  the  dish 
on  a  board  in  the  oven. 

Baked  or  Steamed  Custard. 

1  quart  milk.  i  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

6  eggs.  I      •    1  saltspoonf  ul  salt. 

Scald  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  ;  add  the  sugar  and  salt, 
tiien  the  scalded  milk.  Strain,  add  a  little  nutmeg,  and 
bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  deep  dish  or  in  cups  set 
in  a  pan  of  warm  water ;  or  steam  in  a  bowl  or  in  cups. 
Test  the  custard  with  a  spoon ;  if  it  come  out  clean,  the 
custard  is  done. 

Caramel  Custard. 

%  cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  water. 

1  quart  milk.  1  tea  spoonful  vanilla. 

Put  the  sugar  in  an  omelet  pan,  and  stir  until  it  melts 
and  is  light  brown  ;  add  the  water,  and  stir  into  the  warm 
milk.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  the  salt  and  vanilla  and 
part  of  the  milk.  Strain  into  the  remainder  of  the  milk, 
and  pour  into  a  buttered  two-quart  mould.  Set  the  mould 
in  a  pan  of  warm  water,  and  bake  thirty  to  fort}^  minutes, 
or  till  firm.  Cut  into  the  middle  with  a  knife  ;  if  it  come 
out  clean,  the  custard  is  done.  Serve  cold  with  caramel 
sauce. 

Delicate  Pudding. 

%  saltspoonful  salt. 
Sugar  to  taste. 
3  eggs. 


1  cup  water. 

1  cup  fruit  juice. 

3  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch. 


Boil  the  water  and  fruit  juice  (orange,  lemon,  or  canned 
cherries,  quince,  or  apricot).    Wet  the  cornstarch  in  a  little 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  345 

cold  water ^  stir  into  the  boiling  syrup,  and  cook  ten  min- 
utes. Add  the  salt  and  sugar  to  taste  ;  the  quantity  de- 
pending upon  the  fruit.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  till 
foamy,  and  stir  into  the  starch.  Turn  at  once  into  a 
mould.  Serve  cold  with  a  boiled  custard  sauce  made  with 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 

Apple  Snow. 

3  large  tart  apples.  I      %  cup  powdered  sugar. 

3  eggs  (whites).  I     )^  cup  jelly. 

Stew  or  steam  the  apples  (cored  and  quartered,  but  not 
pared),  drain,  and  then  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff,  add  the  sugar,  beat  again  ; 
add  the  apple,  and  beat  till  like  snow.  Pile  lightl}^  in  a 
glass  dish,  garnish  with  jellj'  or  holly  leaves.  Serve  with 
boiled  custard. 

Tapioca  Cream. 


2  tablespoonfuls  pearl  tapioca. 
1  pint  milk. 
Yolks  of  2  eggs. 
3^  cup  sugar. 


}^  saltspoonful  salt. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

3^  teaspoonf  ul  vanilla. 


Soak  the  tapioca  in  hot  loater  enough  to  cover  it,  in  the 
top  of  the  double  boiler  placed  on  the  back  of  the  stove. 
When  the  water  is  absorbed,  add  the  milk,  and  cook  until 
the  tapioca  is  soft  and  transparent.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  add  the  sugar  and  salt.  Pour  the  boiling  mixture  on 
them,  and  cook  two  or  three  minutes,  or  till  it  thickens  like 
boiled  custard.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  foam.  Stir  well,  and  when  cool 
flavor.  Do  not  tr}^  to  mould  it,  as  it  is  more  delicate  when 
soft. 

Jellies  and  Fancy  Dishes  made  with  Gelatine,  Custard, 
and  Cream. 

Gelatine,  as  now  obtained,  is  refined  and  clarified  during 
the  process  of  manufacture,  and  this  renders  it  unnecessary 
to  use  the  white  of  e^g  in  making  jellies,  as  was  required 


346  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

when  using  the  old  preparation  of  isinglass  and  gelatine. 
Much  of  the  strength  and  flavor  of  jellies  is  lost  in  clearing 
them  with  eggs.  Use  Cox's  gelatine  for  jellies  and  Nel- 
son's for  cream.  Cox's  gelatine  makes  the  clearest  jelly, 
and  the  fish}^  taste  is  destroyed  by  the  strong  flavoring- 
used  in  making  wine,  lemon,  or  orange  jelly.  Nelson's 
gelatine  is  finer,  softens  quicker,  and  has  a  more  agree- 
able flavor.  It  is  therefore  better  adapted  to  creams  and 
delicate  dishes. 

Never  cook  gelatine.  Soak  (not  dissolve)  it  in  cold 
water,  in  the  proportion  of  07ie  mcp  of  cold  water  to  one 
box  of  gelatine.  It  will  soften  in  fifteen  minutes,  if  stirred 
often.  Then  dissolve  in  boiling  liquid,  —  either  water, 
milk,  or  custard,  —  and  alwa3's  strain  through  a  fine 
strainer  after  it  is  dissolved. 


Gelatine  Pudding,  or  Spanish  Cream. 


3^  box  gelatine. 

}y^  cup  cold  water. 

^  cup  boiling  water. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

3  tablespoonf  uls  sugar. 


y^  saltspoonful  salt. 
1  pint  milk. 
Whites  of  3  eggs. 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  till  soft,  then  dis- 
rsolve  it  in  boiling  water.  Make  a  custard  with  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  beaten,  and  mixed  with  the  sugar  and  salt. 
Pour  on  the  hot  milk,  and  cook  in  the  double  boiler  till 
it  thickens.  Then  add  the  strained  gelatine  water,  the 
vanilla,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiflT.  Mix  all 
well,  and  turn  into  moulds  wet  in  cold  water.  Place  in  ice 
water,  and  when  hard  and  read}'  to  serve  turn  out  on  a 
dish. 

Italian  Cream.  —  Use  the  same  proportions  as  in  the 
preceding  receipt.  Dissolve  the  soaked  gelatine  in  the  hot 
custard  instead  of  in  hot  water,  and  strain  the  whole  while 
hot  into  the  beaten  whites.  When  well  mixed,  add  lemon 
or  vanilla^  and  pour  into  a  mould. 

Quaking  Custard.  —  The  same  proportions  as  in  Span- 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  347 

ish  Cream.  Dissolve  the  soaked  gelatine  in  the  hot  cus- 
tard, and  strain  into  a  mould.  When  readj^  to  serve, 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff,  add  three  heaping  tahle- 
spoonfuU  of  j)OVKlered  sugar ^  and  the  Juice  of  07ie  lemon. 
Turn  the  custard  on  a  platter,  and  heap  the  meringue 
around  it. 


Snow  Pudding. 


}^  box  gelatine. 
3^4  cup  cold  water. 
1  cup  boiling  water. 
1  cup  sugar. 
3^  cup  lemon  juice. 
Whites  of  3  eggs. 


Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 

}£  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  pint  hot  milk. 

3^  teaspoonful  vanilla. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  fifteen  minutes,  or 
until  soft.  Then  dissolve  it  in  the  boiling  water  ;  add  the 
sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Stir  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Strain  into  a  large  bowl,  and  set  in  ice  water  to  cool.  Stir 
occasionall3\  Beat  the  w^hites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  when  the  gelatine  begins  to  thicken,  add  the  beaten 
whites,  and  beat  all  together  till  ver}'  light.  When  nearly 
stiff  enough  to  drop,  pour  into  a  mould.  Or  beat  until 
stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape,  if  your  strength  will  allow, 
and  pile  lightlj'  in  a  tall  glass  dish.  Make  a  boiled  custard 
of  the  3'olks  of  the  eggs,  the  sugar,  salt,  and  milk,  and  when 
cool  flavor  with  vanilla.  Serve  the  sauce  in  a  pitcher.  Or, 
if  the  snow  be  moulded,  turn  it  out  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the 
.sauce  around  the  pudding.  The  snow  may  be  turned  into 
a  shallow  dish,  two  inches  deep,  to  harden,  and  when  ready 
to  serve  cut  into  blocks  and  piled  like  a  pyramid.  Blocks 
of  lemon  or  ivine  jelly ^  mixed  with  the  snow  or  sparkhng 
jelly  (jelly  broken  up  lightly  with  a  fork),  make  a  pleasing 
variet}'.  If  the  whites  of  the  eggs  be  added  to  the  gelatine 
mixture  before  it  becomes  cold,  as  is  directed  in  many  re- 
ceipts, more  time  will  be  required  for  the  beating.  Man}' 
have  never  made  the  dish  a  second  time  on  account  of  the 
time  and  strength  expended.  Fifteen  minutes  is  sufficient 
when  made  according  to  this  receipt. 


348 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


y^  box  gelatine. 
3^  cup  cold  water. 
y^  cup  boiling  water. 
1  cup  sugar. 


Orange  Charlotte. 

Juice  of  1  lemon. 

1  cup  orange  juice  and  pulp. 

3  eggs  (whites). 


Fig.  45.     Orange  Charlotte. 


Line  a  mould  or  bowl  with  lady  fingers  or  sections  of 
oranges.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  till  soft.  Pour 
on  the  boiling  water,  add  the  sugar  and  the  lemon  juice. 

Strain  and  add  the 
orange  juice  and 
pulp  with  a  little  of 
the  grated  rind. 
Cool  in  a  pan  of 
ice  water.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the 
eggs  stiff,  and  when 
the  orange  jelly  be- 
gins to  harden  beat 
it  till  light.  Add  the  beaten  whites,  and  beat  together  till 
stiff  enough  to  drop.     Pour  into  the  mould. 

One  pint  of  whipped  cream  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  or  it  may  be  piled  on  the  top  after  the 
Charlotte  is  removed  from  the  mould. 

Apple  Charlotte.  —  One  cup  of  cooked  sour  apple 
(steamed,  drained,  and  sifted)  may  be  used  in  place  of 
the  orange  in  the  preceding  receipt.  Line  the  mould  with 
lady  fingers  or  sponge  cake,  and  serve  a  boiled  custard, 
made  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  as  a  sauce. 

Or  use  one  cup  of  canned  peach.,  pineapple.,  or  apricot^ 
or  one  pint  of  fresh  strawberries  or  raspberries.  Mash 
and  rub  the  fruit  through  a  sieve  before  using. 


Fruit  Charlotte. 


%  box  gelatine. 
y^  cup  cold  water. 
1  cup  sugar. 
13^  cup  water  and 
1  cup  lemon  juice,  or 


1  pint  orange  juice  and 
1  cup  water. 
Yolks  of  4  eggs. 
Whites  of  4  eggs. 
1  dozen  lady  fingers. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  349 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  till  soft.  Make  a  s^Tup 
with  the  sugar  and  fruit  juice.  When  boiling,  pour  it 
into  the  beaten  3'olks  of  the  eggs.  Stir  well,  and  cook  in 
a  double  boiler  till  it  thickens.  Add  the  soaked  gelatine, 
stir  till  dissolved,  and  strain  at  once  into  a  granite  pan 
placed  in  ice  water.  Beat  occasionally  till  cold,  but  not 
hard.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
then  beat  all  together  till  it  thickens.  When  almost  stiff 
enough  to  drop,  pour  at  once  into  moulds  lined  with  cake. 
Keep  on  ice,  and  serve  with  or  without  powdered  sugar 
and  cream.  Vary  the  fruit  by  stewing  one  pint  of  canned 
peaches^  pineapple^  or  apricots  in  one  cup  each  of  sugar 
and  water  till  soft,  then  sift,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
and  cook  till  it  thickens.  Add  the  gelatine,  strain,  and 
when  cool  add  the  whites.  Grated  pineapple  will  not 
require  sifting. 


Velvet  Cream.     {Miss  Ward.) 

^  box  gelatine.  i  1}^  cup  sugar. 

1)^  cup  sherry  wine.  lj;4  pint  cream. 

1  lemon  (grated  rind  and  juice). 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  wine,  add  the  lemon  and  sugar, 
and  heat  all  together  till  the  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Then 
strain  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  When  nearly  cold,  but 
before  it  begins  to  stiffen,  add  the  cream.  Beat  till  nearly 
stiff  enough  to  drop,  then  pour  it  into  moulds  and  set  it  on 
ice  until  stiff  as  blanc-mange. 


Wine  Jelly 


3^  box  gelatine. 
3^  cup  cold  water. 
1  pint  boihng  water. 


Juice  of  1  lemon. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  sherry  or  S.  M.  wine. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes,  or  until 
soft.  Add  the  boiling  water,  lemon  juice,  sugar,  and 
wine.  Stir  well,  and  strain  through  a  fine  napkin  into  a 
shallow  dish.  Keep  in  ice  water  till  hard.  When  read}' 
to  serve,  cut  in  cubes  or  diamonds,  or  break  it  up  lightly 


350  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

with  a  fork.  If  you  wish  to  mould  it,  or  to  use  for  mould- 
ing creams,  add  onl}^  two  thirds  of  a  pint  of  hoiling 
water. 

Orange  Jelly. 


J/2  box  gelatine. 
y^  cup  cold  water. 


Juice  of  1  lemon. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  pint  orange  juice. 


1  cup  boihng  water. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  until  soft.  Add  the 
boiling  water,  the  lemon  juice,  sugar,  and  orange  juice. 
Stir  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  strain.  Or  use  one  cup 
of  orange  juice  and  one  sca7it  p)int  of  hoiling  water.,  one 
lemon^  one  scant  cup  of  sugar.,  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  brandy. 

Lemon  Jelly. 

3'2  box  gelatine.  I      1  cup  sugar. 

1  scant  cup  cold  water.  I      }4  cup  lemon  juice  (large). 

1  pint  boiling  water.  |      1  square-inch  stick  cinnamon. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  till  soft.  Shave  the 
lemon  rind  thin,  using  none  of  the  white.  Steep  it  with 
the  cinnamon  in  the  pint  of  boiling  water  ten  minutes,  then 
add  the  soaked  gelatine,  sugar,  and  lemon  juice,  and  when 
dissolved  strain. 

Italian  Jelly,  or  Fruit  Moulded  in  Jelly. 


}4,  box  gelatine. 
}4  cup  cold  water. 
Rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon. 
1  scant  cup  boiling  water. 


1  cup  sugar. 

1  pint  orange  juice. 

1  cup  fruit. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  till  soft.  Shave  the 
rind  of  the  lemon,  using  only  the  yellow  part,  and  soak  with 
the  gelatine.  Pour  on  the  boiling  water ;  add  the  sugar, 
lemon  juice,  and  orange  juice.  Strain  through  a  fine 
napkin  into  a  pitcher,  or  something  from  which  it  can  be 
poured.  Wet  a  mould  in  cold  water,  and  pack  it  in  a  pan 
of  ice.  Put  in  a  layer  of  jelly  half  an  inch  deep  and 
harden  it,  then  a  layer  of  candied  fruit  or  sections  of 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  351 

oranges^  fastening  each  piece  of  fruit  in  place  witti  a  little 
jelly  before  adding  enough  to  cover  the  fruit,  otherwise  the 
fruit  will  float.  Repeat  till  the  mould  is  full.  Place  the 
pitcher  where  the  jelly  will  keep  liquid  but  not  hot,  and  be 
sure  that  every  piece  of  fruit  is  firmly  in  place  before  add- 
ing  more.     This  may  be  made  with  lemon  or  loine  jelly. 

A  variet}'  of  designs  may  be  made  by  arranging  different 
colors  of  fruit ;  and  it  well  repaj^s  one  for  the  trouble, 
which  seems  ver}^  slight  after  the  first  attempt.  Do  not 
devote  your  whole  morning  to  it,  but  look  at  it  occasion- 
ally while  3^ou  are  doing  other  things,  adding  fruit  and  jelly 
as  required ;  and  before  you  are  conscious  of  it,  the  dish 
will  be  prepared. 

Orange  Baskets.  —  Cut  as  many  oranges  as  will  be  re- 
quired, leaving  half  the  peel  whole  for  the  baskets,  and  a 
strip  half  an  inch  wide  for  the  handle.     Remove  the  pulp 


Fig.  46.     Orange  Baskets. 

and  juice,  and  use  the  juice  in  making  orange  jelly.  Place 
the  baskets  in  a  pan  of  broken  ice  to  keep  upright.  Fill 
with  orange  jelly.  When  ready  to  serve,  put  a  spoonful 
of  whipped  cream  over  the  jelly  in  each  basket.  Serve  in 
a  bed  of  orange  or  laurel  leaves. 

No.  2.  — With  a  vegetable  cutter  cut  out  several  smaU 
portions  of  the  peel  in  the  basket  and  handle,  to  give  an 
open-work  efi'ect,  and  fill  with  a  mixture  of  orange.,  loine., 
and  lemon  jelly.,  cut  into  inch  dice  and  piled  lightly  in  the 
baskets.  Or  the  baskets  may  be  filled  with  Bavarian 
cream. 

Orange  Sections.  —  Cut  oft"  a  small  portion  from  the 
end  of  the  orange,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp  and  juice.  Be 
careful  not  to  break  throua;h  the  skin.      Fill  them  with 


352  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

orange  jelly  which  is  thoroughly  cold,  but  not  hard,  and 
place  them  upright  in  a  pan  of  broken  ice.  When  hard, 
cut  each  orange  in  quarters,  and  serve  garnished  with 
green  leaves. 

Imperial  Cream. 

Make  the  rule  for  Lemon  Jelly  (page  350),  and  color  part 
of  it  pink  with  cochineal  or  cranberry  juice.  Harden  it  in 
a  shallow  pan.  Make  Snow  Pudding  (page  347) ,  and  when 
nearl}'  stiff  enough  to  drop,  stir  in  small  squares  of  the 
pink  and  lemon  jelly.  Mould,  and  when  read}^  to  serve, 
turn  out  on  a  dish,  garnish  the  base  and  top  with  maca- 
roons soaked  in  loine.  Pour  rich  boiled  custard  round  the 
dish,  and  put  macaroons  and  cubes  of  the  jellies  in  the 
custard. 

Whipped  Cream. 

Many  wholesome,  delicious,  and  attractive  dishes  may 
be  made  with  whipped  cream.  To  those  who  can  obtain 
plent}^  of  cream,  these  dishes  afford  a  cheaper,  more 
easil}'  i^repared,  and  far  more  satisfactorj^  course  than 
pie  and  man}^  forms  of  hot  puddings.  Man}^  of  them 
are  equall}"  suitable  for  tea.  Verj^  rich  cream  should  be 
diluted  and  well  mixed  with  an  equal  quantit}^  of  milk. 
The  best  quality  of  cream  obtained  from  the  milkman  is 
usually  of  the  proper  consistenc3\  Thin  cream  will  become 
liquid  after  whipping,  and  thick  cream  will  turn  to  butter. 
The  cream  should  alwa3^s  be  ic}'  cold ;  when  it  is  to  be 
served  as  a  garnish,  or  for  cream  whips,  it  should  be 
sweetened  and  flavored  before  it  is  whipped. 

A  whip  churn  is  the  best  utensil  for  whipping  cream. 
This  is  a  tin  cylinder,  perforated  at  the  bottom  and  sides, 
and  having  a  perforated  dasher.  When  the  churn  is  placed 
in  a  bowl  of  cream,  and  the  dasher  worked  up  and  down, 
the  air  is  forced  from  the  C3dinder  into  the  cream,  causing 
it  to  become  light  and  froth}'.  A  Dover  egg-beater  will 
make  the  cream  light,  but  it  has  a  different  consistency 
from  that  obtained  b}'^  churning. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


353 


To  Whip  Cream.  —  Place  a  bowl  half  filled  with  cream 
in  a  pan  of  broken  ice.  When  ver}'  cold,  put  the  churn  into 
the  cream,  hold  the  cylinder  firmly,  and  keep  the  cover  in 
place  with  the  left  hand.  Tip  the  churn  slightly,  that  the 
cream  may  flow  out  at  the  bottom.  Work  the  dasher  with 
a  light  short  stroke  up^  and  a  hard^  pushing  stroke  down. 
When  the  froth  appears,  stir  it  down  once  or  twice,  as  the 
first  bubbles  are  too  large ;  and  when  the  bowl  \s  full  of 
froth,  skim  it  off  into  a  granite  pan  placed  on  ice.  Take 
off  \hQ  froth  only,  and  do  not  take  it  off  below  the  holes 
in  the  cylinder,  as  it  whips  better  when  they  are  covered. 
For  this  reason  never  whip  a  pint  of  cream  in  a  three- 
quart  bowl,  and  do  not  try  to  whip  it  all,  as  usuall}^  a  little 
is  left  in  the  bowl  which  is  too  thin  to  whip. 

One  pint  of  cream  should  treble  in  whipping.  If  for  a 
garnish,  drain  the  whipped  cream  on  a  hair  sieve  placed 
over  a  pan,  and  keep  it  on  ice  till  stiff  enough  to  keep  its 
shape.  Creams  that  are  to  be  moulded  are  made  stiffer 
by  the  addition  of  gelatine. 


Cream  Whips.    {Miss  Ward.') 


Y2,  cup  sugar. 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  light. 


1  pint  rich  cream. 

1  cup  pale  sherry  wine. 

1  lemon  (grated  rind  and  juice). 

Mix  in  the  order  given.  Add  more  sugar  if  desired. 
Stir  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  whip  it  and  take  off 
the  froth  as  it  rises,  and  put  it  on  a  hair  sieve.  Fill  jelly 
glasses  with  the  cream  left  in  the  bowl,  and  put  the  froth 
on  the  top. 

JSfeioport  Whips.  (3frs.  ZJpham.) —  One  pint  of  cream, 
sweet  or  sour,  one  gill  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  lem,on  sliced, 
sugar  and  loine  to  taste.  Whip,  and  serve  the  whip  only, 
in  jelly  glasses.  If  prepared  in  a  covered  bowl  or  tureen, 
the  unwhipped  cream  may  be  kept  for  several  days,  add- 
ing more  cream,  sugar,  and  wine  to  taste,  and  whipping 
as  required  for  use. 

23 


354  The  boston  Cook  Book. 


Charlotte  Russe  (Cream). 

1  pint  rich  cream.  I         3^  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoopful  vanilla.  ]  Sponge  cake. 

Mix  the  cream,  vanilla,  and  sugar.  Place  the  bowl  in 
ice  water,  'and  when  chilled  whip  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  skim 
off  the  froth  into  a  sieve.  Drain,  and  whip  again  that 
which  has  drained  through.  When  nearl3'  all  whipped, 
line  a  glass  dish  with  lad}^  fingers  or  sponge  cake,  fill 
with  the  cream,  put  cubes  of  wi7ie  jelly  or  any  bright 
jelly  on  the  cream,  and  keep  on  ice  till  ready  to  serve. 

Charlotte  Russe,  No.  2   (Cream  and  Eggs). 


1  pint  rich  cream. 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
1  tablespoonful  wine. 


Whites  of  2  eggs. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Sponge  cake. 


Flavor  the  cream  with  vanilla  and  wine,  and  whip  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff,  add  the  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  mix  it  lightly  with  the  whipped  cream. 
Keep  it  on  ice  till  it  stiffens.  Line  small  cups  or  paper 
moulds  with  sponge  cake,  and  fill  with  the  cream.  Or  fill 
fancy  paper  cases  with  cream,  and  ornament  each  with  thin 
triangles  of  sponge  cake  and  a  cube  of  wine  jelly. 

A  small  part  of  the  cream  may  be  colored  with  melted 
chocolate  or  cochineal^  and  used  for  decoration. 

Charlotte  Husse,  No.  3  (with  Gelatine).     {Miss  Parloa.) 


3^  box  gelatine. 
3^  cup  cold  water. 
1  pint  cream. 
1  dozen  lady  fingers. 


1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
1  tablespoonful  wine. 
3^  cup  boiling  water 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  till  softened.  Chill 
the  cream.  Line  a  three-pint  mould  with  lady  fingers  or 
narrow  slices  of  sponge  cake,  crust  side  out ;  leave  a 
little  space  between  the  slices,  and  have  the  cake  even  at 
the  top.     Whip  the  cream,  and   skim  off  into  a  granite 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  355 

pan  set  in  ice  water.  Sift  the  powdered  sugar  over  the 
whipped  cream,  and  add  the  vanilla  and  wine.  Dissolve 
the  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water,  and  strain  through  a 
fine  strainer  over  the  whipped  cream.  Then  stir  (not 
beat)  rapidly  with  the  bowl  of  the  spoon  resting  on  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  Turn  the  pan  with  the  left  hand  while 
stirring  with  the  right.  If  it  feel  lumpy,  lift  the  pan 
from  the  ice  and  place  it  in  warm  water  to  melt  the  gela- 
tine. Stir  till  the  gelatine  is  well  mixed  with  the  cream, 
and  when  nearly  stiff  enough  to  drop,  turn  it  into  the 
mould.  Keep  on  ice,  and  when  read}^  to  serve,  turn  out 
and  garnish  the  top  with  jelly. 

This  filling  may  be  used  in  paper  cases  as  directed  in 
No.  1. 


Plain  Bavarian  Cream. 


^  box  gelatine. 
3^  cup  cold  water. 
1  pint  cream. 


3/3  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  till  soft.  Chill  and 
whip  the  cream  till  you  have  three  pints  of  the  whip. 
Boil  the  remainder  of  the  cream  (or  if  it  be  all  whipped, 
use  a  cup  of  milk)  with  the  sugar  ;  and  when  boiling  add 
the  soaked  gelatine.  Stir  till  dissolved.  Strain  into  a 
granite  pan,  add  the  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  wine  if  you 
wish ;  or  flavor  with  ttoo  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  choco- 
late^ or  one  quarter  of  a  cup  of  strong  coffee.  Place  the 
pan  in  ice  water,  stir  occasionall}^  and  when  the  mixture 
is  thoroughly  cold  and  beginning  to  thicken,  stir  in  lightly 
the  whipped  cream.  When  nearly  stiff  enough  to  drop, 
pour  into  the  moulds. 

This  cream  is  sometimes  moulded  in  small  cups. 
Put  half  of  a  canned  apricot  ov  peachy  or  three  sections 
of  orange.,  or  several  small  cherries,  or  a  candied  plum, 
in  the  bottom  of  the  cup  before  filling  with  the  cream. 
Or  line  a  bowl  with  whole  strawberries  and  fill  with  the 
cream.  This  is  called  a  Strawberry  Charlotte.  Red  ha- 
nanas  sliced  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner. 


356  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Biz  a  V Imperatrice.  —  Prepare  the  cream  as  for  Bava- 
rian Cream ;  put  one  cup  of  cooked  rice  in  the  hot  milk^ 
and  stir  till  everj^  grain  is  distinct,  then  proceed  as  directed 
in  the  preceding  receipt. 

Bavarian  Cream,  No.  2    (with  Eggs). 
3^  cup  sugar. 


%  box  gelatine. 
}4  cup  cold  water 
1  pint  cream. 
1  pint  milk. 
4  eggs  (yolks). 


y^  saltspoonf  ul  salt. 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
1  tablespoonf  ul  wine. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  till  soft.  Chill  and  whip 
the  cream  till  you  have  three  pints.  Keep  the  whipped 
cream  on  ice,  and  boil  the  remainder  of  the  cream,  adding 
enough  milk  to  make  a  pint  in  all.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  and  add  the  sugar  and  salt.  Pour  the  boiling  milk 
on  the  eggs,  and  when  well  mixed  put  back  in  the 
double  boiler  and  cook  about  two  minutes,  or  just  enough 
to  scald  the  Qgg.  Stir  constantly,  add  the  soaked  gela- 
tine, and  strain  at  once  into  a  pan  set  in  ice  water. 
When  cool,  add  the  vanilla  and  wine,  or  half  a  cup 
of  orange  juice.  Stir  till  it  begins  to  harden,  then  stir  in 
quickly  the  whipped  cream,  and  when  nearh^  stiff  enough 
to  drop,  pour  into  moulds  wet  in  cold  water. 

Chocolate  Bavarian  Cream.  —  Melt  two  sticks  of 
suieetened  chocolate^  and  stir  them  into  the  custard  before 
straining. 

Coffee  Bavarian  Cream.  —  Add  one  quarter  of  a  cup 
of  very  clear ^  strong  black  coffee.  Or  boil  half  a  cup  of 
ground  coffee  in  the  milk,  before   straining  it  over  the 


Bavarian  Cream  with  Fruit. 


1  quart  berries. 
1  cup  sugar. 
}4,  box  gelatine. 


3^  cup  cold  water. 
3^  cup  boiling  water. 
1  pint  cream. 


Strawberries  or  Raspberries.  —  Mash  the  berries  with 
the  sugar  ;  let  them  stand  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Strain 
through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  keep  back  the  seeds.     Soak 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  357 

the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water,  then  dissolve  in  the  boiling 
water,  and  strain  it  into  the  berr}'  juice.  Cool,  and  beat 
till  slightl}-  thickened  ;  add  the  cream  (whipped),  and  mould 
it  in  a  plain  mould,  or  lined  like  a  Charlotte. 

Pineapple.  —  Stew  a  can  of  grated pinea2yple  with  one 
cup  of  sugar  ten  minutes,  and  use  in  the  same  manner 
without  sifting. 

Peaches  and  Apricots.  —  Mash  and  sift  one  can  of 
peaches  or  a]jricots  {use  juice  smd  fruit),  and  stew  with  a 
heaping  cup  of  sugar,  and  use  as  above. 

Norfolk  Cream.  —  Line  a  mould  with  one  pound  of  can- 
died plums,  having  first  removed  the  stones,  and  spread 
the  plums  out  as  thin  as  possible.  Make  the  plain  Bava- 
rian cream,  and  when  thick  enough  to  di'op,  take  out  one 
thii'd  of  it  and  color  with  cochineal ;  add  half  a  cup  of 
candied  cherries  cut  in  halves.     Put  a  la3'er  of  the  white 


Fig.  47.     Moiild  of  Bavarian  Cream  garnislied  with.  Whipped  Cream  and  Fruit. 

cream  next  to  the  plums,  and  fill  the  centre  with  the  pink. 
When  ready  to  serve,  loosen  the  edges  with  a  knife  and 
invert  carefull}^     Garnish  with  xohipped  cream. 

Mock  Canteloupe.  —  Mould  the  yellow  Bavarian  cream 
in  a  melon  mould  lined  with  lady  fingers,  and  when  ready 
to  serve,  turn  out  on  a  dish  and  sprinkle  the  top  of  the 
cream  thickly  with  chopped  pistachio  nuts,  or  any  green 
fruit,  plums,  or  angelica.  Garnish  with  whipped  cream 
and  candied  fruit. 

Prune  Pudding.  {Mrs.  A.  A.  Lincoln.)  —  Make  a 
small  mould  of  lemon  jelly.  Boil  large  selected  prunes 
slowly  until  very  tender,  taking  care  to  keep  the  skins 
unbroken.     Drain  and  place  in  a  glass  dish.     Break  up 


358 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


the  jell}^  all  about  them,  so  that  it  will  have  the  appearance 
of  being  made  together.  Pile  whipped  cream^  prepared  as 
for  Charlotte  Russe,  No.  1,  over  the  prunes  and  jelly. 

Creme  Diplomats.     {Miss  M.  L.  Clarke.) 


%  box  gelatine. 
1^  cup  cold  water. 
1  pint  cream. 
^  cup  sugar. 


4  eggs  (whites) 
1  teaspoonf  ul  vanilla. 
1  tablespoonful  wine. 
1  cup  French  fruit. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water.  Chill  and  whip  the 
cream.  Boil  the  cream  left  in  the  bowl  with  milk  enough 
to  make  a  pint  in  all.  Add  the  sugar,  and  when  boiling 
add  the  soaked  gelatine.  Stir  until  dissolved,  and  strain 
it  into  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Add  the  vanilla, 
and  the  wine,  if  you  approve.  Stir  well,  and  when  slightly 
thickened  add  the  whipped  cream.  When  stiff  enough  to 
drop,  add  the  French  fruit.  Mould  it,  and  garnish  with 
wine  jelly  ^  fruit.,  and  green  leaves.  Or  add  one  pint  of 
blanched  almonds  ov pistachio  nuts.,  chopped  fine,  instead 
of  the  fruit. 


Combinations  of  Jelly,  Cream,  Custard,  and  Cake. 

Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding.  (Miss  JParloa.)  —  Make 
lemon,  orange,  or  wine  jelly,  using  only  two  thirds  of  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  that  it  ma}'  be  stiff  enough  to  mould. 

Strain  it  into  a 
pitcher.  Place  a 
two-quart  mould 
in  a  pan  of  ice 
water ;  pour  in 
jelly  half  an  inch 
deep.  When  hard, 
put  in  candied 
fruit  in  some  fanciful  design.  Cut  cherries  in  halves,  and 
cut  plums  to  represent  leaves,  and  arrange  them  like  a 
cluster  of  cherries  ;  or  cut  the  cherries  smaller,  and  design 
a  branch  of  barberries.     Fasten  each  piece  of  fruit  in  place 


Fig.  48.    Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  359 

with  a  few  drops  of  the  liquid  jell}',  and  when  hard  add 
jelh^  to  cover  the  fruit.  When  this  is  hard,  place  a  smaller 
mould  in  the  centre  on  the  jelly  and  fill  with  ice.  Pour 
the  remainder  of  the  jell}'  between  the  two  moulds,  adding 
it  slowly,  and  dropping  in  fruit  here  and  there,  if  you 
choose,  until  the  mould  is  full.  When  the  jelly  is  all  firm, 
remove  the  ice,  and  add  warm^  not  hot^  water  to  the 
smaller  mould,  and  take  it  out  carefully,  without  breaking 
the  wall  of  jelly.  Fill  the  space  with  a  Bavarian  cream 
(page  356).  Make  a  rich  soft  custard  with  the  yolks  of 
Jive  eggs^  half  a  cup  of  sugar  ^  and  a  pint  of  milk  ;  strain, 
and  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  read}'  to  serve,  dip  the 
mould  in  warm  water,  put  a  dish  over  it,  and  invert  dish 
and  mould  together.  Remove  the  mould  carefully,  and 
jDour  the  soft  custard  around  the  pudding.  Make  the  soft 
custard  while  the  jelly  is  hardening ;  and  do  not  put  the 
materials  for  the  Bavarian  cream  together  until  the  small 
mould  is  removed  from  the  jelly,  and  the  cavity  ready  for 
the  cream.  Do  not  turn  out  of  the  mould  until  just  before 
it  goes  to  the  table,  as  the  slightest  jarring  breaks  the 
jelly.  A  coffee  cup  within  a  quart  bowl,  and  a  small  pail 
within  a  larger  one,  have  been  successfully  used  by  those 
who  had  no  moulds. 

A  variety  of  dishes  may  be  made  by  using  the  differ- 
ent colored  jellies  and  fruits  ;  and  any  of  the  creams  stiff 
enough  to  mould  can  be  used  as  filling.  Snow  Pudding, 
or  Creme  Diplomate  and  W^ine  Jelly ^  Norfolk  Cream 
and  Lem^on  Jelly.,  Orange  Sponge  and  Orange  Jelly.,  are 
attractive  combinations.  It  may  also  be  made  in  two  sizes 
of  small  moulds,  serving  one  mould  to  each  person. 

Odteau  St.  JEConore.  —  Line  a  pie  plate  with  thin  puff 
paste,  prick  with  a  fork,  and  bake  light  brown.  Make  a 
cream  cake  paste  (see  Index) ,  press  it  through  a  pastry 
bag  round  the  edge  of  a  jelly  cake  tin,  and  bake  the  re- 
mainder in  balls  the  size  of  walnuts.  Place  the  puff  paste 
on  a  plate,  and  spread  with  raspberry  jam  or  orange  Tnar- 
m>alade.  Lay  the  border  of  cream  cake  paste  on  the  edge, 
and  press  it  into  the  marmalade.    Fil^  the  centre  with  any 


360  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

kind  of  Bavarian  cream.  Garnish  with  the  cream  cake 
balls  2iXid  fruit.  Use  orange  sections  with  orange  marma- 
lade, and  candied  cherries  and  plmns  with  raspberry  jam. 

Sponge  cake  or  feather  cake^  baked  thin  in  a  round  tin 
plate,  is  more  delicate  than  puff  paste  as  a  foundation  for 
the  gateau. 

Gdteau  de  Princess  Louise.  —  Bake  sponge  drop  mix- 
ture or  feather  cake  or  snow  cake  in  jell}^  cake  tins.  Cut 
the  centre  from  one  cake,  leaving  a  rim  one  inch  and  a 
half  wide.  Put  jelly  on  the  remaining  cake,  la}^  the  rim 
on  the  edge,  and  fill  the  centre  with  Bavarian  cream. 
G-arnish  with  candied  fruit.     Frost  the  rim  if  3'ou  prefer. 

Chantilly  Baskets.  —  Dip  the  edges  of  soft  flexible 
macaroons  in  syrup,  prepared  as  for  crj^stallized  fruit,  and 
form  them  into  a  basket  on  a  fancy  plate,  something  as 
children  shape  a  burr  basket.  A  rim  and  handle  of  paste- 
board aid  in  keeping  the  shape.  When  dry,  fill  with  an}- 
fancy  Bavarian  cream. 


Fig.  49.    Strawberry  Charlotte. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  361 


ICE-CREAM   AND    SHERBET. 

A  GOOD  ice-cream  freezer  should  be  in  every  kitchen ; 
for  with  it  a  great  variety  of  wholesome  and  attractive 
dishes  may  be  prepared  with  very  little  expenditure  of 
time  and  strength.  Fruit,  cream,  and  eggs,  when  frozen, 
are  more  palatable  in  hot  weather  than  when  served  in 
other  ways.  A  deep  can,  four  inches  in  diameter,  with  a 
tight  cover  fitting  outside  the  can,  and  packed  vi^  a  firkin 
with  ice  and  salt,  makes  a  good  substitute  for  a  freezer. 
By  scraping  the  cream  from  the  sides  and  beating  occa- 
sionalty  with  a  large  bread-knife  as  the  cream  freezes,  one 
ma}^  have  a  very  smooth  quality  of  cream  with  ver^-  little 
effort. 

But  whether  with  a  patent  or  home-made  freezer,  the 
essential  points  are  to  have  the  ice  finely  crushed,  to  use 
the  right  proportion  of  coarse  rock  salt,  and  to  beat  the 
mixture  thorough^  during  the  freezing.  Salt  has  a  great 
aflSnity  for  water,  and  when  mixed  with  broken  ice  it 
unites  with  the  water ;  the  ice,  in  changing  from  its  solid 
form  to  a  liquid,  parts  with  its  heat,  and  the  mixture  of 
melted  ice  and  salt  is  many  degrees  colder  than  the  ice 
alone.  This  is  sufficient  to  reduce  to  the  freezing-point 
the  temperature  of  any  liquid  placed  in  the  ice  and  salt. 
The  finer  the  ice  is  crushed,  the  quicker  it  melts  ;  and  the 
more  the  mixture  is  stirred,  the  sooner  all  parts  become 
chilled.  The  melted  ice  and  salt  should  surround  the  can, 
and  not  be  drawn  off  as  fast  as  melted.  For  this  reason 
it  is  a  mistake  to  have  the  outlet  for  the  water  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  firkin.  It  should  be  just  below  the  top  of  the 
can,  and  then  the  water  will  run  out  before  it  can  get  in- 
side the  can.  Draw  it  off  whenever  it  floats  the  ice.  The 
ice  should  be  nearly  as  fine  as  the  salt.     Use  one  part 


362  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

salt  to  three  or  four  parts  ice.  An  easy  way  is  to  measure 
each  with  a  saucer  or  small  shallow  pan.  Put  in  a  laj^er 
of  ice  three  inches  deep  (pack  it  in  solidl}') ,  then  a  meas- 
ure of  salt  (sprinkle  it  evenly  on  the  ice) ,  then  three  meas- 
ures of  ice  and  one  of  salt,  etc.,  till  the  freezer  is  full. 
Pack  each  layer  in  closel}'  with  a  wooden  paddle,  and  turn 
the  freezer  handle  occasionally  while  packing.  Be  sure  that 
the  freezer  works  perfectly  before  adding  the  cream.  The 
bearings  and  gears  should  be  kept  well  oiled.  When  the 
cream  is  thoroughl}'  cold,  pour  it  into  the  can.  Turn  slowly 
at  first,  and  after  ten  minutes  more  rapidly,  till  you  can 
turn  no  longer.  It  usuallj^  takes  about  half  an  hour.  Re- 
move the  beater,  scrape  off  the  cream,  and  beat  and  pack 
the  cream  closely  in  the  can.  Put  a  cork  into  the  opening 
in  the  cover,  and  la}'  the  cross-piece  over  to  keep  the  can 
down  in  the  ice.  Cover  with  a  piece  of  old  carpeting  wet 
in  the  salt  and  water.  If  the  ice  and  salt  have  been  well 
packed,  and  the  cream  is  to  be  served  within  an  hour  and 
not  moulded,  no  more  ice  will  be  needed ;  but  if  to  be 
kept  longer,  draw  off  the  water  and  pack  again.  If  to  be 
moulded,  beat  the  cream  well,  and  pack  into  the  mould ; 
cover  closely,  and  bury  in  ice  and  salt. 

After  using  the  freezer,  clean  and  scald  the  can ;  dry 
thoroughly,  and  keep  it  uncovered  while  not  in  use.  Drain 
the  salt  left  in  the  freezer,  and  use  again.  A  mixture  of 
salt  and  snow  answers  when  ice  cannot  be  obtained.  Use 
Turk's  Island  or  coarse  rock  salt.,  and  not  what  is  called 
coarse  fine  salt. 

Ice-Cream,  No.  1  (Philadelphia  Ice-Cream). 

2  quarts  cream ;  if  thick,  add     I      2  cups  sugar. 

1  pint  milk.  I      2  tablespoonfuls  vanilla. 

This  is  the  simplest,  and  to  many  the  most  delicious, 
form  of  ice-cream.  Scald  the  cream  ;  melt  the  sugar  in  it, 
and  flavor  when  cool.  Freeze  as  directed  above.  The 
cream  should  be  very  sweet  and  highly  flavored,  as  both 
sweetness  and  flavor  are  lessened  by  freezing.  To  make 
it  lighter  and  more  delicate,  whip  the  cream  until  you  have 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  363 

a  quart  of  froth,  and  add  the  froth  after  the  cream  is  partly 
frozen.  Man}^  prefer  to  add  the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
till  foamy,  but  not  stiff.  Use  two^  three^  or  four  eggs  to 
each  quart  of  cream.  The  proportion  of  sugar  should  var3^ 
according  to  the  flavoring  used. 


Ice-Cream,  No.  2  (Neapolitan  Ice- Cream). 


1  quart  milk. 

(6  or  8  eggs  yolks). 

1  cup  sugar. 


1  pint  to  1  quart  cream. 
Sugar  to  taste. 
Flavoring. 


Make  a  boiled  custard  with  the  milk,  sugar,  and  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs.  Cook  it  slightly  till  smooth,  but  not 
curdled.  Strain,  and  when  cool  add  the  cream,  sugar  to 
make  it  quite  sweet,  and  an}'  flavoring  desired.  The  cus- 
tard, when  made  with  cream  instead  of  milk,  makes  the 
richest  kind  of  ice-cream.  If  cream  cannot  be  obtained, 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  till  foamy,  and  add  them  just 
before  freezing.  No  matter  how  many  eggs  are  used,  a 
little  cream,  if  not  more  than  half  a  cupful,  is  a  decided 
improvement  to  all  ice-creams.  It  is  better  to  make  sher- 
bet, or  fruit  and  water  ices,  than  an  inferior  quality  of  ice- 
cream with  milk.  Ice-creams  are  richer  and  mould  better 
when  made  with  gelatine  ;  but  care  must  be  taken  to  flavor 
highty,  to  disguise  the  taste  of  the  gelatine.  Use  a  quarter 
of  a  box  of  Nelson's  gelatine  loy  two  quarts  of  custard. 
Soak  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  tnilk,  and  dissolve  in  the  boiling 
custard  just  as  it  is  taken  from  the  fire.  If  by  any  acci- 
dent the  custard  should  curdle  in  cooking,  it  will  be  smooth 
when  frozen. 

Ice-Cream,  No.  3.     {Miss  Parloa.) 


1  pint  milk. 

1  cup  sugar, 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 


2  eggs. 

1  pint  to  1  quart  cream. 


1  tablesp.  flavoring  extract. 

Boil  the  milk.     Mix  the  sugar,  flour,  and  salt ;  add  the 
whole  eggs,  and  beat  all  together.     Add  the  boihng  milk, 


364  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

and  when  well  mixed  turn  into  the  double  boiler,  and  cook 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly  till  smooth  ;  after  that, 
occasionally.  When  cool,  add  the  cream,  flavoring,  and 
sugar  to  make  it  quite  sweet.  This  makes  a  smooth  and 
delicious  cream  ;  and  if  the  milk  be  boihng  and  the  custard 
cook  fully  twenty  minutes,  there  will  be  no  taste  of  the 
flour. 

The  following  flavorings,  with  either  of  these  receipts 
for  a  foundation,  will  give  a  great  many  varieties  of 
ice-cream. 

Vanilla  Ice-  Cream.  —  Use  one  tahlespoonful  of  Bur- 
nett's extract  or  one  heaping  tahlespoonful  of  the  pounded 
vanilla  bean  sugar. 

Lemon  Ice- Cream.  —  One  tahlespoonful  of  lemon 
extract. 

Chocolate  Ice- Cream.  —  Melt  two  bars  of  sweetened 
vanilla  chocolate  i^\^  one  or  two  tableepoonfuls  of  water ; 
add  a  little  cream  or  custard^  and  when  smooth  stir  it  into 
the  remainder  of  the  custard.  Add  half  a  tahlespoonful 
of  vanilla.  Confectioners  sometimes  mix  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  Ceylon  cinnamon  with  the  chocolate.  It  gives  a 
rich,  spic}^  flavor. 

Coffee  Ice-  Cream.  —  Make  half  a  cup  of  very  strong 
hlack  coffee  for  two  quarts  of  cream  ;  or  boil  half  a  cup 
of  ground  coffee  in  the  milk. 

Caramel  Ice- Cream.  —  Add  half  a  cup  of  caramel  (see 
page  134),  and  omit  part  of  the  usual  amount  of  sugar. 

Pineapple  Ice-  Cream.  —  Add  half  a  can  of  grated  pine- 
apple or  one  pint  of  the  ripe  fruit,  grated. 

Strawberry  Ice- Cream. — Sprinkle  sugar  over  the  ber- 
ries ;  mash,  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Measure  the 
juice,  and  use  one  pint  of  juice  to  two  quarts  of  cream  or 
custard.  Add  more  sugar  as  the  berries  require.  Use 
the  French  bottled  strawberries  when  the  ripe  fruit  cannot 
be  obtained. 

Banana  Ice- Cream.  — Make  a  custard  with  one  pi7it 
of  milk.,  one  cup  of  sugar.,  and  two  eggs.  When  cold, 
add  one  pint  of  cream.,  and  six  bananas.,  sifted,  or  cut  in 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  365 

thin  slices.     Add  a  little  lemon  juice  if  the  bananas  lack 
flavor. 

Baked  Apple  Ice -Cream.  —  Bake  and  sift  six  sweet 
apples.  Add  one  quart  of  rich  cream.,  and  sugar  to  taste. 
When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  freeze. 

Pistachio  Ice- Cream.  —  One  cup  of  pistachio  nuts.,  and 
one  quarter  of  a  cup  of  almonds.,  blanched,  chopped,  and 
pounded  to  a  paste.     Add  this  to  any  receipt  for  ice-cream. 

Macaroon.,  Almond.,  Walnut.,  Cocoanut.,  or  Brown 
Bread  Ice- Cream  may  be  made  by  adding  one  pint  of 
either  of  the  above  ingredients  to  any  receipt  for  ice- 
cream. Crumble  the  macaroons  and  cocoanut  cakes,  and 
brown  them  slightly ;  dr}^  crumble,  and  sift  the  brown 
bread,  and  chop  the  nuts  fine. 

Fruit  Ice -Cream.  —  Canned  fruit,  or  ripe  fruit  sweet- 
ened to  taste,  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  may  be  added  to 
parti}'  frozen  cream,  giving  man}"  delicious  varieties.  Use 
peaches.,  strawberries^  raspberries.,  pineapples.,  apricots -> 
or  cherries. 

Cafe  Par  fait. —  One  pint  of  cream  ^  one  cup  of  sugar., 
half  a  cup  of  strong^  clear  coffee.  Mix,  chill,  and  whip. 
Take  the  froth  off  into  a  freezer  or  into  a  mould.  Pack 
the  mould  in  ice  and  salt,  and  let  it  stand  two  hours  with- 
out stirring. 

Glace  Cream.  —  Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  scant 
cup  of  water  until  the  syrup  forms  into  a  ball  when  rubbed 
in  water  between  the  finger  and  thumb.  Then  pour  this 
syrup  in  a  fine  stream  into  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  and  beat  till  stiff  and  cool.  Stir  it  into  any  frozen 
cream,  made  with  a  little  less  than  the  usual  amount  of 
sugar. 

Ice -Cream  with  Condensed  Milk. — Mix  one  can  of 
condensed  milk  with  three  pints  of  scalded  milk.,  and  use 
in  making  a  rich  custard,  as  directed  in  rule  No.  2.  Flavor 
highly,  and  add  a  pound  of  candied  fruit  if  desired. 

Tutti  Frutti.  —  Make  either  of  the  receipts  for  ice- 
cream, and  flavor  with  txGO  tablespoonfuls  of  Sicily  Ma- 
deira wine  or  Maraschino.     When  partly  frozen,  add  one 


366  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

pou7id  of  French  candied  fruity  cut  fine.  Use  a  mixture 
of  cherries,  plurns,  apricots,  pineapples,  pears,  strawber- 
ries, and  angelica  root.  Or  use  home-made  preserves, 
carefully  drained  from  the  syrup,  and  cut  into  dice. 

Nesselrode  Pudding.  —  Shell  one  pint  of  chestnuts. 
Blanch,  and  boil  half  an  hour,  then  mash  to  a  pulp,  and 
stir  into  ice-cream  made  from  rule  No.  2.  Strain,  and 
when  parti}"  frozen  add  one  pint  of  mixed  fruit,  cut  fine. 

Frozen  Pudding.  —  Make  ice-cream,  No.  3  ;  add  two 
tahlespoonfids  of  soaked  gelatine,  flavor  with  wine  and 
vanilla,  and  freeze.  Cut  a  pound  of  French  fruit  or 
brandy  peaches  in  small  pieces  ;  or  use  half  a  pound  of 
mixed  raisins,  currants,  and  citron,  and  one  cup  of  mac- 
aroons, pounded,  or  one  cup  of  mixed  almonas  2^w^  pista- 
chio nuts,  pounded  fine.  Wash,  and  soak  the  currants  and 
raisins  until  swollen.  Remove  the  seeds,  drain  and  quarter 
the  raisins,  and  shave  the  citron  in  small  thin  slices.  Mix 
half  the  fruit  and  nuts  with  the  frozen  cream.  Butter  a 
melon  mould  slighth',  and  line  with  lady  fingers ;  then 
sprinkle  over  a  layer  of  mixed  fruit,  pack  in  the  frozen 
cream  nearl}^  to  the  top,  then  a  la^^er  of  fruit,  and  cover 
with  cake.  Cover  closel}',  and  bind  a  strip  of  buttered 
cloth  round  the  edge  of  the  cover.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt 
for  two  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  dip  quickty  in  warm 
water,  and  turn  out  carefull}^  Sprinkle  the  remainder  of 
the  mixed  nuts  over  the  top,  and  garnish  with  cream, 
sweetened,  flavored,  and  whipped.  Some  prefer  to  serve 
a  rich  boiled  custard  sauce,  made  with  one  pint  of  cream, 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  one.  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla, 

Plombiere.     {Miss  Ward.) 
1  quart  milk.  lio  cup  sugar. 


1  pint  cream. 
6  whole  eggs. 
3  egg  yolks. 


2  ounces  each  of  preserved  cit- 
ron, greengages,  and  pine- 
apple, cut  fine. 


Boil  the  milk  and  cream,  and  pour  it  on  the  beaten  eggs 
and  sugar.  Cook  slightl}^  and  when  cool  add  the  fruit, 
and  freeze. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  367 

Bornbe  Glace.  —  Line  a  mould  or  the  freezer  with  one 
quart  of  raspberry  or  pomegranate  sherbet.  Pack  the 
sherbet  round  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  mould  one  inch 
deep.  Fill  the  centre  with  Bavarian  cream.,  or  Charlotte 
Busse  cream,  or  Greme  Biplomate.  Cover  with  the  sher- 
bet, and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  one  hour. 

Biscuit  Glace.  —  Ice-cream  and  sherbet  are  often  served 
in  small,  fancy  paper  cases,  which  may  be  obtained  at  a 
confectioner's.  Make  and  freeze  the  cream,  and  fill  the 
paper  cases  with  two  kinds,  either  sherbet  and  plain  ice- 
cream, or  sherbet  and  tutti  frutti,  or  Charlotte  Russe  cream 
and  sherbet,  or  ice-cream.  Pack  the  cases  in  a  freezer, 
and  keep  on  ice  and  salt  till  very  hard.  Serve  on  a  lace 
paper  napkin  laid  on  a  fanc}^  plate.  Sometimes  the  bis- 
cuits are  covered  with  a  meringue,  and  colored  slightly 
with  a  salamander  just  before  serving. 

Frozen  Apricots.  —  Cut  one  can  of  apricots  into  small 
pieces,  add  one  pint  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  water. 
When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  freeze.  When  parth^  frozen 
add,  if  you  like,  one  pint  of  whipped  cream ^  measured 
after  whipping.  This  is  delicious  without  the  cream. 
Peaches,  pineapples,  cherries,  and  strawberries  are  deli- 
cious when  frozen.  Vary  the  amount  of  sugar  as  the  fruit 
requires. 

Sherbets,  or  Water  Ices. 

Sherbets,  or  water  ices,  are  made  with  the  juice  of  fruit, 
water,  and  sugar.  With  a  supply  of  canned  fruit,  or  fruit 
syrup  always  at  hand,  a  variety  of  delicious  desserts  maj' 
be  quickly  prepared.  A  tablespoonful  of  gelatine^  soaked 
and  dissolved,  gives  a  light  and  smooth  consistency  to 
water  ices.  Many  prefer  to  boil  the  water  and  sugar  to  a 
clear  syrup,  remove  the  scum,  and  when  cool  add  the  fruit 
juice ;  and  others  use  the  white  of  Qgg  beaten  stiff,  add- 
ing it  after  the  sherbet  is  partly  frozen.  The  following 
are  some  of  the  most  delicious  water  ices.  Follow  the 
directions  given  under  Orange  Sherbet,  for  all  the  other 
varieties. 


S68  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Orange  Sherbet. 


1  tablespoonful  gelatine. 
J4  cup  cold  water. 
}^  cup  boiling  water. 
1  cup  sugar. 


1  cup  cold  water. 
6  oranges,  or 
1  pint  of  juice. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  ten  minutes.  Add  the 
boiling  water,  and  when  dissolved  add  the  sugar,  another 
oup  of  cold  water  and  the  orange  juice.  Strain  when  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  and  freeze. 

Pomegranate  Sherbet.  —  Make  the  same  as  Orange 
Sherbet,  using  the  blood-red  oranges. 

Lemon  Sherbet. 

1  tablespoonful  gelatine.  I  1  pint  sugar. 

1  quart  water.  (  Juice  of  6  lemons. 

The  boiling  water  used  in  dissolving  the  gelatine  should 
be  part  of  the  quart  of  water. 


Pineapple  Sherbet. 


1  can  grated,  or 
1  pint  fresh  fruit. 
1  pint  sugar. 


1  pint  water. 

1  tablespoonful  gelatine. 


In  using  fresh  pineapple  be  careful  to  remove  all  the 

■eyes. 

Raspberry  and  Strawberry  Sherbet. 


1  pint  berry  juice. 

1  pint  sugar. 

1  pint  water. 

Juice  of  2  lemons. 

1  tablespoonful  gelatine. 


Or,  1  pint  preserved  fruit. 
1  cup  sugar. 

1  quart  water. 

2  lemons. 

1  tablespoonful  gelatine. 


When  using  preserved  strawberries  or  raspberries,  soak 
the  fruit  in  part  of  the  water  and  strain  out  the  seeds. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  369 


GENERAL   DIRECTIONS   FOR   MAKING 
CAKE. 

Study  first  the  directions  given  under  Measuring,  Mix- 
ing, and  Baking. 

Cake  is  a  mixture  of  part  or  all  of  the  following  mate- 
rials ;  eggs,  sugar  or  molasses,  flour,  butter  or  cream,  milk 
or  water,  fruit,  soda,  cream  of  tartar,  spices,  etc. 

An  unhmited  variety  of  cakes  may  be  made  by  varying 
the  proportions  of  these  materials,  and  to  the  same  pro- 
portions many  different  names  are  given.  Manj^  amusing 
experiences  are  known  of  the  eagerness  with  which  a  newly 
named  receipt  for  cake  is  received,  which,  after  many  trials, 
has  been  found  to  be  an  old  receipt  arranged  in  a  different 
order.  An  analj^sis  of  the  hundreds  of  receipts  given  in 
books  devoted  to  cake-making  would  show  that  the  gen- 
eral principles  involved  may  be  included  under  two  di- 
visions, nameh^  receipts  for  s2J07ic/e  cakes ^  made  without 
butter;  Sindpou7id  or  cup  cakes,  made  loith  butter.  Sponge 
cakes  are  made  rich  ^ith  eggs,  the  lightness  depending 
wholly  upon  the  amount  of  air  beaten  into  the  egg  ;  or  an 
inferior  quality  is  sometimes  made  by  substituting  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  for  part  of  the  eggs,  and  adding  more 
flour  and  some  liquid,  usually  water.  They  vary  in  color, 
according  as  the  white  or  yolk  of  the  egg  is  used.  Butter 
cakes  are  varied  in  the  same  wa3^,  and  also  by  the  addi- 
tion of  fruit,  or  spices,  or  various  coloring  and  flavoring 
materials. 

There  is  no  one  department  in  cooking  where  so  much 
depends  upon  the  baking  as  in  making  cake.  The  fire 
should  be  rather  low,  but  suflflcient  to  last  through  the 
entire  baking.  In  many  stoves  it  is  exceedingly  diflScult 
to  bake  cake  by  a  morning  fire  ;  as  so  much  coal  is  put  on, 

24 


370  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

the  fire  is  too  hot  and  cannot  be  checked  sufficientl3\  The 
oven  should  be  less  hot  than  for  bread.  If  too  hot,  leave 
the  oven  door  open  for  ten  minutes  before  putting  in  the 
cake,  then  watch  it,  and  protect  it  by  putting  over  it  a 
covering  of  paper,  or  a  pan  on  the  grate  above.  Do  not 
attempt  to  make  cake  unles*s  3'ou  can  have  entire  control 
of  the  fire. 

Thin  cakes  require  a  hotter  oven  than  those  baked  in 
thick  loaves.  If  the  oven  be  not  hot  enough  at  first,  or  be 
cooled  too  suddenly  during  the  baking,  the  cake  will  not 
be  light.  Cakes  with  molasses  in  them  burn  more  quickly 
than  others.  Thin  cakes  should  bake  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes,  thicker  cakes  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes, 
very  thick  loaves  about  an  hour,  and  fruit  cake  from  two 
to  three  hours.  Whichever  kind  jow  are  baking,  divide 
the  time  required  into  quarters.  During  the  first  quarter 
the  heating  is  not  manifested  in  appearance  except  by  the 
rising ;  during  the  second  the  cake  should  continue  to  rise 
and  begin  to  brown ;  then  should  become  all  over  a  rich 
golden  brown  ;  and  in  the  last  quarter  settle  a  little,  brown 
in  the  cracks,  and  shrink  from  the  pan.  Be  careful  not  to 
take  it  out  too  soon.  If  necessary  to  move  it,  do  it  yqyj 
gently,  and  never  move  it  when  it  has  risen  to  the  full 
height,  but  is  not  browned  or  fixed  in  its  shape. 

If  cake  brown  before  rising,  the  oven  is  too  hot.  When 
it  rises  more  in  the  centre,  cracks  open,  and  staj-s  up,  it  is 
too  stiff  with  flour.  It  should  rise  first  on  the  edges,  then 
in  the  middle,  crack  slightl}^  settle  to  a  level  again,  when 
the  cracks  usually  come  together.  Nothing  is  more  sug- 
gestive of  bakeshop  cake,  or  inferior  qualit}'  in  material, 
than  a  loaf  with  an  upper  surface  having  sharp  edges, 
then  hollows,  and  a  peaked  centre,  as  if  the  inside  of  the 
cake  had  boiled  up  and  run  out  over  the  top. 

Line  yowc  cake  tins  with  paper,  to  prevent  burning  the 
bottom  and  edges  and  to  aid  in  removing  the  cake  from 
the  pans.  Lay  the  paper  over  the  outside  of  the  pan,  and 
crease  it  round  the  edge  of  the  bottom.  Allow  it  large 
enough  to  come  above  the  top  of  the  pan.     Fold  in  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  371 

middle  lengthwise  and  crosswise,  and  cut  out  the  open 
corners  to  the  crease  made  b}'  the  pan.  Then  fit  it  into 
the  inside  of  the  pan,  and  grease  the  paper,  not  the  pan, 
with  fresh  butter  or  lard.  Many  use  a  rag  tied  on  a  stick  ; 
others  grease  with  a  brush.  Nice  brushes  are  very  ex- 
pensive (and  no  others  are  suitable),  and  unless  carefulh^ 
cleaned  are  quite  objectionable.  Rags  and  paper  absorb 
the  grease  which  should  be  put  on  the  pan,  and  in  any  case 
the  fingers  should  be  washed  after  the  process.  So  there 
is  no  quicker,  easier,  or  more  economical  way  of  greasing 
a  tin  than  to  rub  the  butter  on  with  the  fingers. 

Mix  cake  in  an  earthen  bowl,  and  never  in  a  tin  pan. 
Use  a  wooden  spoon,  as  iron  spoons  discolor  the  hand  and 
the  mixture.  Use  only  the  best  materials.  Go  without 
cake  rather  than  try  to  make  it,  or  eat  it  when  made,  with 
what  is  called  cooking  butter  and  second-rate  eggs.  Such 
cake  cannot  be  good  or  wholesome.  Wash  the  butter,  if 
very  salt.  Brown  sugar  is  good  for  fruit  cake,  but  for 
all  other  varieties  use  the  finest  granulated  or  powdered 
sugar.  Very  coarse  granulated  sugar  makes  "heavy  cake, 
with  a  hard  and  stickj^  crust.  The  flour  should  be  dry. 
When  it  has  been  kept  in  a  cool  place  it  should  be 
slightly  warmed,  and  alwa3^s  sifted  before  using.  St. 
Louis  flour  —  or  pastry  flour,  as  it  is  sometimes  called  — 
is  best  for  cake.  When  new-process  flour  is  used,  take 
one  eighth  less.  Soda,  cream  of  tartar,  and  baking- 
powders  should  be  crushed  and  sifted  into  the  flour,  then 
sifted  two  or  three  times  with  the  flour.  Mix  spices 
with  the  flour  or  with  the  sugar.  Mix  a  little  of  the 
measure  of  flour  with  the  fruit  to  keep  it  from  sticking 
together  or  settling.  If  the  sugar  be  lumpy,  crush  and  sift 
before  using.  Eggs  should  be  fresh,  and  cooled  by  keep- 
ing in  cold  water  or  in  the  ice-chest.  The  3'Olks  and 
whites  should  be  beaten  separately.  Break  each  egg  on 
the  edge  of  the  cup,  just  enough  to  crack  the  middle  of  the 
shell,  so  the  white  will  flow  out,  but  not  hard  enough  to 
break  into  the  yolks.  Then  hold  the  Qgg  over  the  cup, 
with  the  cracked  side  up,  and  break  it  apart.     Let  the 


3/2  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


white  run  into  the  cup,  and  keep  the  3'olk  in  the  half  shell 
until  all  the  white  is  drained  ofl'.  Be  careful  not  to  break 
the  yolk,  as  the  smaUest  portion  of  it  in  the  whites  will 
prevent  them  from  frothing.  Beat  the  3'olks  in  a  bowl, 
and  the  whites  in  a  platter  if  3'ou  use  a  fork  or  whisk,  or 
in  a  bowl  if  you  use  a  Dover  beater.  Never  stop  beating 
tlie  whites  until  the}''  are  stiff  and  drj^,  as  it  is  impossible 
to  have  them  light  if  they  become  liquid  again. 

Measure  all  the  ingredients,  and  have  the  fire  and  all 
utensils  read}^  before  joxx  begin  to  mix.  Observe  the  fol- 
lowing order  in  putting  materials  together. 

Sponge  Cake  Mixtures.  —  Beat  the  yolks  until  light  or 
lemon-colored  and  thick.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  and 
beat  again.  Add  the  lemon  juice  or  flavoring,  and  water, 
if  that  is  to  be  used.  Beat  the  whites  until  stiff  and  dr}'-, 
and  cut  or  fold  them  in  lightl}',  then  sift  in  the  flour,  and 
fold  in  carefully  without  any  stirring.  Sponge  cakes  should 
not  be  beaten  after  adding  the  flour.  Those  made  with 
soda  and  cream  of  tartar  require  less  beating  than  those 
without,  but;  they  are  a  very  poor  substitute  for  genuine 
sponge  cake. 

Butter  Cake  Mixtures.  —  "Warm  the  bowl  with  hot 
water,  then  wipe  dry.  Put  in  the  butter,  and  rub  with 
a  wooden  or  silver  spoon  until  light  and  creamy.  Be 
careful  not  to  have  the  bowl  so  hot  as  to  melt  the  butter. 
Add  the  sugar  and  beat  again.  If  the  habit  of  rubbing 
the  butter  and  sugar  together  with  the  hand  be  already 
formed,  and  you  find  it  easier  than  to  use  a  spoon,  it  is 
hardly  worth  while  to  change ;  but  for  those  who  are 
wholly  inexperienced  it  is  better  to  learn  to  use  the 
spoon,  and  every  lady  would  prefer  to  have  her  cook 
mix  in  that  way.  If  the  proportion  of  sugar  be  large 
for  the  butter,  —  more  than  double,  —  beat  part  of  the 
sugar  with  the  butter,  and  the  remainder  with  the  j^olks 
of  the  eggs.  *  Where  a  ver}^  small  proportion  of  butter 
is  to  be  used,  it  may  be  melted  and  mixed  with  the 
eggs  and  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  till  light  and  thick, 
then  beat  them  well  with  the  butter  and  sugar.     Add  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  373 

flavoring.  Then  add  a  little  milk,  then  a  little  flour,  and 
milk  again,  and  continue  until  all  the  milk  and  flour  are 
used.  Lastly,  add  the  beaten  whites.  All  cakes  made 
with  batter  require  to  be  beaten  long  and  vigoroush^  after 
adding  the  flour,  that  they  maj'  be  smooth  and  fine- 
grained. Fruit  should  be  added  last ;  cake  with  fruit 
should  be  a  little  stiffer  with  flour  than  that  without 
fruit.  Citron  and  large  pieces  of  fruit  may  be  put  in 
in  layers,  or  spread  over  the  dough  in  the  pan. 

All  cake  should  be  baked  as  soon  as  possible  after  it  is 
mixed.  Put  the  scrapings  from  the  bowl  into  small  tins. 
If  put  into  the  loaf,  they  sometimes  cause  a  heav}^  streak 
through  the  top. 

Cake  is  baked  when  it  shrinks  from  the  pan  and  stops 
hissing,  or  when  a  straw  inserted  in  the  centre  comes  out 
clean.  Remove  the  loaf  from  the  pan  as  soon  as  baked, 
lifting  it  out  by  the  paper  ;  or,  if  not  papered,  loosen  the 
edges  with  a  knife,  and  turn  the  pan  over  upon  a  cloth 
laid  over  a  bread-cooler.  Remove  the  pan  as  soon  as 
possible.  Never  let  cake  stand  in  the  pan  to  become 
moist.  When  cake  is  baked  too  hard  or  burned,  rub  off 
the  burned  surface  with  a  coarse  grater. 


5  eggs. 

1   cup   sugar,  powdered  or  fine 
granulated. 


Sponge  Cake. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

3-.<  lemon  (grated  rind  and  juice). 


1  cup  pastry  flour. 


See  general  directions  for  putting  together  (page  372). 
The  mixture  should  be  stiff  and  spong}^,  of  the  consistency 
of  Charlotte  Russe  filling,  as  it  is  poured  into  the  pan. 
Bake  in  a  deep  bread  pan,  in  a  moderate  oven,  nearh^  an 
hour,  — in  a  shallow  pan,  about  fort}^  minutes.  If  stirred 
instead  of  beaten,  the  bubbles  of  air  will  be  broken  and  the 
mixture  will  become  liquid.  When  baked,  it  will  be  tough 
and  too  close-grained.  To  make  this  cake  well,  requires 
strength  in  beating  and  judgment  in  baking ;  but  when 
successful,  it  is  one  of  the  most  satisfactory  and  perfect 


374  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

cakes  made.     Cut  through  the  crust  with  a  sharp  pointed 
knife,  then  break  apart. 

Sponge  Cake,  {Miss  Josselyn.)  —  Beat  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs ;  add  one  cup  of  fine  granulated  sugar ^  one 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice ^  and  one  tahlespoonful  of 
cold  water ^  or  a  lamp  of  ice  melted  in  the  lemon  juice  to 
make  two  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid.  Add  the  whites^  beaten 
stiff,  and  one  cup  of  pastry  flour. 

Lady  Fingers  and  Sponge  Drops.  —  Four  eggs.,  half 
a  cup  of  powdered  sugar ^  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt^  one 
teaspoonful  of  flavoring.,  and  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of 
pastry  flour.  See  general  directions  for  mixing  sponge 
cakes.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  pastry  bag,  and  press 
through  it  into  shape,  about  three  inches  long  and  not 
quite  one  inch  wide.  Or  drop  by  the  spoonful  on  a  but- 
tered pan,  and  you  have  Sponge  Drops.  Sprinkle  pow- 
dered sugar  over  them,  and  bake  twelve  or  sixteen  minutes 
in  a  very  slow  oven. 

Miss  Ward''s  Sponge  Cake.  —  Break  te?i  eggs  into  a 
bowl ;  add  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar ^  and  beat  to- 
gether for  half  an  hour  without  stopping.  Add  half  a 
pound  of  flour.,  the  grated  rind  owd  juice  of  one  lemon^ 
and  a  vnneglassful  of  wine.  Bake  in  deep  pans  one  hour ; 
slowl}^  at  first,  then  quicken  the  fire  the  last  half-hour. 
Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  the  top  before  baking. 

Angel  Cake. — One  cup  of  flour.,  measured  after  one 
sifting,  and  then  mixed  with  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar  and  sifted  four  times.  Beat  the  ^ahites  of  eleven 
eggs^  with  a  wire  beater  or  perforated  spoon,  until  stiff  and 
flaky.  Add  one  cup  and  a  half  of  fine  granulated  sugar., 
and  beat  again  ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  almond, 
then  mix  in  the  flour  quickl^^  and  lightlj'.  Line  the  bottom 
and  funnel  of  a  cake  pan  with  paper  not  greased,  pour  in 
the  mixture,  and  bake  about  forty  minutes.  When  done, 
loosen  the  cake  around  the  edge,  and  turn  out  at  once. 
Some  persons  have  been  more  successful  with  this  cake  by 
mixing  the  sugar  with  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar,  and 
adding  all  at  once  to  the  beaten  ^gg. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  375 

Sunshine  Cake. — Make  the  same  as  Angel  Cake,  using 
one  teaspoonful  of  orange  extract  instead  of  vanilla,  and 
adding  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs  to  the  beaten 
whites  and  sugar  before  adding  the  flour. 


Sponge  Cake  for  Cream  Pies,  or  Berwick  Sponge  Cake. 


3  eggs,  yolks. 

1%  cup  sugar. 

%  cup  water. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  extract. 


2  cups  pastry  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
3^  teaspoonful  soda. 
Whites  of  3  eggs. 


Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  ;  add  the  sugar,  lemon  juice, 
and  water ;  then  the  flour,  mixed  with  the  soda  and  cream 
of  tartar,  and,  lastly,  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in 
rou^id  shallow  pans.    When  cool,  split  and  fill  with  cream. 

When  each  part  of  the  process  of  beating  is  done  just 
two  minutes  b}^  the  clock,  and  baked  in  a  loaf,  it  is  called 
Berwick  Sponge  Cake. 

Creatn.  —  Boil  one  pint  of  milk.  Beat  two  eggs  ;  add 
half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  one  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Melt 
one  tahlespoonfid  of  butter  in  a  granite  saucepan,  and 
add  tvno  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  When  well  mixed,  add 
the  boiling  milk  graduall}- ,  pour  it  on  the  eggs  and  sugar, 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  five  minutes,  or  till  smooth. 
When  cool,  flavor  with  lemon.,  vanilla.,  or  almond. 

Sponge  Cake  with  Fruit.  —  Make  a  Sponge  Cake.,  bake 
in  shallow  pans,  and  put  crushed  and  sweetened  straw- 
berries between  the  la^'ers.  Cover  with  whipped  cream. 
Or  put  one  cup  of  candied  fruity  cut  fine,  in  a  cream,  pre- 
pared as  above,  and  use  in  the  same  way. 

Sponge  Cake  for  Children.  (Miss  M.  L.  Clarke.')  — 
Mix  in  a  bowl  one  cup  and  a  half  of  pastry  flour ^  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda.,  sifted  with  the  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar.,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  extract  of  lemon  or  orange  ;  two  eggs.,  broken 
in  a  cup  and  the  cup  filled  with  nnilk  or  cream.  Mix  all 
in  the  order  given,  and  beat  very  hard  till  light.  Bake 
from  twent}^  to  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


376  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Roll  Jelly  Cake. 

This  is  the  simplest  form  of  a  butter  cake.  It  is  like  a 
spoDge  cake,  with  the  addition  of  a  small  amount  of  short- 
ening. Three  eggs^  beaten  separately  till  very  light,  then 
beaten  together ;  add  one  cup  of  sugar ^  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream^  or  one  of  melted  butter^  one  cup  pastry 
flour  mixed  with  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Spread  verj^  thin  on 
long  shallow  tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Spread 
with  jelly  while  warm,  trim  the  edges  with  a  sharp  knife, 
and  roll  up. 


One  Egg  Cake. 


3^  cup  butter,  creamed. 
1  cup  sugar. 
1  egg,  beaten  light. 
1  cup  milk. 


2  cups  flour.  / 

3^  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  bake  in  a  shallow  pan,  in  a 
moderate  oven,  thirty  minutes. 


Park  Street  Cake. 


y^  cup  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  pastry  flour. 

4  eggs. 


3^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

1   teaspoonful   vanilla   or  lemon 

extract. 
1  saltspoonful  mace. 

Contrary  to  our  usual  practice,  this  receipt  is  not  given 
in  the  order  in  which  the  materials  are  to  be  put  together, 
but  in  numerical  order,  as  an  aid  in  remembering  the  pro- 
portions. Eub  the  butter  in  a  warm  bowl,  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  until  like  cream,  and  add  one  cup  of  the  sugar 
gradually  ;  add  the  remaining  cup  of  sugar  to  the  beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  beat  until  very  light,  and  add  to  the 
butter.  Add  the  flavoring.  Then  beat  the  whites  stiff 
and  dry,  and  let  them  stand  while  you  add  a  little 
milk  and  flour  alternately  to  the  mixture.  Add  the 
whites   last.     This   makes  two  loaves.     Bake  in  a  mod- 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  377 

erate  oven  until  the  loaf  shrinks  from  the  pan.  Halve 
this  receipt,  and  3^ou  have  Feather  Cake ;  or  bake  it  in 
round  shallow  pans  for  Jelly  Cake  or  for  Cream  Pies. 


Orange  Cake. 


2  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablesp.  melted  butter. 

3^  cup  milk. 

13^  cup  flour. 


3^  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
1  tablespoonful  orange  juice  and 
a  little  of  the  grated  rind. 


Mix  in  the  order  given.  Bake  in  a  round  shallow  pan, 
split,  and  fill  with  orange  cream. 

Orange  Cream  for  Cake.  —  Put  in  a  cup  the  rind  of 
half  and  the  juice  of  one  orange.,  one  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  jtdce^  and  fill  with  cold  loater.  Strain,  and  put  on 
to  boil.  Add  one  tablespoonfid  of  cornstarch^  wet  in 
cold  water.  Stir  till  thick,  then  cook  over  hot  water  ten 
minutes.  Beat  the  yolk  of  07ie  egg.,  add  tioo  heaping 
tahlespoonfuls  of  sugar ^  stir  into  the  starch,  cook  one 
minute,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  butter .,  and  cool. 

Fill  the  cake  with  the  cream,  and  frost  with  ornamental 
frosting.  Mark  the  frosting  like  a  pie,  in  eight  pieces, 
and  decorate  each  with  a  section  of  orange  and  ornamental 
frosting. 

Orange  Cake,   No.   2. 

Double  the  preceding  receipt  for  cake,  and  bake  in  two 
long  shallow  pans.  Prepare  the  pulp  of  the  oranges, 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  spread  between  the  cakes.  Frost 
with  orange  frosting.  Cut  into  oblong  pieces.  Or  fill 
with  the  following  cream  :  — 

Orange  and  Cocoanut  Cream  for  Cake.  —  One  egg, 
beaten  well ;  add  one  cup  of  v)hip}ped  cream^  half  a  cup 
of  sugar^  one  cup  of  grated  cocoanut^  the  grated  rind  of 
half  and  the  juice  of  one  orange.  Put  this  between  and 
on  the  top  of  the  cakes,  and  sprinkle  fresh  cocoanut  over 
the  whole. 


378 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Mother's  Cake.     {Mrs.  R.  M.   Walcott.) 

This  receipt  is  the  foundation  for  countless  varieties  of 
cake,  which  are  often  given  in  cook  books  under  diflferent 
names,  but  which  when  analj'zed  are  found  to  be  identical 
in  proportions. 


1  scant  cup  butter. 

1)0  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

1  teaspoonf  ul  lemon  or  vanilla. 

1  saltspoonful  mace. 


}4  cup  milk. 

3  cups  pastry  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

j:£  teaspoonful  soda. 


Cream  the  butter ;  add  the  sugar  gradually-,  then  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  flavoring.  Reserve  a  quarter 
of  a  cup  of  flour,  lest  the  cake  be  too  stiff  if  all  be  used  ; 
less  flour  will  be  required  for  a  thin  than  for  a  thick  loaf. 
Put  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  into  the  remainder  of 
the  flour.  Add  the  milk  and  flour  alternatelj' ,  a  little  at 
a  time,  and  lastly  the  whites,  which  have  been  beaten 
stiff  and  dry.  Bake  from  forty  to  fift}^  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Add  one  cup  of  currants^  and  it  makes  a  nice  Currant 
Cake ;  or  half  a  cup  of  dates,  cut  fine  and  floured,  and 
you  have  Date  Cake, 

Color  one  cupful  of  the  dough  with  spices,  —  cinnamon^ 
allspice.,  and  mace.,  —  or  with  grated  chocolate.,  put  it  in  the 
pan  in  spots,  and  j^ou  have  Leopard  Cake. 

By  using  a  full  cup  of  butter^  it  is  the  same  as  White 
Mountain  Cake. 

For  Nut  Cake  add  07ie  cup  of  fine  chopped  walnuts^  or 
other  nuts,  to  the  dough,  and  put  a  laj'er  of  unbroken 
halves  of  English  walnuts  over  the  top. 

Or  bake  in  shallow  round  pans,  split  and  spread  with 
a  thin  layer  of  currant  jelly ^  and  then  fill  with  Cocoa- 
nut  and  Raisin  Cream  made  as  follows :  One  cup  of 
raisins.,  stoned  and  chopped  fine,  half  a  cup  of  chopped 
almonds.,  half  a  cup  of  grated  cocoanut^  and  the  white 
of  one  egg,  beaten  stiff. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


379 


Macdonald  Cake.     {Mrs.  A.  A.  Lincoln.) 


1  cup  butter,  creamed. 

13^  cup  sugar. 

4  eggs  (yolks). 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  or  vanilla. 

1^  cup  milk. 

Mix  in  the  order  given, 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


%  cup  cornstarch. 

13^2  <^up  pastry  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

3^  teaspoonful  soda. 

Whites  of  the  eggs. 


and  bake  in  two  shallow  pans 


Cider  Cake. 


1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
^  cup  cider. 


4  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  scant. 

1  teaspoonful  spice. 


Mix  soda  and  spice  with  flour,  then  mix  in  the  order 
given,  and  bake  in  two  shallow  pans. 

Dominoes. 

Bake  sponge  or  feather  cake  in  shallow  pans  ;  frost,  cut 
in  oblong  pieces,  and  mark  like  dominoes. 

Madelines. 

Bake  an}^  rich  butter  cake  mixture  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  in  squares  or  rounds  ;  ornament  Yfiih.  frosting 
and  nuts.)  or  candied  fruits . 


Gold  Cake. 

}4  cup  butter. 

IH  cup  fine  granulated  sugar. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs. 

1  whole  egg. 

1/ 


y^  teaspoonful  soda. 

^  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

23^  cups  flour. 


Silver  Cake. 

%  cup  butter. 

13^  cup  sugar. 

3^  teaspoonful  almond. 

3^  cup  milk. 

3^  teaspoonful  soda. 

^  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

2  3>^  cups  flour. 

Whites  of  5  eggs. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  putting  soda  and  cream  of  tar- 
tar in  the  flour,  and  adding   milk   and  flour   alternately. 


380  The  Boston  Cook  Booh 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  until  the  loaf  shrinks  from  the 
pan. 

Watermelon  Cake  may  be  made  from  this  receipt  by  using 
red  sugar  in  the  gold  cake,  and  adding  one  cup  of  raisins, 
seeded,  quartered,  and  rolled  in  flour.  Put  the  red  cake 
in  the  centre  of  a  round  pan,  and  the  white  around  the 
edge.  Or  put  the  red  at  the  bottom,  and  the  white  on 
top.     Bake  in  a  large  round  pan,  or  two  brickloaf  pans. 

Marble  Cake.  —  Color  one  cupful  of  the  3'ellow  cake 
dough  brown  with  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  chocolate, 
and  mix  the  white,  3ellow,  and  brown  in  spots,  or  drop 
the  brown  in  rings  between  the  layers  of  white  and 
yellow. 

Cornstarch  Cake. 


%  cup  butter,  creamed. 

\%  cup  sugar. 

y^  cup  milk. 

}^  teaspoonful  almond. 

3^  cup  cornstarch. 

Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


13^  cup  pastry  flour. 

3^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1}/^  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

Whites  of  6  eggs. 


y^  teaspoonful  soda. 

13^  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

Whites  of  8  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  almond  extract. 


Snow  Cake.     (Miss  Alice  Walcott.') 

%  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

y^  cup  milk. 

2)^  cups  pastry  flour. 

Mix  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour.  Be 
sure  to  use  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  cream  of  tartar, 
as  the  extra  amount  is  intended  to  stiffen  the  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat 
again  ;  add  the  milk  and  flour  alternately,  a  little  at  a  time, 
and  beat  well.  Lastl}-,  add  the  beaten  whites  and  the  al- 
mond.    Bake  in  two  small  pans  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Bream  Cake.  —  Bake  the  Snow  Cake  in  three  shallow 
pans.  Make  the  Ornamental  Frosting,  and  flavor  one 
part  with  lemon,  another  with  vanilla,  and  the  third  with 
rose.  Frost  each  cake,  put  together,  and  sprinkle  grated 
fresh  cocoanut  over  the  top. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  381 


Buttercup  Cake.     (.4.  W.) 


^  cup  butter. 
1}^  cup  sugar. 
Yolks  of  8  eggs. 
1  whole  egg. 
}£  cup  milk. 


2  cups  flour. 

}^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1)4  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

1  saltspoonful  mace,  or 

1  teaspoonful  lemon. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  bake  in  two  pans  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  till  the  loaf  shrinks  from  the  pan.  Or  bake  in 
small  round  tins,  and  frost  with  yellow  frosting,  and 
decorate  with  candied  fruit. 

Harlequin  Cake.     (Mrs.  Williams.) 


1  cup  butter,  creamed. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  eggs  (yolks). 
1  cup  milk. 


3  cups  pastry  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
ig  teaspoonful  soda. 
Whites  of  3  eggs. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  then  divide  the  dough  into  four 
equal  parts.  Have  two  parts  the  color  of  the  dough. 
Color  the  third  with  two  squares  of  unsweetened  choco- 
late, melted.  Color  the  fourth  part  with  piiik  coloring, 
and  bake  each  part  in  a  Washington  pie  plate.  When 
all  are  done,  la}-  first  a  light  cake,  then  the  chocolate,  then 
another  light,  then  the  pink.  Between  the  layers  spread 
lemon  jelly,  and  frost  with  white  frosting . 

Lemon  Jelly  for  QaJce.  —  Beat  one  egg,  add  one  cup  of 
water,  the  grated  rind  smd  juice  of  07ie  lemon.  Pour  this 
slowly  on  one  cup  of  sugar.,  mixed  with  two  tahlespoonfuls 
oi  flour.     Cook  in  the  double  boiler  till  smooth,  like  cream. 

Pink  Coloring  for  Cake  and  Creams. 

14  ounce  cochineal. 


14  ounce  cream  of  tartar. 


%  pint  boiling  water. 
%  pound  sugar. 


To  the  first  three  ingredients  add  the  boiling  water,  and 
put  in  a  porcelain  stewpan.  Let  it  stand  on  the  stove 
without  boiling  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Add  the  salts 
of  tartar  very  graduall}',  stirring  all  the  time.     Add  the 


382 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh. 


sugar.    Strain  and  bottle  it.     Use  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls, 
according  to  the  shade  desired. 

Poheberry  Syrup  for  Coloring  Pink.  —  Put  the  fruit 
in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  cover  with  water.  Boil  slowlj- 
till  the  skins  break,  then  strain.  Add  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  a  quart  ot  juice;  boil  a  few  moments,  bottle  and  seal. 


Ribbon  Cake. 


1  cup  butter,  • 

2  cups  sugar. 

4  eggs,  yolks  and   whites  beaten 
separately. 


1  cup  milk. 

ZYz  cups  pastry  flour. 

1^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


Have  three  long,  shallow  pans,  of  equal  size.  Divide 
the  dough  into  three  parts.  Bake  two  parts  as  plain  cake  ; 
add  to  the  remaining  dough, 


3^  cup      raisins,       stoned       and 

chopped. 
1  cup  currants. 
y^  pound  shced  citron  (the  fruit 

all  floured). 


2  teaspoonfuls  molasses. 

2  teaspoonfuls  brandy  or  wine. 

1  teaspoonful    mixed    mace    and 


cmnamon. 


Bake,  and  put  the  fruit  cake  between  the  two  plain 
cakes,  with  Je%  between.  Press  it  lightly  with  the  hand 
in  putting  together  ;  trim  the  edges  even,  and  frost. 

Coffee  Cake. 
Use  one  cup  of  strong^  clear  coffee  instead  of  milk^  and 
make  as  in  the  preceding  rule.     Add  the  fruit  and  spices 
to  the  whole  mixture.     Bake  it  in  one  loaf. 


legg. 

%  cup  molasses. 

%  cup  sugar. 

%  cup  melted  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 


Spice  Cakes. 

2%  cups  flour. 
1  heaping  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  even  teasp.  cream  of  tartar. 
1  tablespoonful  mixed  spice. 
1  tablespoonful  vinegar. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  bake  in  small  tins.  One 
tablespoonful  of  leyno7%  juice  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
ginger  may  be  substituted  for  the  vinegar  and  spice. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


383 


Plum  Cakes. 


1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  brown  sugar. 
Yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Whites  of  2  eggs. 
3^  cup  milk. 


%  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
%  pound     raisins,     stoned     and 

chopped. 
%  pound  currants. 
2  tablespoonf uls  any  fruit  sjrup. 
4  cups  flour. 
2  teaspoonfuls  mixed  spices. 


y^  cup  dark  molasses. 
3^  teaspoonful  soda. 

If  not  dark  enough,  add  a  little  melted  chocolate.     Bake 
in  small  tins,  and  frost  part  of  them  with  the  remaining 


white  of  Qgg. 


Pound  Cake. 


1  pound  butter. 
1  pound  sugar. 
10  eggs. 


{Miss  Ward.) 

1  pound  flour. 

J^  wineglass  wine. 

%  wineglass  brandy. 

Cream  the  butter ;  add  the  sugar,  j^olks  of  the  eggs, 
wine,  brandy,  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  the  flour.  Put  cur- 
rants into  one  fourth  of  the  dough,  and  almonds,  blanched 
and  pounded  in  rose  water ^  into  another  part ;  leave  the 
remainder  plain.  Fill  very  small  round  tins  three  quarters 
full.  Into  half  of  those  containing  the  plain  dough  put 
small  pieces  of  citroji^  three  in  each,  inserting  the  citron 
upright  a  little  way  into  the  dough.  Sift  sugar  over  the 
tops  of  those  containing  the  citron  and  almond  before  put- 
ting them  into  the  oven.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  Frost 
the  plain  and  currant  cakes.  Pound  cake  is  lighter  when 
baked  in  small  cakes  than  in  loaves. 


Wedding  Cake. 


1  pound  butter. 
1  pound  sugar. 
12  eggs. 

1  pound  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  each  of  cinnamon 

and  mace. 
1  teaspoonful  each  of  nutmeg  and 
allspice.  ' 

Line  the  pans  with  three  thicknesses  of  paper ;  butter 
the  top  layer.      Seed  and  chop  the  raisins  ;  wash  and  dry 


3^  teaspoonful  cloves, 
2  pounds  raisins. 
2  pounds  currants. 
1  pound  citron. 
1  pound  almonds. 
1  wineglass  brandy. 
1  lemon. 


3^4  The  Boston  Cook  Booh. 

the  currants  (see  page  435)  ;  cut  the  citron  in  uniform 
slices,  about  one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick ;  blanch  the 
almonds  and  chop  fine.  Mix  all  the  fruit  but  the  citron 
with  enoug...  of  the  flour  to  coat  it  thoroughl}'.  Mix 
the  spices  with  the  sugar.  Cream  the  butter ;  add  the 
sugar^  beaten  3^olks,  beaten  whites,  lemon  rind  and  juice, 
brtmd}^,  flour,  and  fruit,  except  the  citron.  Put  a  laj'er 
of  dough  half  an  inch  d-^ep  in  the  pan,  then  spread  evenly 
with  the  citron,  then  arjjc>ther  laj^er  of  dough  and  citron ; 
repeat  till  the  materials  are  all  used.  Have  dough  for  the 
top  la3^er.  As  this  cake  does  not  rise  much  in  baking,  the 
pans  may  be  at  least  two  thirds  full.  Bake  in  two  large, 
deep,  oblong  pans  three  hours,  in  a  moder<t:e  oven. 

Frosting. 

Plain  Frosting.  —  White  of  one  egg^  one  teaspoonfid 
of  lemon  juice  ^  and  one  scaiit  cup  of  poiodered  sugar.  Put 
the  egg  and  lemon  juice  in  a  bowl,  and  stir  the  sugar  in 
^radualh^     Then  beat,  not  stir,  all  together  five  minutes. 

Boiled  Icing.  —  0?^e  cujy  of  granulated  sugar ^  one  third 
of  a  cup  of  boiling  water.,  luhite  of  one  egg.,  and  one  salt- 
spoonfid  of  cream  of  tartar.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water 
without  stirring,  until  the  S3'rup  taken  up  on  a  skewer  will 
"thread"  or  "rope."  When  it  is  nearl}^  at  that  point, 
beat  the  Qgg  stiff,  add  the  cream  of  tartar,  and  pour  the 
boiling  S3^rup  over  the  Qgg  in  a  fine  stream,  beating  well. 
When  it  thickens  and  is  perfectl}^  smooth,  pour  it  over  the 
cake.  It  hardens  quickl}^,  and  should  be  put  on  the  cake 
before  it  stiffens  enough  to  drop. 

Golden  Frosting.  —  Beat  the  yolJcs  of  eggs  and  stir  in 
powdered  sugar  till  stiff"  enough  to  spread,  not  to  run. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  or  wine. 

Ornamental  Frosting.  —  Whites  of  three  eggs.,  three 
cups  of  confectioner'' s  sugar.,  sifted,  and  tho^ee  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  lemon  juice.  Put  the  eggs  in  a  large  bowl ; 
sprinkle  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  the  sugar.  Beat  with 
a  perforated  wooden  spoon,  adding  three  teaspoonfuls  of 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh.  385 

sugar  every  five  minutes.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  add 
the  lemon  juice  and  beat  as  before.  It  should  thicken  by 
the  beating  of  the  egg,  and  not  b}'  the  addition  of  too  much 
sugar.  Do  not  use  all  the  measure  of  sugar  unless  needed. 
Beat  with  a  long  flop,  over  and  over,  and  7iever  stir.  When 
stiff  enough  to  leave  a  "  clean  cut,"  or  not  to  run  together 
when  cut  with  a  knife,  spread  a  thin  laj^er  of  frosting  on 
the  cake,  and  when  this  is  hard  put  on  another  laj'er  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  When  his  is  firm,  mark  it  for' 
cutting.  To  the  remainder  of  tiic  frosting  add  sugar  more 
rapidl}',  until  it  begins  to  harden  on  the  spoon  and  bowl. 
Put  a  confectioner's  tube  into  the  end  of  a  pastr}'  bag,  fill 
the  bag  with  frosting,  twist  the  end  tightty,  and  press  the 
frosting  through  the  tube  on  the  cake  in  an}^  design  you 
wish. 

Binh  Frosting.  —  Color  a  portion  of  the  Ornamental 
Frosting  with  cochineal^  adding  it  slowly  till  of  the  desired 
shade. 

Chocolate  Frosting.  —  Melt  a  square  of  chocolate  in  a 
saucepan,  and  add  to  the  Ornamental  Frosting,  using 
enough  to  color  light  or  dark  as  you  prefer. 

Orange  Frosting.  —  Grate  the  thin  rind  of  an  orange.^ 
and  soak  it  half  an  hour  in  three  oy  four  teaspoonfuls  of 
the  orange  juice.  Then  squeeze  the  juice  through  a  fine 
cloth,  and  use  the  same  as  lemon  juice  in  Ornamental 
Frosting. 

Cookies. 


Plain  Cookies. 
%  cup  butter. 
1  cup  sugar. 
3>^  cup  milk. 

1  egg. 

2  even  teasp.  baking-powder. 


Richer  Cookies, 
y^  cup  butter. 
1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  heaping  teasp.  baking-powder, 


Flour  to  roll  out  thin.  \  Flour  to  roll  out. 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar,  milk,  ^^^^  beaten 
lightly,  and  the  baking-powder  mixed  with  two  cups  of 
flour,  then  enough  more  flour  to  roll  out.  Roll  a  little  at 
a  time.     Cut  out.     Bake  about  ten  minutes. 

25 


386 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


CoGoanut  Cookies,  —  Add  one  cup  of  grated  cocoanut^ 
or  half  a  cup  of  cocoanut  cakes^  crambled,  to  either  of 
these  receipts  before  adding  the  flour. 

Jumbles.  —  Roll  either  of  these  mixtures  thicker,  and 
cut  with  a  doughnut  cutter  ;  sprinkle  sugar  over,  and  bake 
a  delicate  brown. 

Hermits.  — Add  half  a  cup  of  stoned  and  chopped  rai- 
sins to  the  receipt  for  Richer  Cookies.,  and  roll  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.     Cut  into  rounds. 

New  Yearns  Cookies.  —  Rub  three  fourths  of  a  cup  of 
butter  into  six  cups  of  flour.  Pour  half  a  cup  of  boiling 
water  over  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar.,  add  a  scant  hcdf 
teaspoonful  of  soda^  and  when  the  sugar  is  melted  stir  all 
into  the  flour.     Roll  out  thin. 


One-Two-Three-Four  Cookies.     {Mrs.  Whitney.) 


1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 


teaspoonful  soda. 


1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
3^  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  spice,  or 

2  tablesp.  carraway  seed,  or 
2  teaspoonf uls  yellow  ginger. 


Cream  the  butter,  and  add  half  the  sugar.  Beat  the 
yolks,  add  the  remaining  half  of  the  sugar,  and  beat  them 

with  the  butter,  then  add 
the  beaten  whites.  Mix 
the  soda,  cream  of  tartar, 
spice,  and  salt  with  the 
flour,  and  stir  into  the 
butter  mixture.  Take  a 
teaspoonful  of  t\iQ  doughy 
make  it  into  a  ball  with  floured  hands,  place  the  balls  in 
the  pan  some  distance  apart,  then  press  or  flatten  into  a 
round  cake,  and  bake  about  ten  minutes. 

Thin  Sugar  Gingerbread.  —  Add  to  the  preceding  re- 
ceipt two  teaspoonfuls  of  yellow  ginger,  instead  of  spice, 
and  spread  the  mixture  thin  on  a  tin  sheet.  Mark  in 
squares  or  oblongs,  and  bake. 


Fig.  50.     Cookies. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


187 


Superior  Gingerbread.     {Mrs.  Towne.) 


13^  pound  butter. 
lU'  pound  sugar. 
9  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 

separately. 
1  wineglass  wine. 


1  wineglass  brandy. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger  and 

1  nutmeg,  grated,  mixed  with 

2  pounds  flour, 


Mix  as  for  cake  in  the  order  given,  and  spread  very  thin 
with  a  knife  on  tin  sheets.  Bake,  and  cut  in  squares  while 
warm.     This  will  keep  six  months. 

Hard  Gingerbread.     (Mrs.  Dewey.) 


^  pound  butter. 
13^  pound  sugar. 
6  eggs. 


1  teaspoonf  ul  soda,  dissolved  in 
3  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

2  pounds  flour. 


Cream  the  butter ;  add  the  sugar  and  beaten  eggs,  and 
beat  well.  Sift  in  the  ginger,  strain  the  soda,  and  add  the 
flour.     Roll  half  an  inch  thick,  or  thin  as  a  wafer. 

Hard  Gingerbread.     (Miss  A.  M.  Towne.) 


2  cups  N.  0.  molasses. 

1  cup  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 


1  teaspoonful  soda. 

St.  Louis  flour  to  mix  very  stiff. 


Heat  (not  boil)  the  molasses  and  butter ;  when  the  but- 
ter is  melted,  add  the  ginger,  sifted,  the  soda  dissolved  in 
a  little  boiling  water,  and  the  flour.  Roll  ver}^  thin,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Soft  Gingerbread. 


1  cup  molasses. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  tablespoonful  ginger. 
3^  teaspoonful  salt. 


y^  to  )'o  cup  butter  or  drippings, 

softened. 
1  cup  milk. 
3  cups  pastry  flour. 


Bake  in  shallow  pans  or  gem  pans  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  thirty  minutes. 


388 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


3^  cup  butter. 
3^  cup  cream. 


Sugar  Gingerbread. 


1>^  cup  sugar. 
Mix  stiff  YfiXh  flour. 


2  teaspoonfuls  ginger. 
1  teaspoonful  soda,  scant. 


Roll  thick  or  thin. 


Hot  Water  Gingerbread. 

^2  teaspoonful  salt. 


1  cup  molasses. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted. 

Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  beat  well, 
cake  pan. 

Sour  Milk  Gingerbread. 


3^  cup  boiling  water. 
2  cups  flour. 


Bake  in  a  deep 


}/^  cup  molasses. 
3^  teaspoonful  soda. 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  ginger. 
%  cup  sugar. 


1  tablespoonful  butter,  softened. 
1  cup  sour  milk. 

23^  cups   pastry   flour,  with   an- 
other 
%  teaspoonful  soda  mixed  with  it. 


Omit  the 
muffin  pans. 


butter  when   sour  cream  is  used.     Bake   in 


Ginger  Snaps.     {Mrs.  H.  B.  May.) 


1  cup  molasses. 

3^  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 


1  teaspoonful  soda. 
%  cup  softened  butter. 


Flour  to  roll  out  very  thin. 

Heat   the  molasses,   pour  it  over  the  sugar;    add  the 
ginger,  soda,  butter,  and  flour.     Cut,  and  bake  quickly. 


Ginger  Drops  (without  Butter) 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  cup  brown  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  ginger. 


1  cup  N.  0.  molasses,  boiled. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Flour  to  roll  out. 


Mix  in  the  order  given.  Roll  thin,  cut  with  a  very 
small  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If  you  like,  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  before  adding  the  flour,  and 
use  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


389 


Soft  Molasses  Cookies.     {A.  W.) 
1  cup  molasses.  2  tablesp.  warm  water  or  milk. 


1  tablespoonful  ginger. 
1  teaspoonf  ul  soda. 


%  cup  butter,  softened 
Flour  to  mix  soft. 


Mix  in  the  order  given,  dissolving  the  soda  in  the  milk. 
Roll  out  one  third  of  an  inch  thick.     Cut  in  small  rounds. 


Cream  Cakes. 


1  cup  hot  water. 
3^  teaspoonful  salt. 
%  cup  butter. 


1)2  t3up  pastry  flour. 
5  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately. 


Boil  the  water,  salt,  and  butter.  When  boiling,  add  the 
dry  flour,  stir  well  for  five  minutes,  and  when  cool  add  the 
eggs.  This  is  such  a  stiff  mixture,  man}^  find  it  easier 
to  mix  with  the  hand,  and  some  prefer  to  add  the  eggs 
whole,  one  at  a  time.  When  well  mixed,  drop,  in  table- 
spoonfuls,  on  a  buttered  baking-pan,  some  distance  apart. 
Bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  or  till  brown  and  well 
pufiTed.     Split  when  cool,  and  fill  with  cream. 

Eclairs.  —  Bake  the  Cream  Cake  mixture  in  pieces 
four  inches  long  and  one  and  a  half  wide.  When  cool, 
split  and  fill  with  cream.  Ice  with  chocolate  or  vanilla 
frosting. 

Cream  for  Cream  Cakes  and  Eclairs. 


^4  cup  sugar. 

1  saltspoonful  salt,  or 

1  teaspoonful  butter. 


1  pint  milk,  boiled. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Wet  the  cornstarch  in  cold  milk,  and  cook  in  the 
milk  ten  minutes.  Beat  the  eggs  ;  add  the  sugar  and  the 
thickened  milk.  Cook  in  the  double  boiler  five  minutes. 
Add  the  salt  or  butter,  and  when  cool,  flavor  with  lemon, 
vanilla.)  or  almond. 


Kisses,  or  Cream  Meringues. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  stiff  and  flaky  ;  add  three 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  sifting  and  cutting 


390  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

it  in  liglitl}^  Drop  b}^  spoonfuls  on  paper  placed  on 
boards.  Put  in  the  hot  closet  or  oven,  with  the  door 
open  for  half  an  hour.  Then  brown  slightly.  Pat  two 
together ;  or  put  them  on  the  paper  in  oblong  shape,  dry 
one  hour,  brown,  remove  the  soft  part,  and  fill  with  whipped 
cream. 

To  make  these  successfull}",  the  steady,  moderate  heat 
of  a  confectioner's  brick  oven  is  essential.  It  is  a  waste  ot 
time  and  material  to  attempt  them  in  an  ordinary  stove 
oven. 

Macaroons. 

Half  a  pound  of  almonds^  blanched,  dried,  and  pounded 
to  a  paste,  with  one  teaspoonful  of  rose  water.  Beat  to- 
gether the  whites  of  three  eggs^  and  half  a  cup  oi powdered 
sugar ^  adding  the  sugar  by  the  teaspoonful.  Add  half  a 
teaspoonfid  of  almond  essence^  then  add  the  pounded 
almonds  and,  if  too  soft  to  be  shaped,  add  07ie  tahlespoon- 
ful  of  flour.  Roll  with  wet  hands  into  balls  the  size  of 
walnuts,  flatten  them  slightly,  and  place  some  distance 
apart  on  buttered  paper.     Bake  slowly. 

Almond  paste,  ready  for  use,  may  be  obtained  at  a  con- 
fectioner's. Break  it  up  with  a  fork,  add  the  beaten  whites 
and  sugar,  using  four  or  five  eggs  for  half  a  pound  of 
paste.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  paper,  and  bake  as 
above. 

Cocoanut  Cakes.     {Mrs.  Richard  Ward.) 

The  grated  meat  of  tico  cocoanuts,  their  weight  in  loaf 
sugar .^  one  cup  of  flour,  and  whites  of  two  eggs.  Shape 
into  balls,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 
One  cup  of  molasses.,  half  a  cup  of  sugar.,  one  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  chocolate.,  cut  fine,  half  a  cup  of  milk.,  and 
one  heaping  tahlesi^oonful  of  butter.  Boil  all  together, 
stirring  all  the  time.  When  it  hardens  in  cold  water,  pour 
it  into  shallow  pans,  and  as  it  cools  cut  in  small  squares. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  391 


FHUIT. 

It  would  be  a  great  saving  of  time  and  work,  give  a 
pleasing  variety  to  bills  of  fare,  and  be  above  all  a  great 
promoter  of  health,  if  people  would  use  ripe  fruit  abun- 
dantly in  its  season  at  their  tables  (not  between  meals) . 
With  the  markets  bountifully  supplied  with  many  varieties 
of  fruit,  it  is  to  be  regretted  that  it  cannot  be  found  at 
every  table  at  least  once  a  day.  Much  of  the  money  spent 
for  some  kinds  of  meat  would  be  better  expended  for  fruit. 
A  simple  course  of  fruit  is  all  that  is  needed  after  a  dinner, 
and  is  much  more  wholesome  than  pies.  But  it  is  so  hard 
for  some  people  to  break  away  from  old  customs  that  it 
will  be  long  before  housekeepers  generally  will  be  content 
to  serve  the  queen  of  all  fruits,  the  apple,  in  its  natural 
state  instead  of  making  it  into  the  "  persistent  pie,"  over 
the  preparation  of  which  many  women  toil,  for  naught  save 
the  fear  that  the}'  may  be  considered  shiftless  if  they 
have  n't  a  pie  in  the  house. 

Ripe  frnit  is  especially  appropriate  at  the  breakfast- 
table,  and  may  be  taken  before  or  after  the  principal 
dishes,  according  to  individual  needs  and  taste.  Some  peo- 
ple require  the  acid  of  oranges  or  grapes  before  they  can 
eat  anything  substantial ;  others  might  be  made  ill  by  their 
use  at  that  time,  but  be  benefited  b}-  them  afterwards. 

All  fruit  should  be  served  as  fresh  and  cold  as  possible. 
A  dish  of  fruit  which  has  been  kept  from  day  to  day  in  a 
warm  room  may  answer  for  an  ornament,  but  it  is  not 
tempting  to  the  palate.  Onl}'  sound,  fresh  fruit  should 
appear  at  the  table. 

Apples  for  table  use  should  have  a  pleasant  spicy  flavor, 
not  too  acid,  and  should  be  wiped  clean,  or  polished  if  you 
prefer  the  street- vender's  st34e. 


392  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Oranges  may  be  served  whole  or  cut.  Many  slice  them 
across  the  sections  ;  but  the  presence  of  the  seeds  and  tough 
inner  skin  is  objectionable.  A  better  way  is  to  remove  all 
the  rind  and  white  skin,  divide  into  sections,  then  with  the 
point  of  a  silver  fruit-knife  cut  off  the  inner  skin  in  the 
middle,  slip  out  the  seeds,  and  cut  each  section  into  three 
pieces.  Never  serve  with  the  seeds  left  in,  nor  sweeten 
until  just  before  serving.  A  neat  way  to  peel  an  orange 
Is  to  cut  the  rind  from  the  ends  and  leave  a  strip  round 
the  middle,  then  open,  leaving  the  sections  on  the  strip 
of  ]peel.  Or  cut  the  oranges  in  halves  crosswise  without 
peeling,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  eat  with  a  spoon. 

Grapes^  Malagas  especially,  should  be  carefull}^  rinsed  in 
cold  water,  then  di-ained.  Fruit  scissors  should  be  used  to 
divide  the  clusters. 

Bananas  may  be  served  whole,  or  sliced  and  slightly 
sweetened  or  salted. 

Peaches  should  have  the  wool  wiped  off,  or  if  pared  and 
quartered  should  be  sprinkled  with  fine  granulated  sugar, 
and  served  at  once. 

Strawberries,  if  gritty,  should  be  rinsed  and  drained, 
then  hulled,  and  not  sweetened  till  served.  Large  selected 
berries  may  be  served  with  the  stems  on.  Pass  sugar  with 
them,  that  those  who  prefer  may  roll  them  in  it. 

Currants  should  be  sweetened,  and  large  whole  clusters 
may  be  served  on  the  stem.  Currants  and  raspberries  are 
delicious  when  served  together. 

Watermelons  should  be  served  very  cold.  Cut  off  a 
slice  at  each  end,  that  each  half  may  stand  upright.  Serve 
the  core  only,  taking  it  out  with  a  tablespoon  in  cone- 
shaped  pieces.  Other  melons  should  have  the  seeds  re- 
moved before  serving,  be  cut  in  halves,  a  lump  of  ice  in 
each,  and  served  with  sugar  or  salt. 

Pineapples.  — Viim,  remove  the  eyes,  and  cut  in  thni 
slices  ;  then  remove  the  fibrous  centre,  and  serve  in  slices, 
or  cut  the  tender  parts  into  small  pieces  and  sweeten  to 
taste.  Or  pare  and  pull  off  the  tender  part  with  a  fork,  as 
directed  for  preserved  pineapple. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  393 

Iced  Fruits.  —  Dip  selected  fruit  into  the  white  of  ^g^ 
slightly  beaten,  then  roll  in  fine  granulated  sugar.  Dry, 
and  serve  very  cold. 

Whole  fridt  should  be  served  in  a  high  dish,  garnished 
with  green  leaves,  flowers,  or  vines,  and,  with  a  tasteful 
combination  of  colors,  arranged  in  a  convenient  way  for 
serving. 

Nuts  should  be  cracked,  and  served  with  salt. 

Almonds  and  other  nuts  having  a  tough  inner  skin 
should  be  blanched. 

Raisins.  —  Use  onh'  choice  varieties,  and  serve  with 
nets. 


Tropical  Snow, 


8  sweet  oranges. 
1  cocoanut,  grated. 
6  red  bananas. 


1  glass  sherry  wine,  or 
3^  cup  lemon  juice. 
Powdered  sugar  to  taste. 


Peel  the  oranges,  divide  into  sections,  and  remove  the 
seeds  and  tough,  membrane.  Put  a  la3'er  of  orange  in  the 
bottom  of  a  glass  dish,  pour  over  it  a  little  wine  or  lemon 
juice,  and  strew  with  powdered  sugar ;  add  cocoanut,  and 
then  the  banana  cut  in  thin  slices ;  repeat  the  process, 
using  orange,  cocoanut,  banana,  etc.,  as  before.  The  top 
layer  is  to  be  heaped  high  in  the  centre,  and  sprinkled 
thickly  with  cocoanut  and  powdered  sugar,  and  garnished 
around  the  base  with  slices  of  banana. 

Other  combinations  of  fruit  ma}"  be  arranged  to  suit  the 
taste ;  and  cocoanut  cakes  or  macaroons^  crumbled,  or  a 
meringue  of  white  of  egg  and  sugar ^  may  take  the  place 
of  the  grated  cocoanut. 

Stewed  and  Baked  Fruits. 

The  simplest  forms  of  cooking  fruit  are  stewing  and 
baking.  Onl}-  a  small  amount  of  sugar  is  needed,  and  it 
is  not  well  to  prepare  a  large  quantity  at  a  time,  as  stewed 
fruits  do  not  keep  long.  In  cooking  fruit  alwa3's  use  porce- 
lain or  granite  kettles,  earthen  dishes,  wooden  spoons,  and 


394  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

silver  knives,  and  pare  just  before  cooking,  that  the  deli- 
cate flavor  of  the  fruit  maj^be  preserved,  and  its  attractive 
appearance  not  impaired  b}^  discoloration. 

Stewed  Apple  Sauce. — Pare,  core,  and  quarter  six  or 
eight  tart  apples-.  Make  a  syrup  with  one  cup  of  sugar ^ 
two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  vmter^  and  a  little  lemon  peel. 
When  boiling,  add  the  apples,  and  cook  carefully  two  or 
three  minutes,  till  the}^  are  just  tender,  but  not  broken. 
Remove  them  carefully,  boil  the  syrup  down  a  little,  and 
strain  it  over  the  apples.  Cook  them  in  granite  or  porcelain 
pans,  and  use  a  wooden  spoon. 

Compote  of  Apples.  —  Make  a  syrup  with  one  cup  of 
sugar ^  one  cup  of  water ^  and  a  square-inch  of  stick  cin- 
namon. Boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes,  skimming  well. 
Core  and  pare  eight  or  ten  tart  apples  ^  cook  till  nearly 
done  in  the  syrup.  Drain,  and  cook  them  a  few  minutes 
in  the  oven.  Boil  the  sj'rup  till  almost  like  a  jelly.  Ar- 
range the  apples  on  a  dish  for  serving.  Fill  the  core 
cavities  with  jelly  or  marmalade.  Pour  the  syrup  over 
them.  P.ut  whipped  cream  around  the  base,  and  garnish 
the  cream  wathje%. 

Baked  Ap)ples.  —  Core  and  pare  sour  apples.  Put  them 
in  a  shallow  earthen  dish,  fill  the  cavities  with  sugar ^ 
mixed  with  grated  lemon  rind ;  add  water  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  dish.  Bake  in  a  very  quick  oven  till  soft, 
basting  often  with  the  s3Tup. 

Quinces  may  be  baked  in  the  same  way,  adding  a  little 
more  water,  as  the}'  require  a  longer  time  for  baking. 
When  eaten  hot  w^ith  butter  and  sugar ^  t\iQy  are  delicious. 

N'o.  2.  —  Fill  a  deep  pudding-dish  with  apples,  pared, 
cored,  and  quartered.  For  two  quarts  add  one  cup  of 
sugar  and  one  cup  of  water.  Bake,  closely  covered,  in  a 
very  moderate  oven  several  hours,  or  till  dark  red. 

Baked  Pears. — Hard  pears,  or  "windfalls,"  are  deli- 
cious pared  and  baked  as  in  the  preceding  receipt.  When 
done,  and  still  hot,  the}'  may  be  sealed  in  Mason's  jars, 
and  will  keep  indefinitely.  B}"  preparing  one  large  dishful 
every  day  during  the  pear  season,  a  suppl}"  of  wholesome 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  395 

sauce  may  be  easih^  obtained  from  fruit  that  is  often  left 
to  waste  on  the  ground. 

Steamed  Rhubarb.  —  Wash,  peel,  and  cut  the  rhubarb 
into  inch  pieces.  Put  it  into  a  granite  double  boiler,  add 
one  cup  of  sugar  for  a  pint  of  fruity  and  cook  till  the  rhu- 
barb is  soft.  Do  not  stir  it.  When  the  rhubarb  is  very 
sour,  steam  it  without  sugar  until  the  juice  flows,  then 
drain  it,  add  the  sugar,  and  steam  again  till  the  sugar  is 
dissolved.  Or  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  it  stand 
live  minutes,  then  drain  and  steam. 

Stewed  Prunes. — Wash  carefully,  and  if  hard  and  dry 
soak  an  hour  before  cooking.  Put  them  into  a  porcelain 
kettle,  with  boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Boil,  closely 
covered,  from  five  to  ten  minutes,  or  until  swollen  and 
tender.  Then  add  one  tablespoonfid  of  sugar  for  one  pint 
of  prunes,  and  boil  a  few  moments  longer,  but  not  enough 
to  break  them.  Use  onl}'  the  best  selected  prunes.  If 
they  lack  flavor,  add  a  little  lennon  juice. 

Cranberries.  —Put  three  pints  of  washed  cranberries  in 
a  granite  stewpan.  On  top  of  them  put  three  cups  of  gran- 
idated  sugar  and  three  gills  of  loater.  After  the}''  begin 
to  boil  cook  them  ten  minutes,  closely  covered,  and  do  7iot 
stir  them.  Remove  the  scum.  They  will  jelly  when  cool, 
and  the  skins  will  be  soft  and  tender. 

iVo.  2.  (Miss  Ward.)  —  Equal  measure  of  cranberries 
and  sugar.  Wash,  drain,  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with 
cold  water  to  just  show  among  the  berries  when  they  are 
pressed  down.  When  they  boil  add  a  quarter  of  the  sugar. 
Sprinkle  it  over  the  berries  without  stirring.  Let  it  boil 
again  a  minute,  add  another  quarter,  etc.,  till  all  the  sugar 
is  in.  Boil  up  once  more,  and  turn  out.  Boil  slowly,  and 
do  not  stir.  This  method  is  preferred  by  those  who  like  a 
very  rich  sweet  sauce. 

Jellies. 

JeUies  are  made  of  equal  parts  of  clear  fruit  juice  and 
sugar.  Apples.^  currants,  quinces,  grapes,  and  barberries 
are  the  fruits  usually  used.     Low  blackberries  and  swamp 


39^  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

huckleberries  make  delicious  jell}'.  Crab  apples  and  quinces 
will  form  jelly  easil}' ;  but  grapes  are  unreliable,  and  cur- 
rants, if  not  gathered  at  the  proper  time,  will  sometimes 
fail.  Cherries  and  some  other  fruits  require  the  addition 
of  gelatine.  Berries,  currants,  and  grapes  require  no 
wkter.  Simply  mash  them  in  their  own  juice.  Apples, 
peaches,  and  quinces  should  be  stewed  in  as  little  water  as 
possible,  then  mashed,  and  the  juice  strained.  The  juices 
of  fruits  contain  a  gelatinous  substance  called  pectose,  or 
pectic  acid,  which  is  soluble  in  the  fruit  juice,  but  has  the 
property  of  coagulation  when  mixed  with  sugar,  exposed 
to  a  slight  heat,  and  then  cooled.  Sometimes  the  heat  of 
the  sun  is  sufficient,  but  usuall}'  a  short  but  more  intense 
heat  is  necessar^^  When  the  sugar  has  a  bluish  tinge,  or 
when  there  is  not  enough  sugar  to  absorb  the  water  in  the 
juice,  or  when  the  juice  is  unusualty  water}-,  as  when  the 
fruit  is  over- ripe,  and  the  fruit  is  boiled  a  long  time  to  evap- 
orate this  water,  the  mixture  loses  its  gelatinous  properties 
and  becomes  gummj^,  or,  as  disconsolate  housekeepers  say, 
"  will  not  jelly." 

Currant  Jelly.  —  Currants  should  not  be  over-ripe,  nor 
gathered  after  a  rain,  as  then  they  are  too  water3\  In 
New  England  currants  are  in  the  best  condition  about 
the  10th  of  July.  Equal  parts  of  red  and  white  currants^ 
or  currants  and  raspberries,  make  a  delicatel}^  colored 
and  flavored  jelly.  Pick  over  and  remove  the  leaves  and 
poor  fruit,  and  if  gritty  wash  and  drain  them,  but  do  not 
stem  them.  Mash  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  a 
wooden  pestle,  without  heating,  as  that  makes  the  jelty 
darker.  Let  them  drain  in  a  flannel  baa:  over  niffht.  Do 
not  squeeze  them,  or  the  jelly  will  be  cloud3\  In  the 
morning  measure  a  bowl  of  sugar  for  each  bowl  of  juice, 
and  heat  the  sugar  carefully  in  an  earthen  dish  in  the 
oven.  Stir  it  often  to  prevent  burning.  Boil  the  juice 
twenty  minutes,  and  skim  thoroughly.  Add  the  hot 
sugar,  and  boil  from  three  to  five  minutes,  or  till  it 
thickens  on  a  spoon  when  exposed  to  the  air.  Turn  at 
once  into  glasses,  and  let  them  remain  in  the  sun  several 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  397 

days,  then  cover  with  paper  dipped  in  brand}',  and  paste 
paper  over  the  top  of  the  glass. 

One  who  is  authoritj'  on  this  subject  recommends  cov- 
ering with  melted  paraffine,  or  putting  a  lump  of  paraffine 
on  the  jelh'  while  still  hot ;  then  no  paper  is  needed.  If 
one  can  be  sure  of  several  sunny  days,  and  a  perfectly 
dry  place  in  which  to  keep  jellies,  they  may  be  made 
without  boiling.  Mix  the  sugar  with  an  equal  weight  of 
currant  juice,  and  stir  till  dissolved.  Fill  the  glasses  and 
keep  in  the  sun  till  dry. 

After  draining  the  juice  the  currants  may  be  squeezed, 
and  a  second  quality  of  jelly  made.  It  may  not  be  clear, 
but  answers  for  some  purposes. 

Orah-^pple^  Wild-Apple^  or  Porter- Apple  Jdly.  {Miss 
Harriott  T.  Ward.)  —  Wash  the  fruit ;  cut  into  pieces, 
but  do  not  pare,  nor  remove  the  seeds  ;  barely  cover  with 
cold  water.  Boil  and  mash  them  until  soft.  Then  drain 
on  a  sieve.  Use  the  juice  only,  and  do  not  squeeze  the 
fruit.  Boil  the  juice  with  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar, 
until  it  jellies.     Peach  jelly  is  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Quince  Jelly.  —  Wipe  the  fruit  carefully,  and  remove 
all  the  stems,  and  parts  not  fair  and  sound.  Use  the 
best  parts  of  the  fruit  for  canning  or  preserving,  and  the 
skin,  cores,  and  hard  parts  for  jelly.  The  seeds  contain  a 
large  portion  of  gelatinous  substance.  Boil  all  together, 
in  enough  water  to  cover,  till  the  pulp  is  soft.  Mash,  and 
drain.  Use  the  juice  only,  and  when  boiling  add  an  equal 
■weight  of  hot  sugar,  and  boil  till  it  jellies  in  the  spoon. 

Grape  Jelly.  —  Select  the  grapes  when  not  fully  ripe. 
Wash  and  drain,  then  put  them  in  a  preserving-kettle, 
mash  well,  and  heat  till  all  the  skins  are  broken  and  the 
juice  flows  freety.  Strain,  and  use  the  juice  only  with  an 
equal  weight  of  sugar,  as  for  Currant  Jelly. 

Marmalade. 

This  is  made  of  the  pulp  of  fruits  with  the  juice,  unless 
that  has  been  used  for  jelly.     When  fruit  is  not  abundant, 


39^  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

it  is  well  to  make  marmalade  at  the  same  time  with  jellies, 
especially  from  peaches,  quinces,  and  grapes.  After  drain- 
ing, rub  the  fruit  pulp  through  a  sieve,  add  an  equal  weight 
of  sugar,  and  boil  very  slowly  half  or  three  quarters  of  an 
hour.     Stir  often  to  prevent  burning. 

Preserves. 

These  are  usually  prepared  with  equal  weights  of  sugar 
and  fruit.  Although  too  rich  for  daily  use,  there  are 
man}'  people  who  prefer  them  to  the  canned  fruit,  and 
there  are  some  fruits  which  are  better  with  the  full  weight 
of  sugar.  The  fruit  should  be  ripe,  fresh,  and  perfectly 
sound.  The  following  rules  illustrate  the  best  methods 
for  the  different  varieties  of  fruit. 

Beaches.  —  Pare  the  peaches ;  or  remove  the  skins  by 
plunging  the  peaches  into  boiling  lye  (two  gallons  of  water 
and  one  pint  of  wood  ashes) .  When  the  skins  will  slip 
easily,  take  the  peaches  out  with  a  skimmer  and  plunge 
them  into  cold  water ;  rinse  in  several  waters,  and  there 
will  be  no  taste  of  the  lye.  Weigh,  and  add  three  fourths 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Halve  them, 
and  use  some  of  the  pits,  or  leave  them  whole  as  3'ou 
please.  The  stones  improve  the  flavor.  Make  a  syrup 
by  adding  as  little  water  as  possible  to  the  sugar,  — 
about  one  cupful  to  each  pound  of  sugar.  When  it 
boils,  skim  till  clear,  then  add  the  peaches,  and  cook  until 
transparent. 

Brandy  Beaches.  —  Prepare  the  peaches  as  above,  and 
use  half  a  cup  of  the  best  brandy  to  every  pound  oi  fruit. 
Add  the  brandy  just  as  the  syrup  is  taken  from  the  fire. 
Some  people  prefer  the  3^ellow  peaches,  but  white-fleshed 
freestone  peaches  have  a  delicious  flavor. 

Damsons  and  Greengages  should  be  pricked  in  man^^ 
places  with  a  large  needle,  to  prevent  the  skins  from 
bursting.  Or  scald  them  and  remove  the  skins,  as  some- 
times they  harden  in  cooking.  Prepare  the  syrup  as  for 
peaches.  Cook  only  a  few  at  a  time,  that  they  may  not 
be  broken.     On  three  successive  mornings  pour  off  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  399 


syrup,    and    boil    it    gentlj'    for  ten   minutes.     This    will 
thoroughly  cook  the  fruit,  without  destroying  the  shape. 

Preserved  Quinces.  —  Use  the  orange  quinces.  Wipe, 
pare,  quarter,  and  remove  all  the  core  and  the  hard  part 
under  the  core.  Take  an  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Cover 
the  quinces  with  cold  water.  Let  them  come  slowly  to  a 
boil.  Skim,  and  when  nearly  soft  put  one  quarter  of  the 
sugar  on  the  top,  but  do  not  stir.  When  this  boils,  add 
another  part  of  the  sugar,  and  continue  until  all  the  sugar 
is  in  the  kettle.  Let  them  boil  slowly  until  the  color  you 
like,  either  light  or  dark. 

Another  way  is  to  cook  the  quinces  in  water  till  ten- 
der, drain,  and  put  them  in  a  stone  jar  in  layers,  with  an 
equal  weight  of  sugar.  Cover  closely.  In  a  cold  dry 
place  they  will  keep  perfectly.  They  are  lighter-colored 
and  more  tender  than  when  cooked  in  the  syrup.  Watch 
them  during  the  first  month,  and  if  there  be  any  signs  of 
fermentation,  set  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  till  the 
fruit  is  scalded.  Reserve  the  broken  or  unshapely  pieces 
of  quince,  cut  them  in  small  cubes,  and  use  with  Strawberry 
Tomatoes.  Allow  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit.  Make  the  S3a'up,  and  cook  the  fruit  in  it 
till  tender.  Skim  it  out,  and  boil  the  S3Tup  down  for  ten 
minutes.  Fill  the  jars,  and  seal  at  once.  Equal  parts  of 
sioeet  apple ^  cooked  with  the  quince  but  with  no  extra  sugar^ 
can  scarcely  be  distinguished  from  the  quince. 

Preserved  Pineapple.  —  Remove  the  skin  and  all  the 
eyes,  take  the-  pineapple  in  3^our  left  hand,  and  with  a  sil- 
ver fork  begin  at  the  stem  end  of  the  fruit  and  fork  out 
small  bits.  This  will  leave  the  core,  which  is  juiceless 
and  tasteless,  in  your  hand.  Weigh  the  pineapple  after  it 
is  thus  prepared,  and  sprinkle  over  it  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  pineapple.  When  a 
syrup  is  formed,  cook  the  apple  slowly  in  it  until  trans- 
parent, then  remove  the  fruit  and  boil  the  syrup  a  little 
longer.,  Or  slice  the  pineapple  in  half-inch  slices,  and  cut 
out  the  core.  Cook  in  the  syrup,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  slices. 


400  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Preserved  Strawberries^  Haspberries,  Currants^  Black- 
berries^ and  Cherries.  —  Measure  a  bowl  of  fruit  and  the 
same  quantity  of  sugar.  Put  in  a  preserving-kettle,  over 
night,  a  laj'er  of  fruit,  and  then  one  of  sugar.  In  the 
morning  cook  slovvh'  without  stirring,  until  the  liquid  is 
clear  and  the  fruit  soft.  Skim  thoroughlj^  before  putting 
into  the  jars.  Cherries  should  be  stoned.  The  pits  may 
be  used  if  the  flavor  be  desired. 

No.  2.  — Use  only  large  and  selected  fruit,  and  allow 
one  cup  of  sugar  to  a  pint  jar  of  fruit.  Pick  over  the 
fruit,  and  put  at  once  into  the  jars,  with  as  little  hand- 
ling as  possible,  and  sprinkle  each  layer  with  sugar.  Place 
the  jars  in  a  boiler  of  water,  and  let  the  water  boil  ten 
minutes.  Have  a  little  syrup  boiling,  and  fill  each  jar  to 
the  brim  with  the  boiling  syrup,  and  seal  at  once. 

Jams. 

Jams  are  made  with  whole  small  fruits,  or  large  fruit  cut 
fine,  and  cooked  in  an  equal  weight  of  sugar. 

G-rape  Jam.  —  Wash  the  grapes,  and  squeeze  or  pinch 
the  pulp  from  the  skins.  Boil  the  pulp  until  it  separates 
from  the  seeds,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve.  Then  add  the 
skins  to  the  pulp,  and  boil  with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar 
fifteen  minutes.  Put  into  small  jars  or  tumblers,  and  cover 
with  paper. 

Currant.,  Raspberry^  or  Blackberry  Jam.  —  Pick  over 
and  mash  the  fruit ;  allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit.  Put  the  fruit  and  one  quarter  of  the  sugar  into 
a  granite  or  porcelain  kettle  ;  when  boiling,  add  another 
quarter  of  the  sugar ;  boil  again,  add  more  sugar,  and 
when  all  is  used,  let  it  boil  till  it  hardens  on  the  spoon 
in  the  air. 

Apples.,  pears.,  peaches.,  and  quinces  should  be  pared, 
cut  small,  and  treated  in  the  same  wa}^  Cooking  in  only 
a  little  sugar  at  a  time  prevents  the  fruit  from  becoming 
hard. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  401 

Canning. 

Canning  differs  from  preserving  in  that  the  fruit  is  kept, 
either  with  or  without  sugar,  by  sealing  in  air-tight  jars  or 
cans,  and  is  not  cooked  long  enough  to  destro}^  its  natural 
flavor.  Some  authorities  state  that  fruit  ma}^  be  kept  by 
putting  it  in  the  jars,  filling  with  cold  water,  and  sealing 
immediateh'.  But  nearly  all  fruits  are  improved  by  the 
addition  of  more  or  less  sugar.  As  a  rule,  all  fruits  that 
require  sugar  when  fresh  require  it  when  canned. 

The  important  points  in  canning  are  to  have  the  fruit 
perfect  in  shape  and  quality  ;  the  sjTup  clear,  rightl}"  pro- 
portioned, and  boiling  hot ;  the  jars  hot  and  filled  to  over- 
flowing, and  sealed  quickly  and  thoroughl}^  that  no  air 
may  be  left  inside.  Have  all  utensils  in  order  and  at 
hand,  that  there  ma}^  be  no  needless  delay.  Large-mouthed 
glass  jars  with  glass  covers  or  porcelain-lined  screw  covers 
are  the  best.  Pint  jars  are  more  convenient  for  a  small 
famil3^  They  should  be  scalded,  and  the  covers  and  rub- 
bers clean  and  perfectl}^  fitted.  Keep  the  jars  in  hot  water 
until  ready  to  fill,  or  roll  each  one  in  hot  water  just  before 
filling,  or  place  them  in  a  folded  towel  wrung  out  of  hot 
water,  and  put  a  silver  spoon  or  fork  in  the  jar  while 
filhng.  A  clamp  is  a  great  convenience,  as  the  jar  may 
be  held  in  the  clamp  directly  over  the  kettle  and  filled  very 
quickly.  If  without  this,  have  a  broad  shallow  pan,  half 
filled  with  hot  water,  on  the  stove  or  on  a  table  near  by, 
and  place  the  jars  in  it  while  filling  them.  A  wide-mouthed 
tunnel  aids  in  filling  the  jars.  When  the  fruit  is  to  be  boiled 
in  the  jars,  place  a  perforated  tin  or  some  flat  stones  or 
muffin  rings  in  the  boiler,  to  keep  the  jars  from  resting  on 
the  bottom.  Then  the  water  will  be  under  as  well  as 
around  the  jar,  and  there  will  be  no  danger  of  breaking. 

All  ripe  mellow  fruit  maj^  be  prepared  and  put  at  once 
into  the  jars.  Place  the  jars  in  a  boiler  or  kettle  of  warm 
water,  with  something  underneath  to  avoid  breaking. 
Make  the  sjTup,  using  sugar  according  to  taste,  or  in  the 
proportion  of  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  water  for 

26 


402  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

each  jar  of  small  juicy  berries^  and  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
two  cups  of  water  for  pears  and  Zar^e  fruits.  Pour  the 
syrup  boiling  hot  into  the  hot  jars,  boil  five  minutes,  and 
seal  at  once. 

Strawberries^  plums ^  and  cherries  will  require  more 
sugar.  Cherries  should  be  stoned,  but  the  stones  may  be 
used  if  liked. 

Quinces^  apples^  hard  peaches^  pears ^  and  fruits  which 
require  softening,  should  be  cooked  in  water  or  in  syrup 
until  tender.  Then  fill  the  jars  with  boiling  syrup,  strain- 
ing it  if  not  clear. 

Peaches  may  be  canned  whole,  or  if  halved,  a  few  of 
the  pits  removed  and  cooked  in  the  syrup  to  give  addi- 
tional flavor. 

Pears  should  be  well  ripened  and  of  fine  flavor.  A  taste- 
less, insipid  pear  is  only  suitable  for  sweet  pickle. 

Tomatoes  should  be  peeled  and  cooked  till  well  scalded, 
then  salted  and  sealed  at  once. 

Always  fill  to  overflowing,  using  boiling  water  when 
there  is  not  enough  syrup.  Run  the  handle  of  a  silver 
tablespoon  down  the  inside  of  the  jar,  that  the  sj^rup  may 
completely  surround  the  fruit.  Fasten  the  covers  on  se- 
curely, and  give  the  screw  an  extra  turn  every  half-hour 
until  the  fruit  is  cold.  If  the  jars  be  kept  bottom  up  and 
in  a  dark  place,  there  is  hardl}'  a  chance  of  failure.  The 
best  quality  of  thick  tin-foil  may  be  used  as  a  cover  for 
any  large-mouthed  bottle  or  jar  minus  a  cover.  Fill  the 
jar  with  the  fruit  and  syrup,  cover  with  a  large  piece  of 
tin-foil,  work  it  down  over  the  rim  until  perfectly  smooth 
and  tight.  If  air-tight,  there  will  be  a  depression  in  the 
cover  as  soon  as  the  fruit  is  cold.  Fruit  thus  covered 
should  be  kept  away  from  mice,  as  they  will  eat  the  tin- 
foil. 

Canned  fruit  should  be  opened  some  time  before  using, 
that  it  may  be  aerated  and  the  flavor  improved.  There 
has  been  a  strong  feeling  against  the  use  of  fruit  prepared 
in  tin  cans.  Chemists  have  examined  canned  fruit  as  soon 
as  opened,  and  found  it  harmless  ;  but  if  the  fruit  be  left 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  403 

in  the  tin  can,  the  action  of  the  air  causes  the  acid  in  the 
fruit  to  act  upon  the  metal  and  form  a  poisonous  compound. 
Care  should  be  taken  to  remove  the  fruit  from  the  can  as 
soon  as  opened. 

Sweet  Pickles. 

Eight  pounds  of  fruit,  four  pounds  of  best  brown  sugar, 
one  quart  of  vinegar.,  and  one  cup  of  mixed  whole  spices. 
—  stick  cinnamon^  cassia  buds,  allspice,  and  cloves  ;  less 
of  the  latter  than  of  the  former.  Tie  the  spices  in  a  bag. 
and  boil  with  the  vinegar  and  sugar.  Skim  well ;  then  add 
the  fruit.  Cook  ten  minutes,  or  till  scalded  and  tender. 
Skim  out  the  fruit,  and  put  into  stone  jars.  Boil  the  S3'rup 
five  minutes  longer,  and  pour  over  the  fruit.  The  next 
day  pour  off  the  s^^up  and  boil  down  again,  and  do 
this  for  three  mornings.  Keep  the  bag  of  spices  in  the 
syrup. 

Tomatoes. — Scald,  remove  the  skins,  and  cook' without 
breaking  if  possible. 

'Peaches.  —  Scald  or  wipe  off  the  "wool,"  and  leave 
them  whole.  Do  not  stick  them  with  cloves.  If  very 
ripe,  merel}^  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them  on  three  suc- 
cessive mornings. 

Bears.  —  Select  sound  fruit,  not  too  ripe.  Pare,  and 
leave  them  whole  with  the  stems  on.     Cook  till  tender. 

Bipe  Cucumber  or  Watermelon  Bind.  —  Cut  the  pared 
rind  into  thick  slices.  Boil  07ie  ounce  of  cdum,  in  one  gal- 
lon of  water,  pour  it  on  the  rinds,  and  let  them  stand  in  it 
several  hours  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Take  out  into 
cold  water,  and  when  cold  boil  them  half  an  hour  in  the 
sweet  pickle. 

Bipe  Muskmelon  or  Canteloupe.  —  Pare,  and  cut  into 
thick  slices.  Pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  them.  The 
next  morning  pour  off  the  S3'rup,  boil  five  minutes,  and 
pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  melon.  Repeat  this  on  three 
mornings. 

Bineapple.  —  Slice  it,  or  with  a  fork  pick  it  off  from 
the  centre,  in  small  pieces,  and  prepare  as  for  melon. 


404  The  Boston  Cook  Booh 


Tomato  Catchup.     (Mrs.  Campbell.) 

Boil  one  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  skins  and  all,  and  when 
soft  strain  through  a  colander  to  remove  the  skins  only. 
Mix  one  cup  of  salt,  tioo  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  half  an 
ounce  of  cayenue  pepper,  three  ounces  each  of  ground  all- 
spice, mace,  and  celery  seed,  two  ounces  of  ground  cinna- 
mon, and  stir  into  the  tomato.  Add  two  quarts  of  best 
cider  vinegar,  and  when  thoroughl}^  mixed  strain  through 
a  sieve.  Pour  all  that  runs  through  into  a  large  kettle,  and 
boil  slowly  till  reduced  one  half.  It  is  an  improvement 
to  add  a  pint  of  brandy  ten  minutes  before  the  catchup 
is  done,  but  many  think  it  unnecessary.  Put  it  in  small 
bottles,  seal,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Piccallili,  or  Chow  Chow. 


1  peck  green  tomatoes. 
1  cup  salt. 
6  small  onions. 

1  large  head  celery. 

2  cups  brown  sugar. 


1  teaspoonful  white  pepper. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  ground  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  allspice. 

1  tablespoqpful  mustard. 

2  quarts  good,  sharp  vinegar. 


Chop  the  tomatoes,  mix  the  salt  with  them  thoroughly, 
and  let  them  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  off 
the  water,  and  chop  the  onion  and  celery.  Mix  the  sugar, 
pepper,  cinnamon,  and  mustard.  Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
a  layer  of  tomatoes,  onion,  celery,  and  spices,  and  so  on 
until  all  is  used,  and  cover  with  the  vinegar.  Cook  slowly 
all  day,  or  until  the  tomatoes  are  soft.  Cauliflower,  or 
cabbage,  or  one  quart  of  cucumbers  may  be  used  with  the 
tomatoes.  Sliced  or  grated  horseradish  gives  a  pleasant 
flavor. 

Pickled  Cucumbers.     {Miss  Harriott  Ward.) 

To  one  hundred  and  fifty  small-sized  cucumbers  take 
one  pint  of  salt,  dissolved  in  boiling  water  to  cover  them. 
Let  them  remain  in  a  covered  vessel  for  fortj^-eight  hours. 
Then  drain,  and  wipe  each  one  carefullj- .  Put  them  in  a 
pickle-pot   or  firkin   with   one   large   onion,    peeled   and 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


405 


stuck  full  of  cloves,  one  green  pepper,  some  scraped  horse- 
radish^ and  a  small  bit  of  alum.  Boil  vinegar  enough 
to  cover  them.  Fill  a  muslin  bag  with  one  cup  of  mixed 
spices, — whole  cloves,  whole  allspice,  peppercorns,  stick 
cinnamon,  white  mustard  seed,  and  a  flake  of  mace,  and 
boil  ten  minutes  with  the  vinegar.  Put  this  bag  in  the 
firkin  when  you  pour  on  the  boiling  vinegar. 

When  cucumbers  are  gathered  fresh  from  the  vines 
every  day,  they  ma}'  be  kept  in  brine  till  wanted.  Make 
the  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg,  —  a  pint  of  coarse 
salt  and  six  quarts  of  boiling  water,  boiled  and  skimmed 
clear.  Pick  the  cucumbers  as  they  rij)en,  wash  carefully 
without  removing  the  prickles,  leave  a  bit  of  the  stem  on, 
and  keep  them  covered  with  the  brine.  Soak,  as  required, 
in  fresh  cold  water  two  days,  and  pour  boiling  spiced 
vineofar  over  them. 


Mixed  Pickles.     {Mrs.  Poo7\) 


150  small  cucumbers. 
1  quart  small  martinoes. 
1  quart  small  button  onions. 
1  medium  cauliflower. 
Kind  of  3^  watermelon. 
3  pints  green  string  beans. 

3  cups  salt. 

4  quarts  cold  water. 

J^  pound  horseradish  root. 
1  tablespoonful    white    mustard 
seed. 


1  tablespoonful   stick   cinnamon, 

broken  into  half-inch  pieces. 
1  tablespoonful  whole  cloves. 
}4  tablespoonful  peppercorns. 
jx^  tablespoonful  allspice. 
3^  tablespoonful  whole  mace. 

1  teaspoonful  celery  seed. 

2  quarts  white  wine  vinegar. 

1  ounce  alum. 

2  quarts  boiling  water. 
1  gill  alcohol. 


Wipe  the  cucumbers  and  martinoes  with  a  damp  cloth. 
Cut  the  cucumbers  lengthwise  into  quarters,  and  the  mar- 
tinoes into  halves.  Scald  and  peel  the  onions  ;  wash  the 
cauliflower,  watermelon  rind,  and  beans  ;  break  the  cauli- 
flower into  small  pieces,  and  cut  the  melon  rind  about 
the  size  of  the  pieces  of  cucumber.  Dissolve  the  salt  in 
the  cold  water.  Put  the  pickles  in  a  large  earthen  or 
tight  wooden  vessel,  and  pour  the  brine  over  them  :  if  they 
are  not  covered,  add  more  cold  water.  Put  a  large  earthen 
plate  over  them,  with  a  clean  brick  or  stone  to  keep  them 


4o6  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

under  the  brine.  Let  them  stand  two  days,  remove  them 
from  the  brine,  and  wash  in  cold  water.  Wash  and  scrape 
the  horseradish  root.  Pack  the  pickles  in  a  stone  jar  or 
firkin.  Put  all  the  spices  into  a  bag  made  of  strainer  cloth. 
Boil  the  vinegar,  spices,  and  alum  in  a  porcelain  kettle  ten 
minutes,  skim  carefully,  add  the  boiling  water,  and  pour 
immediately  over  the  pickles.  If  a  stronger  spice  be 
desired,  leave  the  bag  on  the  top  of  the  pickles.  Set  them 
in  a  cold  place,  with  the  plate  and  weight  over  them  to 
keep  them  under  the  vinegar.  In  about  two  weeks  add 
the  alcohol,  and  in  four  weeks  they  will  be  ready  to  use. 

Mustard  Pickles.     {Mrs.  John  SheldonJ) 

Equal  quantities  of  small  cucumbers,  the  largest  ones 
sliced,  gree7i  tomatoes  sliced,  cauliflower  picked  into  flow- 
erets, and  small  button  onions.  Keep  them  covered  with 
stronglj^  salted  water  twenty-four  hours.  In  the  morning 
scald  the  brine,  and  dissolve  in  it  a  bit  of  alum  the  size  of 
a  nutmeg.  Pour  the  boiling  brine  over  the  pickles.  When 
cold,  drain  thoroughly  and  prepare  as  much  vinegar  as 
there  were  quarts  of  brine.  To  one  quart  of  vinegar 
use  one  cup  of  broion  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  flour,  and  one 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  ground  mustard.  Boil  the  sugar  and 
vinegar.  Mix  the  flour  and  mustard,  and  stir  the  boiling 
vinegar  into  it,  and  when  smooth  pour  it  over  the  pickles. 

Canned  Fruit.     {Mrs.  John  Sheldon.) 

Put  the  prepared  fruit  in  a  jar,  and  cover  with  boiling 
syrup  sweetened  to  taste.  On  three  successive  mornings 
drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  again,  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 
The  last  morning,  let  fruit  and  sjTup  come  just  to  the  boil- 
ing-point, but  do  not  boil ;  then  seal  immediately.  Fruit 
prepared  in  this  way  has  been  tested  by  the  author  and 
found  perfect.  Strawberries  preserve  their  shape  and 
never  ferment. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  407 


GENERAL    HINTS    ON   CARING   AND 
COOKING   FOR   INVALIDS. 


Ventilation.  —  The  first  condition  of  comfort  and  re- 
covery to  the  patient  is  that  the  room  be  perfectly  ven- 
tilated, either  directly  or  from  fresh  air  in  an  adjoining 
room.  A  sunny  exposure  and  an  open  fire,  and  in  sum- 
mer an  open  fireplace,  are  essential  aids.  After  all 
these  points  are  secured,  care  must  be  taken  that  the  air 
be  not  vitiated  by  anything  in  the  room.  Growing  plants 
are  more  healthful  than  cut  flowers ;  unless  the  room  be 
large  and  airj",  the  latter  should  not  be  allowed  for  any 
length  of  time,  and  even  then  should  be  removed  as  soon 
as  their  freshness  is  gone.  If  possible,  avoid  having  a 
kerosene  lamp  in  a  sick-room.  The  odor  is  irritating  to 
the  mucous  membrane,  and  in  some  conditions  positively 
harmful.  The  wick  should  never  be  turned  below  the 
point  of  free  combustion,  either  in  the  room  of  the  sick 
or  well.  If  3'ou  wish  a  dim  light,  place  the  lamp  outside 
the  door,  or  shade  it  by  a  screen.  Never  turn  it  down, 
as  it  will  inevitably  vitiate  the  atmosphere. 

Avoid  noise  in  replenishing  the  fire,  by  bringing  the 
coal  'in  a  paper  bag,  and  putting  bag  and  all  upon  the 
fire.  Keep  all  medicines  and  everything  suggestive  of  a 
sick-room  out  of  sight. 

TJie  Bed.  —  Arrange  the  bed  so  that  the  patient  ma}^ 
be  shielded  from  an}-  draught.  Neither  sun  nor  lamp 
light  should  shine  directly  in  the  eyes.  Whenever  it  is 
possible,  change  the  position  of  the  bed,  furniture,  and 
pictures,  that  the  e}'e  may  have  something  new  and  inter- 
esting to  dwell  upon,  if  such  changes  interest  instead  of 


4o8  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

distress  the  invalid.  Two  small  beds,  that  the  patient 
may  find  relief  in  change,  are  desirable  ;  or,  if  possible, 
procure  an  invalid's  bed,  which  admits  of  many  changes  of 
position  and  the  airing  and  changing  of  the  bed  with  no 
accompan3'ing  fatigue. 

Cleanliness.  —  It  is  of  the  first  importance  that  the  bed 
linen  and  clothing  of  the  patient  should  be  kept  fresh  by 
frequent  changes,  and  thoroughly  dried  and  aired.  Be 
careful  to  suppl}^  the  needed  warmth  by  light  but  not  over- 
abundant clothing.  The  patient  should  be  bathed  freely  ; 
avoid  a  chill  by  giving  a  sponge  bath  with  alcohol  and 
warm  water,  exposing  only  a  part  of  the  body  at  a  time  to 
the  air,  and  rub  till  perfectly  dry. 

Wet  a  cotton-flannel  bag,  made  with  the  nap  side  out, 
in  cold  water,  wring  it  slightl}^  and  tie  it  over  the  broom 
to  use  in  sweeping.  Be  careful  to  wash  it  every  time  it  is 
used.  It  is  quite  essential  that  the  floor  of  a  sick-room 
should  be  kept  clean.  Remove  all  dust  with  a  damp 
cloth.  The  cleansing,  drying,  or  airing  of  all  objects 
should  be  done  outside  of  the  sick-room.  Keep  the 
room,  the  bed,  the  patient,  and  everything  about  yourself 
absolutel}^  neat  and  clean. 

Conversation.  — In  extreme  sickness  let  no  unnecessary 
word  be  spoken  in  a  sick-room,  and  no  needless,  noisy, 
nor  abrupt  movements  be  made.  Let  the  voice  be  calm 
and  clear,  neither  loud  nor  whispering.  In  speaking  to 
the  patient  do  so  in  the  way  that  requires  the  least  effort 
in  response,  and  never  consult  him  about  his  food.  Avoid 
all  discussions  of  the  disease,  the  medicine,  and  any  excit- 
ing topic  either  with  or  before  him.  Do  not  excite*  the 
patient  by  needless  conversation  with  the  doctor  outside  of 
the  sick-room.  Never  w^hisper,  even  when  the  patient  is 
asleep  or  in  delirium,  because  a  whisper  is  more  penetrat- 
ing than  a  low  full  tone.  During  convalescence  do  not 
weary  with  conversation  ;  let  it  alwa}' s  be  bright  and  cheer- 
ful, and,  as  far  as  possible,  of  things  outside  the  sick-room. 
Cultivate  the  power  of  talking  to,  rather  than  with^  a  sick 
person. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  409 

Conveniences  in  a  Sick-Moom.  —  "In  severe  sickness 
a  glass  tube  is  useful  for  feeding  drinks  and  gruels  ;  and 
little  white  china  boats  with  spouts  are  also  good.  A 
wooden  tray  with  legs  six  or  seven  inches  high,  to  stand 
upon  the  bed,  is  ver}'  convenient  for  serving  meals." 

To  keep  Ice  for  a  Sick-Hoowt.  — Tie  a  square  of  coarse 
white  flannel  over  a  pitcher,  leaving  a  cup-shaped  depres- 
sion of  the  flannel  in  the  pitcher.  Put  broken  ice  in  the 
flannel,  and  cover  it  tightly  with  a  thicker  flannel.  The 
ice  will  keep  all  night,  and  the  water  may  be  poured  oflT  as 
wanted. 

In  applying  hot  bandages  dip  the  flannel  in  boiling 
water,  place  it  in  the  centre  of  a  coarse  towel,  and  twist 
and  wring  the  ends  of  the  towel ;  or  place  the  flannels  in  a 
steamer  over  hot  water  until  penetrated  with  the  steam  ; 
they  will  then  need  no  wringing. 

Feeding  the  Patient.  —  When  feeding  the  patient,  do  it 
gentl}''  and  neatl}^  Anticipate  his  wants,  and  let  the  food 
be  a  surprise  as  far  as  practicable.  In  severe  sickness  give 
nourishment  in  a  small  quantity  qften^  and  never  fail  to 
give  it  immediately  after  a  long  sleep.  During  convales- 
cence food  should  be  given  at  longer,  but  regular  intervals. 
If  the  patient  be  unable  to  use  a  toothbrush,  wet  a  bit  of 
soft  cloth  and  wipe  the  teeth  and  gums,  and  give  a  little 
water  or  acid  drink  to  soften  the  dry  mucous  membrane 
and  destroy  the  bad  taste  in  the  mouth,  before  offering 
an}'  food. 

Let  everything  prepared  for  the  invalid  be  arranged  to 
please  the  qjq  as  well  as  the  palate.  Serve  less  than  you 
think  the  patient  requires,  and  give  as  much  variety  as 
possible,  serving  in  difi'erent  forms  or  in  diff'erent  dishes 
if  the  material  must  be  the  same.  Hot  liquids  should  be 
hot  when  they  reach  the  patient,  not  merety  when  they 
leave  the  kitchen.  Serve  them  in  a  hot  pitcher,  and  pour 
oxAy  a  little  into  the  hot  cup  or  bowl,  and  so  avoid  its  run- 
ning over  into  the  saucer  or  too  rapid  cooling.  Never 
insult  the  patient  by  ofl"ering  him  a  slice  of  dough  covered 
with  charcoal,  under  the  name  of  toast.    When  the  meal  i^ 


41  o  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

over,  remove  immediatel}'  qyqyy  trace  of  food  from  the 
room.  Keep  in  the  sick-room  choice  fruit  or  any  deUca- 
cies  which  have  been  sent  to  the  patient  only  long  enough 
to  gratify  the  eye,  then  remove  to  a  cool  place,  and  serve 
as  fresh  and  daintil}'  as  possible. 

Wines  or  liquors  of  any  kind  should  never  be  given 
without  the  advice  of  a  physician.  Young  persons  do  not 
need  them,  and,  in  an}^  form  of  fever,  stimulants  are  posi- 
tively harmful.  In  some  extreme  cases,  among  very  old 
people,  or  where  there  is  a  great  lack  of  recuperative 
power,  they  may  be  given. 

Visitors.  — Visitors  should  never  be  admitted  to  a  sick- 
room, except  with  the  consent  of  the  physician.  Never 
visit  a  sick-room  when  in  a  violent  perspiration  or  with 
an  empty  stomach,  as  then  the  sj^stem  more  readil}"  re- 
ceives contagion.  If  obliged  to  sit  up  all  night  with  a 
patient,  provide  yourself  with  something  to  eat,  if  nothing 
more  than  a  cake  of  chocolate,  that  there  may  be  no 
needless  exhaustion. 

Not  the  least  of  the  manj^  qualifications  desirable  in  a 
good  nurse  is  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  nature,  use,  and 
digestibility,  as  well  as  the  best  methods  of  preparing  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  food,  and  of  their  adaptation  to  different 
forms  of  disease.  Such  knowledge  is  of  still  greater  im- 
portance to  ever}'  physician,  and  full}'  as  essential  as  the 
study  of  drugs.  Nurses,  alas  !  are  often  wholly  unquali- 
fied, or  not  to  be  obtained  at  all ;  and  then  that  patient 
is  fortunate,  indeed,  who  has  a  phj^sician  who  can  in 
emergency  fill  the  treble  office  of  nurse,  cook,  and  doctor. 

Diet  for  the  Invalid. 

2^irst  Condition.  —  Sometimes  the  system  from  over- 
taxation, either  mental  or  physical,  needs  a  period  of 
complete  rest  or  comparative  inaction  ;  or,  as  in  the  com- 
mencement of  many  forms  of  sickness,  the  diet  should  be 
food  which  merely  satisfies  the  hunger  and  which  soothes 
and  reduces  inflammation  and  quenches  thirst,  but  does 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  411 

not  nourish  nor  stimulate.  Foods  proper  at  such  times 
come  under  the  head  of  starch}^  gruels,  gelatinous  soups 
and  jellies,  oranges,  grapes,  etc.,  and  mucilaginous,  acid, 
and  aromatic  drinks. 

Flour  or  Arrowroot  Gruel. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  I  2  teaspoonfuls  flour,  wet  in  cold 

1  saltspoonful  salt.  |      water. 

Cornstarch  and  rice-flour  gruels  are  made  in  a  similar 
manner.  Use  a  little  more  of  wheat  flour  than  of  the 
others. 

Mix  the  flour  and  salt,  and  make  into  a  smooth  thin 
paste  with  cold  water,  then  stir  it  into  the  boiling  water. 
Cook  five  minutes,  or  until  the  desired  consistency^  is  ob- 
tained. Strain;  then  add  sugar ^  if  preferred,  and  thin 
with  a  little  milk.  If  intended  for  a  fever  patient,  a  little 
lemon  juice  improves  the  flavor  ;  if  for  a  patient  with  sum- 
mer complaint,  boil  with  the  gruel  half  an  inch  stick  of 
cinnamon  or  a  little  mitmeg.,  —  the  spice  will  help  to  re- 
duce the  laxative  condition.  Sick  people  soon  tire  of 
sweets,  and  gruels  should  be  sweetened  only  slightly,  if 
at  all.  Flour  and  starch}^  gruels  should  not  be  given  in 
typhoid  fever,  or  when  the  disease  is  located  in  the  intes- 
tines. Nor  should  they  ever  be  used  in  excess,  as,  being 
rapidly  swallowed,  the}^  are  unafiected  bj-  the  alkaline 
action  of  the  saliva,  and  pass  through  the  stomach  un- 
changed and  severel}^  tax  the  intestines.  They  should 
be  kept  in  the  mouth  and  mingled  with  the  saliva  before 
swallowing. 


Milk  Porridge. 


2  dozen  raisins,  quartered. 
2  cups  milk. 


1  tablespoonful  flour. 
Salt  to  taste. 


Boil  the  raisins  in  a  little  water  twenty  minutes.  Let 
the  water  boil  away,  and  add  the  milk.  When  boiUng, 
add  the  flour  rubbed  to  a  thin  paste  with  a  little  cold 
milk.     Boil  eight  or  ten  minutes.     Season  with  salt  and 


412  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

strain.  Or  omit  the  raisins,  and  add  sugar  to  taste  ; 
or  add  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg  after  it  comes  from 
the  stove. 

Barley  Gruel. 

Boil  one  ounce  of  pearl  barley  a  few  minutes,  to  cleanse 
it.  Pour  off  the  water,  add  one  quart  of  cold  water  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt^  and  simmer  one  hour,  or  until 
reduced  one  half.  Strain  it ;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  a 
little  lemon  or  nutmeg^  if  desired.  Barley  contains  muci- 
lage, and  is  soothing  and  refreshing  in  fevers  and  gastric 
inflammation. 

Indian  Meal  Gruel. 

1  tablespoonful  flour.  I         1  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn  meal,     j  1  quart  boiling  water. 

Mix  the  flour,  meal;  and  salt.  Make  into  a  thin  paste 
with  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  water. 
Boil  thirty  minutes,  stirring  often ;  thin  with  milk  or 
cream.  Milk  may  be  used  instead  of  water  by  mak- 
ing the  gruel  in  a  double  boiler.  Indian  meal  gruel 
requires  longer  time  for  cooking  than  any  purely  starch}^ 
gruels. 

N'o.  2.  —  Wet  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  meal  and 
one  saltspoonful  of  salt  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  into 
one  cup  of  boiling  water.     Boil  slowly  thirty  minutes. 

Indian  corn  meal  is  heating  in  its  nature,  and  should 
never  be  given  where  there  is  any  inflammatory  condition 
of  the  S3^stem.  If  given  during  convalescence  after  scarlet 
fever,  it  sometimes  produces  glandular  swellings.  When 
there  is  a  deficiency  of  natural  warmth,  and  no  inflamma- 
tion, it  may  be  given  without  harm. 

Oatmeal  Gruel. 

2  tablespoonfuls  oatmeal.         I         1  quart  boiling  water. 
"^  teaspoonful  salt.  | 

Boil  one  hour.     Strain,  and  serve  with  milk  or  cream. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  413 

iVo.  2.  — Pound  half  a  cup  of  coarse  oatmeal  until  it  is 
mealy.  Put  it  in  a  tumbler,  and  fill  the  tumbler  with  cold 
water.  Stir  well ;  let  it  settle  ;  then  pour  ofi*  the  mealy 
water  into  a  saucepan.  Fill  again,  and  pour  off  the  water, 
and  again  repeat  this,  being  careful  each  time  not  to  dis- 
turb the  sediment  in  the  bottom  of  the  tumbler.  Then  boil 
the  water  twenty  minutes.  Add  one  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
If  very  thick,  add  a  little  cream  or  Tnilk.  Strain  and  serve 
hot.  Beef  essence  or  beef  tea  may  be  used  in  place  of  cream. 
This  is  the  most  palatable  and  convenient  way  of  making 
sruel  from  oatmeal. 


Farina  Gruel. 


1  tablespoonful  Hecker's  farina. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 


1  cup  boiling  ^ater. 
1  cup  milk. 


Put  all  but  the  milk  in  the  double  boiler,  and  cook  fifteen 
minutes,  or  until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  milk  and  boil 
again.     Sweeten  to  taste. 

Farina  is  a  granulated  preparation  of  the  inner  portion 
of' the  finest  wheat,  freed  from  bran  and  floury  dust.  It 
contains  nitrogenous  or  flesh-forming  material,  is  easily 
digested,  and  is  a  more  nutritive  food  for  invalids  and 
children  than  cornstarch,  sago,  arrowroot,  or  tapioca, 
which   contain   only   starch. 


Cracker  Gruel. 


4  tablesp.  powdered  cracker. 
1  cup  boiling  water. 

Boil  up  once  and  serve. 


1  cup  milk. 

%  teaspoonful  salt. 


Egg  Gruel. 

1  e^^  (yolk  beaten  well).         j    1  cup  hot  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar.  |    White  of  egg,  beaten  till  foamy. 

Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon.    Good  for  a  violent  cold, 
if  taken  very  hot  after  retiring. 


414  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


No.  1. 


1  cup  stoned  raisins. 

1  quart  water. 

2  slices  toasted  bread,  or 


1  cup  bread  crumbs. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  sugar. 


Boil  the  raisins  one  hour.  Skim  out  the  raisins,  and 
add  the  bread  to  the  boiling  water ;  boil  fifteen  minutes, 
stirring  well.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  and  pour  the 
panada  over  them,  stirring  all  the  time. 

JSTo.  2.  —  Split  tioo  Boston  or  Graham  crackers.  Put 
them  into  a  bowl,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  salt^  and  cover 
with  boiling  water.  Set  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  crackers  are  clear. 
Slide  them  out  into  a  hot  saucer,  and  serve  very  hot  with 
sugar  and  cream. 

JVo.  3.  —  Boil  one  tahlespoonful  of  cracker  crunibs  Aa^g 
minutes  in  one  cup  of  hoiling  water^  slightly  sweetened., 
salted^  and  flavored  with  lemon. 

Oatmeal  Mush  for  Children  or  Invalids. 

1  cup  granulated  oatmeal.       I  1  scant  quart  boiling  water. 

^2,  teaspoonf ul  salt.  j 

Put  the  meal  and  salt  in  the  double  boiler,  pour  on  the 
boiling  water,  and  cook  two  or  three  hours.  Remove 
the  CQver  just  before  serving,  and  stir  with  a  fork  to  let  the 
steam  escape.  If  the  water  in  the  lower  boiler  be  strongly 
salted,  the  meal  will  cook  more  quickly.  Serve  with  sugar ^ 
or  salt^  and  cream.  Baked  sour  apples^  apple  sauce^  and 
apple  jelly  are  delicious  eaten  with  the  oatmeal.  They 
should  be  served  with  the  mush,  and  the  cream  and  sugar 
poured  over  the  whole.  They  give  the  acid  flavor  which 
so  many  crave  in  the  morning. 

Coarse  oatmeal  is  not  suitable  for  any  form  of  water 
brash,  acidity,  or  bowel  irritation.  It  often  causes  erup- 
tions on  the  skin  in  warm  weather. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  415 


Indian  Meal  Mush. 

1  cup  corn  meal.  I         1  cup  cold  milk. 

3^  teaspoonf  ul  salt.  j  1  pint  boiling  water. 

Mix  the  meal  and  salt  with  the  cold  milk.  Stir  this 
gradually  into  the  boiling  water.  Cook  half  an  hour  in  a 
double  boiler,  stirring  often. 

Graham  Mush. 

Mix  half  a  cup  of  Graham  flov.r  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Make  it  into  a  thin  sjuooth  paste  with  a  little 
cold  loater.  Stir  it  into  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Cook 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  often.     Serve  with  cream. 

Rye  Mush  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  and  sometimes 
served  with  molasses. 

Gluten  Mush.  — Use  one  cup  of  gluten  to  one  pint  of 
boiling  water.,  and  cook  as  above.  Being  destitute  of 
starch,  it  will  not  thicken  like  Rye  Mush. 

Brain  Food.     {Health  Food  Co.) 

Wet  one  cup  of  Brain  Food  in  a  little  cold  water.,  and 
stir  it  into  one  quart  of  salted  boiling  water.  Cook  over 
hot  water  one  to  two  hours.  Eat,  hot  or  cold,  with  sugar 
and  cream. 

Bice  Water  or  Jelly. 

2  tablespoonfuls  rice.  1  Salt  and  sugar  to  taste. 
1  quart  cold  water.                      j 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  rice,  and  cook  in  water  one  hour, 
or  till  the  rice  is  dissolved.  Add  salt  and  sugar  to  taste. 
If  intended  for  jellj' ,  add  lemon  juice  and  strain  into  a 
mould.  When  cold,  serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  If  to 
be  used  as  a  drink,  add  more  hot  water,  enough  to  make  a 
thin  liquid,  and  boil  longer.  Add  half  a  square  inch  of 
stick  cinnamon.,  and  strain.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Bice  is  easil^^  digested  and  almost  wholly  assimilated ; 
it  is  good  in  diarrhoea  or  dysentery. 


41 6  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Tapioca  Jelly. 


3^  cup  pearl  tapioca. 
1  pint  cold  water. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 


1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 
1  heaping  tablespoonful  sugar. 


Pick  over  and  wash  the  tapioca.  Add  the  cold  water, 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  entirely  dissolved.  Then 
add  the  salt,  lemon  juice,  and  sugar.  Turn  into  a  mould. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  Half  a  cup  of  strawberry^ 
raspberry^  or  blackberry  jam  or  currant  jelly  may  be  used 
in  place  of  lemons. 

Irish  Moss  Jelly. 

%  cup  Irish  moss.  1  lemon. 

1  pint  boiling  water.  i^  cup  sugar. 

Soak  the  moss  in  cold  water  until  soft.  Pick  over  and 
wash  again.  Then  put  it  into  the  boiling  water,  and  sim- 
mer until  it  is  dissolved.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 
Strain  into  a  mould.  Use  currant  jelly  in  place  of  lemon, 
or  steep /bwr  or  five  figs  with  the  moss. 

Sea  mosses  contain  bromine  and  iodine,  and  are  useful 
in  rheumatic  affections.  Iceland  moss  may  be  used  in  the 
same  manner.  This,  when  dried,  contains  more  starch 
than  potatoes,  and  more  flesh  food  than  oatmeal  or  corn. 


Restorative  Jelly. 

3^2  hox  gelatine. 
1  cup  port  wine. 


2  tablespoonf  uls  lemon  juice. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
2  cloves. 


1  tablesp.  powdered  gum  arable. 

Put  all  together  in  a  glass  jar,  and  cover  closely.  Place 
the  jar  on  a  trivet  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Heat  it  slowly, 
and  when  the  mixture  is  dissolved,  stir  well  and  strain. 
Pour  into  a  shallow  dish,  and  when  cool  cut  it  into  small 
squares.  This  is  good  for  an  old  person  or  a  very  weak 
patient. 

Mutton  Broth. 

To  make  it  quickty  for  an  invalid,  chop  one  pound  of 
lean  juicy  mutton  very  fine  ;  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  cold 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  417 

water.  Let  it  stand  until  the  water  is  very  red,  then  heat 
it  slowl}'.  Let  it  simmer  ten  minutes.  Strain,  season,  and 
add  two  tahlespoonfuls  of  soft-boiled  rice,  or  thicken  it 
slightl}^  with  rice  flour  wet  with  cold  water.  Serve  hot. 
When  given  to  a  person  with  a  severe  cold,  or  a  consump- 
tive, the  fat  should  not  be  removed,  as  it  is  soothing  to 
the  chest,  and  when  absorbed  by  the  rice  or  some  starchy 
material  is  not  uninviting  to  the  eye.  For  a  fever  patient, 
tne  fat  should  be  removed.  When  3'ou  have  not  time  to 
cool  the  broth,  a  piece  of  soft  tissue  paper  passed  over  the 
surface  helps  to  take  up  an}^  globules  of  fat  which  will 
not  come  off  with  a  spoon. 

Barley  Soup. 

Remove  the  fat  and  bones  from  one  pound  of  the  neck  of 
mutton.  Cut  the  meat  into  dice,  and  add  to  it  one  table- 
spoonful  of  well-washed  barley  and  one  pint  of  cold  water. 
Heat  slowl3%  and  simmer  two  hours.  Put  the  bones  into 
one  cup  of  cold  neater,  and  boil  gently  half  an  hour.  Then 
strain  into  the  meat  and  barley.  Season  with  salt.  Skim 
off  the  fat,  and  serve  with  lohole-wheat  or  gluten  wafers. 

Calves'-Foot  Jelly  or  Broth. 


4  calves'  feet. 

4  quarts  cold  water. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  lemons. 


2  inch  stick  cinnamon. 
1  inch  blade  mace. 

3  eggs  (whites  and  shells). 
1  pint  wine. 


Scald  the  feet,  and  clean  thoroughlj^  Split,  break  the 
bones,  and  put  them  into  the  cold  water.  Heat  slowly, 
and  simmer  gentl}^  until  reduced  to  three  pints.  Strain, 
and  when  cool  remove  the  fat.  Add  the  other  ingredients 
except  the  wine.  Put  it  over  the  fire,  and  stir  until  hot. 
Let  it  boil  five  minutes,  or  till  a  thick  scum  has  formed. 
Set  it  back  on  the  stove  ;  skim,  and  add  the  wine.  Strain 
through  a  fine  napkin  into  a  shallow  dish.  When  read}'  to 
serve,  cut  it  into  blocks,  or  break  it  up  lightly  with  a  fork. 
If  intended  for  broth,  simply  remove  the  fat,  season  to 

27 


41 8  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

taste,  and  stir  it  into  a  beaten  egg ;  or  add  sago  or  tapi- 
oca, having  first  soaked  and  boiled  it  till  soft.  Veal  broth 
is  not  very  palatable  in  itself ;  and  as  it  does  not  contain 
the  nutritive  qualities  of  beef  or  mutton  broth,  it  is  not 
well  to  use  it  in  the  sick-room  except  for  a  variety. 

Chicken  Jelly  or  Broth. 

Clean  a  small  chicken.  Disjoint  and  cut  the  meat  into 
half-inch  pieces.  Remove  all  the  fat.  Break  or  pound  the 
bones.  Dip  the  feet  into  boiling  water,  and  scald  until  the 
skin  and  nails  will  peel  off.  The  feet  contain  gelatine,  and 
when  well  cleaned  ma}^  be  used  for  jell3^  Cover  the  meat, 
feet,  and  bones  with  cold  water  ;  heat  very  slowh%  and  sim- 
mer till  the  meat  is  tender.  Strain,  and  when  cool  remove 
the  fat.  Season  with  salt,  pepxjer,  and  lemon,  and  add  the 
shell  and  white  of  one  egg.  Put  it  over  the  fire,  and  stir 
well  until  hot.  Let  it  boil  five  minutes.  Skim,  and  strain 
through  a  fine  napkin.  Pour  it  into  small  cups,  and  cool 
it  if  intended  for  jelly.  When  the  patient  can  take  it, 
small  dice  of  the  breast  meat  may  be  moulded  in  the  jelly. 
Serve  hot,  without  clearing,  if  intended  for  broth. 

Beef  Jelly  or  Broth. 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  Bouillon  (page  131).  If  in- 
tended for  jelly,  clear  it  as  directed  for  Clear  Soup. 

Barley  Water. 

1  tablespoonful  pearl  barley,     j      3^  lemon. 

3  blocks  sugar.  1  quart  boiling  water. 

Wash  the  barle}^  in  cold  water,  then  pour  off  the  water, 
and  put  the  barley,  sugar,  and  lemon  into  the  boiling  water, 
and  let  it  stand  covered  and  warm  for  three  hours  ;  then 
strain  it.  Currant  jelly  or  orange  juice  ma}^  be  used  in- 
stead of  lemon.  This  is  a  valuable  demulcent  in  colds, 
affections  of  the  chest,  hectic  fever,  strangury  and  other 
diseases  of  the  bladder  or  urinary  organs. 


The  Boston  Cool:  Book.  419 


Gum  Water. 


1  pint  boiling  water. 
1  lemon  (juice). 


1  ounce  clean  gum  arable,  and 
^2  ounce  sugar,  dissolved  in 

When  dissolved,  add  the  lemon  juice,  and  strain  through 
a  fine  strainer.  This  is  soothing  in  inflammation  of  the 
mucous  membrane. 

Toast  Water.  —  Toast  one  pint  of  vjhite  or  brown  bread 
crusts  very  brown,  but  be  careful  not  to  burn  them ;  add 
one  pint  of  cold  water ;  let  it  stand  for  one  hour,  then 
strain,  and  add  cream  and  sugar  to  taste.  The  nourish- 
ment in  the  bread  is  easilj-  absorbed  when  taken  in  this 
liquid  form. 

Crust  Coffee.  — Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over 
two  slices  of  brown  toast.  Steep  ten  minutes,  and  strain. 
Add  sugar  and  cream  to  taste. 

Corn  Tea  and  Rice  Coffee.  —  Brown  one  cupj  of  dried 
sweet  corn  or  rice.  Pound  or  grind  it  fine.  Add  one  pint 
of  cold  water ^  and  steep  it  one  hour.  Strain,  and  serve 
with  sugar  and  Grea7n.  These  are  pleasant  and  nourishing 
beverages. 

Slippery-Elm  Tea.  —  Pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water 
upon  one  teaspoonful  of  slippery -elm  poioder  or  a  piece 
of  the  bark.  When  cool,  strain  and  flavor  with  lemon 
juice  and  sugar.  This  is  soothing  in  any  inflammation 
of  the  mucous  membrane. 

Acid  Fruit  Drinks. 

•  Pour  boiling  water  on  mashed  cranberries^  barberries^ 
or  whortleberries.    When  cold,  strain,  and  sweeten  to  taste, 

N'o.  2.  —  Stir  a  tablespoo7iful  of  an}^  acid  jelly  ov  fruit 
syrup  into  one  tumbler  of  ice  water. 

1^0.  3.  —  Dissolve  one  tablespoonful  of  cream  of  tartar 
in  one  pint  of  water.     Sweeten  to  taste. 

Apple  Tea.  —  Roast  two  large  sour  apples.,  cover  with 
boiling  water ;  when  cool,  pour  off  the  water  and  strain. 
Add  sugar  to  taste. 


420  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Jelly  and  Ice.  —  With  a  large  needle  or  pin,  chip  half  a 
cup  of  ice  into  bits  as  large  as  a  pea.  Mix  with  it  about 
the  same  quantity  of  lemon^  currant^  blackberry^  or  bar- 
berry jelly.     Yevj  refreshing  in  fevers. 

Tamarind  Water.  —  Boil  two  ounces  of  tamarinds  with 
four  ounces  of  stoned  raisins  in  three  pints  of  water  for 
one  hour.     Strain  and  cool. 

Baked  Lemon.  —  Bake  a  lemon  or  sour  orange  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  open  at  one 
end  and  take  out  the  inside.  Sweeten  with  sugar  or  mo- 
lasses. This  is  excellent  for  hoarseness  and  pressure  on 
the  lungs. 

Lemonade.  —  Squeeze  the  juice  from  one  lemon  and 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Pour  on  one  cup  of 
boiling  water ^  and  cool.  Or  take  hot  for  a  cold,  after 
retiring. 

Flaxseed  Lemonade.  —  Pour  one  quart  of  boiling  luater 
over  four  tablespoonfuls  of  whole  flaxseed.,  and  steep  three 
hours.  Strain  and  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  the  Jw^ce  of 
two  lemons.  Add  a  little  more  water  if  the  liquid  seem  too 
thick.     This  is  soothing  in  colds. 

Irish-Moss  Lemonade.  —  Soak,  pick  over,  and  wash 
one  quarter  of  a  cup  of  Irish  moss.  Pour  on  one  pint  of 
boiling  water.  Heat  to  the  boiling-point,  but  not  boil, 
and  keep  it  at  that  temperature  half  an  hour.  Strain,  and 
squeeze  into  it  \h&  juice  of  one  lemon.,  or  enough  to  give  it 
an  acid  taste.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Add  acid  phosphate  in 
place  of  the  lemon,  if  preferred. 

Wine  Whey.  —  Boil  one  cup  of  new  milk.,  and  add  one 
cup  of  wine.  Let  it  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  five 
minutes.     Strain,  and  sweeten  the  whey. 

The  whey,  or  water,  of  milk  contains  the  sugar,  salt,  and 
other  saline  bodies  necessary  for  digestion  and  the  repair 
of  the  mineral  part  of  the  body. 

Herb  Teas. 
Pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  over  one  tablespoonful  of 
the  herbs.     Cover  the  bowl,  set  it  over  the  teakettle,  and 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  421 

steep  ten  minutes.  Sweeten  if  desired.  ATullein  tea  is 
good  for  inflammation  of  the  lungs  ;  Chamomile  tea^  for 
sleeplessness ;  Calamus  and  Catnip  tea^  for  colds  and 
infants'  colic ;  CinnaTJion  tea,  for  hemorrhages ;  Water- 
m^elon-seed  and  JPum,pkin-seed  tea,  for  strangurj'  and 
summer  complaint.  A  few  sprigs  of  sage,  hurnet,  halm, 
and  sorrel,  half  a  lemon,  sliced,  and  three  pints  of  boiling 
water,  sweetened  to  taste,  and  covered  closely  until  cold, 
makes  an  agreeable  drink  for  a  fever  patient. 

Another  Condition  in  sickness  occurs  when,  after  long- 
continued,  prostrating,  or  rapidl}^  wasting  disease,  the  sys- 
tem demands  immediate  nourishment  to  suppty  that  waste, 
or  when  there  is  a  lack  of  nutrition  from  any  cause.  Food 
that  contains  the  most  nourishment  in  the  most  easih^  as- 
similated form  is  now  needed ;  but  the  physician  should 
alwa3's  be  consulted  as  to  the  food  suitable  during  the  dif- 
ferent diseases.  Liquid  food  is  most  suitable,  and  should 
\)Qfood  as  well  as  drink.  In  nearly  all  cases  of  fever  milk 
is  given  when  the  patient  can  take  it.  Two  or  three  grains 
of  pepsin  in  a  cup  of  milk  or  broth  facilitate  its  digestion. 
In  typhoid  fever  milk  has  often  proved  of  great  value,  and 
is  now  generally  recommended  by  the  medical  faculty  in  all 
cases  of  scarlet  fever,  nervous  disorder,  and  all  diseases 
arising  from  imperfect  nutrition.  It  keeps  up  the  strength 
of  the  patient,  acts  well  upon  the  stomach,  soothes  the  in- 
testines, and  promotes  sleep.  It  should  be  taken  slowly  to 
prevent  the  curdhng  in  a  dense  mass  which  may  occur  if  too 
much  be  taken  at  once.  A  pint  of  hot  milk  taken  slowly, 
every  four  hours,  will  often  check  the  most  violent  diar- 
rhoea and  d^^sentery.  It  should  never  be  boiled,  onty 
scalded. 

Eggnog  or  broth,  meat  broth,  farina  and  oatmeal  gruel, 
and  port  wine  jell}^,  are  all  suitable  at  such  times  ;  but  beef 
juice  and  tea  are  most  generall}^  used  b}^  phj'sicians.  They 
afford  a  fluid  and  easih^  assimilated  form  of  food,  and  have 
a  remarkable  power  of  restoring  the  vigorous  action  of  the 
heart,  and  dissipating  the  sense  of  exhaustion  following 


422  The  Boston  Cook  Booh, 

severe,  prolonged  exertion.  When  taken  alone,  the}'  are 
stimulating  rather  than  nutritive,  and  a  patient  would  soon 
starve  if  he  did  not  have  the  addition  of  the  fibrine  of  the 
meat  or  of  some  farinaceous  food,  like  bread  crumbs  or 
oatmeal. 

Beef  Essence  and  Beef  Tea. 

Beef  essence  is  the  pure  juice  of  the  meat.  This  is  given 
where  a  patient  needs  much  nourishment  in  a  small  com- 
pass. Beef  tea  is  the  juice  of  the  meat  diluted  with  water. 
It  is  a  mistake  to  think  that  any  beef  because  it  is  lean 
or  cheap  is  good  enough  for  beef  tea.  It  will  do  for  the 
soup-kettle,  but  not  for  those  who  are  ill.  Meat  for  beef 
tea  sliould  be  lean,  juic}^  and  of  good  flavor.  Every  par- 
ticle of  fat,  skin,  and  membrane  must  be  removed.  The 
top  of  the  round  and  the  back  and  middle  of  the  rump  con- 
tain the  most  and  the  best-flavored  juice.  It  costs  more 
per  pound  than  some  other  pieces  ;  but  as  it  yields  nearly 
double  the  amount  of  juice,  it  is  really  cheaper.  The  ten- 
derloin is  often  recommended  for  sick  persons.  It  should 
never  be  used  for  beef  tea,  as  it  contains  very  little  juice 
and  lacks  flavor.  When  the  tender  fibre  of  the  meat  is 
desired,  it  may  be  broiled,  and  served  with  the  juice  from 
some  tougher  steak. 

Broiling  is  the  quickest,  and  sometimes  the  most 
palatable,  way  of  preparing  both  essence  and  tea  in  an 
emergencj^ 

Drawing  and  heating  the  meat  and  juice  is  best  where 
a  little  nourishment  is  to  be  given  often,  and  where  all  the 
elements  of  the  meat  are  needed.  Soaking  in  cold  water, 
then  straining,  and  heating  the  juice  only,  is  the  most 
economical  way,  as  more  than  twice  the  usual  amount  of 
juice  may  be  obtained  by  adding  more  water  w^hen  the 
meat  has  not  been  heated. 

The  albuminous  juices  of  meat  coagulate  at  160°  ;  if  the 
tea  be  allowed  to  boil,  they  become  hard,  and  settle  almost 
immediately  when  served.  Many  make  the  mistake  of 
straining  the  tea,  or  leaving  the  sediment  untouched.     If 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  423 

the  tea  be  heated  just  enough  to  make  it  palatable,  it  will 
hold  the  juices  in  solution,  not  separated,  and  will  be  thick, 
and  of  the  color  of  chocolate,  and  much  more  palatable 
and  nutritious  than  when  boiled. 

Broiled  Beef  Essence.  — Broil  half  a  pound  of  round 
steak  one  or  two  minutes,  or  until  the  juice  will  flow.  Cut 
it  into  small  pieces.  Squeeze  the  juice  into  a  bowl  placed 
over  warm  water.  Salt^  and  serve  without  reheating.  Or 
pour  it  over  a  slice  of  hot  dry  toast. 

Broiled  Beef  Tea.  —  Add  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
to  the  meat  after  broiling  as  above. 

Bottled  Beef  Essence.  —  Put  two  pounds  of  round 
steak^  cut  in  small  pieces,  into  a  jar  without  water.  Place 
the  jar,  covered  closelj',  on  a  trivet  in  a  kettle  of  cold 
water.  Heat  gradually,  and  keep  it  not  quite  at  the 
boiling-point  for  two  hours,  or  till  the  meat  is  white. 
Strain,  pressing  the  meat  to  obtain  all  the  juice  ;  season 
with  salt.  Or  place  the  jar  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three 
hours.  The  liquid  thus  obtained  contains  all  the  nutritive 
parts  of  the  meat.  It  ma}^  be  kept  in  the  refrigerator, 
and  a  small  portion  heated  (not  boiled),  as  wanted.  Or  it 
may  be  made  into  beef  tea  b}^  diluting  with  boiling  water. 
Beef  essence  given  ice  cold  is  sometimes  more  agreeable 
to  a  fever  patient. 

Bottled  Beef  Tea.  —  Add  one  cicp  of  cold  water  to  the 
meat  in  the  jar,  and  make  as  above.  When  the  patient 
can  take  a  little  solid  food,  add  two  tahlespoonfuls  of 
stale  bread  crionbs  to  the  beef  tea,  or  mix  with  it  oat' 
meal  gruel  ^  or  add  07ie  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  raw 
meat. 

Stewed  Beef  Essence.  —  Cut  half  a  pound  of  round 
steak  into  small  pieces,  season  with  one  saltspoonful  of 
salt.,  press  it  with  a  pestle  or  potato-masher,  and  let  it 
stand  in  a  covered  bowl  half  an  hour.  Pour  off  the  juice, 
and  heat,  but  do  not  boil  it.  Serve  immediately,  without 
straining. 

As  the  salt  without  water  will  draw  out  only  a  small 
portion  of  the  juice  from  the  meat,  a  beef  tea  may  be  made 


424  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

from  the  scraps  of  meat  left  by  adding  one  cup  of  cold 
water  to  the  meat,  and  letting  it  stand  two  hours.  Then 
strain  and  heat  the  liquid ;  or  the  scraps  of  meat  may  be 
put  in  the  soup-kettle. 

Economical  Beef  Tea.  —  Cut  one  pound  of  juicy  rump 
steak  into  small  pieces,  and  add  ooie  cup  of  cold  loater. 
Let  it  stand  in  a  covered  bowl  several  hours.  When 
ready  to  serve,  squeeze  the  meat  and  put  it  into  another 
bowl.  Strain  the  juice  already  obtained,  add  salt  to  taste, 
and  heat  it  just  enough  to  be  palatable,  but  not  enough  to 
curdle  it.  Serve  at  once,  while  hot.  If  it  be  heated  over 
the  fire,  stir  constantl}^,  and  take  it  off  the  moment  it  looks 
thick  and  is  hot ;  or  heat  it  carefully  over  hot  water.  Add 
another  cup  of  cold  water  to  the  scraps  of  meat,  and  soak 
again.  Often  the  third  cup  of  tea  may  be  obtained  from 
the  same  meat.  This  is  excellent  for  hard-working  people 
to  take,  in  times  of  great  exhaustion,  before  a  hearty  meal. 
It  is  one  of  the  best  and  most  easily  prepared  forms  of 
soup  or  meat  tea. 

JDr.  MitchelVs  Beef  Tea.  —  One  pound  of  lean  heef  cut 
fine  ;  add  one  pint  of  cold  water  and  five  drops  of  muri- 
atic acid.  Put  into  a  glass  jar.  Place  the  jar  in  a  pan  of 
water  at  110°,  and  keep  it  at  that  temperature  for  two 
hours.  Then  strain  through  thick  muslin  until  the  meat 
is  dry,  or  press  the  juice  out  by  squeezing.  The  acid 
makes  the  tea  agreeable  to  a  patient  with  fever,  and  also 
aids  in  drawing  out  the  juices  of  the  meat. 

Baw  Beef  Sandwiches.  —  Scrape  fine  a  small  piece  of 
fresh,  juicy,  tender,  raw  beef.  Season  highly  with  scdt 
and  pepper.  Spread  it  on  thin  slices  of  bread,  put  them 
together  like  a  sandwich,  and  cut  into  small  squares  or 
diamonds.  This  will  often  tempt  a  patient  who  could  not 
otherwise  take  raw  meat.  The  sandwiches  are  sometimes 
made  more  palatable  by  toasting  them  slightly. 

Eggnog.  —  Beat  the  yolh  of  one  egg ;  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar ^  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Add  one  tahle- 
spoonfid  of  wine  or  brandy^  and  half  a  cup  of  onilk.  Beat 
the  white  of  the  agg  to  a  froth,  and  stir  in  lightly.     Omit 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  425 

the  milk  when  more  condensed  nourishment  is  required, 
or  the  wine,  if  not  approved  by  the  physician.  It  is  more 
palatable  when  made  with  the  milk.  Whipped  cream  may 
be  substituted  for  the  milk.  In  man}^  cases  it  is  desirable 
not  to  have  the  white  beaten  to  a  froth,  as  it  causes  wind 
in  the  stomach, 

.Portable  Beef  Tea.  —  Two  pounds  of  heef^  cut  fine, 
and  half  a  box  oi  gelatine.  Soak  together  in  one  pjint  of 
cold  water  one  hour,  squeezing  often.  Heat  to  nearly  the 
boiling-point,  Strain,  pressing  all  the  juice  from  the  meat, 
fill  a  glass  jar  with  the  juice,  place  the  jar  in  water, 
and  heat  till  the  water  outside  the  jar  boils.  Seal  while 
hot.  Dissolve  two  teaspoonfuls  of  the  above  prepara- 
tion in  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water ^  add  a  few  grains  of 
salt.,  and  serve  at  once.  A  convenient  form  of  food  for 
travellers. 

Broiled  Beef  Pidp.  —  Scrape  raw  beef  to  a  pulp,  make 
it  into  small  cakes,  and  broil  as  steak.  Season  with  salt 
and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper.,  and  serve  hot. 

Egg  Tea  and  Coffee.  —  Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg ;  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.,  and  beat  to  a  cream  ;  add  one 
cup  of  tea  or  coffee,  either  hot  or  cold,  and  half  a  cup  of 
cream.  Stir  in  lighth^  the  beaten  white  of  the  Qgg-,  and 
serve  at  once. 

JEgg  a7id  Beef  Tea.  —  Add  one  cup  of  hot  beef  tea  to 
the  egg,  beaten  as  above. 

Dishes  for  Convalescence. 

When  the  crisis  of  disease  is  past,  the  sj^stem  needs 
gradual  but  coAiplete  nutrition,  and  the  appetite  is  clamor- 
ous, fickle,  or  perhaps  altogether  wanting.  Then  is  the 
time  most  critical  for  the  patient,  and  most  tr3ing  to  the 
tact,  skill,  and  patience  of  the  nurse.  Manj'  a  person  has 
been  carried  safel}"  through  a  long  and  distressing  illness, 
only  to  succumb  at  last  to  injudicious  feeding,  because  of 
the  nurse's  ignorance  or  his  own  indiscretion.  When  solid 
food  can  be  safely  given,  the  patient  may  take  it  in  any  of 
the  forms  given  in  the  preceding  rules. 


426  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

The  following  dishes  may  also  be  used :  broiled  squab, 
venison,  chicken,  chop,  steak,  salmon,  chicken  panada, 
boiled  halibut,  roast  beef,  mutton,  cream  toast,  eggs,  and 
03'sters  (except  when  especiall}^  forbidden  b}^  the  physi- 
cian), sweetbreads,  baked  potatoes,  asparagus,  onions, 
macaroni,  custards,  Charlotte  Russe,  snow  pudding,  ice- 
cream, sherbet,  blanc-mange.  Bavarian  cream,  sponge  cake, 
simple  puddings,  stewed  fruits,  and  many  others,  —  receipts 
for  which  will  be  found  as  indicated  in  the  table  of  lessons 
in  the  Nurse's  Course. 

Broiling  for  the  Invalid  {Broiled  Steak  or  Venison).  — 
Wipe  with  a  clean  wet  cloth.  Grease  the  gridiron  with  a 
bit  of  the  fat.  Broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  as  often  as 
you  can  count  ten.  Cook  four  minutes  if  the  steak  be 
about  one  inch  thick  ;  not  longer,  as  further  cooking  dries 
up  the  juices  and  destroys  some  of  the  nutritive  qualities. 
Be  careful  to  serve  on  a  hot  platter,  and  season  with  salt, 
and  with  pepper  and  butter  if  approved.  Birds,  chicken 
breasts,  fish,  and  chops  are  better  when  seasoned,  and 
wrapped  in  buttered  paper,  and  then  broiled,  as  this  pre- 
vents them  from  burning  or  becoming  too  dry.  Birds,  fish, 
and  chops  are  better,  and  more  convenientl}^  eaten,  if  boned 
before  broiling. 

Broiled  Steak,  N'o.  2.  —  Broil  half  a  pound  of  round 
steak  and  one  slice  of  tenderloin.  With  a  meat  or  lemon 
squeezer  squeeze  the  juice  from  the  round  over  the  tender- 
loin.    Season,  and  serve  hot. 

Chicken  Panada.  —  One  cup  of  cold  roasted  or  boiled 
chicken,  pounded  to  a  paste.  Add  half  a  cup  of  stale 
bread  crumbs,  and  enough  boiling  chicken  liquor  to  make 
it  a  thick  gruel.  Salt  to  taste.  Boil  one  minute,  and 
serve  hot.  When  the  chicken  has  been  roasted,  boil  the 
bones  to  obtain  the  liquor. 

Chicken  Custard.  —  Scald  together  one  cup  of  strong 
chicken  stock  and  one  cup  of  cream.  Pour  it  over  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
till  slightly  thickened.  Salt  to  taste,  and  serve  cool  in 
custard  cups. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  427 

Crackers  and  Orange  Marmalade.  — Toast  three  crack- 
ers slightly.  Dip  them  quickly  into  boiling  salted  water. 
Spread  with  a  little  butter^  and  put  a  layer  of  orange  mar- 
malade^ or  any  other  jelly  or  preserve,  between  them.  Set 
them  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  before  serving. 

Racahout  des  Arabes.     {Mrs.  Devereux.) 

%  pound  best  French  chocolate.     I        3^  pound  arrowroot. 

1  pound  rice  flour.  |        %  pound  loaf  sugar,  sifted. 

These  materials  are  to  be  thoroughly  mixed  and  rubbed 
together.  A  dessert  spoonful  of  this  mixture  should  be 
slightly  wet  with  milk  or  loater^  then  stirred  into  one  pint 
of  boiling  milk.,  and  boiled  five  minutes.  This  is  excellent 
food  for  invalids  or  convalescents.  Serve  hot,  as  a  bever- 
age ;  or  make  much  thicker,  to  be  eaten  cold  as  a  delicate 
pudding. 

Lahan.  (Miss  Parloa.)  — One  quart  of  new  milk^  into 
which  stir  one  tablespoonful  of  yeast.  Let  it  stand  in  a 
cool  place  to  harden,  which  will  take  from  three  to  twentj^- 
four  hours.  When  hard,  take  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mix- 
ture, and  stir  it  into  a  qtiao-t  of  oiew  milk.,  and  set  away  to 
harden.  This  is  "  Laban."  It  should  be  eaten  with  sugar 
and  cream.  If  a  constant  supply  be  needed,  reserve  one 
tablespooifid  each  day  for  the  next  preparation.  This  re- 
ceipt is  furnished  by  a  lady  who  obtained  it  in  Syria,  and 
who  advises  a  second  or  a  third  trial  if  the  first  attempt  be 
unsuccessful.  The  dish  is  often  palatable  when  the  stomach 
is  too  weak  for  almost  an}^  other  solid  food.  This  is  similar 
to  Koumiss,  or  fermented  mare's  milk. 

Ash  Cake.  {Mrs.  Henderson.) — Wet  coroi  meal.,  salted 
to  taste,  with  enough  coldioater  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let 
it  stand  half  an  hour,  or  longer.  Mould  into  a  cake  one  or 
two  inches  thick,  as  3'ou  prefer.  Place  it  on  a  clean  spot 
on  the  hearth,  and  cover  with  wood  ashes.  Bake  from 
half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Wipe  before  eating. 
The  alkaline  properties  left  by  the  ashes  in  the  crust  render 
it  especially  good  for  d3^speptics  with  an  acid  stomach. 


428  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Gluten  Gems. 


2  cups  gluten. 

3^  teaspoonf  ul  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 


2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

1  egg. 

2  cups  water  or  milk. 


Bake  in  very  hot  buttered  gem  pans,  in  a  hot  oven,  half 
an  hour. 

Diet  for  Infants  and  Young  Children. 

Let  very  young  children  have  mother's  milk  above  every- 
thing else  ;  but  if  this  be  impossible,  dissolve  one  ounce  of 
sugar  of  milk  or  loaf  sugar  in  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  and  mix,  as  required  for  use,  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  fresh  cow's  milk.  Give  it,  slightly  warm, 
from  a  sweet,  clean  bottle.  Sugar  of  milk  is  quite  ex- 
pensive, but  it  is  very  much  better  for  an  infant  than  cane 
sugar. 

Teething  children  should  have  the  milk  from  but  one 
cow ;  the  cow  should  not  be  fed  on  green  corn  nor  sour 
apples,  as  these  produce  acidity  in  the  miEv.  A  little 
thin,  well-boiled  oatmeal,  or  farina  gruel,  may  be  added 
to  the  milk. 

For  summer  complaint,  use  scalded  (not  boiled)  milk, 
prepared  flour,  roasted  rice,  boiled,  mashed,  and  thinned 
with  milk  ;  also  rice  jell^^  or  barle}'  gruel.  Avoid  all  purely 
starchy  gruels,  like  arrowroot,  sago,  and  cornstarch,  upon 
which  many  children  are  fed  to  death. 

For  constipation,  a  little  salt  added  to  cow's  milk  is 
often  beneficial ;  also  gruel  made  from  prepared  corn  meal 
and  wheat  flour,  and  oatmeal  gruel.  For  older  children 
use  oatmeal,  hominy  or  farina  mush,  and  ripe  fruit. 

Prepared  Flour  {for  Infants) .  —  Tie  one  pint  of 
flour  in  a  stout  cloth,  put  it  into  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
boil  three  hours.  Turn  out  the  flour  ])all,  and  scrape  off 
the  gluten  which  will  be  found  in  a  mass  on  the  outside  of 
the  ball  and  is  not  desirable.  The  inside  will  prove  a  dry 
powder,  which  is  very  astringent.  Grate  a  tablesp)oonfid 
of  this  powder  from  the  ball  as  wanted ;  wet  it  in  cold 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  429 

milk  or  loater,  and  stir  it  into  07ie  cup  of  boiling  milk. 
Boil  five  minutes.     Add  a  little  salt. 

This  is  excellent  for  teething  children.  If  they  be 
troubled  with  constipation,  use  one  quarter  part  com 
meal  and  three  quarters  wheat  flour,  boil  as  above,  and 
stir  some  of  the  grated  lump  into  boiling  cream  and  water^ 
using  one  part  cream  to  six  paints  water.  For  an  infant 
the  preparation  should  be  thin  enough  to  be  taken  from  a 
bottle.  Flour,  after  being  cooked  in  this  way  and  then 
reduced  to  a  finety  divided  form,  loses  its  adhesive 
quality ;  and  the  particles  are  more  easily  separated  and 
digested. 

Children  and  growing  persojis  need  the  most  nutritious 
food,  and  plent}^  of  it  at  regular  intervals ;  but  nothing 
stimulating  nor  exciting.  The}^  should  be  given,  and  com- 
pelled to  take,  sufficient  time  for  eating ;  and  should  be 
taught  to  masticate  everj'thing  slowly  and  thoroughly. 
They  should  eat  milk  ;  whole-wheat  and  cornmeal  bread  ; 
oatmeal,  farina,  and  hominy  mush ;  plenty  of  ripe  fruit 
raw,  and  stewed  fruit  sweetened ;  beef,  mutton,  veni- 
son, and  poultr}^,  either  roasted,  broiled,  or  boiled  ;  baked 
potatoes,  and  asparagus  ;  green  peas,  beans,  and  corn,  if 
ever}^  hull  be  first  broken  or  cut ;  eggs,  omelets,  and  cus- 
tards ;  plain  sponge  cake ;  ice-cream,  if  not  too  hard 
and  cold,  and  eaten  slowly ;  simple  fruit  and  bread 
puddings  ;  fruit,  tapioca,  and  farina ;  plain  gingerbread 
and  njolasses  cookies  ;  whole-wheat  cookies  and  wafers. 
Children  should  avoid  hot  bread  and  griddle- cakes ; 
fried  meats  or  cakes  or  doughnuts ;  highly  seasoned 
food ;  rich  gravies  ;  rich  pastry  and  cake  ;  pickles,  pre- 
serves, all  stimulants  such  as  tea  or  coffee  ;  raisins,  un- 
less cooked  three  hours  and  stoned ;  sago,  arrowroot,  and 
other  purely  starchy  foods,  except  when  combined  with 
milk,  eggs,  or  fruit,  and  eaten  with  sugar  and  cream ;  and 
especially  veal  and  pork.  Yeal  is  an  immature  meat,  lack- 
ing in  nourishment ;  and  of  the  free  use  of  pork,  apart 
from  the  question  of  the  trichinae,  a  majority  of  physi- 
cians believe  that  it  is  largely  responsible  for  the  forms  of 


430  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

scrofulous  disease  that  have  so  undermined  the  health  of 
civilized  nations. 

What  are  termed  the  "fancies"  of  delicate  persons, 
especially  children,  are  often  natural  instincts,  pointing 
out  what  is  beneficial  to  the  system,  or  the  reverse.  All 
children  have  a  fondness  for  sugar,  which  should  be  grati- 
fied in  moderation  rather  than  repressed.  Their  desire  for 
it  is  natural,  else  it  would  not  have  been  placed  in  the  milk 
which  forms  their  only  nourishment  in  infancy.  But  candy, 
rich  preserves,  and  cake  are  not  the  best  form  of  sweets 
for  children.  Pure  block  sugar  or  maple  sugar  is  better 
than  any  form  of  candy.  It  should  never  be  allowed  be- 
tween meals,  but  ma}^  be  given  occasionally  as  a  part  of 
the  dessert.  The  habit  of  munching  candy  between  meals 
destroys  the  appetite,  disturbs  the  digestion,  and  is  the 
cause  of  much  illness  among  children.  Children  troubled 
with  worms  should  avoid  sugar,  preserves,  and  green 
vegetables. 

Milk  should  enter  largely  into  the  diet  of  children.  It  con- 
tains caseine,  or  flesh-forming  material ;  cream  and  sugar, 
which  are  heat  producers ;  mineral  salts,  for  the  bony 
structure  ;  and  water,  as  a  solvent  for  all  the  other  materials 
necessar}^  in  nutrition.  It  should  be  used  with  discretion, 
however ;  not  drunk  immoderately,  but  taken  slowly  as 
food  after  the  pattern  given  by  nature.  Milk  as  taken  is 
a  fluid ;  but  as  soon  as  it  meets  the  acid  of  the  gastric 
juice,  it  is  changed  to  a  soft,  curdy,  cheese-like  substance, 
and  then  must  be  digested,  and  the  stomach  is  overtasked 
if  too  much  be  taken  at  once.  A  large  glass  of  milk  swal- 
lowed suddenly  will  form  in  the  stomach  a  lump  of  dense, 
cheesy  curd,  which  may  even  prove  fatal  to  a  weak  stomach. 
Under  the  action  of  the  stomach  this  cheesy  mass  will  turn 
over  and  over  like  a  heavy  weight ;  and  as  the  gastric  juice 
can  only  attack  its  surface,  it  digests  very  slowl}'.  But 
this  same  milk,  taken  slowly,  or  with  dry  toast,  light  rolls, 
or  soft  dry  porridge,  forms  a  porous  lump  through  which  the 
gastric  juice  can  easity  pass,  and  which  breaks  up  every 
time  the  stomach  turns  it  over.     Milk  should  be  shghtly 


The  Boston  Cook  book.  431 

salted,    and    eaten   with   bread    stuffs    or   sipped   b}^   the 
spoonful. 

Cow's  milk  produces  less  heat  than  human  milk  ;  a  child 
would  grow  thin  upon  it  unless  a  little  sugar  were  added. 
Wheat  flour  has  such  an  excess  of  heat-produciug  mate- 
rial as  would  fatten  a  child  unduly,  and  should  have  cow's 
milk  added  to  it  to  reduce  its  fattening  power. 

Hints  on  Diet  for  Invalids. 

Vanilla  should  not  be  used  as  a  flavoring  in  food  for 
sick  people.  It  is  medicinal ;  and  all  medicines  are  more 
or  less  poisonous,  and  are  not  to  be  taken  as  food. 

Pepper  is  allowable  when  a  slight  stimulant  is  needed. 
It  should  be  white  or  ca3^enne  pepper,  as  these  are  less  irri- 
tating than  black  pepper. 

Boiled  onions  are  soothing  to  the  mucous  membrane. 
In  inflammation  of  the  stomach  they  are  often  helpful 
when  a  piece  of  white  bread  could  not  be  digested. 

Broiled  or  roasted  squah^  venison^  chicken,  mutton^ 
and  heef^  in  the  order  given,  are  the  most  easily  assim- 
ilated meats. 

Game^  being  rich  in  phosphates,  is  valuable  for  invalids. 

Broiled  bacon,  dusted  with  cayenne,  is  an  easily  digested 
form  of  fat. 

Tomatoes  as  an  article  of  diet  are  considered  by  many 
phj^sicians  a  remed}^  for  dj^spepsia  and  indigestion. 

Wetter y^  green,  or  diseased  potatoes  should  never  be 
eaten.  If  there  be  onl}'  a  small  spot  of  deca}',  it  taints 
the  whole  potato.      Young  potatoes  are  very  indigestible. 

JEggs  for  sick  people  should  be  taken  raw.  When 
beaten  with  cold  milk,  they  are  more  quickh'  absorbed.  If 
cooked,  the}'  should  be  either  very  soft,  or  hard  enough  to  be 
easil}'  crumbled  to  a  powder,  as  in  any  intermediate  stage 
the  albumen  is  tough  instead  of  brittle,  and  being  tough  is 
insoluble  b}^  the  gastric  juice  ;  these  insoluble  portions  are 
often  delayed  in  the  stomach  or  intestines  till  they  putref}^ 
and  the  sulphuretted  hydrogen  and  ammonia  evolved  be- 
come  poisonous  to  the  intestinal  canal. 


432  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

fSoups  which  have  in  them  cream  or  milk  are  better  for 
invalids  than  those  rich  in  gelatine.  Cream  of  Celery 
and  JPotage  a  la  Reine  are  especially  suitable.  Strong 
Bouillon  is  adapted  to  those  suffering  from  hemorrhoids 
or  any  disease  of  the  rectum,  as  there  is  no  solid  waste. 

Dyspeptics  should  avoid  anything  which  they  (not 
others)  cannot  digest.  There  are  so  many  causes  for  and 
forms  of  dyspepsia,  that  it  is  impossible  to  prescribe  one 
and  the  same  diet  for  all.  Nothing  is  more  disagreeable 
or  useless  than  to  be  cautioned  against  eating  this  or  that, 
because  your  neighbor  "So-and-so"  cannot  eat  such 
things.  If  we  would  all  stud}"  the  nature  and  digestion  of 
food,  and  remember  that  air  and  exercise  are  as  essential 
as  food  in  promoting  good  health,  we  could  easil}^  decide 
upon  the  diet  best  suited  to  our  individual  needs. 

The  diabetic  should  abstain  from  sugar  and  anything 
which  is  converted  into  sugar  in  digestion,  such  as  all 
starch}"  foods,  —  fine  wheat  flour,  rice,  macaroni,  tapioca, 
liver,  potatoes,  beets,  carrots,  turnips,  parsnips,  peas, 
beans,  very  old  cheese,  sweet  omelets,  custards,  jellies, 
starchy  nuts,  sweet  sauces,  wine,  and  liquors.  He  may 
eat  oysters,  all  kinds  of  fish,  meat,  poultrj",  and  game, 
soups  without  any  starch}"  thickening,  lettuce,  cucumbers, 
watercresses,  dandelions,  3'oung  onions,  cold  slaw,  olives, 
cauliflower,  spinach,  cabbage,  string  beans,  ripe  fruit  of 
all  kinds  without  sugar,  cream,  butter,  milk  sparingly, 
gluten,  flour,  oil}"  nuts  freely  salted,  eggs,  cofiee,  and 
cocoa. 

The  corpulent  should  abstain  from  fat  as  well  as  sugar 
and  starch.  A  diet  of  whole-wheat,  milk,  vegetables, 
fruits,  and  lean  meat  will  produce  only  a  normal  amount  of 
fatness ;  whib  an  excess  of  sweets,  acids,  spices,  and 
shortening  keeps  the  system  in  an  unhealthful  condition. 

Those  who  can  digest  fine  flour,  pastry,  sugar,  and  fats 
become  loaded  with  fat,  but  are  neither  strong  nor  vigorous. 
Thin  people  with  weak  digestion  should  also  avoid  such 
food ;  for  thin  people  are  often  kept  thin  by  the  same  food 
which  makes  others  fat.     If  they  cannot  digest  the  starch, 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  433 

butter,  and  fine  flour,  the  system  is  kept  in  a  feverish,  dys- 
peptic state  ;  the}^  become  nervous  or  go  into  consumption 
for  no  other  reason  than  that  hfe  is  burned  out  by  a  diet 
which  only  feeds  the  fire  and  does  not  renew  the  tissues. 
' '  Men  dig  their  graves  with  their  teeth ;  not  only  hj 
drinking  whiskey  and  using  tobacco,  but  by  eating  food 
loaded  down  with  inflammatorj^  materials." 

The  hilious  and  gouty  should  eat  sparingl}*  of  brown 
meats,  cheese,  eggs,  beans,  peas,  or  food  which  is  rich  in 
albuminoids.  A  certain  amount  of  albuminoid  or  nitro- 
genized  food  is  requisite  for  tissue  growth  and  repair ; 
more  being  required  for  growing  persons  and  the  conva- 
lescent than  for  healthy  adults.  Most  Americans  are  in- 
clined to  eat  more  albuminoid  food  than  is  required.  It 
gives  a  sensation  of  energy,  of  being  equal  to  work,  which 
is  \QYY  pleasant.  But  when  we  have  "  too  much  of  a  good 
thing,"  more  than  is  needed  for  repair  of  tissue,  this  sur- 
plus of  albuminous  material  is  imperfect^  oxidized,  the 
blood  is  laden  with  waste,  and  biliousness  or  gout  is  the 
result.     Fish  gives  less  albuminoid  waste  than  meat. 

People  who  are  inclined  to  constipation  should  eat 
whole-wheat,  rj^e,  and  corn  bread  and  mushes,  ripe  fruit, 
berries,  green  corn,  vegetables,  beef,  mutton,  poultry, 
milk,  cream,  and  butter ;  and  should  avoid  fried  or  greasy 
food,  hot  bread,  rich  cake,  veal,  pork,  or  anything  which 
has  so  much  woodj^  fibre  or  cellulose  chat  it  onl}^  irritates 
the  digestive  canal,  such  as  the  outer  bran  of  wheat,  coarse 
oatmeal,  etc. 

Those  with  consimijJtive  tendencies  should  eat  whole- 
some, easil}'  digested  and  assimilated  food,  with  plentj'  of 
fat,  —  not  in  the  indigestible  form  that  it  takes  when 
mixed  with  starch,  but  as  in  cream,  sweet  butter,  fat  of 
roast  or  boiled  meat,  the  fat,  but  not  the  lean,  of  ham  and 
corned  beef,  oil,  salads,  corn-meal,  oatmeal,  etc. 

The  diet  of  people  who  are  well  should  be  governed 
largely  hj  their  age,  occupation,  and  exercise.  Adults 
should  have  a  variety  of  wholesome  food  cooked  in  different 
ways.     Aged  people  should  have  a  diet  more  like  that  of 

28 


434  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

children.  If  the  occupation  tax  the  muscular  strength^ 
use  muscle-maiiing  food  ;  not  wholly  meat,  as  man}'-  labor- 
ing people  are  inclined  to  think,  but  grains,  peas,  beans, 
cabbage,  milk,  cheese,  eggs,  whole- wheat  bread,  and 
chocolate,  with  a  small  amount  of  beef,  mutton,  and 
poultr3^  Students  and  hraiii-workers  need  more  of  brain- 
producing  and  less  of  muscle-making  food.  Brain  food 
must  contain  phosphorus,  which  is  found  largely  in  oysters, 
eggs,  fish,  lean  meat,  wheat,  peas,  beans,  and  fruit.  Those 
who  are  engaged  in  sedentary  occupations^  who  take 
little  exercise  and  live  in  close,  confined  rooms,  should 
eat  onl}^  the  most  easily  digested  food. 

People  who  engage  in  regular  active  labor,  who  take 
plent}'  of  exercise  In  the  open  air,  cultivate  a  cheerful, 
happy  disposition,  live  temperate^  in  every  vra}',  and  have 
naturalty  strong  digestive  organs,  can  eat  an}^  kind  of 
wholesome  food  that  has  been  properl}'  cooked,  and  have 
no  consciousness  of  a  stomach  or  any  visceral  organs  ;  and 
appetite,  unless  previous!}-  impaired,  is  their  best  guide. 
If  the  digestive  organs  be  not  strong  naturall}',  such  a 
mode  of  life  as  the  above  will  tend  to  make  them  so,  more 
than  any  amount  of  drugs  or  quack  medicines. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  435 


MISCELLANEOUS   HINTS. 

To  Chop  Suet.  —  Cut  into  small  pieces  and  remoye 
the  membrane.  Sprinkle  with  flour,  and  chop  in  a  cold 
place  to  prevent  its  becoming  soft  and  sticky. 

To  Clean  Currants,  —  Put  them  in  a  squash  strainer, 
and  sprinkle  thickly  with  flour.  Rub  them  well  until  they 
are  separated,  and  the  flour,  grit,  and  fine  stems  have 
passed  through  the  strainer.  Then  place  the  strainer  and 
currants  in  a  pan  of  water,  and  wash  thoroughl}^  Lift 
the  strainer  and  currants  together,  and  change  the  water 
till  clear.  Drain  between  towels,  and  pick  over  carefully. 
Dr}'  them  in  a  sunny  place  or  between  towels,  but  do  not 
harden  them  by  putting  them  into  the  oven. 

To  Stone  Raisins.  —  Pour  boiling  water  over  them, 
and  let  them  stand  in  it  five  or  ten  minutes.  Dram,  and 
rub  each  raisin  between  the  thumb  and  finger  till  the  seeds 
come  out  clean,  then  cut  or  tear  apart,  or  chop,  if  wanted 
very  fine. 

Core  Apples  before  paring,  and  there  is  less  danger  of 
their  breaking. 

Egg  Shells.  —  Wash  eggs  as  soon  as  the^^  come  from 
the  market,  and  then  the  shells  may  be  used  in  clearing 
cofiee,  soup,  etc. 

To  Boil  a  Pudding  in  a  Cloth.  —  Wring  strong  cotton 
cloth  out  of  boiling  water,  and  spread  over  a  bowl. 
Sprinkle  with  fiour,  fill  with  the  pudding,  draw  the  cloth 
together,  and  tie  tightty,  then  flour  near  the  opening. 
Plunge  into  boiling  water,  and  keep  the  water  boiling 
during  the  time  for  cooking.  Add  boiling  water  as  needed, 
and  replenish  the  fire  often. 

Meringues  should  be  put  on  puddings  after  they  are 
slightly  cool,  as,  if  the  pudding  hs  hot,  the  e^g  will  liquefy. 


436  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Moulds  should  be  greased  for  any  steamed  mixture  ; 
wet  in  cold  water  for  jellj',  creams,  etc.  ;  and  neither  wet 
nor  greased  if  to  be  lined  with  cake.  A  mould  of  jelly 
will  cool  quicker  if  placed  in  a  pan  of  ice  water  or  snow 
than  in  the  ice-chest. 

Candied  or  Crystallized  Fruit  or  Nuts.  (^Mrs.  Camp- 
hell.)  —  Boil  07ie  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  one  cup  of 
boiling  water  together  for  half  an  hour.  Then  dip  the 
point  of  a  skewer  into  the  syrup  and  then  into  cold  water. 
If  the  thread  formed  break  off  brittle,  the  syrup  is  ready. 
The  sjTup  must  never  be  stirred,  and  must  boil  slowly, 
not  furiously.  When  done,  set  the  saucepan  in  boiling 
water,  or  pour  the  syrup  into  a  bowl  placed  in  hot  water, 
to  keep  the  sjTup  from  candjdng.  Take  the  prepared 
fruit  or  nuts  on  the  point  of  a  large  needle  or  fine  skewer, 
dip  them  into  the  sja'up,  and  then  lay  them  on  a  dish, 
which  has  been  lightly  buttered  or  oiled  ;  or  string  them 
on  a  thread,  and  after  dipping  in  the  syrup  suspend  them 
by  the  thread.  When  oranges  are  used,  divide  them  into 
eighths,  and  wipe  all  moisture.  Cherries  should  be  stoned. 
English  walnuts  are  especiallj^  nice  prepared  in  this  waj^ 

To  Blanch  Almonds  and  other  Nuts.  —  Remove  the 
shells,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand  till  the 
dark  skin  will  rub  off  easily.  Then  put  them  in  cold 
water,  rub  off  the  skins,  and  dry  between  towels. 

Corned  Meat.  —  Fresh  meat  may  be  kept  some  time  by 
corning  it  slightly.  Wipe  carefulty,  and  remove  any  parts 
that  are  not  sweet  and  fresh,  then  rub  all  over  thickly 
with  salt.  Or  make  a  brine  with  rock  salt  and  cold  water ; 
use  salt  enough  to  float  the  meat,  then  cover,  and  put 
a  heavy  weight  on  the  cover  to  keep  the  meat  under  the 
brine.     Three  days'  time  is  sufficient  for  corned  meat. 

To  Make  Paper  Boxes.  —  These  can  be  obtained,  in  a 
variet}'  of  forms,  from  the  confectioner ;  but  plain  ones 
may  be  made  in  this  wa3^  Take  a  piece  of  stiff  white 
paper,  five  inches  square.  Find  the  centre  of  the  square 
by  folding  two  opposite  corners  together  and  creasing 
lightly  in  the  middle,  then  open  and  fold  the  other  two  in 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  437 


the  same  way.  Fold  the  two  sides  over  till  they  meet  la 
the  centre,  then  fold  the  two  ends.  Open,  and  cut  in  the 
fold  down  to  the  line  at  each  end,  but  not  on  the  side. 
Fold  the  sides  over  on  the  outside  about  one  quarter  of  an 
inch ;  then  fold  the  middle  part  of  the  end  in  the  same 
way.  Then  turn  the  ends  of  the  side  pieces  round  behind 
the  end,  and  let  them  meet  in  the  middle,  and  fold  the 
edge  of  the  end  over  them.  Fasten  the  ends  with  a  few 
stitches  or  with  paste.  A  border  of  fancy  perforated  paper 
ma}"  be  pasted  on  the  edge. 

A  Pastry  Bag.  —  One  third  of  a  yard  of  yard-wide 
rubber  sheeting  will  make  three  bags  one  foot  square. 
Fold  two  opposite  corners  together,  stitch  along  the  edge, 
and  make  a  triangular  bag.  Cut  off  at  the  point  to  make 
an  opening  large  enough  to  insert  the  end  of  a  tin  tube. 
It  is  convenient  to  have  three  bags,  with  openings  of 
different  sizes,  —  one  for  eclairs,  one  for  lady  fingers,  and 
one  for  frosting.  The  tube  for  eclairs  is  three  fourths  ot 
an  inch  wide  at  the  small  end  ;  that  for  lad}'  fingers,  three 
eighths  of  an  inch  ;  and  the  frosting  tubes,  of  various  sizes, 
some  of  them  quite  small.  Fit  the  tube  into  the  opening, 
and  fill  the  bag  with  the  mixture.  Draw  the  edges  together, 
and  twist  the  top  tightly  to  keep  out  the  air.  Hold  the 
bag  in  the  left  hand,  with  the  tube  close  to  the  place  where 
the  mixture  is  to  be  spread  ;  press  with  the  right,  and  guide 
the  mixture  into  any  shape  desired.  A  slight  pressure  is 
suflftcient.  When  no  longer  needed,  wash  the  bags  in  cold 
(never  in  hot)  water,  and  dr}^  carefully. 

Vanilla  Sugar.  —  One  pound  of  lump  sugar  and  one 
ounce  of  Mexican  vanilla  beans.  Cut  the  beans  in  small 
pieces,  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  with  the  sugar,  till  fine 
like  flour.  Sift  through  a  fine  strainer,  pound  the  remain- 
der again,  and  sift  till  all  is  fine.  Keep  in  a  tightl}" 
corked  bottle.  Use  a  tahlespoonful  for  a  quart  of  ice- 
cream. Or  cut  the  beans  into  small  pieces,  and  split  them 
that  the  seeds  may  be  exposed.  Put  an  ounce  of  the 
beans  in  a  small  jar  with  a  pound  of  sugar.  Sift  the 
sugar  as  required,    and  use  as  above  ;  add   more   sugar. 


438  The  Boston  Cook  Booh 

keep  closely  covered,  and  use  as  long  as  there  is  any  flavor 
in  the  sugar. 

Cammed  Fruit  Juices.  —  Fruit  juices  may  be  kept  for 
a  long  time  by  canning  the  same  as  whole  fruit.  They 
are  convenient  for  water  ices  and  summer  beverages. 
Mash  the  fruit,  and  rub  the  pulp  tlirough  a  fine  sieve. 
Mix  about  three  pounds  of  sugar  with  one  quart  of  fruit 
juice  and  pulp.  Fill  Mason's  jars  with  the  sjTup,  cover, 
and  place  in  a  heater  with  cold  water  to  come  nearly  to 
the  top  of  the  jar.  Let  the  water  boil  half  an  hour,  then 
fill  each  jar  to  the  brim,  seal,  and  cool  in  the  water. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  439 


THE   DINING-ROOM. 

The  subjects  of  "  The  Arrangement  of  the  Table," 
^'Dinner-Giving,"  and  "Bills  of  Fare"  have  been  fully 
treated  in  other  cook  books,  and  it  would  be  difficult  to 
add  to  what  has  already  been  said.  Hints  on  garnishing, 
carving,  and  appropriate  combinations  of  dishes  have  been 
given  in  connection  with  many  of  these  receipts  ;  and  want 
of  space  forbids  an^'thing  more  than  some  general  rules. 

Above  all  things,  attempt  nothing  in  style  or  expense 
bej'ond  what  3'ou  can  well  afford.  There  is  no  more  paltry 
ambition,  nothing  that  contains  more  certainly  the  seeds  of 
unhappiness  and  disaster,  than  such  a  desire  for  "empty 
show,"  which  all  sensible  people  must  despise. 

Let  3^our  breakfasts  be  of  wholesome  and  substantial 
food.  The  system  needs  nourishment  in  the  morning  after 
the  long,  unbroken  fast  of  the  night.  The  practice  of  tak- 
ing only  a  cup  of  tea  or  coffee  with  hot  biscuit,  and  possi- 
bly pie  or  doughnuts,  gives  a  very  poor  foundation  for  the 
morning's  labor,  which  is  and  should  be  the  hard  labor  of 
the  day.  Milk,  coffee,  or  chocolate,  mushes,  fruits,  pota- 
toes or  bread,  meat,  fish,  or  eggs,  in  some  of  their  simple 
and  digestible  combinations  should  form  the  basis  of  the 
breakfast.  The  morning  meal  should  be  taken  as  soon  as 
possible  after  rising.  An}^  prolonged  bodily  exertion  or 
exposure  to  the  earl}^  morning  air,  before  the  stomach  is 
fortified  by  food,  is  now  condemned  by  the  majority  of 
physicians. 

The  midday  and  evening  meal  may  vary  with  the  occu- 
pations and  habits  of  the  family ;  but  a  regular  hour  for 
eating  should  be  observed,  whether  the  more  substantial 
meal  come  at  noon  or  night ;  and  if  at  night  sufficient  time 
should  be  allowed  for  digestion  to  be  completed  before 


440  The  Boston  Cook  Booh, 

sleeping.  A  supper  of  cold  bread  and  cake  or  pie  is 
neither  appetizing  nor  satisfying  for  those  who  have  been 
hard  at  work  through  the  day.  "  Something  warm  or 
hearty,  something  for  a  relish,"  every  man  craves  for 
supper.  Toast,  brewis,  warm  tea-cakes,  cocoa,  oatmeal, 
warmed-over  potatoes,  cold  meat,  made  dishes,  eggs, 
oysters,  etc.,  are  far  better  than  the  common  supper  of 
sweets. 

Every  one  may  have  clean,  if  not  fine,  table  linen.  An 
under  covering  of  cotton  flannel  or  felt  made  to  fit  the 
table  is  desirable,  as  it  prevents  noise,  and  a  linen  cloth 
may  be  laid  over  it  more  smoothly  than  over  the  bare  table. 
Thin  tablecloths  remain  fresh  longer  if  stiffened  slightly 
with  ver}^  thin  starch,  but  heavy  damask  requires  no  stif- 
fening. Keep  the  cloths  in  a  drawer  large  enough  to  hold 
them  without  much  folding.  Avoid  making  many  folds  in 
ironing,  and  in  handling  them  fold  always  in  the  creases. 
In  laying  the  cloth,  place  the  centre  of  it  in  the  centre  of 
the  table,  and  have  the  folds  straight  with  the  edges  of  the 
table.  Crease  the  cloth  round  the  edge  of  the  table,  that 
it  may  drape  smoothly. 

Lay  a  plate,  right  side  up,  for  each  person.  If  the  table 
be  long,  place  one  plate  at  each  end,  and  those  at  the  sides 
opposite  each  other.  Place  the  napkin  at  the  left  of  the 
plate,  and  at  dinner  place  a  piece  of  bread  between  the 
folds  of  the  napkin.  Place  the  knives,  butter  plate,  and 
tumbler  at  the  right  of  each  plate,  the  forks  at  the  left,  and 
the  soup  and  dessert  spoons  in  front,  the  handles  toward 
the  right  hand,  —  the  number  of  each  depending  upon  the 
number  of  courses.  The  fruit  dish  or  flowers  should  occupy 
the  centre  of  the  table ;  the  salt  and  pepper,  butter,  jelly, 
pickles,  etc.,  at  the  corners.  Place  the  various  dishes  on 
the  table  in  regular  order,  straight  with  the  table,  or,  if  at 
an  angle,  let  there  be  some  uniformity,  never  helter-skelter. 
The  cups,  plates,  and  dishes  for  hot  food  should  be  heated 
in  hot  water  or  in  a  warming-oven.  Use  a  spoon  to  place 
ice  in  delicate  glasses  or  pitchers  ;  or  put  in  the  water  first* 
and  then  the  ice,  to  avoid  breaking. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  441 

Do  not  let  the  table  become  disordered  during  the  meal. 
The  dishes,  plates,  etc.,  should  be  removed  noiselessh^,  one 
by  one  ;  and  never  piled  one  upon  another,  after  the  hasty 
fashion  of  second-class  hotels. 

If  the  serving  be  done  by  the  host  and  hostess,  it  is  more 
convenient  for  them  to  sit  at  the  sides  of  the  table ;  the 
host  serving  the  substantial  dishes,  and  the  hostess  the  tea 
or  coffee,  vegetables  or  entrees,  puddings,  and  the  dessert. 
Where  there  are  servants  to  do  the  waiting,  the  host  and 
hostess  may  sit  at  the  ends  of  the  table,  as  there  the}^  can 
command  a  better  view  of  their  guests,  and  see  that  they 
are  properly  served.  The  hostess  should  serve  the  soup, 
salad,  dessert,  and  coffee  ;  the  host,  the  fish  and  meat ;  and 
the  servants,  the  vegetables  and  entrees. 

At  a  dinner  served  a  la  Husse^  the  fruit  and  flowers  only 
are  placed  upon  the  table,  the  several  courses  being  served 
from  the  side. 

Man}'  volumes  have  been  written  upon  table  etiquette. 
Some  of  the  suggestions  the}^  contain  are  practical ;  others 
useless.  What  is  considered  proper  at  one  place  or  time 
is  not  approved  under  other  circumstances ;  and  those 
desirous  of  observing  the  usages  of  good  society  are 
often  sorely  perplexed  to  keep  pace  with  the  variations 
of  fashion.  But  if,  instead  of  following  mere  arbitrar}" 
rules  from  the  low  standpoint  of  "  style,"  we  would  take 
for  our  guidance  the  best  definition  of  true  politeness  as 
given  by  Dr.  Watts,  —  "  Love  manifested  in  an  easy  and 
graceful  manner,"  —  we  need  never  be  at  a  loss  as  to  "  what 
to  do  and  what  not  to  do."  A  moment's  observation  will 
show  the  strictness  of  etiquette  maintained  in  the  family 
in  which  you  may  be  a  guest,  —  for  instance,  whether  the 
servants  are  expected  to  take  entire  charge  of  serving 
everything,  or  whether  the  family  reserve  to  themselves 
something  of  the  happy  privilege  of  courtesy  and  thought 
for  each  other ;  and  jo\jl  may  forget  with  them,  in  the 
mutual  interchange  of  the  proper  attentions,  that  freezing 
formahty  which  sometimes  forbids  that  you  should  seem  to 
know  or  care  how  j^our  neighbor  fares.     "Think  not  of 


442  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

yourself,  but  of  what  will  contribute  most  to  another's  com- 
fort or  convenience,"  remembering  that  for  the  time  being 
utter  deference  should  be  paid  to  the  evident  arrangement 
of  the  house  at  which  you  are.  This  is  the  safest  stand- 
ard for  table  etiquette,  as  well  as  for  good  manners  every- 
where. No  selfish  person  can  ever  be  trul}^  polite.  Children 
should  be  carefully  trained  in  table  manners  as  soon  as 
the}^  are  old  enough  to  come  to  the  table,  and  accustomed 
to  perfect  politeness  ;  then  there  will  be  no  fear  of  mis- 
haps, nor  special  training  needed  for  "  company,"  nor  any 
awkward  habits  to  be  overcome  in  later  life. 

After  a  meal  brush  up  any  crumbs  that  may  have  fallen, 
lest  the}"  be  trodden  into  the  carpet.  Collect  the  knives, 
forks,  and  spoons  by  themselves.  Put  any  food  that  may 
be  used  again  on  small  dishes,  never  on  the  dishes  used  in 
serving.  Scrape  the  dishes,  empty  and  rinse  the  cups, 
and  pack  neatly  near  where  they  are  to  be  washed.  Brush 
the  crumbs  from  the  cloth,  instead  of  shaking  it,  then  fold 
and  put  it  awaj^  carefully. 

Never  pile  nice  china  or  anj^  other  dishes  in  the  dishpan. 
Begin  with  a  pan  half  filled  with  hot  soapy  water.  Keep 
the  soap  in  a  shaker  made  for  that  purpose,  or  in  a  tin 
cup  ;  make  a  strong  lather  in  the  cup,  and  use  as  needed. 
Never  leave  the  soap  in  the  dishpan  to  waste  and  stick  to 
the  dishes.  Wash  glasses  first.  Slip  them  in  sideways, 
so  that  the  hot  water  will  touch  outside  and  inside  at  once, 
and  then  there  will  be  no  danger  of  breaking  from  unequal 
expansion.  Wash  one  at  a  time,  and  wipe  instantl}'  with- 
out draining  or  rinsing.  Wash  the  silver  and  wipe  at  once, 
as  it  keeps  bright  longer  if  wiped  out  of  hot  soapy  water. 
Keep  a  cake  of  silver  soap  at  hand,  and  rub  each  piece  of 
silver  as  soon  as  discolored.  Then  wash  the  china,  begin- 
ning with  the  cups,  saucers,  pitchers,  and  least  greasy 
dishes,  and  changing  the  water  as  soon  as  cool  or  greasy. 
Place  these  dishes  in  the  rinsing-pan  with  the  cups  inside 
up  and  plates  resting  on  the  edges,  that  the}-  may  be 
scalded  inside  as  well  as  outside,  and  drain  quickly. 
Scald  and  wipe  immediately. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  443 

"Dave's"  method  of  washing  dishes,  though  not  in 
general  use,  has  been  proved  satisfactory^  Place  a  pan 
of  cold  water  between  the  washing  and  rinsing  pans. 
After  washing  and  wiping  the  glasses  and  silver,  add 
more  hot  water,  and  wash  the  china  first  in  the  hot  suds, 
then  dip  each  dish  instantl}^  into  the  cold  water,  and  stand 
it  on  the  edge  to  drain  in  the  rinsing-pan.  The  cold  water 
rinses  off  the  hot  suds,  and  the  sudden  change  of  tempera- 
ture dries  the  dishes  almost  instantly ;  and  they  require 
little  or  no  wiping.  They  will  be  neither  "  sticky  nor 
streak}'." 

Where  there  is  only  one  woman  for  "  cook,  waitress, 
hostess,  and  kitchen  girl,"  it  is  well,  after  the  table  is 
cleared  and  the  dishes  neatty  packed,  to  wash  first  the 
kitchen  dishes,  and  pots  and  kettles ;  then  with  clean 
water  and  towels  wash  and  wipe  the  table  dishes.  The 
hands  will  be  left  in  much  better  condition  than  when  the 
pots  and  kettles  are  washed  last. 

The  Care  of  Kitchen  Utensils. 

A  complete  list  of  kitchen  utensils  is  not  given  in  this 
work,  as  the  variety  and  number  needed  will  be  largely 
determined  by  circumstances.  There  are  several  utensils, 
which  are  not  perhaps  in  general  use,  which  lessen  the 
labor  of  cooking,  and  add  much  to  the  attractiveness  of 
food  prepared  hj  their  aid. 

There  is  nothing  that  makes  so  much  difference  between 
ordinarj^  and  delicate  cooking  as  a  set  of  strainers.  There 
should  be  one  of  very  fine  wire  for  sifting  soda,  spices, 
etc.,  and  for  straining  custards  and  jellies ;  others  with 
meshes  from  one  sixteenth  to  one  eighth  of  a7i  inch  in 
diameter ;  also  a  squash  strainer  and  a  colander.  Ex- 
tension wire  straioiers  are  very  convenient.  Keep  also  a 
suppl}^  of  strainer  cloths^  made  from  coarse  crash  or  cheese 
cloth,  and  fine  napkin  linen. 

A  set  of  oval  tin  moulds.,  a  melon  mould,  and  one  or 
two  fancy  moulds  are  convenient  for  entrees,  puddings, 
and  jellies. 


444  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

Other  useful  articles  are  Dover  egg-beaters^  large  and 
small ;  ordinary  small  wooden  spoons  and  the  larger  per- 
forated ones  ;  a  lohip  churn  ;  granite  saucepans  and  stew- 
pans^  holding  from  half  a  pint  to  six  quarts ;  double 
boilers;  2,wirebashetiQvfYYv^%\  ^  potato  slicer  ;  2^. fine  wire 
broiler  for  toast,  and  two  coarser  ones  for  steak  and  fish  ; 
a  SQt  of  pastry  bags  and  frosting  tubes  ;  fancy  vegetable 
cutters;  a  glass  rolling-pin;  and,  above  all,  a  small 
sharp-pointed  knife,  made  from  the  best  steel,  for  paring 
potatoes,  turnips,  etc.,  and  a  set  of  tin  measuring-cups 
holding  half  a  pint,  and  divided  into  quarters  and  thirds. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  have  many  large,  unwieldy  dishes. 
Small  saucepans  and  small  bowls  are  more  convenient,  and 
granite  or  agate  ware  is  much  lighter  to  handle  and  more 
easily  kept  clean  than  ironware.  Buckets  are  convenient 
for  keeping  sugar  and  small  quantities  of  flour.  Glass  jars 
or  wide-mouthed  bottles  are  best  for  nearly  all  groceries, 
such  as  rice,  tapioca,  meal,  raisins,  etc.  They  are  easilj^ 
cleansed,  and  the  contents  are  plainly  seen.  They  ma}'  be 
kept  air-tight,  or,  if  that  be  unnecessary,  old  jars  not  suit- 
able for  canning  may  be  utilized. 

A  refrigerator  should  be  examined  daily  and  kept  thor- 
oughly clean.  If  a  suitable  brush  cannot  be  had,  a  long 
stiff  wire  with  a  bit  of  cloth  on  the  end  should  be  used  to 
clean  the  drain  pipe.  Pour  boiling  washing-soda  water 
through  it  every  other  da}',  and  do  not  forget  to  wash  off 
the  slime  that  adheres  to  the  water  pan.  Fish,  onions, 
cheese,  any  strong  vegetables,  lemons,  or  meat  not  per- 
fectly sweet,  should  not  be  kept  in  the  same  ice-box  with 
milk  or  butter. 

Do  not  become  wedded  to  the  idea  that  dishes  can  only 
be  washed  in  a  sink.  If  your  pantry  or  cookroom  be  some 
distance  from  j^our  sink,  and  have  a  broad  shelf  or  table 
in  it,  take  your  dishpan  to  the  pantry,  wash  and  wipe  A'our 
dishes  there,  and  in  this  way  save  a  few  of  the  unneces- 
sar}'  steps  which  soon  amount  to  miles  with  many  weary 
housekeepers. 

Never  wash  a  bread-board  in  an  iron  sink.     The  iron 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  445 

will  leave  a  black  mark  on  the  board,  which  it  is  difficult 
to  remove.  Wash  the  board  on  the  table  where  you  have 
used  it ;  use  cold  water,  and  scrub  occasionally  with  sand 
soap.  In  scraping  dough  from  the  board,  scrape  with  the 
grain  of  the  wood,  and  hold  the  knife  in  a  slanting  direc- 
tion, to  prevent  roughening  the  surface  of  the  board. 
Wash,  and  wipe  dry,  and  never  let  dough  accumulate  in 
the  cracks.  Have  one  board  for  bread  and  pastry,  and 
keep  it  smooth.  Use  a  smaller  board  for  rolling  crumbs 
and  pounding  and  cleaning  meat  and  fish. 

A  Dover  egg-beater  should  never  be  left  to  soak  in 
water,  as  the  oil  will  be  washed  out  of  the  gears  and  the 
beater  be  hard  to  turn  ;  or,  if  used  again  before  it  be  dr}^, 
the  oil  and  water  will  spatter  into  the  beaten  mixture. 
Use  it  with  clean  hands,  and  then  the  handle  will  require 
no  washing.  Wipe  the  wires  with  a  damp  cloth  immedi- 
ately after  using,  dr}'  thoroughlj^,  and  keep  it  well  oiled. 

All  dishes  should  be  scraped  before  washing.  A  small 
wooden  knife  is  best  for  this  purpose.  Bread  and  cake 
bowls,  or  any  dishes  in  which  flour  or  eggs  have  been 
used,  are  more  easilj^  cleaned  if  placed  in  cold  water  after 
using,  or  washed  immediatel3\ 

Clear  up  as  you  work  :  it  takes  but  a  moment  then,  and 
saves  much  time  and  fatigue  afterward. 

Never  put  pans  and  kettles  half  filled  with  water  on  the 
stove  to  soak.  It  onl}^  hardens  whatever  may  have  ad- 
hered to  the  kettle,  and  makes  it  much  more  difficult  to 
clean.  Keep  them  full  of  cold  water,  and  soak  them  away 
from  the  heat. 

Kitchen  knives  and  forks  should  never  be  placed  in  the 
dish  water.  Many  err  in  thinking  it  is  only  the  handles 
which  should  not  be  wet.  The  practice  of  putting  the 
blades  into  a  pitcher  of  very  hot  water  is  wrong,  as  the 
sudden  expansion  of  the  steel  by  the  heat  causes  the  han- 
dles to  crack.  Keep  the  knives  out  of  the  water,  but  wash 
thoroughly  with  the  dishcloth,  rub  them  with  mineral  soap 
or  brick  dust,  and  wipe  them  dry.  Keep  them  bright,  and 
sharpen  often  on  a   sandstone.     The   disadvantage   and 


44^  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

vexation  of  dull  tools  would  be  avoided  if  every  woman 
would  learn  to  use  a  whetstone,  and  where  and  when  to 
api)l3^  a  little  oil. 

Milk  will  sour  quickly  if  put  into  dishes  which  have  not 
been  scalded.  They  should  first  be  washed  in  clear  cold 
water,  then  in  hot  soapy  water,  then  rinsed  in  clear  boil- 
ing water,  and  wiped  with  a  dry  fresh  towel.  Do  not  for- 
get to  scrape  the  seams  and  grooves  of  a  double  boiler. 

Ironware  should  be  washed,  outside  as  well  as  inside,  in 
hot  soap3^  water,  rinsed  in  clean  hot  water,  and  wiped  drj', 
not  with  the  dishcloth,  but  with  a  dry  towel.  Dripping- 
pans,  Scotch  bowls,  and  other  greasy  dishes  should  be 
scraped,  and  wiped  with  soft  paper,  which  will  absorb  the 
grease.  The  paper  will  be  found  useful  in  kindling  the 
fire,  and  is  a  great  saving  of  water,  which  is  sometimes 
an  object.  A  tablespoonful  of  soda  added  to  the  water 
will  facilitate  the  cleaning. 

Kitchen  mineral  soap  or  pumice  stone  may  be  used 
freely  on  all  dishes.  It  will  remove  the  stains  from 
white  knife  handles,  the  brown  substance  that  adheres  to 
earthen  or  tin  baking-dishes,  and  the  soot  which  collects 
on  pans  and  kettles  used  over  a  wood  or  kerosene  fire. 
Tins  should  be  washed  in  clean ^  hot  soap}'  water.  Rub 
them  frequently  with  mineral  soap,  and  the}^  may  be  kept 
as  bright  as  when  new.  Saucepans  and  other  tin  or 
granite  dishes  browned  by  use  ma_y  be  cleaned  by  letting 
them  remain  half  an  hour  in  boiling  soda  water,  then 
rubbing  with  a  wire  dishcloth  or  stiff  brush. 

A  new  tin  coffee-pot,  if  never  washed  on  the  inside 
with  soap,  may  be  kept  much  sweeter.  Wash  the  outside, 
and  rinse  the  inside  thoroughly  with  clear  water.  Then 
put  it  on  the  stove  to  dry,  and  when  dry  rub  the  inside 
well  with  a  clean,  dry  cloth.  AH  the  brown  sediment 
ma}^  be  wiped  off  in  that  wa}-,  but  a  soapy  dishcloth  should 
never  be  put  inside. 

Keep  a  granite  pan  near  the  sink  to  use  in  washing 
vegetables,  and  use  the  hand  basin  only  for  its  legitimate 
purpose.     Pare  vegetables  into  the  pan,  and  not  into  the 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  447- 

sink.  A  strainer  or  any  old  quart  tin  pan  with  small 
holes  in  the  bottom  is  a  great  help  in  keeping  a  sink  clean. 
Pour  the  coffee  and  tea  grounds,  the  dish  water,  and 
everything  that  is  turned  into  the  sink  through  the  strainer 
first,  and  then  empty  the  contents  of  the  strainer  into  the 
refuse  pail. 

Never  use  a  ragged  or  linty  dishcloth.  The  lint  collects 
round  the  sink  spout,  and  often  causes  a  serious  obstruc- 
tion. A  dish  mop  is  best  for  cups  and  cleanest  dishes, 
but  a  strong  linen  cloth  should  be  used  for  ever3'thing 
which  requires  hard  rubbing.  Wash  the  sink  thoroughl3^,. 
flush  the  drainpipe  often  with  hot  suds  or  soda  water, 
wipe  dry,  and  rub  with  a  greased  cloth  or  with  kerosene. 
Keep  it  greased  if  3'ou  wish  to  prevent  its  rusting. 

Cremation  is  the  most  satisfactory  way  of  disposing  of 
kitchen  refuse,  both  as  a  matter  of  convenience  and  foi*- 
sanitary  reasons.  But  if  there  must  be  other  disposition 
made  of  it,  keep  two  pails  and  use  them  alternately, 
cleansing  each  as  soon  as  emptied. 

Wash  dish  towels  in  cold  water,  with  plent}^  of  soap, 
and  rinse  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  ever}^  time  the}^  are 
used.  If  left  to  dr}-  without  washing,  they  will  be  sticks' 
to  handle  and  have  a  disagreeable  odor.  If  the  dishes 
be  well  washed,  rinsed,  and  drained,  the  dish  towels  will 
require  no  rubbing.  It  is  easier  to  take  care  of  three  or 
four  which  have  ncA^er  been  left  to  become  grimy  than  to 
wash  one  after  it  is  stained  and  saturated  with  grease. 
Towels  used  in  this  way  may  be  kept  sweet  and  clean 
without  boiling  or  drying  in  the  sun.  This  method  has 
been  proved  b}'  j'ears  of  trial. 

With  a  little  care  in  observing  these  hints,  and  alwaj'S 
using  clean,  hot  soapy  water  (and  not  a  liquid  fit  onl}^  for 
the  swill  cart) ,  changing  it  as  soon  as  greasy,  dish-washing 
would  be  robbed  of  half  its  terrors.  And  after  the  work 
is  done,  if  the  hands  be  carefully  washed  with  Castile  soap, 
not  with  strong  washing-soap,  and  wiped  dry,  no  un- 
pleasant effect  upon  the  skin  will  be  felt.  Some  use  a  little 
vinegar  to  counteract  the  effect  of  the  alkali  in  the  soap. 


448  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

A  large  apron  made  like  a  child's  tire,  high  in  the  neck, 
with  long  sleeves,  and  buttoned  in  the  back,  is  the  best 
pattern  for  a  work  apron.  It  protects  the  entire  dress, 
and  can  be  easily  removed  when  one  is  called  from  the 
kitchen.  Print  or  cambric  with  a  white  ground  and  small 
black  figures  wears  better  than  colored  print. 

New,  white  mosquito  netting  and  cheese  cloth  are  useful 
for  draining  lettuce  and  for  putting  around  fish,  chicken, 
or  vegetables  which  require  careful  boiling  ;  also  for  bags 
for  herbs  and  spices.  Small  squares  of  new  cotton  cloth 
are  useful  for  wiping  meat  or  fish.  Keep  them  clean,  and 
use  for  nothing  else. 

Keep  a  good  supply  of  small  holders,  large  coarse 
towels  to  use  about  the  oven,  and  fine  crash  towels  for 
wiping  dishes.  Keep  a  damp  towel  on  the  table  when 
cooking,  for  wiping  the  hands.  Avoid  the  habit  of  work- 
ing with  sticky  or  flour}^  fingers,  or  using  jow:  apron  for  a 
hand  towel  or  oven  holder,  or  using  the  dish  towels  about 
the  stove. 

These  suggestions  are  given  by  one  who  has  alwaj's 
liked  to  wash  dishes,  and  who  thinks  it  not  beneath  the 
clignit}^  of  any  woman  to  learn  to  do  such  work  in  the 
very  best  manner,  and  that  no  apolog}^  is  needed  for 
acknowledging  a  taste  for  this  much-abused  portion  of 
domestic  work. 


AN 

OUTLINE  OF  STUDY  FOR  TEACHERS. 


FOOD: 

ITS  USES,  CLASSIFICATION,  AND  PROPORTION. 

Webster  defines  food  as  "  anything  that  supports  and  nour- 
ishes life." 

The  kingdom  of  nature  is  divided  into  organic  and  inorganic 
bodies.  Organic  bodies  have  life;  inorganic  bodies  are  without 
life.  Organic  bodies  are  composed  of  several  reciprocal  parts, 
each  of  which  is  necessary  to,  and  dependent  upon,  all  the  other 
parts.  Organic  bodies,  therefore,  include  plants  and  animals,  and 
inorganic  bodies  include  earths,  metals,  and  minerals.  Organic 
bodies  spring  from  some  parent  or  immediate  producing  agent ; 
they  are  supported  by  means  of  nourishment,  and  die  without  it ; 
they  increase  in  size  by  the  addition  of  new  particles  of  matter 
to  all  parts  of  their  substances.  Inorganic  bodies  are  formed  by 
some  chemical  law  or  union,  and  grow  only  by  addition  to  their 
surfaces. 

Organic  and  inorganic  bodies  are  continually  wasting  away  or 
wearing  out.  Waste  takes  place  in  all  objects,  animate  and  in- 
animate. The  minutest  change  in  position  in  any  plant,  ani- 
mal, or  rock  cannot  be  effected  without  some  loss  of  substance. 
It  has  always  been  beyond  the  power  of  man  to  make  anything 
that  would  not  wear  out.  But  there  is  this  important  distinction 
between  organic  and  inorganic  bodies.  Only  organic  bodies  can 
repair  their  waste,  and  add  to  their  substance;  they  alone  have 
life,  or  vital  force.  When  anything  wears  out  in  a  stone  or  a 
steam-engine,  there  is  no  power  in  the  stone  or  the  engine  to 
replace  the  lost  matter ;  and  when  a  plant  or  an  animal  dies, 
the  power  of  repairing  waste  is  gone  from  it  forever.  Hence  it 
is  with  animate  bodies,  or  bodies  endowed  with  Zz/e,  that  we  have 
to  do  in  considering  the  subject  of  food. 

29 


45 o  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Life  is  that  form  of  energy  in  creation  that  results  in  de- 
velopment from  within  the  object.  The  energy  may  be  purely 
physical,  as  in  plants;  or  it  may  involve  mental  and  moral 
considerations,  as  in  animals. 

There  are  some  essential  distinctions  between  the  various 
forms  of  organic  life.  Animals  grow  proportionally  in  all  direc- 
tions, and,  at  a  certain  time  of  life,  attain  their  average  size. 
Plants  grow  upwards  and  downwards  from  a  collet  only,  and 
continue  to  grow  through  a  term  of  existence.  Animals  feed 
upon  organic  matter,  consume  oxygen  from  the  air,  and  throw 
off  carbonic  acid;  plants  feed  upon  inorganic  matter,  consume 
carbonic  acid,  and  restore  oxygen  to  the  air. 

Living  plants  or  vegetables  are,  with  few  exceptions,  fixed  to 
the  spot  of  earth  from  which  they  spring,  and  receive  their 
nourishment  from  external  sources.  It  is  furnished  them  by 
the  soil,  air,  light,  and  heat  by  which  they  are  surrounded;  and 
they  are  every  moment  receiving  all  that  is  necessary  for  their 
sustenance.  If  one  of  these  essential  conditions  be  withdrawn, 
death  follows.  Living  animals  have  the  power  of  locomotion., 
and,  being  obliged  to  wander,  they  are  not  always  directly  in 
contact  with  their  sources  of  nourishment.  They  have,  there- 
fore, a  storehouse  in  which  they  lay  up  at  intervals  a  supply 
of  material.  The  possession  of  this  stomach,  or  storehouse, 
characterizes  all  animal  beings. 

The  changes  that  occur  in  animal  life  are  more  rapid  and 
variable  than  those  in  vegetable  life.  Not  being,  like  vegeta- 
bles, always  in  connection  with  their  food,  animals  need  some 
monitor  to  warn  them  when  to  seek  it.  This  is  provided  them 
in  the  appetite,  or  the  sensations  of  Imnger  and  thirst.  There  is 
also  a  pleasure  in  the  regulated  indulgence  of  these  sensations, 
which  never  fails  to  insure  attention  to  their  demands. 

The  vegetable  kingdom  is  the  original  source  of  all  organic 
matter.  All  our  food  is  derived  directly  from  the  vegetable 
world,  or  indirectly  through  animals  which  have  been  nourished 
on  vegetable  products.  The  ox  and  sheep,  which  are  consumed 
in  the  form  of  beef  and  mutton,  have  not  fed  on  flesh,  but  on 
grass,  hay,  oats,  and  other  grains.  It  is  only  under  exposure  to 
the  sun's  rays  that  plants  will  grow.  Hence  to  its  influence 
we  must  refer  the  production  of  food  in  the  first  instance,  and 
therefore  the  sustenance  of  all  life. 

Life  and  growth  in  human  beings  are  dependent  upon  two 
conditions, — motion  and  warmth. 

Motion.  —  Our  bodies  are  constantly  in  motion.     The  heart 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  451 

and  lungs  move  with  every  breath.  Every  thought  causes  some 
change  in  the  brain.  Whenever  any  part  of  the  body  loses  its 
power  of  motion,  it  dies.  All  this  motion,  whether  voluntary  or 
involuntary,  results  in  the  gradual  wasting  away  of  the  flesh, 
blood,  and  bones  of  which  the  body  is  composed.  "  We  begin 
to  die  as  soon  as  we  begin  to  live."  If  the  worn-out  materials 
be  not  replaced,  we  die.  One  great  object  of  food  is  to  supply 
this  waste.  The  demand  for  building  material  is  greatest  when 
the  body  is  in  a  state  of  activity.  Until  the  human  body  has 
attained  its  complete  growth,  there  should  be  a  constant  supply 
of  material  for  new  growth,  as  well  as  for  repair.  In  maturity, 
or  when,  from  bodily  inactivity,  there  is  less  waste,  a  smaller 
supply  will  suffice.  Food  taken  at  regular  intervals  supplies 
means  of  growth,  and  repairs  the  worn-out  tissues. 

Warmth.  —  The  temperature  of  the  living  human  body  is  about 
98°.  In  hot  or  cold  climates,  in  summer  or  winter,  though  the 
temperature  of  the  external  parts  may  vary,  the  internal  tempera- 
ture is  the  same;  and  if  not  maintained  within  a  few  degrees  of 
this  point,  death  invariably  follows.  The  source  of  this  animal 
heat,  so  independent  of  outside  circumstances,  must  be  froui 
within.  To  keep  up  this  internal  heat  or  fire,  a  constant  supply 
of  fuel  is  necessary.  This  fuel  is  supplied  by  our  food.  To  fur- 
nish material  for  growth  and  repair,  and  to  provide  fuel  for  the 
warmth  of  the  body,  is  the  twofold  object  of  food. 

Animal  Combustion.  —  The  process  by  which  food  maintains 
the  motion  and  warmth  of  the  body  is  a  kind  of  combustion, 
and  has  often  been  compared  to  the  combustion  carried  on  in 
the  steam-engine  (see  Youmans's  Chemistry).  We  can  have  no 
combustion  without  oxygen;  therefore  oxygen  is  the  first  impor- 
tant element  of  food.  The  air  is  our  great  source  of  supply  of 
oxygen,  and  a  volume  might  be  written  on  the  necessity  for 
pure  air  and  perfect  ventilation.  We  breathe  oxygen  from  the 
air  into  our  lungs,  and  exhale  carbonic  acid.  There  must  there- 
fore have  been  some  internal  union  of  carbon  or  hydrogen  with 
oxygen,  and  such  a  union  always  produces  heat.  The  carbon 
and  hydrogen  are  obtained  from  our  food,  and  are  important 
elements.     They  are  necessary  for  animal  combustion. 

Food  is  taken  in  a  natural  or  in  a  prepared  state,  and,  after 
undergoing  certain  processes  of  digestion  and  assimilation,  be- 
comes a  part  of  our  bodies  for  a  time,  and  then  is  burned  in  the 
body,  the  process  resembling  somewhat  the  burning  of  wood  and 
coal  in  our  grates.  But  this  union  of  carbon  and  oxygen,  ''  in- 
stead of  taking  place  in  one  spot  and  so  rapidly  as  to  be  accom- 


452  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

panied  by  light,  as  in  the  case  of  the  grate  fire,  takes  place  in 
each  drop  of  the  blood,  and  so  slowly  and  continuously  as  not  to 
be  noticed."  The  force  and  heat  absorbed  from  the  sun  by  the 
vegetable  in  growing,  and  stored  in  its  starch  and  sugar,  are  set 
free,  by  the  decomposition  of  the  vegetable,  into  carbonic  acid 
and  water  again.  These  are  given  out,  partly  as  heat,  keeping 
the  body  temperature  at  98° ;  and  partly  in  other  forms,  —  in 
that  of  mechanical  motion,  etc. 

All  the  external  or  internal  work  of  the  body  is  done  by 
the  force  and  energy  of  the  food  which  is  burnt  therein.  The 
greater  the  amount  of  work  to  be  done,  the  greater  must  be  the 
supply  of  fuel.  The  fire  is  constantly  burning.  "  The  smoke 
passes  out  in  exhalation,  inhalation  is  the  bellows  to  furnish 
more  oxygen,"  and  food  supplies  the  fuel.  The  kidneys  are 
the  grates  through  which  the  ashes  are  removed.  But  if  we 
are  "a  house  on  fire,"  why  are  we  not  consumed?  Because, 
lest  this  internal  fire  burn  too  freely,  the  oxygen  of  the  air  is 
diluted  with  nitrogen,  which  is  incombustible.  The  blood, 
bones,  and  muscles  of  the  body  are  composed  largely  of  nitro- 
gen, sixteen  per  cent  of  that  element  being  present;  and  this 
prevents  the  complete  burning  up  of  the  structure.  "  What  the 
iron  is  to  the  stove,  the  nitrogenous  tissues  are  to  the  body." 
But  the  stove  wears  out  in  time,  and  so  our  bodies  are  con- 
stantly wasting  away ;  and  these  nitrogenous  elements  must  be 
supplied  by  our  food. 

Food,  to  accomplish  its  purpose  fully,  should  consist  of  these 
four  elements:  oxygen,  to  support  combustion,  —  obtained  from 
the  air ;  carbon  and  hydrogen,  to  furnish  fuel,  —  obtained  from 
water  and  carbonaceous  food ;  nitrogen,  to  build  up  and  repair 
the  tissues  of  the  body,  —  obtained  from  nitrogenous  food. 

Food,  in  the  form  in  which  it  is  eaten,  cannot  sustain  life. 
It  must  be  converted  into  a  fluid  that  can  pass  through  very 
small  channels  into  the  blood.  Then  it  must  be  mixed  with  the 
air,  and  undergo  certain  changes,  before  it  can  replace  the  worn- 
out  elements  of  the  body.  To  prepare  food  so  that  it  can  most 
readily  be  assimilated,  that  is,  made  like  our  bodies,  should  be 
the  chief  purpose  in  cooking.  To  do  this,  three  things  are 
essential :  1st.  The  food  selected  should  be  of  the  right  mate- 
rial, and  properly  proportioned;  2d.  It  should  be  cooked  in  the 
most  digestible  and  attractive  manner;  3d.  It  should  be  adapted 
to  the  various  circumstances  of  age,  occupation,  climate,  and 
state  of  health. 

Food,  to  be  of  the  right  material,  should  contain  all  the  ele- 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  453 

ments  that  our  bodies  contain.  It  is  of  primary  importance, 
then,  in  studying  food,  to  understand  first  the  composition  of  the 
human  body. 


THE   COMPOSITION  OF  THE  HUMAN  BODY. 

Our  bodies  are  made  up  of  different  materials:  skin,  flesh, 
blood,  bone,  etc.  These  consist  of  a  large  number  of  substances, 
called  compounds;  the  compounds  contain  two,  three,  or  four 
elements,  united  chemically  in  definite  proportion.  Some  of 
these  compounds  are :  luater^  which  forms  more  than  two  thirds 
of  the  whole  body,  and  is  the  common  carrier  of  food  into  and 
through  the  system;  fibrine,  which  is  the  chief  solid  material  of 
flesh,  and  forms  one  tenth  of  the  body;  fat,  a  mixture  of  three 
compounds,  distributed  all  through  the  system;  albumen,  and 
other  nitrogenous  substances,  of  which  osseine  in  bones,  keratin 
in  the  hair,  nails,  and  skin,  cartilagin  in  cartilage,  and  hemo- 
globin, which  contains  iron  and  gives  the  red  color  to  the  blood, 
are  the  most  important.  Chloride  of  sodium,  or  common  salt, 
and  other  mineral  salts  of  potassa,  lime,  and  magnesia,  are 
found  in  all  parts  of  the  body.  These  compounds  are  made  up 
of  two  or  more  separate  and  distinct  elements. 

There  are  sixteen .  elements  in  the  human  body,  —  oxygen, 
carbon,  hydrogen,  nitrogen,  phosphorus,  sulphur,  chlorine,  fluo- 
rine, silicon,  calcium,  potassium,  sodium,  magnesium,  iron^ 
manganese,  and  copper.  Compounds  only,  not  the  separate  ele- 
ments, are  capable  of  nourishing  the  body.  Oxygen  only  exists 
as  an  element.     Its  office  is  to  support  combustion. 

Combinations  of  two  or  more  of  these  elements  are  found  in 
the  various  articles  used  as  food.  It  is  quite  important  that  our 
food  should  consist  of  various  materials,  containing  elements 
similar  to,  or  capable  of  being  changed  into,  the  elements  of  our 
bodies,  of  which  the  most  important  are :  water,  to  help  diges- 
tion and  assimilation  of  food,  and  to  help  carry  away  refuse 
material ;  salts,  to  renew  the  mineral  parts  and  replenish  certain 
tissues;  carbon,  to  furnish  fuel  for  warmth;  nitrogen,  to  build  up 
and  repair  the  whole  structure. 

For  convenience  the  elements  are  classified  chemically  into 
Non- Combustibles,  or  inorganic  compounds,  including  loater  and 
salts;  Combustibles,  or  organic  compounds,  including  carbona- 
ceous and  nitrogenous  foods.  Some  foods  contain  no  carbon, 
some  contain  no  nitrogen,  and  some  have  all  the  elements  in.. 


454  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

various  proportions.  Food  has  been  classified  into  gaseous,  or 
air;  liquid,  or  water;  and  solid,  including  animal  and  vegetable 
foods.  But  the  division  into  carbonaceous,  or  heat-producing, 
and  nitrogenous,  or  flesh-forming  foods,  answers  every  purpose. 


«"ON-COMBUSTIBLE   COMPOUNDS. 


Water  and  Salts. 

Water  forms  more  than  two  thirds  of  the  whole  body.  It 
is  especially  abundant  in  the  blood  and  secretions.  It  gives 
them  the  necessary  fluidity,  and  enables  them  to  dissolve  the 
important  materials  they  contain.  It  is  contained  in  all  kinds 
of  solid  food,  as  well  as  in  the  liquids  drunk  as  beverages.  It 
is  most  abundant  in  fruits  and  vegetables.  Every  pound  of 
perfectly  dry  food  should  be  accompanied  with  four  pounds  of 
water. 

Pure  water  is  composed  of  oxygen  and  hydrogen,  one  ninth 
hydrogen  and  eight  ninths  oxygen  by  weight.  The  usual  test 
for  pure  drinking  water  is  that  it  be  "  free  from  color,  smell,  or 
taste,  be  soft,  bright,  and  aerated,  and  free  from  all  deposit." 
But  it  is  very  seldom  found  in  that  condition,  as  its  power  of 
dissolving  other  substances  is  so  great  that  it  nearly  always 
holds  animal,  vegetable,  or  mineral  matters  in  solution,  obtained 
from  the  earth  through  which  it  flows.  It  also  absorbs  gases 
and  odors  from  the  air.  The  animal  and  vegetable  substances 
found  in  it  render  it  impure.  But  the  mineral  matters,  unless 
in  excess,  are  not  objectionable. 

When  water  contains  more  than  a  few  grains  to  the  gallon  of 
carbonate  of  lime,  it  is  termed  hard  water.  When  water  is  hard 
or  impure,  it  should  be  boiled  before  being  used  for  drinking, 
as  this  destroys  the  vegetable  and  animal  impurities. 

Water  evaporates  at  all  temperatures,  boils  at  212°,  and  freezes 
at  32°  Fahrenheit.  In  freezing,  the  substances  dissolved  in 
water  are  expelled.  Water,  as  it  approaches  the  freezing-point, 
expands,  and  often  bursts  the  vessels  in  which  it  is  contained. 
In  ponds  or  rivers  it  expands,  becomes  lighter,  freezes,  and 
floats  on  the  surface  in  the  form  of  ice. 

Water  is  perfectly  neutral.  It  combines  with  acids  and  with 
bases.  It  becomes  sweet,  sour,  salt,  astringent,  bitter,  or  poison- 
ous, according  to  the  nature  of  the  bodies  it  holds  in  solution. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  455 

Salts  and  other  Mineral  Matters.  —  The  chief  purpose  of  min- 
eral ingredients  is  to  replenish  certain  tissues,  and  aid  in  the 
transferrence  and  absorption  of  the  combustible  nutrients,  as  a 
scaffolding  aids  in  the  construction  of  a  building. 

Chloride  of  sodium,  or  common  salt,  is  essential  to  the  life  of 
the  higher  animals.  It  exists  in  all  parts  of  the  body.  It  is 
more  abundant  in  the  blood  than  any  other  inorganic  ingredient 
except  water ;  but  it  is  an  active  poisonous  irritant  if  taken  in 
excess,  causing  diseases  of  the  mucous  membranes,  as  in  catarrh, 
and  stiffening  of  the  muscles,  as  in  rheumatism.  We  take  it  as 
a  natural  ingredient  in  many  kinds  of  food,  and  as  a  condiment 
to  increase  the  relish  of  many  others. 

The  desire  for  salt  is  instinctive.  There  are  people  who  do 
not  use  salt  in  food,  but  it  is  probable  that  they  obtain  sufficient 
sodium  and  chloiine  in  the  brackish  water  they  drink ;  or  it  may 
be,  their  habits  of  life  render  less  salt  necessary. 

Salt  must  be  added  plentifully  to  all  vegetable  food.  The 
bad  effects  of  a  salt-meat  diet  can  be  counteracted  by  the  use  of 
lemon  juice  and  fresh  green  vegetables,  which  are  rich  in  potash 
salts. 

Salt  taken  with  our  food  supplies  two  substances.  Its  chlo- 
rine supplies  the  hydrochloric  acid  of  the  gastric  juice,  that 
helps  digest  our  food;  and  soda,  which  is  an  element  of  the  bile,  — 
a  fluid  which  must  be  added  to  the  dissolved  or  softened  food 
before  the  nourishment  can  be  extracted  from  it.  People  would 
very  soon  become  ill  if  deprived  of  salt.  A  person  requires 
from  one  fourth  to  half  an  ounce  of  salt  daily.  The  attractive 
flavor  which  is  developed  by  cooking  and  adding  salt  to  our  food 
excites  the  secretion  of  saliva  and  gastric  juice,  and  therefore 
helps  digestion.  The  Dutch  used  to  condemn  criminals  to  a 
diet  of  unsalted  food.  They  suffered  great  physical  torture, 
which  soon  ended  in  death. 

Salt  is  one  of  the  most  abundant  of  all  minerals.  It  is  ob- 
tained from  springs  by  evaporation,  and  from  natural  mines. 
It  is  readily  soluble  in  hot  or  cold  water.  It  is  used  for  packing 
and  preserving  meats,  as  it  prevents  putrefaction  by  absorbing 
water  from  the  flesh. 

The  other  mineral  ingredients  needed  in  the  system  are  com- 
binations of  lime,  soda,  potash,  magnesia,  sulphur,  phosphorus,  and 
iron.  Phosphorus,  lime,  and  magnesia  are  fouxid  in  meat,  fish, 
the  cereals,  and  potatoes.  Potash  is  found  in  meat,  fish,  milk, 
vegetables,  and  the  dry  seeds  and  fleshy  parts  of  fruits,  iron, 
in  flesh,  vegetables,  and  nearly  all  food,  in  vfe/y  minute  quantities. 


45  6  The,  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Sulphur  is  in  fibrine,  albumen,  and  caseine.  There  is  sufficient 
saline  matter,  except  common  salt,  in  all  the  ordinary  food  we 
eat  and  the  water  we  drink. 

These  mineral  matters  become  rearranged  and  combined 
before  becoming  part  of  the  body,  but  they  do  not  undergo  anj 
chemical  change  or  decomposition.  They  are  absorbed  with 
the  food,  and  form  for  a  time  part  of  the  animal  tissues,  after 
which  they  are  discharged  with  the  secretions,  and  replaced  by 
a  fresh  supply.  They  are  absolutely  indispensable  to  the  nour- 
ishment of  the  body. 


COMBUSTIBLE    COMPOUl^DS. 


CARBONACEOUS   FOODS. 

The  first  division  of  combustible  compounds  is  called  carbon- 
aceous because  they  all  contain  carbon;  or  heat-producing^  be- 
cause by  their  burning  they  generate  heat.  They  consist  of 
starch,  sugar,  fats  and  oils,  gum,  and  the  softer  fibres  of  plants. 
They  are  found  in  vegetables,  cereals,  fruits,  milk,  eggs,  and 
the  fat  of  meat. 

Starch. 

Starch  is  one  of  the  most  important  of  vegetable  foods;  it 
is  found  in  grains,  seeds,  and  roots,  and  in  the  pith  and  bark 
of  plants.  When  pure,  it  is  a  snow-white,  glistening  powder. 
It  consists  of  exceedingly  minute  grains,  varying  in  size  and 
shape  in  the  different  kinds  of  starch.  These  grains  are  cov- 
ered with  an  outer  skin  which  is  insoluble  and  unchanged  by 
cold  water ;  but  in  boiling,  this  membrane  bursts  and  the  inte- 
rior of  each  grain  dissolves  in  the  water,  forming  a  thick, 
gummy  solution.  When  coo],  it  stiffens  into  a  kind  of  pasty 
mass. 

Starchy  food  is  very  unwholesome  unless  properly  cooked. 
It  must  be  mixed  with  a  sufficient  amount  of  liquid,  and  sub- 
jected to  a  great  degree  of  heat,  that  the  grains  may  swell  and 
burst.  This  liquid  is  sometimes  supplied  by  the  boiling  w'ater 
in  which  certain  starchy  foods  are  cooked ;  and  sometimes  by  fat 
which  melts  with  the  heat,  as  in  pastry,  or  by  boiling  fat,  as  in 
anything  fried.  When  flour  or  starchy  food  is  mixed  with  fat, 
it  should  be  finely  and  evenly  mixed,  that  the  fat  may  penetrate 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  457 

every  part  of  the  flour,  or  else  it  will  cake,  and  all  the  grains 
will  not  burst.  Anything  that  helps  to  make  pastry  lighter 
and  the  fat  more  evenly  distributed,  causes  the  starch  grains  to 
burst  equally,  and  makes  such  food  more  wholesome. 

Vegetables  should  be  put  into  boiling  water  to  burst  the 
starch  cells,  and  set  free  the  confined  air,  of  which  there  is  a 
great  deal  in  many  kinds.  They  should  be  taken  up  as  soon 
as  they  are  soft,  as  they  absorb  water  after  the  grains  are  fully 
burst. 

Starch  in  its  uncooked,  insoluble  state  is  not  digested  by  the 
human  stomach.  Seeds  and  fruits  which  consist  of  starch, 
especially  if  it  be  combined  with  oil,  as  in  many  nuts,  if  eaten 
uncooked,  are  very  difficult  to  digest. 

All  starchy  articles  of  food  should  be  masticated  thoroughly, 
and  mixed  with  the  saliva.  It  is  more  necessary  to  chew  bread 
and  potatoes  well  than  meat.  Starch  is  changed  by  various 
means  into  sugar.  If  an  acid  be  added  to  it  in  a  watery  solu- 
tion, and  boiled,  it  becomes  clear  and  transparent,  and  after  a 
time  all  the  starch  disappears,  and  sugar  takes  its  place.  The 
same  change  is  caused  by  the  saliva,  and  during  digestion  the 
starch  is  all  changed  into  sugar,  so  that  none  of  it  is  found  in 
the  fluids  and  secretions  of  the  body.  This  is  easily  seen  by 
chewing  pure  starch;  after  a  while  it  will  become  sweet. 

Starch  contains  no  albuminous  substances,  and  therefore 
cannot  supply  any  of  the  materials  of  which  our  bodies  are 
formed.  But  it  is  the  source  of  the  warmth  of  our  bodies,  and 
the  strength  w^e  exert.  Taken  alone,  it  would  be  useless  as  an 
article  of  food.  It  must  have  the  addition  of  albuminoid  and 
fatty  substances,  like  milk  or  meat. 

Starch  is  prepared  by  grinding  some  vegetable  matter  that 
contains  it  in  abundance,  and  mixing  it  with  cold  water.  The 
water  is  strained  and  allowed  to  stand ;  the  starch  settles  at  the 
bottom,  and  is  then  dried  and  powdered.  Cornstarch  is  ob- 
tained from  Indian  corn,  by  a  chemical  process.  The  gluti- 
nous, oily  elements  are  freed  from  the  seed  by  alkaline  solutions, 
and  the  starchy  parts  are  ground  and  dried.  Sago  is  starch 
from  the  pith  of  a  species  of  palm-tree.  Tapioca  is  from  the 
root  of  a  species  of  the  cassava  plant  of  South  America.  It  is  a 
coarsely  granulated  substance.  Cassava^  or  w.andioc^  is  a  more 
finely  granulated  form  of  the  same  root.  Arroioroot  is  from 
the  rhizoma,  or  rootstalk,  of  a  West  Indian  plant.  The  nativer; 
use  the  roots  of  a  species  of  the  plant  in  extracting  the  poison 
of  arrows;  hence  the  name. 


45  S  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Sugar. 

Sugar  is  composed  of  oxygen,  hydrogen,  and  carbon.  There 
are  three  kinds, — cane  sugar,  or  sucrose;  grape  sugar,  or  glu- 
cose; milk  sugar,  or  lactose. 

Cane  sugar  as  an  article  of  food  closely  resembles  starch,  but 
it  is  soluble  and  therefore  more  easily  digested.  It  is  readily 
distinguished  by  its  sweet  taste.  It  is  found  in  many  animal 
juices  and  also  in  fruits,  but  exists  mainly  in  vegetable  juices 
which  have  little  or  no  acid  in  their  sap,  like  sugar  cane,  rock 
maple,  and  beet-root.  In  its  natural  state  it  is  dissolved  in  the 
vegetable  fluids,  mingled  with  many  other  substances.  It  is 
obtained  by  crushing  the  raw  material ;  the  fluids  thus  obtained 
are  heated  with  a  solution  of  lime,  which  causes  the  impurities 
to  separate  and  rise  in  scum.  These  are  removed,  and  the 
purified  juice  boiled  down  until  it  solidifies  as  a  brownish  de- 
posit. This  brown  sugar  is  again  dissolved,  boiled,  and  filtered 
through  charcoal,  evaporated,  and  crystallized.  Molasses  is  the 
drainage  of  the  raw  sugar.  Brown  sugar  is  the  first  product. 
Granulated  sugar  is  brown  sugar  refined  and  re-crystallized. 
All  brown  and  moist  sugars  are  inferior  in  quality ;  they  contain 
water  and  mineral  matter,  and  are  sometimes  infested  by  a 
minute  insect.     Loaf  sugar  is  the  purest. 

Sucrose,  or  cane  sugar,  is  changed,  by  the  acids  of  the  gastric 
Juice  and  the  nitrogenous  matter  of  the  food,  into  grape  sugar, 
or  glucose.  One  of  the  most  remarkable  properties  of  sugar  is 
that  it  can  be  decomposed  and  converted  into  other  substances 
by  fermentation.  In  its  chemical  relations  sugar  ranks  with 
acids,  and  combines  with  bases,  as  in  sugar  of  lead.  It  melts  at 
320°,  and  by  cooling  forms  a  transparent  amber-colored  solid 
known  as  barley  sugar.  If  heated  to  420°,  it  forms  a  brown 
mass,  called  caramel.  Sugar  has  great  preservative  powers, 
and  is  used  in  preserving  fruits,  hams,  bacon,  etc. 

Glucose,  or  gra]3e  sugar,  is  abundantly  distributed  throughout 
the  vegetable  kingdom.  It  is  found  in  honey,  figs,  grapes,  and 
other  fruits  which  have  acid  juices.  It  is  less  sweet  than  cane 
sugar,  and  is  immediately  absorbed  into  the  circulation  when 
taken  into  the  stomach.  It  is  less  soluble  and  less  easily 
crystallized  than  sucrose. 

Lactose,  or  milk  sugar,  is  obtained  only  from  the  milk  of  mam- 
malia. It  has  the  composition  of  cane  sugar,  and  is  converted 
into  grape  sugar  when  taken  as  food. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  459 


Fats. 

Fats,  or  oleaginous  substances,  are  composed  of  carbon,  hydro- 
gen, and  oxygen,  —  the  two  former  elements  preponderating, 
—  and,  having  a  very  strong  affinity  for  oxygen,  are  highly 
combustible. 

Fats  are  solid;  oils  are  liquid.  Fats  may  be  changed  to  oil  by 
a  slight  accession  of  heat,  and  are  obtained  from  both  animal 
and  vegetable  tissues,  —  suet  and  dripping,  from  beef  fat;  lard, 
frpm  the  fat  of  pigs;  butter,  from  the  cream  of  milk;  olive  oil, 
from  the  fleshy  pulp  of  the  fruit  of  the  olive  tree.  Oil  is  also 
found  in  nuts,  seeds,  cereals,  and  fruits.  Croton  oil,  used  for 
medicinal  purposes,  is  from  a  plant,  a  native  of  India;  cod  liver 
oil,  from  the  liver  of  cod  fish ;  castor  oil,  from  the  seeds  of  the 
castor-oil  plant. 

Fats  and  oils  contain  three  different  oleaginous  substances, 
known  as  stearine,  margarine,  and  oleine.  Oleine  is  that  portion 
of  oil  that  causes  its  fluidity.  It  is  more  abundant  in  oils  than 
fats,  and  in  the  fat  of  swine  than  in  the  harder  fat  of  sheep  or 
beef.  Lard  is  better  than  mutton  fat  or  suet  for  frying,  because, 
having  more  oleine,  it  can  be  converted  into  a  liquid  sooner. 
Margarine  is  harder  than  oleine.  It  exists  in  human  fat,  in  but- 
ter, and  olive  oil.  Stearine  is  the  most  solid  substance  of  the 
three,  and  is  most  abundant  in  tallow  and  suet. 

The  peculiar  odor  some  fats  and  oils  possess  is  from  the  pres- 
ence of  an  acid.  In  butter  it  is  butyric  acid.  Glycerine  is  the 
base  common  to  all  the  fats.  In  stearine,  the  hardest  fat,  it 
unites  with  stearic  acid;  in  margarine,  a  less  solid  form,  with 
margaric  acid;  in  oleine,  or  oil,  with  oleic  acid. 

"  Fat  forms  the  chief  material  of  adipose  tissue.  It  serves  to 
fill  spaces  and  give  rotundity  and  beauty  to  the  form,  to  equalize 
external  pressure,  to  diminish  the  friction  of  the  parts,  to  give 
suppleness  to  the  tissues,  and,  being  a  non-conductor  of  heat,  to 
keep  the  body  warm.  An  undue  accumulation  of  fat  is  a  species 
of  disease." 

Oils  and  fats  will  not  mix  with  water;  but  if  an  alkaline  sub- 
stance, like  potash  or  soda,  be  added,  the  oil  becomes  separated 
into  fine  particles,  and  is  held  suspended  in  the  watery  fluid. 
This  is  called  an  emulsion,  and  this  is  what  takes  place  in  intes- 
tinal digestion.  The  gastric  juice,  being  acid,  does  not  digest 
fat,  but  only  separates  it  from  these  substances,  that  it  may 
digest  the  albuminous  portions  with  which  it  is  mingled.     But 


460  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

the  pancreatic  fluid,  being  alkaline,  resolves  the  fat  into  an 
emulsion.  This  completes  the  digestion,  then  the  fats  are  ab- 
sorbed and  received  into  the  general  circulation.  Having  a 
strong  affinity  for  oxygen,  these  fatty  particles  in  the  venous 
blood,  when  they  come  in  contact  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air. 
burn,  and  heat  is  evolved.  The  power  of  fat  in  maintaining 
heat  and  activity  is  two  and  a  half  times  that  of  starch. 

Oils  which  arc  used  as  food  are  jixed  oils.  Volatile  oils  are 
found  in  many  condiments  and  perfumes.  Volatile  oils  can  be 
distilled,  or  changed  to  vapor,  and  recondensed  into  their  origi- 
nal form;  they  leave  no  permanent  stain  on  paper.  Fixed  or 
greasy  oils  cannot  be  distilled;  before  changing  to  vapor  they 
recombine  into  new  compounds. 

Gum,  Mucilage,  Pectose,  and  Cellulose. 

These  are  combustible  compounds,  but  are  neither  starchy, 
saccharine,  nor  oily.  Gum  is  found  in  apple  and  plum  trees. 
Gum  arable  is  from  a  species  of  acacia,  and  is  soluble.  Muci- 
lage is  found  in  onions,  qainces,  and  flaxseed.  It  forms  a  jelly 
with  water,  but  does  not  dissolve  like  gum  arable.  Pectose  is 
found  in  many  roots,  like  the  turnip;  also  in  the  pear  and  peach. 
When  boiled  with  water  it  changes  to  a  vegetable  jelly,  called 
pectine.  Currants,  pears,  peaches,  plums,  contain  pectine,  and 
this  is  what  gives  firmness  to  the  preserves  made  from  them. 
Cellulose  is  the  woody  fibre  of  stalks  of  grain,  the  membrane 
which  envelops  the  grains,  husks,  and  skin  of  seeds,  rinds, 
cores,  and  stones  of  fruits.  It  is  the  main  and  almost  the  sole 
constituent  of  linen,  and  of  the  paper  which  is  made  from  linen. 

NITROGENOUS   FOODS. 

The  second  division  of  the  Combustible  Compounds  is  called 
nitrogenous^  or  jiesh-forming  foods.  Nitrogen  is  the  flesh-form- 
ing element  common  to  all  foods.  It  enters  largely  into  the 
composition  of  the  body,  forming  sixteen  per  cent  of  the 
animal  tissue.  A  liberal  supply  is ,  necessary  to  form  and 
repair  tissue.  Although  the  atmosphere  is  four  fifths  nitro- 
gen, we  get  no  supply  from  that  source.  It  must  be  sup- 
plied in  a  state  of  combination,  not  as  an  element,  from  such 
compounds  as  have  been  produced  under  the  influence  of  life. 
We  require  organic  nitrogenous  matter,  and  not  pure  nitrogen. 
This  is  sometimes  derived  from  vegetable  sources,  but  is  most 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh,  461 

abundant  in  animal  substances.  Animal  food  is  richer  and 
more  nutritious  than  vegetable  food ;  but  the  latter,  if  taken  in 
large  quantities,  yields  the  same  amount  of  flesh-forming  mate- 
rial. Nitrogenous  substances  in  plants  and  animals  are  identical 
in  composition;  and,  from  whichever  source  they  are  taken,  the 
most  important  consideration  is,  to  digest  them  and  make  them 
into  blood. 

Nitrogen  is  an  essential  part  of  some  of  our  most  powerful 
medicines,  like  quinine  and  morphine,  and  of  our  most  dangerous 
poisons,  such  as  strychnine  and  prussic  acid. 

Nitrogenous  foods  are  also  called  albuminous,  because  albumen 
is  their  common  element,  though  it  is  called  by  different  names 
in  different  things.  Albumen  is  from  albus,  meaning  white.  The 
principal  varieties  of  albuminous  food  are  lean  meat,  fish,  eggs, 
milk,  cheese,  peas,  beans,  oatmeal,  flour,  rye,  and  corn.  These 
^re  treated  more  fully  in  other  parts  of  the  book,  in  chapters  on 
Bread,  Meats,  Fish,  Eggs,  Milk,  and  Vegetables. 

The  albuminous  portion  of  meat  is  the  juice,  or  albumen,  and 
the  fibre,  or  fibrine.  In  eggs  it  is  the  white.  In  milk  it  is  the 
caseine,  or  the  curdy  part  that  separates  when  milk  has  soured. 
In  peas  and  beans  it  is  called  vegetable  caseine.  In  flour  it 
is  gluten,  —  the  sticky,  glutinous  substance  which  is  left  after 
squeezing  or  washing  out  the  starch. 

Albumen  exists  in  two  states,  — one  soluble  in  water  and  one 
insoluble.  The  soluble  may  be  changed  to  insoluble  by  heating 
to  120°,  or  by  adding  nitric  acid.  It  is  the  most  easily  digested 
of  all  flesh-forming  foods. 

Albuminous  substances  have  the  property  of  coagulation ;  but 
all  albuminoids  do  not  coagulate  in  the  same  way.  The  albumen 
of  eggs  and  the  juices  of  meat  coagulate  by  heating  to  the  boiling- 
point.  The  fibrine  of  the  blood  coagulates  when  exposed  to  the 
air.     Milk  coagulates  by  the  addition  of  an  acid. 

Albuminous  substances  also  have  the  property  oi  fermentation. 
This  occurs  principally  in  substances  which  are  rich  in  sugar, 
starch,  and  gluten,  like  flour,  milk,  etc.  The  fermentation  in 
flour  and  milk  is  explained  in  the  chapter  on  Bread-Making. 

Fermentation  will  not  take  place  without  air  or  moisture,  and 
a  moderate  degree  of  heat.  Therefore,  if  albuminous  substances 
be  excluded  from  air  and  moisture,  and  kept  very  hot  or  very- 
cold,  they  will  not  ferment.  Fermentation  is  a  change  in  the 
elements  of  a  body  composed  of  oxygen,  carbon,  and  hydrogen. 
Sugar  is  composed  of  carbon,  oxygen,  and  hydrogen  in  equal 
parts;  when  sugar  ferments,  it  decomposes  and  then  reunites  in 


462  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

different  proportions,  forming  different  compounds,  —  alcohol, 
carbonic  acid,  and  water. 

Albuminous  substances  are  the  only  substances  which  putrefy. 
Putrefaction  resembles  fermentation,  and  is  due  to  the  presence, 
in  large  proportion,  of  the  fickle  element,  nitrogen,  and  also  to 
the  large  number  of  elements  combined  in  all  albuminous  sub- 
stances. Complicated  machinery  is  always  more  easily  deranged 
than  simple;  and  in  all  chemical  combinations,  the  more  com- 
plex they  are,  the  more  unstable.  Nitrogen  has  a  very  weak 
affinity  for  other  elements,  and  forms  very  unstable  compounds. 
All  substances  rich  in  nitrogen,  when  exposed  to  the  air,  soon 
pass  into  a  state  of  decomposition,  or  putrefaction.  The  oxygen 
of  the  air  has  a  greater  affinity  than  the  nitrogen  for  the  other 
elements,  and  unites  with  them  very  easily.  In  putrefaction 
the  oxygen  unites  with  the  carbon  to  form  carbonic  acid, 
and  with  the  hydrogen  to  form  water.  The  hydrogen  and 
nitrogen  unite  and  form  ammonia,  and  this  occasions  the 
peculiar,  unpleasant  odor  of  all  putrefying  bodies.  In  sub- 
stances rich  in  sulphur  and  phosphorus,  the  hydrogen  unites- 
with  them  and  forms  sulphuretted  and  phosphoretted  gases 
which  are  very  offensive.  Therefore,  if  we  exclude  the  air  or 
oxygen  from  such  substances,  we  can  arrest  decomposition. 
This  is  done  by  keeping  them  in  air-tight  vessels,  thus  remov- 
ing the  oxygen  from  the  outside ;  and  by  boiling  or  drying,  to 
remove  that  which  is  diffused  within.  Freezing  will  have  the 
same  effect;  also  salting  or  preserving.  The  salt  draws  out  the 
moisture,  hardens  the  albumen,  and  prevents  the  access  of 
oxygen.  In  preserving,  by  the  use  of  a  strong  solution  of  sugar, 
the  watery  juices  are  drawn  out  and  formed  into  a  thick  syrup 
which  excludes  the  air. 

There  are  some  albuminous  substances,  such  as  isinglass  and 
gelatine,  which  are  taken  as  food  ;  but,  strictly  speaking,  they 
are  not  jiesli- formers.  Isinglass  is  obtained  from  the  sound, 
or  swimming  bladder,  of  the  sturgeon,  and  is  imported  from 
Russia.  It  is  not  actually  gelatine,  but  is  transformed  into  it 
by  boiling  water.  Gelatine  is  obtained  from  bones.  Ossein  is 
that  part  of  the  bones  to  which  their  strength  and  elasticity  are 
due.  It  is  insoluble  in  cold  water,  but  is  slowly  dissolved  and 
changed  into  gelatine  by  being  boiled  gently  under  a  pressure 
sufficient  to  prevent  the  escape  of  steam.  Gelatine  is  also  ob- 
tained from  tendons,  calves'  feet,  fish  scales,  stag's  horns,  etc. 

There  are  other  varieties  of  nitrogenous  food  which  are  also 
carbonaceous.     These  are  commonly  included  under  the  general 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  463 

term  Beverages;  namely,  tea,  coffee,  cocoa,  and  chocolate.  The 
nitrogenous  principle  of  tea  is  theine;  of  coffee,  caffeine;  and  of 
chocolate,  theobromine.  Tea  also  contains  iron  and  manganese^ 
Drinks^  Beverages^  and  Liquid  Foods  are  classified  as  follows  : 
water,  including  rain,  well,  and  mineral  spring  water;  mucilagi- 
nous, farinaceous^  or  saccharine  drinks,  including  toast  water, 
Irish  moss,  and  barley  water,  sago,  tapioca,  arrowroot,  and  other 
gruels ;  aromatic  or  astringent  drinks,  including,  tea,  coffee,  choco- 
late, cocoa,  and  herb  teas;  acidulous  drinks,  including  lemonade^ 
raspberry  vinegar,  and  other  fruit  syrups ;  animal  broths^  or  drinks 
containing  gelatine,  including  soups,  broths,  and  beef  tea;  emul- 
sive drinks,  including  milk  ;  alcoholic  and  intoxicating  drinks, 
including  wines,  cider,  beer,  ale,  porter,  brandy,  and  whiskey. 
.  Water  is  discussed  under  ]^on- Combustible  Foods.  Receipts 
for  mucilaginous  and  acidulous  drinks,  animal  broths,  and  herb 
teas  are  given  in  the  chapter  on  Cookery  for  the  Sick.  The 
aromatic  drinks  are  included  in  a  separate  article  under  the  head 
of  Beverages.  Alcoholic  drinks  will  not  be  discussed  for  want 
of  space.  Milk  is  food  as  well  as  drink,  and  deserves  especial 
consideration. 

Milk. 

Milk  consists  of  .  three  distinct  substances,  which  separate 
from  one  another  after  standing  awhile, — the  cream,  curd, 
and  whey. 

The  cream  is  the  carbonaceous  part,  and  forms  ten  or  twelve 
per  cent  of  the  whole.  It  consists  of  very  small  globules  of  fat. 
or  butter,  invisible  to  the  naked  eye,  surrounded  by  a  fine  mem- 
brane of  caseine  or  albuminous  matter.  These  are  dispersed  in 
the  milk  at  first;  but  as  they  are  lighter  than  the  other  parts, 
they  rise  to  the  top  of  the  milk  in  the  form  of  cream.  When  the 
cream  is  churned,  the  membrane  of  each  globule  is  ruptured, 
causing  the  butter  to  cohere  in  a  separate  mass.  If  all  this 
caseine,  or  albuminous  matter,  be  not  removed,  the  butter  soon 
becomes  rancid.  The  butter  has  more  margarine  than  oleine, 
and  is  therefore  hard  and  firm  instead  of  fluid.  It  contains 
butyric  acid,  which  gives  it  its  peculiar  flavor. 

The  curd  is  the  albuminous  part  of  the  milk,  which  separates 
in  a  solid  form  whenever  milk  sours  or  curdles.  This  separa- 
.  tion  is  occasioned  by  the  action  of  the  oxygen  in  the  air  upon 
the  nitrogen  in  the  caseine,  causing  a  portion  of  the  caseine  to 
ferment.  This  ferment  acts  upon  the  sugar  of  the  milk,  and 
converts  it  into  lactic  acid ;  and  this  acid  acts  as  any  other  acid 


464  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

would,  and  causes  the  sourness  of  the  milk.  The  caseine  is  in- 
soluble in  water,  but  in  the  milk  it  is  combined  with  soda,  and 
this  compound  is  soluble.  So,  when  the  milk  sours,  and  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  acid  is  formed,  it  seizes  upon  the  soda,  takes  it 
away  from  the  caseine,  and  forms  lactate  of  soda.  The  caseine, 
being  thus  set  free,  shrinks,  and  gathers  into  an  insoluble  curdy 
mass.  This  separation  is  spontaneous;  but  it  is  often  caused 
artificially,  by  the  use  of  an  acid,  — usually  rennet,  which  is  the 
lining  membrane  of  a  calf's  stomach.  The  curd  thus  separated 
is  pressed  and  prepared  in  various  forms  of  cheese.  It  contains 
the  nutritious  elements  of  the  milk  in  a  condensed,  but  somewhat 
indigestible  form.  Cheese  is  more  digestible  when  made  from 
fresh  than  from  skimmed  milk. 

The  whey  is  the  water  of  the  milk  that  separates  from  the  curd 
in  souring,  and  contains  dissolved  in  it  the  sugar  of  milk  and  the 
saline  and  mineral  ingredients.  It  is  much  better  to  use  milk 
in  its  natural  state  than  to  use  the  butter  or  cheese  obtained 
from  it.  It  is  the  cheapest  form  in  which  animal  food  can  be 
obtained,  and  should  be  used  freely,  especially  by  the  young  or 
weak. 

Condensed  milk,  when  well  prepared,  is  convenient  and  valu- 
able as  an  article  of  diet,  if  fresh  milk  cannot  be  obtained.  It 
can  only  be  made  from  pure  milk,  and  is  therefore  perfectly 
harmless. 


CONDIMENTS. 

There  is  another  class  of  foods,  called  condiments,  which  should 
not  pass  unnoticed. 

Food  that  "  tastes  good  "  is  digested  more  readily,  and  assimi- 
lated more  perfectly,  so  that  we  really  derive  more  nourishment 
from  it.  We  use  many  articles  with  our  food  to  make  it  taste 
better,  which  are  not  in  themselves  valuable  as  food.  But  by 
stimulating  the  flow  of  saliva  and  gastric  juice,  and  enhancing 
the  fine  flavor  of  food,  they  increase  the  pleasure  of  eating,  and 
render  digestion  more  complete.  These  are  called  condiments. 
They  are  not  necessary  to  persons  of  sound  digestion,  and,  with 
the  exception  of  salt,  should  not  be  used  by  children,  nor  by  any 
one  in  large  quantities.  In  perfect  digestion  there  is  the  first 
taste  in  the  mouth  and  the  after-taste  of  the  digestive  orga,ns 
which  require  satisfaction.  "  Any  cook  may  gratify  the  first, 
but  the  second  requires  a  skilled  chemist. ' ' 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  465 

The  principal  condiments  are  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and  some 
herbs,  including  mint,  thyme,  parsley,  sage,  marjoram,  summer 
savory,  and  bay  leaves;  spices,  including  ginger,  nutmeg,  cinna- 
mon, clove,  mace,  and  allspice;  and  flavorings  or  extracts  of 
lemon,  vanilla,  orange,  almond,  pineapple,  etc. 

Salt  is  the  only  condiment  actually  necessary  to  health  (see 
page  455). 

Pepper  is  a  stimulant  when  taken  in  small  quantities,  but  irri- 
tating if  taken  in  excess.  It  is  the  dried  berry  of  a  climbing 
plant  of  the  piper  family.  The  whole  peppers  are  called  pepper- 
corns. These  peppercorns  are  ground,  and  we  have  hlack  pepper. 
The  outer  shells  are  sometimes  removed  before  grinding,  and 
these  kernels  ground  give  us  ivMte  pepper,  which  has  a  different 
flavor  and  is  less  pungent  than  black  pepper.  Red  or  Cayenne 
pepper  consists  of  seed-vessels  or  pods  of  different  species  of 
capsicum  ground  to  powder.  It  is  stimulating,  and  far  more 
wholesome  than  the  black  pepper,  though  not  as  much  used.  It 
is  valuable  as  a  medicine. 

Mustard  is  used  as  a  condiment  and  medicine.  It  is  made 
from  seeds  of  black  and  white  mustard,  which  are  crushed  be- 
tween rollers,  and  then  pounded  in  mortars.  In  small  quantities 
it  is  good  for  digestion.  Both  red  pepper  and  mustard,  if  used 
sparingly  with  indigestible  food,  like  lobster  and  baked  beans, 
are  very  useful. 

The  herbs  are  used  dried  or  green,  and  when  used  judiciously, 
make  meats,  soups,  and  sauces  more  palatable. 

Spices  are  used  in  cakes  and  articles  of  food  containing  sugar, 
and  sometimes  with  meats.  They  are  used  whole,  ground,  and 
in  the  extract.  Ginger  is  the  most  healthful,  and  is  often  used 
in  sickness.  It  is  a  valuable  stimulating  tonic  in  hot  weather. 
The  other  spices  are  better  when  mixed  in  small  quantities,  less 
of  clove  and  more  of  cinnamon  being  used.  When  combined  so 
that  no  one  spice  predominates,  they  are  pleasant  to  the  taste. 
Care  should  be  taken  lest  they  hide  the  natural  flavor  of  the 
food. 

Flavors  are  all  good  in  small  quantities.  Almond,  vanilla, 
lemon,  and  pineapple  are  often  adulterated.  They  should  never 
be  added  while  the  article  is  hot,  as  the  heat  wastes  the  strength 
of  the  flavor.  Vanilla  beans  are  better  than  the  extract.  It  is 
always  well,  if  possible,  to  use  the  fresh  fruit  juice. 

Lemon  juice  and  vinegar.,  used  in  moderation,  increase  the  sol- 
vent properties  of  the  gastric  juice,  and  are  useful  with  meats 
and  vegetables  which  are  difficult  of  digestion. 

30 


466  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


PROPER  PROPORTION  OF  FOOD. 

These  different  kinds  of  food,  ivater,  salts,  sugar,  starch,  fat, 
and  albumen,  must  be  combined  in  our  diet;  for  a  simple  sub- 
stance which  fulfils  only  one  of  the  purposes  required  in  our 
food  will  not  support  life.  A  man  cannot  live  on  water  or  salt, 
yet  he  would  soon  die  without  them.  A  diet  composed  exclu- 
sively of  fats,  starch,  or  sugar  is  equally  incapable  of  supporting 
life.  The  albuminous  foods,  though  they  are  considered  the  most 
nutritious,  must  be  combined  with  the  others  to  produce  the 
desired  result. 

Milk  is  the  only  substance  prepared  by  nature  expressly  as  an 
article  of  food.  Seeds  grow,  and  produce  plants  and  fruits  after 
their  kind;  but  milk  is  prepared  as  the  natural  food  of  the 
young  of  all  mammalia.  A  baby  fed  on  milk  develops  in  every 
part;  therefore  milk  must  supply  every  requisite  for  the  growth 
of  the  young  body,  and  the  proportions  in  woman's  milk  may  be 
taken  as  the  standard  for  human  food.  Milk  analyzed  is  found 
to  coritain  water,  salt,  fat,  sugar,  and  caseine,  —  the  five  ele- 
ments of  food.  It  has  enough  of  flesh-producing  elements  to 
restore  the  daily  waste,  and  enough  heat-giving  elements  to  feed 
the  oxygen  in  breathing.  But  when  the  teeth  are  formed,  the 
child's  system  needs  a  greater  proportion  of  some  elements  than 
are  supplied  by  the  milk,  and  other  foods  are  gradually  added 
to  the  diet. 

Eggs  also  contain  all  the  necessary  elements ;  a  diet  of  seven 
eggs  per  day  furnishes  all  the  nutrition  a  person  needs.  But 
the  elements  in  eggs  are  too  highly  condensed,  and  are  not 
properly  proportioned  for  a  continuous  diet. 

Many  articles  of  food  do  not  contain  all  these  elements,  and 
it  is  very  important  to  proportion  our  food  rightly,  so  that  one 
kind  will  supply  what  another  lacks.  A  certain  bulk  is  also 
necessary  in  our  food  to  stimulate  a  thorough  action  of  the  diges- 
tive fluids.  If  the  quantity  be  not  sufficient  to  distend  the 
stomach,  so  that  the  churning  motion  of  the  musciilar  coats  can 
affect  every  part  of  the  food,  the  digestion  is  imperfect.  Dys- 
pepsia is  often  caused  by  lack  of  sufficient  quantity  of  food,  and 
by  weakness  of  the  muscles  of  the  stomach.  If  this  requisite 
quantity  be  wholly  nutritious  or  highly  condensed  food,  capable 
of  entire  absorption,  the  effect  is  too  stimulating,  and  serious 
disorders  of  the  alimentary  canal  are  the  result.  To  remedy 
this,  it  is  necessary  to  have  a  certain  amount  of  innutritions 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  467 

food,  which  furnishes  the  bulk  required,  and  gives  all  parts  of 
the  digestive  apparatus  their  proper  amount  of  work  to  perform. 

Many  persons  argue  in  favor  of  a  vegetable  diet,  as  we  can 
obtain  from  vegetables  all  the  necessary  elements.  There  have 
been  many  cases  known  where  people  lived  to  an  extreme  age 
who  used  exclusively  a  vegetable  diet,  and  others  who  lived 
equally  as  long  upon  animal  food.  But  the  general  rule  is,  that 
we  find  the  highest  degree  of  bodily  and  mental  vigor  only 
among  those  who  make  use  of  a  mixed  diet.  One  of  the  strong- 
est physiological  arguments  in  favor  of  this  rule  is  found  in  the 
structure  and  conformation  of  the  teeth  and  alimentary  canal. 
Part  of  the  teeth  are  of  the  carnivorous,  or  flesh-eating  kind, 
and  part  of  the  herbivorous,  or  vegetable-eating  kind.  The 
alimentary  canal  is  equally  well  adapted  to  the  digestion  of  ani- 
mal or  vegetable  food,  or  an  admixture  of  both.  The  proper 
proportion,  by  weight,  is  one  third  of  animal,  and  two  thirds  of 
vegetable  food. 

"  Nature  has  given  us  an  unerring  guide  to  a  proper  choice  of 
diet.  An  unperverted  appetite  is  the  voice  of  the  physical  sys- 
tem making  known  its  needs,  and  it  may  always  be  trusted  to 
indicate  the  food  necessary  to  the  preservation  of  health.  But 
as  the  voice  of  nature  is  often  unheeded,  it  is  necessary  to  exer- 
cise intelligence  in  selecting  our  food  and  adapting  it  to  the 
circumstances  of  life.  By  a  proper  choice  we  can  often  coun- 
teract the  effects  of  a  violation  of  nature's  laws." 


ADAPTATION  OF  FOOD  TO   CLIMATE,  AGE,  OCCU- 
PATION,  AND   STATE   OF  HEALTH. 

In  examining  the  foods  adopted  by  diffe:fent  nations  and 
classes  of  people,  we  find  that  many  choose  instinctively  the 
kind  best  adapted  to  their  individual  needs.  The  climate,  occu- 
pation, and  water  influence  their  choice. 

Climate.  —  Animal  food  is  better  for  cold  than  for  hot  cli- 
mates. We  breathe  more  rapidly,  take  in  more  oxygen  in  cold 
weather,  and  the  internal  fire  burns  up  more  of  the  food.  We 
exercise  more,  and  this  causes  more  rapid  wearing  out  of  muscle 
and  flesh.  Fat  meat  is  not  digested  easily  unless  exercise  be 
taken  freely;  more  oxygen  must  be  mixed  with  it  to  produce 
heat  than  is  required  for  sugar  and  starch.  In  summer,  when 
we  exercise  less,  the  waste  is  less,  and  we  need  less  warmth- 


468  Tke  Bo.slon  Cook  Book. 


giving  food.  The  staj'ch  ;ii)(i  sugar  obtained  from  fruits  and 
vegetables  are  easily  dlg<^si;ed,  and  furnish  sufficient  warmth. 
The  Esquimaux  or  Greenlarider  consumes  a  large  quantity  of 
fat,  or  blubber  oil,  the  most  condensed  form  of  carbonaceous 
food.  This  gives  him  the  amount  of  heat  necessary  in  an  ex- 
tremely cold  climate.  With  this  blubber  he  mixes  some  indi- 
gestible substances  to  give  the  needed  bulk  for  the  perfect 
action  of  the  stomach.  The  people  of  Norway,  Sweden,  and 
Russia  use  large  quautitiec;  of  oily  Jish.  In  China,  India,  and 
other  extremely  hot  climates,  rice  is  the  universal  food.  Rice 
contains  a  very  small  a.mount  of  flesh -forming  material,  being 
mostly  starch,  which  is  changed  into  sugar  by  the  action  of  the 
saliva.  The  natives  of  rice-eating  countries  owe  much  of  their 
lack  of  spirit  and  energy  to  this  defective  diet.  But  when  eaten 
with  butter  or  olive  oil,  nnd  made  into  curries,  pilaf,  and  pilau, 
with  a  small  amount  of  flesh  or  fish,  it  supplies  all  the  elements 
necessary  for  life  in  such  climates.  The  Spaniard  in  his  olla 
podrida  —  a  stew  of  peas,  bacon,  or  fowl,  with  red  pepper  —  finds 
all  the  necessary  elements.  The  red  pepper,  used  so  largely  in 
the  curries  and  other  dishes  common  to  hot  climates,  stimulates 
the  liver,  which  is  naturally  weakened  by  the  long-continued 
heat,  and  thus  assists  digestion.  The  Arab  chooses  dates, parched 
grains,  mare's  or  cameP.'t  viilk.  The  Turk  adds  to  these  melons 
and  cucumbers.  As  we  come  northward  again,  we  find  more 
flesh-forming  material  in  the  polenta  (a  dish  made  of  Indian 
corn)  and  the  chestnuls,  macaroni,  and  cheese  used  by  the  Italians. 
The  pot-au-feu  is  the  pi'incipal  dish  of  every  peasant  in  France. 
This  furnishes  the  cheapest  form  of  nutriment,  and  contains  all 
the  necessary  elements  of  food. 

The  water's  of  a  country  sometimes  determine  the  national 
food.  In  Ireland,  where  the  waters  are  strongly  impregnated 
with  lime,  they  furnish  what  the  potato,  which  is  richer  in  pot- 
ash and  soda,  lacks.  When  potatoes  are  combined  wdth  cabbage 
and  pork,  as  in  kolcannon,  the  flesh-forming  element  is  supplied; 
and  this,  On  account  of  the  cost  of  meat,  the  laboring  classes  are 
unable  to  obtain  in  any  other  form.  In  England  and  Scotland, 
where  the  waters  are  soft,  oats  and  wheat,  which  are  rich  in 
phosphates,  are  the  staple  diet.  When  combined  with  milk, 
eggs,  rice,  peas,  beans,  bacon,  and  cheese,  their  food  is  complete. 

To  satisfy  the  natural  Instinct  to  obtain  these  five  elements, 
we  all  prefer  our  bread  with  butter  or  cream,  our  meat  with 
potatoes,  our  rice  witi)  butter,  milk,  or  eggs;  our  fish  we  cook 
in  fat;  we  eat  livei  witli  bacon  and  ham,  or  bacon  with  eggs; 


The  Boston  Coolc  Book.  469 


we  eat  cheese  with  crackers,  buttei-  wuIj  t.-aiilitlower  or  cabbage, 
salt  with  all  vegetables,  oil  with  salad,  and  trash  vegetables  with 
salt  meat.  Fruits  and  foods  intended  to  be  eaten  raw  contain  a 
large  proportion  of  water.  This  is  supplied,  when  lessened  by 
evaporation,  by  cooking  and  soakirig-  iu  water.  In  cooking- 
meats,  we  endeavor  to  retain  all  tlit-  Juices,  which  are  largely 
water.  In  spring  we  crave  fresh  green  vegetables  and  salads, 
that  we  may  have  the  potash  salts  of  which  there  has  been  a 
deficiency  in  the  winter  diet. 

Occupation  affects  our  choice  of  diet.  Persons  engaged  in  sed- 
entary occupations  cannot  digest  as  much  nor  as  easily  as  those 
who  labor  out  of  doors.  They  should  have  food  that  gives  the 
greatest  amount  of  nourishment  in  the  smallest  compass,  and  it 
should  be  served  in  the  most  digestible  form.  Those  who  tax 
their  brains  severely  should  have  animal  food  and  the  most 
digestible  forms  of  starchy  and  warmtti-giving  foods.  Those 
Nvho  exercise  freely  in  the  open  air  may  take  a  larger  quantity, 
and  it  need  not  be  the  most  digestible,  as  they  require  food  that 
^vill  stay  by  them.  The  laborer  instinctively  prefers  potatoes 
underdone,  or  "with  a  bone  in  them;"  and  he  chooses  salt 
meat,  not  only  because  it  is  cheaper,  but  because  it  stands  by 
him  longer.  The  salt  causes  him  to  drink  water  freely,  and 
this  supplies  the  waste  caused  by  excessive  perspiration.  A 
diet  of  vegetables,  peas,  beans,  cheese,  oatmeal,  bacon,  and 
the  cheaper,  more  indigestible  parts  of  meat  properly  cooked, 
is  suitable  for  laboring  people. 

State  of  Health.  — In  selecting  food  with  reference  to  health  it 
must  be  remembered  that  there  ar<-  certain  general  rules  which 
have  been  established  by  the  best  authorities  through  many  ages 
and  in  a  great  variety  of  circumstances;  there  are,  however, 
some  exceptions  to  these  general  rules.  Milk  is  considered  a 
wholesome  food,  yet  there  are  some  persons  who  cannot  take  it. 
Cheese  is  a  cheap  and  nourisliing  food  for  laboring  people,  but 
there  are  some  persons  to  whgm  it  is  an  active  poison.  This  is 
also  true  of  oysters  and  strawberries.  These  exceptions  are 
owing  to  some  idiosyncrasy  of  the  palate  or  weakness  of  the 
digestive  organs,  and  should  be  regarded  only  as  exceptions, 
which  do  not  affect  the  general  principle. 

The  application  of  these  general  principles,  given  throughout 
this  book  in  connection  with  the  various  articles  used  as  food, 
must  be  left  to  each  individual;  but  to  those  who  have  given 
the  subject  no  serious  study  a  few  hints  may  be  helpful.  They 
will  be  found  in  the  article  treating  of  Cooking  for  the  Invalid. 


470  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


NOURISHING  AND  STIMULATING  FOOD. 

There  is  another  classification  of  food  which  it  is  well  to  con- 
sider briefly.  In  its  effect  upon  the  system  food  is  nourishing 
and  stimulating,  or  the  reverse. 

Nourishing  foods  are  those  which  serve  to  develop  perfectly 
every  animal  function,  but  do  not  increase  the  strength  and 
speed  of  organic  action  beyond  the  point  of  full  nutrition. 
Bread,  vegetables,  fruits,  sugar,  salt,  and  water  are  nourishing 
foods. 

Nourishing  and  Stimulating  Food.  —  All  food  that  nourishes 
the  body  is  in  one  sense  stimulating,  as  it  gives  renewed  energy 
to  the  bodily  functions.  But  there  are  foods  which  impart  a 
speed  and  energy  to  the  organs  above  that  necessary  to  per- 
fect nutrition;  these  are  termed  stimulating  foods.  Animal 
food  is  of  this  class. 

Stimulants.  —  Alcoholic  drinks  and  condiments  are  classed  as 
stimulants,  because  they  impart  no  nourishment,  but  act  simply 
as  excitants  to  preternatural  activity. 

Innutritions  foods  are  those  which  are  not  assimilated ;  which 
are  by  nature  indigestible,  or  have  been  made  so  by  improper 
combinations  and  modes  of  cooking.  The  bran  of  wheat,  fried 
or  greasy  food,  heavy  bread,  and  rich  soggy  pastry  are  either 
entirely  un assimilated,  and  therefore  not  nourishing,  or  they 
weaken  the  system  by  exciting  particular  organs  to  excessive 
action. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  471 


DIG-ESTION. 

In  studying  digestion,  it  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  the  twofold 
division  of  food  into  nitrogenous,  or  flesh-forming,  and  carbona- 
ceous, or  heat-producing,  elements.  The  process  of  digestion 
differs  with  the  character  of  the  food.  The  purpose  of  diges- 
tion is  to  change  and  combine  all  the  elements  of  food  into  a 
fluid  which  will  mingle  with  the  blood,  become  assimilated,  and 
furnish  nutriment  for  the  body. 

Digestion  is  not  confined  to  the  stomach.  It  begins  with  in- 
salivation  in  the  mouth,  and,  after  deglutition,  is  carried  on  in  the 
stomach  and  intestines,  the  process  continuing  through  the  entire 
length  of  the  alimentary  canal,  —  a  tube  varying  in  diameter, 
and  thirty-six  feet  in  length. 

The  first  process  in  digestion,  as  in  any  chemical  analysis,  is 
to  crush  the  materials.  The  teeth  are  the  grinders  for  reducing 
the  food.  If  we  bolt  our  food  or  swallow  it  in  lumps,  the  soft 
coats  of  the  stomach  are  made  to  do  the  tearing  and  grinding 
work  of  the  teeth.  A  solvent  being  necessary,  the  saliva  is 
secreted  from  the  blood,  and  is  poured  through  three  pairs  of 
glands  into  the  mouth,  each  pair  supplying  a  different  saliva. 
This  softens  the  starch  and  tender  cellulose.  Animals,  like  the 
beaver,  which  feed  chiefly  on  woody  matters,  have  very  large 
salivary  glands. 

In  health  the  saliva  is  always  alkaline,  especially  during  and 
after  meals.  It  lubricates  the  mouth,  and  moistens  the  food  so 
that  it  may  assume  a  pasty  condition.  It  is  also  necessary  to 
the  sense  of  taste,  everything  being  tasteless  that  the  saliva  can- 
not dissolve.  For  this  reason  we  cook  and  season  our  food  so 
that  it  will  excite  the  flow  of  the  saliva. 

"  This  saliva  is  poured  into  the  mouth  not  to  he  cast  out,  but  to 
do  a  specific  work,  then  pass  into  the  stomach  and  be  again  ab- 
sorbed. If  the  system  be  drained  of  the  saliva  by  profuse  spit- 
ting, as  is  the  case  with  those  who  use  tobacco  freely,  the  order 
of  bodily  functions  is  reversed,  and  the  mouth  is  made  to  do  the 
work  of  the  kidneys,  which  is  to  carry  away  a  large  amount  of 
the  superfluous  water  and  all  the  waste  salts." 


472  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

The  saliva  consists  mostly  of  water,  with  a  very  small  amount  of 
saline  matter  and  about  five  parts  in  one  thousand  of  ptyalin,  an 
albuminous  ingredient,  or  ferment,  which  has  the  power  of  con- 
verting the  starchy  portions  of  food  into  sugar,  and  sugar  into 
lactic  acid,  but  does  not  act  upon  nitrogenous  food.  The  saliva 
froths  easily,  and  aids  in  carrying  air  into  the  stomach. 

This  is  the  first  step  in  digestion,  and  the  most  important,  as 
any  error  in  the  beginning  leads  to  evil  consequences  which  affect 
the  whole  process.  It  is  also  important,  because  it  is  wholly  a 
voluntary  process.  While  the  food  is  in  the  mouth,  we  may 
masticate  it  thoroughly  or  imperfectly,  and  swallow  or  reject 
it.  But  when  deglutition  has  carried  it  into  the  stomach,  it  is 
wholly  beyond  our  control,  and  we  are  not  responsible  for  the 
remainder  of  the  process,  only  so  far  as  it  may  be  affected  by 
error  in  the  first  stages.  Bread,  potatoes,  and  all  starchy  foods 
should  be  thoroughly  masticated,  and  mingled  with  the  saliva. 
Meat  may  be  swallowed  hastily,  or  knives  may  be  made  to  do 
the  work  of  the  teeth  in  masticating  animal  food;  but  no  chemist 
can  prepare  an  artificial  saliva  to  be  mixed  with  starchy  food,  to 
save  the  trouble  of  chewing  it.  If  a  piece  of  dry  light  bread  be 
masticated  thoroughly,  it  will  crumble  and  be  quickly  mixed 
with  the  saliva,  and  become  sweeter  the  longer  it  is  kept  in  the 
mouth.  The  alkaline  saliva  changes  the  starch  into  sugar,  and 
begins  the  digestion.  Try  to  chew  a  piece  of  hot  bread  and  it 
at  once  assumes  a  pasty  condition,  which  neither  teeth  nor  saliva 
can  penetrate,  and  is  swallowed  involuntarily.  A  piece  of  putty 
would  not  be  more  indigestible.  If  this  experiment  be  tried, 
no  other  argument  would  be  needed  against  the  use  of  hot 
bread. 

The  stomach  carries  on  the  second  part  of  digestion.  The 
presence  of  food  excites  the  flow  of  a  fluid  called  the  gastric  juice, 
which  is  secreted  in  large  quantities  in  the  mucous  mem- 
brane of  the  stomach.  At  the  same  time  the  muscular  coats 
of  the  stomach  contract,  and  produce  a  sort  of  churning  motion, 
which  carries  the  food  round  and  round  and  over  and  over,  ex- 
posing all  parts  of  it  to  the  action  of  the  fluid.  This  gastric 
juice  is  always  decidedly  acid  in  its  nature,  containing  hydro- 
chloric acid.  The  lactic  acid  formed  from  the  sugar  in  the 
mouth  is  also  present  in  the  stomach.  This  acid  arrests  the 
work  begun  in  the  mouth  on  the  starchy  foods,  renders  the  alkali 
neutral,  and  acts  only  on  albuminous  food.  It  contains  an 
albuminous  ingredient,  or  ferment,  called  pepsin,  in  about  the 
same  proportion  as  the    ptyalin   of  the  saliva.     The  pepsin 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  473 

mixed  with  the  lactic  acid  is  poM-erful  enough  to  dissolve  all 
the  albumen  and  fibrine  of  flesh  food  into  albuminose,  and  sets 
free  the  starch,  sugar,  and  fat,  melts  the  fat,  but  does  not 
change  either.  When  there  is  an  excess  or  deficiency  of  acid 
in  the  stomach,  the  digestion  is  abnormal.  Pepsin  is  sometimes 
used  as  a  remedy  for  dj^spepsia,  and  is  obtained  from  the 
stomachs  of  young,  healthy  pigs  which  are  kept  hungry. 

As  all  food  which  is  to  nourish  the  system  must  be  converted 
into  a  fluid  form,  any  substances  which  are  taken  in  fluid 
form  and  afterward  solidified  in  the  stomach,  as  blood  or  juice 
of  flesh,  milk,  and  raw  eggs,  must  be  changed  again  to  a  per- 
manent liquid  form  before  they  can  be  absorbed.  All  nitro- 
genous matters  are  not  only  dissolved  by  the  gastric  fluid,  but 
are  modified  so  as  to  remain  dissolved.  These  changed  albu- 
minous matters  are  called  peptones.  Oil  plays  an  important 
part  in  these  changes,  so  that,  although  oil  is  not  digested,  it 
serves  a  useful  purpose  in  passing  through  the  stomach. 

The  stomach  would  digest  itself  were  it  not  protected  by  a 
sheathing  of  mucus  and  by  a  continual  forming  of  cells  called 
epithelium^  during  the  process  of  digestion.  The  liquid  or  watery 
portions  of  food  enter  at  once  into  the  circulation  by  absorption. 
If  too  much  water  be  taken  with  food,  it  dilutes  the  gastric 
juice  and  retards  the  digestion ;  as  all  that  is  not  needed  must 
be  absorbed  before  digestion  can  go  on. 

Digestion  is  also  retarded  by  the  presence  of  very  hot  or  very 
cold  food,  as  everything  taken  into  the  stomach  has  to  be 
changed  to  the  normal  temperature  of  100?.  A  large  amount  of 
food  overloads  the  stomach,  distends  the  muscular  coats,  and 
lessens  the  power  of  motion.  Too  little  food  is  also  a  mistake, 
as  the  stomach  needs  a  certain  amount  of  bulk  to  M^ork  upon. 
Continual  or  irregular  eating  is  wholly  contrary  to  the  intention 
of  nature,  since  it  does  not  allow  the  stomach  time  to  rest  and 
to  form  new  cells  to  secrete  digestive  fluids.  Flesh  food  that 
is  finely  minced,  like  hash,  croquettes,  and  many  entrees,  passes 
rapidly  through  the  stomach  without  being  dissolved  by  the 
gastric  juice;  but  when  taken  in  larger  pieces  it  remains  long 
enough  to  be  all  digested. 

The  digestive  power  of  the  stomach  is  weakened  when  there 
is  any  undue  action  in  any  other  part  of  the  body,  as  in  great 
muscular  exertion  or  in  powerful  excitement  of  the  brain. 
Therefore  we  should  eat  sparingly  at  first,  when  fatigued  by 
exercise  or  study  or  when  unduly  excited,  and  should  rest 
awhile  after  eating. 


474  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Lactic  acid,  small  portions  of  sugar  and  digested  nitrogenous 
substances,  pass  into  the  blood  by  absorption  through  the 
stomach  veins.  Thus  the  contents  of  the  stomach  leave  it  in 
two  directions :  a  portion  is  absorbed  through  the  coats  of  the 
stomach  by  the  process  of  osmose,  or  the  passage  of  fluids 
through  animal  membranes ;  the  remainder  passes  through  the 
pyloric  opening  into  the  duodenum  and  intestines  for  the  com- 
jiletion  of  digestion.  Food  from  the  stomach  enters  the  duode- 
num in  an  acid  state,  and  in  the  intestines  is  mingled  with 
three  alkaline  fluids,  all  containing  soda. 

The  pancreatic  fluids  secreted  from  the  pancreas,  digests  the 
fatty  matters.  It  breaks  the  large  granules  of  oil  and  fat  into  a 
great  many  minute  particles,  and  converts  them  into  a  milk}^ 
liquid  called  chyle,  which  mixes  freely  with  water  and  passes 
through  the  tissues  of  the  intestines  into  the  lacteals.  It  also 
changes  the  starch  into  sugar,  and  the  sugar  into  lactic  acid,  but 
has  very  little  action  on  albuminous  substances. 

The  hile,  secreted  from  the  liver,  plays  an  important  part  in 
Intestinal  digestion,  the  exact  nature  of  which  is  unknown. 
Bile  is  a  complex  liquid,  consisting  of  biliary  acid  in  combina- 
tion with  soda.  It  certainly  aids  in  the  absorption  of  fat,  and 
many  suppose  its  purpose  is  to  lubricate  the  wails  of  the  intes- 
tinal canal ;  from  its  soapy  consistency  it  effects  a  smooth,  non- 
irritating  passage  of  the  contents.  If  there  be  any  lack  or 
surplus  of  the  bile,  it  soon  produces  an  injurious  result  in  the 
system.  The  bile  is  in  the  intestines,  and  not  in  the  stomach 
except  when  the  action  of  the  stomach  is  inverted,  in  nausea 
and  vomiting;  then  the  bile  is  forced  up  into  the  stomach  in- 
stead of  down  into  the  intestines. 

The  intestinal  juice,  secreted  in  the  mucous  membrane  the 
entire  length  of  the  intestine,  combines  the  active  and  digestive 
powers  of  all  the  other  secretions. 

The  lactic  acid  is  formed  so  rapidly  from  the  digestion  of 
sugar  that  the  contents  of  the  intestine  quickly  becomes  acidu- 
lous, and  this  completes  the  digestion  of  any  portions  of  nitro- 
genous food  not  fully  digested  in  the  stomach.  The  combined 
amount  of  the  salivary,  gastric,  pancreatic,  biliary,  and  intes- 
tinal fluids  sgcreted  daily  is  twenty-one  pints,  of  which  the 
gastric  juice  forms  more  than  one  half.  There  are  mechanical 
aids  to  intestinal  as  well  as  stomach  digestion.  The  writhing, 
worm-like  motion,  or  peristaltic  movement,  of  the  muscular  coats 
of  the  intestines  forces  the  food  downward,  and  exposes  all 
portions  of  it  to  the  digestive  fluids. 


'Ihe  Boston  Cook  Book,  475 

Notwithstanding  all  these  powerful  agents  in  digestion,  a 
portion  of  useful  matter  passes  through  the  intestines  un- 
changed; and  if  there  be  a  deficiency  of  either  fluid,  or  a 
weakness  of  the  muscular  coats,  or  too  great  a  quantity  of  irri- 
tating substance,  like  cellulose,  woody  fibre,  bran,  etc.,  the 
amount  is  increased.  This  is  carried,  with  the  innutritions 
portion,  into  the  larger  intestine,  and  forms  a  part  of  the 
excretions. 


ABSORPTION. 

The  nutritive  and  perfectly  digested  portions  of  food  are 
absorbed  partly  by  the  veins  of  the  stomach,  entering  at  once 
into  the  circulation,  and  partly  by  the  intestines.  The  lining 
membrane  of  the  intestines  folds  over  and  over  upon  itself,  like 
a  ruffle,  along  the  entire  edge;  this  is  full  of  little  tubes,  or  villi, 
which  absorb  the  chyle. 

The  blood  vessels  absorb  the  nutritive  elements  from  the  villi 
and  carry  them  to  the  veins  in  two  ways:  1st.  Through  the 
portal  vein  into  the  liver,  where  it  penetrates  every  part  of  the 
liver,  then  passes  out  through  the  hepatic  vein  into  the  veins 
near  the  heart;  2d.  Through  the  lacteals,  which  are  attached  to 
the  lining  membrane  of  the  intestines  and  empty  into  the 
thoracic  duct,  a  tube  extending  along  the  spine,  and  then  into 
the  subclavian  vein,  which  lies  in  the  left  side  of  the  neck, 
under  the  collar  bone.  The  veins  also  bring  with  them  the 
lymph,  —  a  thin  colorless  fluid  which  comes  from  the  absorbent 
vessels  situated  all  over  the  body,  and  which  contains  the 
worn-out  particles. 

Then  the  venous  blood,  supplied  from  the  lacteals  with  new 
material,  and  from  the  lymphatic  vessels  with  waste  materials, 
enters  the  heart  through  the  upper  door,  or  right  auricle,  passes 
through  the  valves  down  into  the  right  ventricle ;  out  through 
the  pulmonary  artery  into  the  lungs,  where,  as  purple  venous 
blood,  it  penetrates  to  the  most  remote  capillaries. 

If  the  lungs  be  full  of  pure  fresh  air,  the  oxygen  changes  the 
purple  blood  into  red  blood,  and  burns  up  the  impurities.  The 
waste  products  of  the  combustion  of  carbon  and  hydrogen  are 
expelled  from  the  lungs  at  every  breath  in  the  form  of  carbonic 
acid  and  watery  vapor;  and  not  until  now  can  the  new  elements 
in  the  blood,  obtained  from  the  food,  become  in  reality  food,  or 
perfect  blood. 


476  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

This  oxygenized  or  vitalized  blood  now  returns  from  the  lungs, 
and  enters  the  heart  through  the  left  upper  door,  or  left  auricle ; 
the  valves  open  and  allow  it  to  pass  into  the  left  ventricle, 
then  out  through  the  aorta,  or  great  artery,  from  which  the 
arteries  carry  it  to  the  capillaries  all  over  the  system. 

In  the  capillaries  the  new  material  is  deposited  wherever 
needed,  and  changed  by  cell  growth  into  new  tissue.  The 
lymphatic  vessels  take  up  all  that  is  not  needed,  with  the 
worn-out  portions ;  and  the  veins  then  carry  this  impure  blood 
back  again  to  the  lungs  and  heart. 

Thus  a  continuous  circulation  is  established,  the  blood  coursing 
over  the  whole  body  once  in  every  three  to  five  minutes,  the  time 
varying  with  the  amount  of  exercise  and  the  state  of  health. 
During  this  circulation  the  combustible  compounds  are  burned 
by  the  oxygen  received  into  the  blood  in  the  lungs,  the  carbona- 
ceous products  of  combustion  are  expelled  through  the  lungs  as 
carbonic  acid  gas  and  watery  vapor,  and  the  nitrogenous  pro- 
ducts through  the  kidneys  in  the  form  of  urates. 

"  This  process  of  digestion  and  absorption  is  really  a  kind  of 
preliminary  cooking  process,  going  on  from  the  mouth  downwards 
all  the  way  to  the  colon;  and  from  every  part  of  the  long  canal 
tiny  lacteals  and  absorbing  veinlets  carry  off  contributions  of 
food  either  to  the  general  store  of  chyle,  or  to  the  venous  blood 
which  is  hurrying  back  to  the  heart." 


NUTRITION. 

*'  Albumen  is  the  basis  of  all  animal  nutrition.  This  is  seen 
in  the  bird's  egg  during  incubation.  Under  the  influence  of 
warmth  and  oxygen,  all  the  tissues,  membranes,  and  bones  are 
developed  from  albumen." 

In  the  human  body  a  nutritious  fluid  is  prepared  from  the 
food,  and  supplies  materials  for  growth  and  repair.  This  fluid 
is  the  blood,  and  when  examined  under  the  microscope  is  found 
to  consist  of  a  clear  colorless  fluid,  of  a  saline,  alkaline,  and 
albuminous  nature,  and  an  immense  number  of  infinitely  minute 
blood  globules,  or  corpuscles.  These  corpuscles  consist  of  an 
albuminous  membrane  called  globulin,  filled  with  a  red  coloring 
matter,  hematine,  in  which  there  is  much  iron. 

This  liquid  albuminous  portion  of  the  blood  must  be  changed 
to  fibrine  before  it  can  nourish  the  muscles  of  the  body.     The 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  477 

change  of  the  gluten,  caseine,  and  all  the  varieties  of  albuminous 
food  into  fibrine  is  a  gradual  process,  begun  in  the  lacteals,  con- 
tinued in  the  circulation  of  the  blood,  and  completed  in  the  lungs 
by  the  oxygen  which  they  receive  in  breathing.  This  fibrine 
remains  in  the  liquid  state,  owing  to  the  alkaline  nature  of  the 
blood,  and  is  distributed  by  the  circulation  into  all  parts  of  the 
structure,  where  it  gradually  coagulates  into  a  network  of  tough 
thread-like  fibres,  enclosing  in  its  meshes  the  blood  corpuscles, 
and  is  changed  by  cell  growth  into  new  tissue,  solid  flesh  and 
bone. 

The  nervous  system  is  also  built  and  repaired  from  albumen. 
Nervous  matter  is  about  seven  per  cent  albumen,  and  is  the 
material  by  which  we  are  put  into  relation  with  the  external 
world.  By  it  we  see,  hear,  feel,  taste,  smell,  and  are  conscious 
of  existence. 

Each  elementary  cell  or  particle  of  tissue,  whether  of  bone, 
flesh,  or  nerves,  seems  to  have  a  sort  of  gland-like  power,  not 
only  of  attracting  materials  from  the  blood,  but  of  causing  them 
to  assume  its  structure  and  participate  in  its  properties.  The 
bones  and  teeth  select  and  appropriate  the  phosphates  of  lime, 
and  magnesia,  also  fluorine.  The  muscles  and  nerves  take 
fibrine,  phosphates  of  magnesia,  and  potash.  The  cartilages 
seek  for  soda;  the  hair,  skin,  and  nails  are  made  up  of  silica. 
Iron  is  needed  in  the  coloring  matter  of  the  blood,  the  black 
pigment  of  the  eye,  and  in  the  hair.  Sulphur  exists  in  the  hair, 
and  phosphorus  in  the  brains.  The  glands  of  the  mouth  take 
the  substances  necessary  to  form  saliva;  those  of  the  eye,  the 
elements  of  tears;  the  coats  of  the  stomach,  gastric  juice;  and 
the  liver,  bile.  Each  part  of  the  body  has  the  power  to  select,  , 
from  the  common  supply,  the  material  which  suits  it  best  for 
building  and  growing. 

If  the  conversion  of  albumen  into  fibrine  be  incomplete,  the 
tissues  are  imperfectly  nourished.  The  formation  of  tubercles 
in  the  lungs  is  caused  by  half -formed  cells  and  coagulated  albu- 
men deposited  in  the  lungs.  This  is  caused  by  a  deficiency  of 
the  oily  matter,  which  is  necessary  for  the  perfect  formation  of 
cells  and  the  growth  of  healthy  tissue.  Hence  for  these  cases 
physicians  prescribe  cod-liver  oil. 

Distilled  spirits  coagulate  the  albumen  which  ought  to  go 
into  the  blood;  this  prevents  the  proper  digestion  of  food,  and 
causes  one  of  the  great  evils  resulting  from  their  use.  The  ner- 
vous tissue  is  thus  deprived  of  nourishment,  which  is  one  of  the 
causes  of  delirium  tremens. 


478  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

Every  twinge  of  pain  in  neuralgia  is  the  nerves  crying  out 
for  better  blood.  Imperfect  digestion  and  assimilation  of  food 
are  the  chief  causes  of  neuralgia. 

Nutrition,  though  seemingly  complex,  is  really  a  simple  pro- 
cess; albumen  is  changed  to  fibrine,  and  fibrine  to  flesh.  The 
relation  of  each  to  the  other  has  been  aptly  compared  to  that  of 
the  raw  cotton,  the  spun  yarn,  and  the  woven  fabric. 

The  minute  corpuscles  in  the  blood  are  constantly  building  up 
the  body,  very  much  as  the  coral  insect  builds  its  structure.  The 
work  of  each  corpuscle  is  too  small  for  our  conception ;  but,  taken 
in  the  aggregate,  the  result  is  the  wonderful  growth  and  renova- 
tion of  the  human  body.  And  what  is  still  more  wonderful, 
every  organ  of  the  body  is  on  the  alert  to  keep  the  whole  system 
in  natural  health.  The  activity  of  the  vessels  which  remove 
the  waste  particles  from  the  blood  is  untiring.  The  kidneys 
are  the  scavengers  of  the  body,  and  stand  next  to  the  lungs  in 
renovating  it.  If  too  much  water  be  drunk,  the  kidneys,  lungs, 
and  skin  carry  it  off,  for  fear  that  the  blood  should  become  too 
watery.  We  may  cease  to  convey  food  into  the  body  for  days 
with  no  evil  consequences;  but  let  the  removing  organs  cease 
operations  for  a  single  day,  and  disease  ensues. 


LIFE  AND  MOTION.i 

Circulation  of  Water.  —  As  a  plant  grows,  water  from  the  soil 
or  air  unites  chemically  with  carbon,  and  forms  the  woody  fibre 
of  the  stem,  the  sugar  of  the  sap,  and  the  starch  of  the  seed. 
When  the  plant  dies,  the  water  is  again  set  free  from  its  struc- 
ture and  passes  into  the  air.  The  starch  and  sugar,  also,  which 
the  plant  yields  having  been  consumed  by  some  animal,  the 
water  which  they  contain  passes  into  the  air  through  the  lungs 
and  skin.  Thus  the  same  water  is  caused  to  revolve  in  a  circle 
of  life-sustaining  combinations.  Within  a  single  hour  it  may 
be  in  some  vegetable  structure  in  the  form  of  sugar ;  then  it 
may  pass  into  and  circulate  through  some  animal  system  and 
be  discharged  as  vapor  from  the  lungs,  and  afterwards  become 

1  This  article  is  mainly  an  abstract  of  the  chapters  on  the  "  Circulation 
of  Matter,"  contained  in  "Johnston's  Chemistry  of  Common  Life."  It  is 
inserted  here  as  bearing  upon  the  c^eneral  subject  of  food,  and  with  the  hope 
that  all  who  read  this  will  read  the  original. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  479 

absorbed  by  thirsty  leaves  and  aid  in  the  growth  of  flowers  and 
fruits. 

Circulation  of  Carbon.  —  Vegetables,  which  are  largely  starch 
and  carbon,  absorb  carbonic-acid  gas  from  the  atmosphere,  which 
contains  thirty-three  grains  of  carbon  in  every  square  inch.  If 
the  world  were  all  dry  land,  and  covered  with  dense  vegetation, 
all  the  carbon  would  be  extracted  from  the  atmosphere  in  twenty- 
three  years.  This  carbonic  acid  is  restored  to  the  atmosphere  by 
the  waste  and  decay  of  vegetable  matter,  by  the  exhalations  from 
animals,  and  by  combustion. 

The  leaf  of  a  living  plant  draws  in  carbonic  acid  gas  from  the 
air,  and  gives  off  the  oxygen  contained  in  it,  retaining  only  the 
carbon.  The  roots  drink  in  moisture  from  the  soil ;  and  out  of 
the  carbon  and  water  contained  in  it  the  plant  forms  starch, 
sugar,  fat,  and  other  substances. 

The  animal  takes  the  starch,  sugar,  or  fat  into  its  stomach, 
and  draws  in  oxygen  through  its  lungs.  New  chemical  combina- 
tions are  thus  formed,  undoing  the  work  of  the  plant,  and  send- 
ing back  to  the  air,  from  the  lungs  and  skin,  both  the  starch  and 
oxygen,  in  the  form  of  carbonic-acid  gas  and  water.  The  same 
material  is  constantly  circulating,  —  now  floating  in  invisible  air, 
now  forming  the  substance  of  the  growing  plant,  now  of  the 
moving  animal,  and  now  diffusing  itself  through  the  air  ready 
to  go  its  round  again.  It  forms  part  of  a  vegetable  to-day;  to- 
morrow it  is  in  a  man's  backbone;  a  week  hence  it  may  have 
passed  through  another  plant  and  into  another  animal. 

In  burning  coal,  we  cause  its  carbon  to  unite  with  the  oxygen 
of  the  air  and  to  disappear  as  carbonic  acid  gas.  The  carbon 
returns  to  the  atmosphere  from  which  it  may  have  been  taken 
millions  of  years  ago  when  it  was  appropriated  by  the  growing 
plants,  which,  in  the  form  of  vegetable  matter,  were  afterwards 
buried  beneath  the  surface  of  the  earth  only  to  reappear  ages 
subsequently  in  the  form  of  fuel.  The  earth  itself  breathes 
out  carbonic  acid,  sometimes  with  water,  sometimes  alone.  It 
sparkles  in  the  springs  of  Carlsbad  and  Seltzer;  it  kills  man  and 
beast  in  the  terrible  "  Valley  of  Death  "  in  the  island  of  Java. 

In  this  way  is  supplied  the  loss  of  that  which  is  daily  buried 
by  the  shell  fish  and  coral  insects  in  the  limestone  formations 
and  coral  growths.  These  rocks  contain,  chained  down  in  seem- 
ingly everlasting  imprisonment,  two  fifths  of  their  weight  of 
carbonic  acid. 

Circulation  of  Nitrogen.  — Gluten  and  fibrine  are  distinguished 
from  starch  and  fat  by  containing  nitrogen.     The  nitrogen  forms 


480  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 

four  fifths  of  the  ah'.  It  exists  also  in  ammonia,  and  in  aqua 
fortis,  or  nitric  acid.  These  two  compound  bodies  exist  and  are 
found  in  the  soil ;  and  from  the  soil  the  nitrogen  is  taken  up  by 
the  plants,  and  gluten  is  formed.  When  the  animal  consumes 
the  gluten,  it  builds  up  and  renews  the  waste  of  its  several  parts. 
The  gluten  of  the  plant  is  transformed  into  the  flesh  and  tissues 
of  the  living  animal.  Thus  the  nitrogen  of  the  soil  through 
the  plant  has  reached  the  dignity  of  being  a  part  of  breathing, 
intellectual  man. 

Having  reached  this  form,  this  restless  element,  nitrogen, 
grows  weary  of  inactivity  and  moves  on.  Not  only  the  living 
body  as  a  whole  is  in  constant  motion,  but  even  its  minutest 
parts  are  continually  active.  "  They  are  like  the  population  of 
a  great  city  moving  to  and  fro,  coming  and  going  continually, 
weeded  out  and  removed  every  hour  by  deaths  and  departures, 
yet  as  unceasingly  kept  up  in  numbers  by  new  in-comers,  chang- 
ing from  day  to  day  so  insensibly  as  to  escape  observation,  yet 
so  evidently  that  after  a  few  years  scarcely  a  known  face  can 
be  discovered  among  the  congregated  thousands."  Scarcely  has 
the  gluten  of  the  plant  been  fitted  comfortably  to  its  place  in  the 
muscle,  the  skin,  or  the  hair  of  the  animal,  when  it  begins  to  be 
dissolved  again  and  is  removed. 

The  living  animal  absorbs  much  oxygen  from  the  air  by  its 
lungs.  One  part  of  it  converts  the  carbon  of  the  food  into  car- 
bonic acid;  another  portion  is  built  into  the  substance  of  the 
body;  a  large  part  is  employed  in  dissolving  and  removing  the 
waste  in  urea,  uric  acid,  etc.  This  urea  and  uric  acid  return  to 
the  soil  from  which  the  nitrogen  they  contain  originally  came, 
and  where  they  are  reconverted  into  ammonia,  nitric  acid,  and 
other  substances,  and  are  now  ready  to  enter  into  new  roots  and 
go  the  rounds  again. 

The  undigested  gluten  is  rejected  in  the  aiiimal  droppings, 
mingles  with  the  soil,  and  is  changed  to  ammonia  and  nitric 
acid.  The  vegetables  which  die  undergo  natural  decay,  and 
again  enter  the  soil  and  air  as  elements.  Animal  bodies  them- 
selves die  at  last,  and  the  nitrogen  they  contain  is  made  to  assume 
the  forms  in  which  plants  are  able  to  take  it  up.  The  ammonia 
and  volatile  compounds  of  nitrogen,  produced  by  animal  and 
vegetable  decay,  rise  in  the  form  of  gas  or  vapor,  and  escape 
into  the  air.  The  rains  of  heaven  wash  the  ammonia  out  and 
bring  it  back  to  the  earth.  Part  of  it  is,  however,  resolved  into 
elementary  nitrogen,  and  is  thus  lost  to  plants.  To  make  up 
for  this  loss,  nitric  acid  is  formed  in  the  air  in  small  quantities. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  481 

Through  the  agency  of  the  electric  currents  the  oxygen  and 
nitrogen  of  the  air  unite  to  form  nitric  acid.  Ammonia  is  given 
off  by  volcanoes,  and  is  returned  to  the  earth  by  the  rains  and 
snows. 

Circulation  of  Mineral  Matter.  —  Everything  which  the  animal 
body  contains  is  derived,  directly  or  indirectly,  from  vegetable 
foods;  and  the  mineral  or  ash  it  leaves,  when  burned,  must  have 
come  from  the  soil  through  the  plant.  When  the  animal  dies, 
its  body  sooner  or  later  returns  to  the  soil.  So  we  have  another 
circle  in  which  the  earthy  matter  of  animals  and  plants  moves. 
It  ascends  from  the  soil  to  the  plant,  then  to  the  animal,  and 
back  again  to  mother  earth,  so  that  it  is  really  "  dust  to  dust." 

The  plant  does  not  absorb  all  mineral  matters,  but  selects  the 
rarer  and  more  precious  materials  from  the  soil,  and  such  as  are 
held  in  solution  by  water.  Phosphoric  acid,  lime,  magnesia,  and 
saline  matter,  of  which  common  salt  is  a  representative,  are  the 
principal  substances  chosen.  The  animal  eating  the  vegetable, 
these  substances  enter  its  stomach,  and  are  dissolved  and  enter 
the  blood.  The  vessels  provided  for  the  purpose  select  the  re- 
quired material,  and,  like  ships  in  commerce,  sail  away  on  the 
blood  rivers  to  their  destined  havens.  The  saline  portion  is  car- 
ried to  the  blood  and  tissues.  The  phosphate  of  lime  goes  to  the 
bones,  and  phosphate  of  potash  to  the  muscles.  After  a  time 
the  animal,  partly  as  it  wastes  and  finally  when  it  dies,  returns 
to  the  soil  all  that  the  plant  took  from  it.  New  plants  receive 
it,  and  it  goes  the  rounds  again. 

So,  over  and  over  again,  as  the  modeller  fashions  his  clay,  plant 
and  animal  are  formed  out  of  the  same  material.  Is  all  sense- 
less matter  to  be  constantly  working,  and  are  we  intelligent 
beings  to  idle  away  a  precious  but  limited  existence  ?  One 
should  learn  from  this  always  to  work  for  a  definite  purpose. 

How  lovely  is  the  plant  in  its  position  of  bond-servant  of  man ! 
How  willing  and  interesting!  It  serves  till  death,  yet  rises  again 
rejoicing  as  ever,  when  spring  returns,  to  renew  its  destined 
toil. 

The  least  alteration  in  the  natural  constitution  of  things  would 
insure  the  extinction  of  animal  and  vegetable  life. 


31 


482 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


RECAPITULATIO]^. 


The  Plant  takes  in,  water, 
by  its  roots ;  carbonic  acid,  by- 
its  leaves;  nitrogen,  in  the  form 
of  ammonia  and  nitric  acid; 
minerals,  in  the  form  of  phos- 
phoric acid,  lime,  common  and 
other  salts,  from  the  soil. 

The  Animal  takes  in,  water, 
starch,  fat,  gluten,  and  mineral 
matters,  in  the  form  of  vege- 
table and  animal  food,  into  its 
stomach;  and  oxygen  into  its 
lungs. 


The  Soil  takes  in,  urea  and 
other  animal  excretions^  dead 
animals  and  plants. 


The  Plant  produces,  oxygen^ 
from  its  leaves ;  sugar,  starch, 
gluten,  and  mineral  matters,  in 
its  sap  and  solid  substances. 


The  Animal  produces,  car- 
bonic acid  and  icater,  which  are 
exhaled  from  the  skin  and 
lungs;  urea,  phosphates,  and 
other  salts,  in  the  excretions; 
the  fat  in  the  body,  which  is 
in  time  breathed  away  in  the 
form  of  carbonic  acid;  water 
and  perfect  muscle,  bone,  bloody 
and  tissues,  to  build  and  repair 
the  body. 

The  Soil  produces,  carbon  in 
the  form  of  wood  and  coal,  and 
in  spring  water;  ammonia,  ni- 
tric acid,  and  other  nitrogenous 
compounds ;  phosphoric  acid, 
lime,  common  salt,  and  other 
mineral  matters. 


So  the  movement  is  circular;  the  beginning  is  the  end.  A 
marvellous  commerce  appears ;  soil,  plant,  and  animal  commin- 
gling ;  the  elements  of  each  being  at  different  times  the  elements 
of  all,  and  their  interchange  perpetual. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  483 


SUG-G-ESTIONS   TO   TEACHERS. 

The  Course  of  Instruction  at  the  Boston  Cooking  School, 
which  is  inserted  on  page  495,  may  be  helpful  to  those  interested 
in  establishing  Schools  of  Cookery. 

Beginning  with  the  care  of  a  fire  and  the  simple  dishes  in 
daily  use,  the  course  includes  illustrations  of  every  principle 
involved  in  cookery.  Special  attention  is  given  to  bread,  soups, 
entrees,  meats,  healthful  puddings,  desserts,  and  dishes  for  the 
invalid. 

The  course  is  so  arranged  that  each  lesson  offers  a  bill  of  fare 
for  breakfast,  lunch,  or  dinner.  The  number  of  dishes  prepared 
at  each  lesson  should  be  determined  by  the  age  and  ability  of 
the  pupils,  and  the  character  of  the  instruction  desired.  In 
some  classes  it  is  desirable  to  have  the  dishes  which  are  prepared 
served  at  the  close  of  the  lesson ;  thus  an  opportunity  is  given  to 
instruct  in  laying  the  table  and  serving  the  food. 

With  beginners  or  very  young  pupils,  it  is  better  to  teach  only 
two  or  three  dishes  at  a  lesson.  Taking  the  first  lesson  in  the 
first  course  for  an  example,  a  practice  lesson  may  be  conducted 
after  the  following  plan.  Explain  first  the  construction  of  the 
stove  and  the  making  and  care  of  a  fire.  When  convenient, 
each  pupil  should  take  the  entire  care  of  a  fire  for  one  lesson. 
Let  the  pupils  become  familiar  with  the  kitchen  utensils,  their 
names,  and  uses.  The  receipts  should  be  read,  and  copied,  if 
no  text-book  be  used,  and  a  portion  of  the  work  assigned  each 
pupil.  After  the  receipts  are  given,  one  pupil  should  prepare 
the  yeast,  another  mix  the  bread,  another  pare  and  put  the  po- 
tatoes to  soak,  and  another  cut  the  bread  for  croutons,  and  wipe 
and  trim  the  chops.  The  tables  should  be  so  arranged  that 
pupils  may  watch  what  others  are  doing  while  busy  about  their 
own  work.  The  attention  of  the  whole  class  should  be  called 
to  the  making  of  the  bread  and  yeast,  and  each  in  turn  should 
help  in  the  kneading.  After  the  bread  and  yeast  are  set  to  rise, 
the  potatoes  should  be  put  on  to  boil,  the  soup  started,  and  the 
German  toast  prepared  and  left  to  soak.  Those  who  prepared 
the  bread  and  yeast  may  lay  the  table.     When  the  potatoes  and 


484  The  Boston  Cook  Booh, 

soup  are  done,  keep  them  hot  while  the  chops  are  being  cooked, 
the  toast  browned,  and  the  coffee  made.  Keep  the  other  dishes 
hot  while  the  soup  is  being  served.  Let  the  pupils  share  in  turn 
the  duties  of  waitress  and  hostess. 

In  the  second  lesson  the  teacher  should  have  ready  for  baking 
bread  mixed  the  night  before,  and  also  some  cold  boiled  potatoes. 
While  one  pupil  is  preparing  the  pans  for  the  bread,  another 
may  shape  part  of  the  dough  into  a  loaf,  and  then  all  may  assist 
in  shaping  rolls  or  biscuit.  The  blanc-mange  should  be  pre- 
pared next,  and  put  away  to  cool.  Then  the  meat  and 
potatoes  chopped  for  the  hash,  and  the  eggs  boiled  in  various 
ways.  One  or  two  eggs  will  be  sufficient  to  illustrate  soft- 
boiled  eggs,  and  may  be  eaten  at  once.  The  hard-boiled  eggs 
may  be  used  in  making  scalloped  eggs.  The  gruels  may  be 
made  at  any  time,  and  tested  when  ready.  Then  start  the 
potato  soup,  bake  the  rolls  or  bread,  cook  the  fried  or  creamed 
potatoes  and  the  hash,  and  while  the  table  is  being  laid  and  the 
soup  finished,  another  pupil  may  broil  the  fish. 

Where  it  is  not  desirable  to  have  a  lunch,  or  where  only  a  few 
lessons  are  given,  it  is  better  to  have  each  lesson  devoted  wholly 
to  one  subject.  In  a  lesson  on  bread,  several  kinds  of  bread 
may  be  mixed,  and  that  baked  which  was  mixed  the  night  be- 
fore. Also  make  soda  biscuit,  rye  muffins,  and  gems  or  corn 
cake. 

Or  arrange  the  lessons  with  reference  to  the  principles  and 
methods  of  cooking,  as  shown  in  the  programme  for  a  course  of 
lectures. 

In  practice  classes  the  pupils  should  do  all  the  work  under  the 
guidance  of  the  teacher.  It  is  not  enough  that  the  work  be 
done  for  them,  letting  them  learn  by  looking  on.  They  should 
do  for  themselves,  the  teacher  directing  and  explaining.  It  is 
better  to  run  the  risk  of  spoiling  a  dish  than  not  to  give  the 
pupils  a  chance  to  try,  as  a  failure  is  often  the  best  lesson  pupils 
can  have.  Then  they  will  know  what  to  avoid  when  work- 
ing alone.  In  large  classes  or  in  a  demonstration  lesson,  the 
work  may  all  be  done  by  the  teacher  with  the  assistance  of  the 
advanced  pupils. 

During  a  lesson  instruction  should  be  given  in  washing  dishes 
and  in  the  buying  and  care  of  matei-ials  used  in  cooking,  and  the 
pupils  should  be  encouraged  to  ask  questions  freely.  Examine 
the  pupils  frequently  in  the  general  principles  of  cookery,  and 
the  nature  of  food  materials.  Although  it  is  not  necessary  to 
memorize  every  receipt,  yet  every  pupil  should  be  sufficiently 


The  Boston  Cook  Booh,  485 

familiar  with  the  rules  to  be  able  to  make  bread,  soup,  coffee, 
several  kinds  of  puddings  and  dishes  for  invalids,  and  to  cook  a 
variety  of  meats  and  vegetables,  without  referring  to  a  receipt. 
Each  one  should  have  a  correct  idea  of  proportions,  that  she  may 
detect  any  error  in  a  new  receipt. 

Pupils  should  dress  appropriately  for  their  work,  cultivate 
habits  of  neatness  and  order,  and  never  be  encouraged  to  think 
that  any  part  of  cooking  is  disagreeable  or  unworthy  of  their 
very  best  effort;  and  the  teacher  should  have  milimited  patience 
with  all,  however  inexperienced  or  careless  they  may  be. 


A  COUUSE   OF  STUDY   FOR  NORMAL  PUPILS. 

The  Uses  and  Classification  of  Food. 

The  Composition  of  the  Human  Body. 

Kon-Combustible  Food  :  Water  and  Salts. 

Condiments  and  Beverages. 

Carbonaceous  Food  :  Starch,  Sugar,  and  Fats. 

Nitrogenous    Food  :    Milk,   Eggs,    Fish,    Meat,    Cereals,   and 

Vegetables. 
Cookery;  Fire  and  Fuel. 
Methods  of  Cooking. 

;Measu]-ing,  Mixing,  and  Tables  of  Proportions. 
Digestion,  Absorption,  Assimilation,  and  Nutrition. 
Proportion  of  Food  and  Adaptation  to  Climate;   Occupation; 

Age  and  State  of  Health. 
Circulation  of  Water;  Carbon,  Nitrogen,  and  Mineral  Matter. 


486  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


MISCELLANEOUS   QUESTIONS   FOR 
EXAMINATION. 

[No  attempt  at  classification  has  been  made  in  preparing  these  questions, 
as  every  teacher  can  testify  tliat  questions  in  daily  lite  do  not  come  in  regular 
order.] 

How  should  a  fire  be  built?  What  is  the  general  plan  upon 
which  every  stove  is  constructed?  How  should  the  heat  be 
regulated  in  the  oven?  What  articles  are  baked  on  the  lower 
part  of  the  oven ;  on  the  grate?  How  is  it  in  a  set  range?  What 
is  the  difference  between  a  stove  and  a  range ;  between  a  set  range 
and  a  portable  range?  Where  is  the  hottest  place  in  the  oven; 
on  the  top  of  the  stove?  How  do  you  keep  a  steady  fire  to  boil 
anything  that  must  be  kept  at  the  same  temperature  several 
hours?  What  kind  of  a  fire  should  you  have  for  broiling? 
How  do  you  blacken  a  stove?  How  do  you  clean  a  stove 
while  hot?  What  precautions  should  be  taken  while  frying  in 
deep  fat  ?     How  do  you  remove  fat  if  spilled  on  a  hot  stove? 

How  should  meat  be  basted?  How  may  you  keep  supplied 
with  hot  water?  How  do  you  wash  glasses;  silverware;  greasy 
dishes;  egg-beaters;  bread  boards  and  bowls?  How  do  you 
clean  frying-pans;  kettles;  iron  pans?  What  are  the  best  kinds 
of  ware  for  general  cooking?  How  do  you  clean  tin  and  granite 
ware?  W^hat  is  to  be  done  if  anything  burns  on  while  boiling? 
How  do  you  clean  a  refrigerator?  How  do  you  sharpen  a  knife? 
What  is  the  best  knife  for  paring;  for  scraping;  for  turning 
when  frying?     How  do  you  keep  a  sink  and  dishpan  clean? 

What  is  a  set  of  "  hollow  ware,"  usually  sold  with  a  stove? 
What  is  a  frying-pan;  Scotch  bowl;  griddle;  gridiron;  broiler; 
stewpan;  saucepan;  digester;  braising-pan ;  gem  pan;  muffin 
pan?  What  is  the  difference  between  Washington,  jelly-cake, 
squash,  and  mince  pie  plates?  What  is  a  gravy  strainer;  puree 
strainer;  squash  strainer;  colander?  What  is  the  difference 
between  a  bread  and  meat-carving  knife?  What  is  a  double 
boiler?  When  is  an  iron  spoon  not  to  be  used,  or  a  steel  knife? 
What  is  the  best  spoon  for  cake-making;  for  basting  meat;  for 
stirring  acid  mixtures?    How  do  you  measure  a  tablespoonful  of 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  487 

flour;  a  teaspoonful  or  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar;  a  cup  of  flour;  or  milk;  or  half  a  cup  of  butter?  How 
do  you  grease  a  bread  pan ;  a  cake  pan  lined  with  paper ;  a  grid- 
dle; a  gem  pan;  a  waffle  iron?  How  do  you  make  a  smooth 
flour  thickening,  or  a  thin  batter?  How  do  you  peel  potatoes 
and  pare  apples  to  keep  them  from  discoloring?  How  should 
potatoes  be  boiled;  rice;  macaroni;  vegetables,  and  cereals? 
What  are  the  proportions  of  salt  and  water  in  boiling?  How 
do  you  make  tea,  coffee,  and  chocolate?  AVhy  should  water  be 
used  as  soon  as  boiled?  How  should  milk  be  boiled?  How  do 
jou  make  a  white  sauce;  drawn  butter;  brown  gravy? 

Why  is  meat  for  soup  put  into  cold  water?  How  do  you  make 
u  stew?  How  do  you  keep  pea  soup  from  separating?  How  do 
you  broil  meat  and  fish?  How  do  you  toast  bread?  How  do 
jou  boil  eggs?  How  do  you  make  boiled  custard;  yeast;  water 
bread?  How  much  yeast  and  flour  is  used  to  one  quart  of  milk? 
How  many  brickloaf  pans  of  bread  will  six  quarts  of  flour  make? 
What  is  the  order  of  mixing  in  breakfast  cakes;  bread;  cake? 
How  do  you  know  when  bread  is  done;  steak;  cake;  oysters? 
What  is'  the  proper  method  of  frying?  What  is  the  test  for 
frying?  How  should  fried  articles  be  drained?  How  much 
■soda  and  cream  of  tartar  for  one  quart  of  flour?  Why  does  cold 
water  settle  coffee?  Why  does  raw  potato  clarify  fat?  Why 
does  milk  boil  more  quickly  than  water?  Why  not  put  water  in 
the  pan  with  roast  meat?  Why  do  we  beat  eggs  for  cake,  but 
not  as  much  for  custards?  Why  is  heavy  bread  unwholesome? 
Why  should  starchy  food  be  well  cooked  ? 

What  is  food?  What  is  nitrogenous  food?  What  is  car- 
bonaceous food?  What  is  the  use  of  water  as  food?  What  are 
the  minerals  we  take  as  food?  Explain  assimilation.  What 
foods  produce  the  most  heat?  What  foods  produce  the  most 
strength?  Why  does  the  Laplander  eat  fat?  Why  do  the 
■Chinese  eat  rice?  Why  do  we  not  eat  fat  in  summer?  AVhat 
is  the  best  food  for  laboring  men;  for  students;  for  children? 
What  kinds  of  food  contain  all  the  necessary  elements?  What 
are  saccharine  foods?  What  are  farinaceous  foods?  What  is 
meat?  What  are  the  best  kinds?  When  are  they  in  season? 
What  is  the  difference  between  red  and  white-blooded  fish? 
What  is  cream?     Why  is  whey  desirable  as  food  in  sickness? 

What  is  gluten;  starch?  Explain  the  digestion  of  starchy 
foods.  What  chemical  changes  take  place  in  bread  made  with 
yeast?  Why  do  we  beat  eggs?  What  is  cooking  soda,  and 
what  is  its  use?     What  is  cream  of  tartar,  and  why  do  we  use  it? 


488  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 

What  is  the  effect  of  an  unusual  amount  of  soda  in  cooking  and 
upon  the  health?  What  is  the  use  of  gelatine?  Why  do  we  use 
condiments  and  flavorings?  How  do  you  make  a  soup;  brown 
soup;  white  soup?  What  is  the  best  way  to  cook  a  piece  of 
tough  meat?  What  is  the  best  way  to  cook  a  neck  of  mutton? 
Why  do  we  eat  potatoes  with  fish?  Why  do  we  eat  milk,  but- 
ter, or  eggs  with  rice?  W^hy  do  we  eat  pork  with  beans?  Why 
does  meat  putrefy  and  fruit  decay?  Why  does  salting  preserve 
meat?  Why  does  salting  make  meat  less  digestible?  Why  are 
not  habitual  eaters  of  salt  meat  long-lived?  Which  diet  is  best, 
meat  or  vegetable,  or  a  mixture  of  both?  What  are  the  principal 
beverages?     What  is  the  effect  of  tea  on  the  system? 

What  are  capers;  mushrooms;  truffles?  What  is  farina  ; 
mazina;  semolina?  How  would  you  select  the  best  beef;  mut- 
ton; poultry;  fish;  lobsters?  Why  is  a  stale  egg  lighter  than 
a  fresh  one?  Why  do  we  not  use  hard  water  in  cooking?  Why 
do  w^e  not  fry  in  mutton  fat?  What  is  the  test  for  frying  for 
different  things?  Why  do  we  not  fry  in  water?  What  is  the 
effect  of  baking  or  boiling  potatoes  too  long?  What  is  the 
most  important  process  in  digestion?  What  are  salads;  en- 
trees? What  is  caramel;  soy?  What  part  of  the  plant  is  an 
apple;  a  chestnut;  chocolate;  a  turnip;  a  clove;  a  blackberry; 
spinach ;  rhubarb ;  cinnamon  ;  sugar ;  onion ;  coffee ;  vanilla  ? 
What  are  prunes? 

What  is  hoe-cake?  What  is  the  derivation  of  the  word 
"bread"?  Why  do  we  knead  bread?  Why  do  we  cook  our 
food?  What  M^ere  the  earliest  methods  of  cooking?  What  is 
the  meaning  of  the  term  "  cookery  "?  What  is  the  difference 
between  baking,  roasting,  broiling,  sauteing,  frying,  braising, 
stewing,  simmering,  and  boiling?  What  is  a  pot-roast?  Give 
a  rule  for  tomato  soup.  Give  a  rule  and  the  exact  order  for 
making  fish  balls.  Why  is  starchy  food  better  cooked  in  boiling 
water? 

Correct  this  rule  for  gingerbread,  write  the  rule  in  the  right 
order,  and  estimate  the  cost:  Four  cups  and  a  half  of  sugar ^ 
one  teaspoonful  of  molasses,  two  cups  of  ginger,  one  cup  of  soda, 
one  tahlespoonful  of  Jiour,  one  tahlespoonful  of  butter,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  sour  milk. 

Why  does  a  bright  tin  cover  keep  anything  hotter  than  a  dull 
cover?  Why  does  soup  keep  hot  longer  than  water?  Why  does 
a  kettle  of  water  sometimes  boil  over?  Why  does  water  simmer 
before  it  boils?  Why  does  cream  rise  to  the  top  of  milk?  Why 
will  water  dissolve  sugar  and  not  oil?     Why  is  meat  tough  if 


The  Boston  Cook  Book,  489 

boiled  too  rapidly?  Why  are  decayed  fruits  unwholesome? 
Why  do  we  scald  preserves  when  they  turn  sour?  Why  does  an 
egg  tarnish  silver?  What  is  acetic  acid;  citric  acid;  malic  acid; 
tartaric  acid;  oxalic  acid?  What  is  the  difference  between  an 
acid  and  an  alkali?  Why  are  potatoes  frozen  and  thawed  sweet? 
Why  does  hard  work  make  us  hungry?  Why  does  exercise  make 
us  warmer?  What  is  the  best  antidote  for  poison  taken  in  the 
stomach?  How  does  the  white  of  an  Qgg  clear  soup  and  coffee? 
Give  a  rule  for  yeast ;  plain  cake;  Charlotte  Russe;  ice-cream; 
pastry.  What  is  meant  by  the  economy  of  nature?  What  are 
some  of  the  simplest  rules  for  table  etiquette?  Give  the  order 
of  courses  at  a  fashionable  dinner-party.  Give  rules  for  beef 
tea,  gruels,  and  drinks  for  invalids.  Give  some  general  rules  to 
be  observed  in  one's  own  kitchen  and  in  teaching. 


490  The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


TOPICS  AND  ILLUSTRATIONS  FOR  LECTURES 
ON  COOKERY. 


[The  number  of  dishes  demonstrated  at  each   lecture  may  be 
varied  at  the  discretion  of  the  lecturer.] 

I. 

AN  INTRODUCTORY  TALK  ON  COOKERY,  FIRE,  STOVES, 
MEASURING,  AND  MIXING.  —  Omelet,  White  Sauce,  Cauli- 
flower a  la  Creme,  Fish  a  la  HoUandaise,  Cream  Toast,  Baked 
Quinces. 

MIXING  AND  BAKING;  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS.  — French 
Pancakes,  Cake,  Ginger  Drops,  Caramel,  Brown  Sauce,  Roast 
Duck,  Olive  Sauce. 

PASTRY  AND  ICES.  — Plain  and  Puff  Paste,  Mince  and  Lemon 
Pies,  Tarts,  Cheese  Straws,  Sherbet. 

LARDING,  STUFFING,  AND  ROASTING. —  Roast  Chicken, 
Chestnut  Stuffing  and  Sauce,  Larded  Grouse,  Bread  Sauce,  Cran- 
berries, Bread  and  Fruit  Pudding,  Creamy  Sauce. 

SIMMERING,  BOILING,  AND  STEAMING.  —  Soup  Stock,  Clear 
Soup,  Left-over  Soup,  Boiled  Eggs,  Macaroni,  Rice  a  la  Italienne, 
Whole- Wheat  Pudding,  Foamy  Sauce. 

STEWING,  FRICASSEEING,  AND  BRAISING.  —  Mutton  Stew 
for  Two,  Chicken  Fricassee,  Lemon  Sauce,  Braised  Liver,  Sauce 
Piquante,  Fish  Curry,  Fruit  Charlotte. 

BREAD  AND  SALADS.  — Whole- Wheat  Bread,  Rolls,  Gems, 
Twin  Biscuits,  Yeast,  Chicken  Salad,  Mayonnaise  Dressing,  Fish 
Salad,  Sauce  Tar  tare. 

FRYING  AND  S AUTEING.  —  Potatoes,  Croutons,  Fried  Muffins, 
Fritters,  Fish  Balls,  Oysters  Sauted,  Rice  Waffles,  Orange  Omelet, 
Cold  Slaw,  Boiled  Dressing. 

BROILING.  —  Venison,  Chops,  Lobster,  Ham,  Flounder,  Tea,  Choco- 
late, Tutti  Frutti. 

AN  EMERGENCY  DINNER.  —  Bisque  of  Lobster,  or  Pure'e  of 
Green  Peas,  Chicken  Croquettes,  or  Chicken  Pilau,  Stuffed  Pota- 
toes, Spaghetti,  Sardines,  Apricot  Pudding,  Fruit-Syrup  Sauce, 
Coffee. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  491 

DISHES  FOR  THE  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT.— Irish 
Moss  Lemonade,  Plum  Porridge,  Oatmeal  Gruel,  Beef  Tea,  Broiled 
Squab,  Kacahout  des  Arabes,  Crisps,  Orange  Baskets,  Baked 
Eggs,  Broiled  Oysters. 

CAKE,  FROSTING,  AND  DESSERTS.  —  Sponge  Cake,  Snow 
Cake,  Frosting,  Pineapple  Cream,  Gateau  de  Princess  Louise, 
Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding,  Mock  Cantaloupe. 


II. 

ECONOMICAL  DISHES.  —Beef  Stew  with  Dumplings,  Fish  Cro- 
quettes, Risotti,  Steamed  and  Baked  Apple  Dumplings,  Lemon 
Sauce,  Snow  Balls,  Roly-Poly  Pudding. 

BREAD,  ENTREES,  AND  ICE-CREAM.  —  Milk  Bread,  Rusk, 
Bunns,  Raised  Doughnuts,  Raised  Bread  Cake,  Devilled  Lobster, 
Curried  Lobster,  Neapolitan  Ice-Cream. 

BREAKFAST  DISHES.  — Raised  Corn  Muffins,  Rice  Crusts,  Bacon, 
Clam  Omelet,  Creamy  Omelet,  Eggs  a  la  bonne  Femme,  Coffee. 

LUNCH  DISHES.  —  Bouillon,  Egg  Baskets,  Chartreuse  of  Fish, 
Lombardy  Macaroni,  Cheese  Cups,  Cabinet  Pudding,  Wine  Sauce. 

SOUPS  AND  RECHAUFFES.  —  Mullagatawny  Soup,  Julienne 
Soup,  Crecy  Soup,  Curry  of  Mutton,  Turkish  Croquettes,  Meat 
Porcupine. 

FISH  AND  SAUCES.  — Pure'e  of  Clams,  Baked  Fish,  Oyster 
Stuffing,  HoUandaise  Sauce,  Kedgeree,  Fillets  of  Fish  with  Tomato 
Sauce,  Maryland  Oysters,  Crisped  Crackers,  Delicate  Pudding. 

A  FAMILY  DINNER.  —  Potato  or  Celery  Soup,  Roast  Beef,  York- 
shire Pudding,  Franconia  Potatoes,  Brown  Gravy,  Creamed  and 
Scalloped  Onions,  Prune  Pudding. 

PASTRY.  —  Plain  and  Puff  Paste,  Squash  Pie,  Eccles  Pie,  Rissoles, 
Lobster  Patties,  Creamed  Lobster. 

SOUPS    AND    SALADS.  — White   Soup,  Favorite   Soup,  Ox-tail 

Soup,   Mayonnaise   pressing,    Chicken    Salad,    Vegetable   Salad, 

French  Dressing,  Frozen  Pudding. 
TEA  DISHES.  — Rye  Short  Cake  Toast,  Apricot  Short  Cake,  Tea, 

Oysters   aux    Champignons,    Devilled   Chicken,    Chicken    Fillets 

Broiled,  Scalloped  Oysters,  Imperial  Cream. 
PICNIC   DISHES.  — Woodlawn  Chicken,  Sweetbread  Sandwiches, 

Potted  Liver,  Highland  Eggs,  Chantilly  Cakes,  Whitneys. 
DAINTIES. —  Foam  Omelet,  Chicken   Terrapin,  Lambs'  Tongues 

Braised,   Sweetbreads,  Polonaise  Cakes,  Charlotte   Russe,  Plom- 

biere,  Newport  Whips. 


492  The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


III. 

MIXING  AND  BAKING.  —  Bread,  Graham  Muffins,  Breakfast 
Puffs,  Waffles,  Eggs  sur  la  Plat,  Omelet  Souffle,  Baked  Bass, 
Sauce  Hollandaise. 

MIXING  AND  BAKING  (continued).  — Plain  and  Puff  Paste, 
Mince,  Squash,  and  Chess  Pies,  Bow  Knots,  Cupid's  Wells,  Sponge 
Cake. 

STUFFING,  TRUSSING,  AND  ROASTING.  —  Roast  Chicken  with 
Chestnut  Stuffing,  Roast  Birds,  Stuifed  Potatoes,  Stuffed  Eggs, 
Eoast  Oysters. 

BOILING  AND  STEAMING. —Potato  Soup,  Celery  Soup,  Potato 
a  la  Neige,  Boiled  Rice,  Casserole  of  Rice  and  Meat,  Tomato 
Sauce,  Boiled  Eggs,  Apricots  a  la  Neige,  Soft  Custard,  Coffee. 

FRYING  AND  SAUTEING.  —  Saratoga,  Parisienne,  Macaroni, 
Lyonnaise,  and  French  Potatoes;  Fried  Oysters,  Scallops,  and 
Fish ;  Breaded  Chops,  Fish  Balls,  Potato  Croquettes,  Croutons. 

SIMMERING  AND  SEASONING.  — Fifteen-Minute  Soup,  Clear 
Soup,  Puree  of  Salmon,  Puree  of  Peas,  Egg  Balls,  Smothered 
Oysters,  Blanquette  of  Salmon,  White  Sauce. 

STEWING  AND  FRICASSEEING.  —  Veal  Birds,  Veal  Cutlets, 
Rolled  Flank  of  Beef,  Chicken  Fricassee,  Oyster  Fricassee,  Com- 
pote of  Apples. 

LARDING  AND  BRAISING.  — Larded  Grouse,  Bread  Sauce, 
Braised  Beef,  Horse-radish  Sauce,  Braised  Calf's  Heart,  Sauce 
Piquante. 

BONING,  BROILING,  AND  TOASTING.  —  Boned  Quail  on  Toast. 
Chops  en  Papillote,  Steak  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel,  Huitres  au  Lit,  Fil- 
let of  Sole,  Cream  Toast,  Broiled  Oysters. 

DRESSING  AND  GARNISHING.  —  Potato  Salad,  French  Dress- 
ing, Chicken  Salad,  Mayonnaise  Dressing,  Casserole  of  Mock 
Sweetbreads,  Chicken  Croquettes,  Italian  Jelly,  Orange  Baskets. 

POTTING,  DEVILLING,  AND  SCALLOPING.  — Potted  Ham, 
Scotch  Eggs,  Devilled  Lobster  en  Coquiile,  Scalloped  Meat  or 
Fish,  Sandwiches,  Scalloped  Apple. 

FROSTING,  FLAVORING,  AND  FREEZING.— Pineapple  Sher- 
bet, Coffee  Ice-Cream,  Bavarian  Cream,  Gold,  Silver,  and  Water- 
melon Cake,  Plain  and  Boiled  Frosting. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  493 


IV. 

BREAD     AND    BREAKFAST     CAKES.  — Milk    Bread,    Yeast, 

Raised  Waffles,  Squash  Waffle?,  Griddle  Cakes,  Hominy  Cakes, 
Broiled  Meat  Cakes,  Hamburg  Steak. 

NICE,  IF  NOT  NEW,  DISHES. —  Baked  Beans,  Brown  Bread, 
Buckwheat  Cakes,  Baked  Indian  Pudding,  Steamed  Apple  Dump- 
ling, Doughnuts,  Apple  Pies,  Whips. 

DISHES  FOR  CHILDREN  AND  INVALIDS.  — Beef  Tea,  Broiled 
Steak,  Broiled  Squabs,  Raw  Beef  Sandwiches,  Oatmeal  Mush 
and  Gruel,  Baked  Apples,  Restorative  Jelly,  Cocoa,  Gluten  and 
Rye  Mush,  Gluten  Wafers,  Apple  and  Wheat  Pudding,  Apple 
Tapioca  Pudding,  Fruit  Tapioca. 

A  THIRTY-FOUR  CENT  DINNER. —  Potage  a  la  Reine,  Crou- 
tons, Fillet  of  Beef,  Snow  Potatoes,  Spaghetti,  Chicken  Croquettes, 
Lettuce  Salad,  Boiled  Dressing,  Sponge  Drops,  Orange  Sherbet, 
Coffee. 

SOUPS  AND  ENTREES.  — White  Soup,  Clear  Soup,  Clam  and 
Fish  Ciiowder,  Clam  Croquettes,  Aspic  Jelly,  Boned  Chicken, 
Cranberry  Sauce,  Halibut  a  la  Creme. 

DELICATE  DESSERTS.  —  Charlotte  Russe,  Cream  Cakes,  Wine 
Jelly,  Gateau  de  Princess  Louise,  Norfolk  Cream,  Chantilly  Bas- 
kets, Creme  Diplomate,  Bombe  Glace. 

WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  A  FORE-QUARTER  OF  MUTTON. 
—  Stuffed  Mutton,  Mutton  Chops,  Scotch  Broth,  Turnips  a  la 
Creme,  Macaroni,  Macdonald  Cake,^  Banana  Ice-Creara. 

BREAKFAST  DISHES.  — Lyonnaise  and  Broiled  Tripe,  Fricassee 
of  Tongues  and  Sounds,  Fried  Hasty  Pudding,  and  Oatmeal  Mush, 
Fricadilloes,  Bacon,  Graham  Gems,  Laplanders. 

LUNCH  AND  PICNIC  DISHES. —  Bouillon,  Parker  House  Rolls, 
Lobster  en  Brochette,  Oyster  Plant  Croquettes,  Salad  Sandwiches, 
Gingerbread,  Dutch  Cheese,  Pannikins,  Canapees,  Curried  Eggs, 
Fried  Oysters,  Cold  Slaw. 

TEA  DISHES.  —  White  Mountain  and  Swedish  Rolls,  Zephyr  Cakes, 
Brewis,  Dutch  Apple  Cake,  Orange  Short  Cake,  Crackers  a  la 
Creme,  Welsh  and  Yorkshire  Rarebits,  Toast,  Ham. 

ENTREES.  —  Puff  Paste,  Oysters  a  la  Creme,  Patties,  Vol-au-vent, 
Lobster  Croquettes,  and  Cutlets,  Turkish  Pilaf,  Turkish  Cro- 
quettes. 

DAINTY  DISHES.  —  Potato  Souffle,  Eggs  a  la  Dauphine,  Sweet- 
breads, Orange  Omelet,  Orange  Cake,  Ornamental  Frosting,  Cafe 
Parfait,  Tropical  Snow. 


494  1'^^  Boston  Cook  Book. 


BOOKS    OF   REFERENCE. 

Among  the  many  valuable  authorities  on  subjects  connected 
with  food,  the  following  have  been  consulted  in  preparing  this 
work.  The  Cook  Books  are  named,  not  according  to  their 
merit,  but  in  the  order  in  which  the  author  has  had  personal 
knowledge  of  them :  — 

Youmans's  Handbook  of  Household  Science. 

Johnston's  Chemistry  of  Common  Life. 

Wells's  Science  of  Common  Things. 

Lewes's  Physiology  of  Common  Life. 

Gray's  How  Plants  Grow. 

Dalton's  Physiology. 

Webster's  Dictionary. 

Food.     By  A.  H.  Church. 

Food  for  the  Invalid. 

Family  Receipt  Books  without  number;    and  Cook  Books  by 

Mrs.    Henderson,    Marion    Harland,    Mrs.    Cornelius,    Mrs. 

Beecher,   Warne,    Francatelli,    Soyer,    Mrs.    Whitney,    Miss 

Parloa,  Mrs.  Campbell,  Miss  Corson,  Mrs.  Beeton,  and  Mrs. 

Ewing. 


COURSE  OF  INSTRUCTION 

AT    THE 

BOSTON     COOKING    SCHOOL, 

174    TREMONT   STREET. 


FIRST  COURSE.  —  Plain  Cooking. 

Twelve  Lessons  for  $12.00,  including  materials. 


First  Lesson. 

PAGE 

The  Making  and  Care  of  a  Fire  5 

Raw  Potato  Yeast 62 

Mixing  Water  Bread  ....  63 

Tomato  Soup  (without  Stock)  .  147 

Croutons 136 

Boiled  Potatoes 293 

Mutton  Chops 236 

German  Toast 76 

CofEee 115 

Setting  the  Table  and  Serving  .  440 

Second  Lesson. 

Baking  Bread 58 

Potato  Soup ,146 

Broiled  Fish .  161 

Fried  or  Creamed  Potatoes   .     .  294 

Boiled  Eggs 199 

Hash 273 

Flour  and  Indian  Gruel  .     .  411,  412 

Blanc-Mange 341 

Scalloped  Eggs 207 

Third  Lesson. 
Mixed  Soup  Stock  ....  124-132 

Mixing  Milk  Bread     ....  64 

Hop  Yeast ,  .  63 

Beef  Tea    ....  423 


PAGE 

Griddle-Cakes 99* 

Baked  Fish 16& 

Drawn  Butter  or  Egg  Sauce     .  187 

Mashed  Potatoes 234 

Steamed  Apple  Pudding .     .     .  332 

Molasses  Sauce 3 30' 

Fourth  Lesson. 

Beef  Soup  with  Vegetables  .     .  132 

To  Clarify  Fat IS 

To  Try  out  Lard 249 

Baking  Milk  Bread     ....  58 

Baked  Potatoes 295 

Broiled  Steak 22» 

Broiled  Meat  Cakes     ....  223 
Custards:    Baked,    Boiled,     or 

Steamed 342-344 

Cookies  or  Ginger  Snaps      .  385-388 

Fifth  Lesson. 

Beef  Stew  with  Dumplings  .     .  225 

Graham  Bread 66 

Scalloped  Meat  or  Fish     .      274,  169 

Brown  Gravy 191 

Poached  Eggs  on  Toast    ...  19^ 

Short  Cakes 84 

Gingerbread 38a 

Tea Ill 


496 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Sixth  Lesson. 

PAGE 

Baking  Graham  Bread     ...  66 

Corn  Cakes 91 

Fish  Balls  or  Fish  Hash  ...  171 

Fried  Fish 165 

Fried  Potatoes 296 

Omelet 200 

Chocolate 118 

Dutch  Apple  Cake 86 

Lemon  Sauce 328 

Oatmeal  Gruel 413 

Seventh  Lesson. 

Fish  Chowder 155 

Tripe 230 

Liver 231 

Brown  Bread 68 

Graham  Gems 84,  95 

Bread  Pudding 337 

Hard  Sauce 328 

Mixing  Rolls 65 

Eighth  Lesson. 

Pea  Soup 149 

Baked  Beans 249 

Veal  Cutlets 240 

Brewis  or  Doughnuts  .     ,     .77,  104 

Baking  Rolls 70 

Apple  Pie      ......  323,  325 

Apple  and  Toast  Water  ...  419 

Steamed  Squash 304 

Ninth  Lesson. 

Scotch  Broth 140 

Breakfast  Bacon 246 

Corn  Fritters 299 

Scalloped  Tomato 300 


I  Rolls,  or  Milk  Toast    . 
Raw  Beef  Sandwiches 

Cake 

Indian  Pudding .     .     . 


PAGE 

78 
424 

37G 
338 


Tenth  Lesson. 

Roast  Beef 220 

Potato  Croquettes  .     -     ...  280 

Macaroni 308 

Onions,  Parsnip,  or  Cabbage  301,  305 

Stewed  Apple  Sauce    ....  394 

Oatmeal 109 

Baked  Apples 394 

Rye  Muffins 90 


Eleventh  Lesson. 
Oyster  Soup  or  Stew  .     . 
Broiled  Oysters  .... 

Beef  Rolls 

Cold  Slaw      ..... 

Hoe  Cake 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding  . 
Lemon  or  Wine  Jelly  .  . 
Bread    , 


153 
179 
270 
311 

93 
333 
349 

65 


Twelfth  Lesson. 
Roast  or  Fricassee  Chicken    257,  258 

Boiled  Rice 306 

Squash  or  Turnip    .     .     .      304,  305 

Homing'  Cakes 92 

Potato  Puff    . 294 

Plain  Lobster 182 

French  Dressing 310 

Custard  Souffle,  Creamy  Sauce, 

338,  329 
Steamed  Suet  Pudding,  or  Snow 
Pudding 339,  347 


SECOND   COURSE.  —  Richer  Cooking. 

Twelve  Lessons  for  ^12.00,  including  materials. 


First  Lesson. 

Coffee 115 

Oatmeal,  Hominy,  or  Crushed 

Wheat  with  Baked  Apples     .     109 
Boiled  Potatoes 293 


Lyonnaise  Potatoes  ....  294 
Broiled  Beefsteak,  with  Maitre 

d'Hitel  Butter  ....  223,  105 
Egg     Vermicelli,     or     Curried 

EiTiTS       .......  206,  205 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


497 


Hominy  Drop  Cakes,  or  Rice 
Griddle-Cakes,  or  Soda  Bis- 
cuit   94,  100,  83 

Frizzled  Beef,  or  Tongues  and 

Sounds    ......    272,  173 

Second  Lesson. 

Mutton   Cutlets  Breaded,  with 

Tomato  Sauce     .     .     .     .  236,  194 

Shoo  Fly  Potatoes  ...'..  296 

Parisienne  Potatoes     .     .     .     .  296 

Omelet.     . 201 

Fried  Rye  Muffins  .     .     .     .     .  104 

Waffles' 98 

Lemon  Syrup 98 

Chocolate 118 

Third  Lesson. 

Yeast    .........  63 

Bread 63 

Parker  House  Rolls     ....  70 

Scalloped  Oysters 177 

Smothered  Oysters      ....  176 

Oysters  Sautdd 179 

Baked  Eggs 203 

Eggs  in  Baskets      .     .     . '  .     .  208 

Breakfast  Bacon 246 

Tea 112 

Fourth  Lesson. 

Stock  for  Clear  Soup  ....  130 

Fried  or  Broiled  Fish  .     .     .  165,  161 

Tartar  Sauce 194 

Potato  Croquettes 280 

Fish  Balls 171 

Pease  Cakes 101 

Macaroni  or  Spaghetti      .     .     .  308 

Fried  Oysters  or  Scallops    .  178,  181 

Apple  Meringue 333 

Sponge  Cake" 373 


Fifth  Lesson, 

Clear  Soup 

Egg  Balls  and  Forcemeat  Balls 

Caramel 

Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  d' Hotel 
Baked   Fish,   with   Sauce   Hol- 
landaise 164, 


129 
136 
134 

295 

194  1 
32 


PAGE 

Sticks  and  Rolls 71 

Caramel  Custard     .     .     .     .     .  344 

Caramel  Sauce 330 

Lettuce  Salad 312 

Boiled  Dressing 310 

Gluten  Wafers 97 

Sixth  Lesson. 

Braised    Beef,    or    Beef    a    la 

Mode 224,  225 

Potato  Balls 294 

Onions,  or  Cabbage  Baked  .  301,  302 

Mock  Bisque  Soup 147 

Raised  Muffins 87 

Custard  Souffle 337 

Creamy  Sauce 329 

Rice  Souffle,  or  Bird's-ISTest 
Pudding,  or  Orange  Short 
Cake      .....      336,  333,  86 

Seventh  Lesson. 

Puree  of  Fish 152 

Cusk  a  la  Creme 168 

White  Sauce 190 

Meat    Rdchauffe,    or     Curried 

Lobster 273,  183 

Potato  Salad 313 

Apple  or  Lemon  Pie    ....     325 
Cream  Cakes,  or  Friars'  Omelet  389, 
334 
Flannel  Cakes,  or  White  Moun- 
tain Rolls 99,  72 

Gluten  Mush 415 

Eighth  Lesson. 

Black  Bean  Soup 148 

Croutons .136 

Roast  Beef 220 

Franconia  Potatoes      ....  295 

Yorkshire  Pudding      ....  221 

Parsnip  Fritters 305 

Spinach 296 

Danish    Pudding,    or    Gelatine 

Pudding 342,  346 

Rice  Croquettes 281 

Beef  Tea 423 

Irish  Moss  Lemonade  ....  420 


498 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Ninth  Lesson. 

PAGE 

Mutton  Broth 141 

Stuffed  Leg  of  Mutton  .  .  .  233 
Currant  Jelly  Sauce     ....     191 

Turkish  Pilaf 283 

Turnips    in   White    Sauce,    or 

Cauliflower 305,  301 

Tea  Rolls 89 

Tapioca  Cream,   or    Scalloped 

Apple 345,  331 

Crackers  a  la  Creme    ....     283 

Panada 414 

Cream  Pies 375 

Tenth  Lesson. 
Cream  of  Celery  Soup     .     .     .     147 
Roast     Chicken,    or     Chicken 

Curry  or  Fricassee       .     .  257,  258 
Boiled  Rice    .......     306 

Cranberry  Sauce     .     .     .     .     .     395 

Potatoes    . ,293 

Spider  Corn  Cake,   or  Squash 

Waffles 92,  102 

Gold  and  Silver  Cake  ....     379 

Plain  Frosting 384 

Snow  Pudding,  or  Apple  Snow- 
balls   347,  335 


Eleventh  Lesson. 

PAGE 

White  Soup 144 

Chicken  Croquettes     ....  279 
Potted     Pigeons,     or     Broiled 

Squabs 262,  260 

Apple  Fritters 107 

Graham  Gems 95 

Lady  Fingers 374 

Sponge  Drops 374 

Charlotte  Kusse 354 

Orange  or  Wine  Jelly      .     .     .  350 

Chicken  Custard 426 

Plum  Porridge 411 

Twelfth  Lesson. 

Puff  Paste 316 

Squash  or  Custard  Pie     .     .     .  325 

Oyster  Patties 319 

Raspberry  Tarts 319 

Creamed  Oysters 177 

Creamed  Lobster 183 

Lobster  Salad 315 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  ....  311 

Tea  Cakes,  or  Cream  Muffins   .  89 
Ice-Cream  or  Sherbet  .     .     .  362,  368 


THIRD   COURSE. —  Fancy  Cooking. 


Twelve  Lessons  for  $15.00 ;  materials  extra,  $3.00  to  $8.00. 


First  Lesson. 

Bouillon 131 

Yeast 63 

Bread 65 

Potato  Souffle 295 

Twm     Biscuit,     or    Breakfast 

Puffs 83,  94 

Coffee 115 

Cream  Toast 79 

Broiled     Fillets    of     Beef,     or 
Chops  en  Papillote,  or  Broiled 

Chicken,  or  Devilled  Chicken  223, 
236,  260 


Second  Lesson. 

Amber  Soup  or  Consomra^  .     .     131 

Sticks  and  Rolls 72 

Corn  Meal  Puffs 93 

Smelts  a  la  Tartar,  or  Fillets  of 

Bass  or  Flounders  .  .  .  165,  161 
Fried  Oysters  or  Scallops  .  178,  181 
Potatoes,  Saratoga  and  Parisi- 

enne 296 

Chocolate 118 

Rice    Croquettes,    or  Bavarian 

Cream 281,  356 

Silver  or  Cornstarch  Cake  .  .  380 
Plain  Frosting 384 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


499 


Third  Lesson. 

PAGE 

White  Soup  from  Veal     ...     143 

Veal  Birds 275 

Casserole  of  Rice  or  Potato  .  .  274 
Veal    Croquettes,    or     Oysters 

and  Mushrooms  in  Crust     279,  178 

Spinach 296 

Hominy  or  Turkish  Croquettes  281 
Wonders,  or  Henriettes    .     .     .     106 

Pigs  in  Blankets 178 

Creme  Diplomate  .....  358 
Orange     Omelet,     or      Sweet 

Omelet,  or  Omelet  Souffle  202,  203 

Fourth  Lesson. 

Potage  a  la  Reine 144 

Chicken   Croquettes,    or    Blan- 
quette  of  Chicken,  or  Chicken 

Souffle. 279,  268,  276 

Scotch  Eggs,  or  Stuffed  Eggs  207,  206 
Breakfast  Rolls  or  Waffles  .  .  98 
Cauliflower  a  la  Creme  .  .  .  301 
Potted JVIeat,  or  Salmis  of  Game  277, 
270 
Rice  and  Apricot  Pudding  .  .  336 
Sardine  Sandwiches  .  ;  .  .  273 
Apple  or  Orange  Charlotte  .     .     348 

Fifth  Lesson. 

Potato  Soup 146 

Fillet  of  Beef  with  Mushrooms, 

or    Fricandeau    of   Veal,    or 

Roast  Duck  with  Olives  222,  240, 
261 

Potatoes 296 

Bread ,     .     .      66 

Vegetables 300-306 

Sponge  Cake 373 

Snow  Pudding,  or  Baked  Plum   . 

Pudding 347,  338 

Macedoine  of  Fruits,  or  Orange 

Baskets 350,  351 

Sixth  Lesson. 

Puff  Paste 316 

Patties  and  Rissoles    .     .     .  319,  321 

Chess  Pie 324 

Mince  Pie 326 


PAGE 

Puff  Paste  Plaits 322 

Cupid's  Wells 320 

Bow-Knots 321 

Vol-au-vent 321 

Cheese  Straws 322 

Cakes  a  la  Polonaise  ....  321 
Canellons.     See  Explanation  of 

Terms  used  in  Cookery. 

Fanchonnettes 327 

Seventh  Lesson. 

Oysters  on  Ice 176 

Larded  Grouse,  Bread  Sauce  262,  193 
Egg  Salad,  or  Eggs  in  Cases  .  209 
Oyster  Salad,  or  en  Coquille  177,  314 
Fried  Celery,  Parsnip,  or  Salsify     107 

Cheese  Souffle     , 282 

Creme  Frete,  or  Cinci     .     .  282,  106 

]£clairs 389 

Charlotte  Russe,  or  Gateau  St. 

Honord 354,  359 

Egg  Souffle  in  Cases    ....     337 

Eighth  Lesson. 

Puree  of  Salmon 152 

Salmon     Cutlets,     or     Broiled 
Birds,    or    Birds    in    Potato 

Cases     . 280,  263 

Braised  Pigeons  with  Spinach, 

or  Tongue  in  Jelly  .     .     .  262,  230 
Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding  .     .     358 

Parisienne  Souffle 344 

Kisses, Meringues,or  Macaroons    389, 

390 

Apple  Snow,  or  Floating  Island   345, 

343 

Ninth  Lesson. 

Bisque  of  Lobster 152 

Chicken  in  Aspic  Jelly  .  .  .  267 
Scalloped  Lobster  en  Coquille  .     183 

Cream  Muffins 89 

Welsh  Rarebit,  or  Sardine  Cana- 

pees 282,  283 

Cabinet  Pudding,  or  Eve's  Pud- 
ding, or  Orange  Souffle  .  339,  333, 
344 
Chocolate  Caramels,  or  Cocoa- 
nut  Cakes 396 


500 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Tenth  Lesson. 

PAGE 

Stock  for  Mock  Turtle  Soup     .     137 
Braised  Calf's  Heart  or  Liver   .    231 

French  Potatoes 295 

Asparagus,  or  Spinach    .     .  297,  296 

Quails  on  Toast 263 

Chartreuse  of  Chicken     .     .     .     269 

Cake 376-382 

Boiled  Icing 384 

Sherbet 368 

Quaking  Custard,   or  Tropical 
Snow 346,  393 

Eleventh  Lesson. 

Devilled  Lobster  or  Crab      .  183,  184 
Shrimps  en  Coquille,  or  Mush- 
rooms      184,  303 

Lobster  Cutlets,  or  Lobster  Cro- 
quettes, or  Crimped  Cod  .  280, 170 


PAGE 

Harlequin  Cake 381 

Orange  Cake 377 

Ornamental  Frosting  ....  384 
Dominoes,  or  Madelines  .  .  .  379 
Ice-Cream,  or  Bonibe  Glacd  .  363^  367 

Twelfth  Lesson. 
Sweetbreads  with  Peas    .     .     .     243 
Sweetbreads  in  Cases  ....     243 
Sweetbread  Croquettes     .     .     .     279 

Salads 310-315 

311 
244 
355 
360 
366, 
365 


Mayonnaise  Dressing  .  .  .  . 
Sweetbreads  with  Mushrooms  . 
Strawberry  Charlotte  .  .  ,  . 
Gateau  de  Princess  Louise  .  . 
Frozen  Pudding,  or  Tutti  Frutti, 


Cafe  Parfait,   or  Frozen 
cots 


Apri- 
.  365,  367 


NURSES'    COURSE. 

Twelve  Lessons  for  $5.00. 
First  L 


BEEF   ESSENCE. 

Stewed 423 

Bottled 423 

Broiled 423 

Raw  Beef  Sandwich    ....  424 

BEEF    TEA. 

Stewed 423 

Bottled      ........  423 

Broiled 423 

Broiled  Steak 426 

MUSHES. 

Graham     .......  415 

Indian 415 

Gluten 415 

Rye 415 

Oatmeal 414 

Hominy 109 

Cracked  Wheat 109 

Granulated  Wheat .....  109 

Prepared  Flour 428 

Racahout  des  Arabes  ....  427 


GRUELS. 

Flour    

.     .     411 

Arrowroot 

Cornstarch 

Rice  Flour 

Indian  Corn 

Barley  •     •          .... 

.     .    411 
.     .    411 
.     .     411 
.     .     412 
.     412 

Oatmeal 

Cracker                    .     .     . 

.     .    413 
413 

.     .     413 

Plum  Porridge  .... 

JELLIES. 

Sa«-o                

.     .     411 
.     416 

Tapioca 

Rice  Flour 

Calves'  Feet  ..... 
Beef 

.     .     416 
.     .     415 
.     .     417 
.     .     418 

Chicken •• 

.     .     438 
350 

Wine               

.     .     350 

Lemon       

.     .     349 

Restorative 

.     .     416 

The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


501 


Second  Lesson'. 


DRINKS. 

P4.GE 

Tea. Ill 

Coffee 115 

Chocolate  ........  118 

Cocoa 117 

Shells 117 

Crust  Coffee 419 

Rice  Coffee 419 

Egg  Coffee .  425 

Egg  Tea 425 

Apple  Tea 419 

Eggnog 424 

Toast  Water 419 

Corn  Tea 419 

Wine  Whey 420 

Slippery  Elm 419 

Baked  Lemon 420 

Lemonade 420 

Flaxseed  Lemonade     ....  420 

Irish  Moss  Lemonade  ....  420 

Jelly  and  Ice 420 


TOAST. 

PAGE 

Dry  Toast 78 

Water  .........  78 

Milk 78 

Cream 79 

Egg 76 

Cracker     . 28^ 

Brewis 77 

OYSTKRS. 

Broiled 179 

Smothered 176 

Steamed 175 

Creamed 177 

Toast 177 

Roasted     . 175 

Clam  Broth 154 


Third  Lesson. 


B6GS. 

Boiled 199 

Poached 199 

Scrambled 200 

Baked 203 

Omelet 201 

Vermicelli 20S 

POTATOES. 

Boiled 292 

Mashed 294 

Riced         293 

Baked 295 

Creamed    ........  294 

Souffld 295 


Parisienne 296 

Browned 294 

CUSTAKD6. 

Boiled 342 

Steamed .  344 

Cup 344 

Baked 342 

Chicken 426 

Snow  Pudding 347 

Apple  Charlotte 348 

Orange  Sponge 348 

Gelatine  Pudding 346 

Apple  Snow  ..,,.,.  345 


Fourth  Lesson. 


Mutton  Broth,  with  Rice  or  Bar- 
ley         .     .     141 

Mutton  Chops 236 

Boiled  Rice,  Spinach  or  Aspara- 
gus     306,  296,  297 

Vegetables,  in  White  Sauce      .    305 


Bread 65 

Gluten  Wafers ,  97 

Gingerbread 388 

Yeast 62 

Tapioca  Cream  ....,,  345 

Fruit  Tapioca     ......  342 


502 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


Bird's-Nest  Pudding  ....     333 

Baked  Apples 394 

Apple  Sandwich 331 


Apple  Snowballs 335 

Apple  Meringue      .....    333 
Apple  and  Wheat  Pudding  .     .     331 


Fifth  Lesson. 


Boned  Birds 27 

Broiled  Birds  or  Chops     ...     426 

Bianc-Mange 341 

Laban 427 

Ash  Cake 427 

Panada 426 

Potato  or  Vegetable  Soups  .  146-150 
Bread  and  Rolls  ....  65-70 
Stewed  Prunes 395 


Prune  Pudding 357 

Crackers  and  Orange   Marma- 
lade    427 

Charlotte  Russe       .....  354 

Lemon  Sherbet 368 

Orange  Sherbet 368 

Frozen  Fruits 367 

Orange  Basket 351 


Sixth  Lesson. 


Roast  Beef,  or  Roast  Mutton,  or 
Roast  Chicken    .     .    220,'  233,  257 

Chicken  Fricassee 258 

Sweetbreads,  or  Venison  Steak, 
or  Salmon  Steak  .     .  243,  263,  161 

Macaroni 308 

Broiled  Breast  of  Chicken    .     .    260 


Sponge  Cake 374 

Muffins 88 

Graham  Gems 95 

Cream  Cakes 389 

Italian    Cream,    or    Bavarian 

Cream 346,356 

Ice-Cream 363 


EXPLANATION   OF   TERMS   USED   IN 
COOKERY. 


Agneau.    Lamb. 

A  la,  au,  aux.  With ;  as,  huitres  aux 
champignons,  oysters  with  mush- 
rooms. Dressed  in  a  certain  style  ;  as, 
Smelts  a  la  Tartare,  with  Tartare 
sauce. 

A  PAurore.  A  white  sauce  colored  pink 
with  the  spawn  of  lobster. 

A  la  bonne  Femme.  Of  the  good  house- 
wife. 

A  I'Estragon.     With  tarragon. 

A  la  Neige.     In  snow. 

A  la  Poulette.  Meat  or  fish  warmed  in 
a  white  sauce  with  yolks  of  eggs. 

A  la  Heine.     Of  the  queen. 

Allemande.  A  thick  white  sauce  made 
with  cream  and  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
seasoned  with  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice. 

Almond.  A  nut  grown  in  Southeru  Eu- 
rope. It  consists  of  a  stone  fruit,  the 
fleshy  pericarp  of  which  dries  in  ripen- 
ing, and  forms  a  hard  tough  covering  to 
the  stone.  Bitter  almonds  are  obtained 
from  Morocco.  They  contain  prussic 
acid,  and  are  poisonous.  The  sweet 
almonds  include  the  Jordan  and  Valen- 
cia varieties.  The  Jordan  almonds, 
imported  from  Malaga,  are  long  and 
narrow,  and  are  considered  the  best. 

Angelica.  A  plant,  the  stems  of  which 
are  preserved  in  syrup,  and  used  for 
decorating  pastry,  etc. 

Anguilles.    Eels. 

Apricot.  A  stone  fruit  cultivated  in 
temperate  and  tropical  climates.  The 
skin  has  a  highly  perfumed  flavor. 

Asperges.    Asparagus. 

Aspic  Jelly.  A  transparent  jelly  made 
with  stock,  and  used  for  garnishing. 

Au  Beurre  roux.    With  browned  butter. 

Au  vert  Pie.     With  sweet  herbs. 

Aux  C'reasons.     With  watercresses. 

Aux  Rognons.     With  kidneys. 


Bai7i  Marie.  A  shallow  open  vessel 
filled  with  hot  water,  in  which  smaller 
dishes  containing  soups  and  sauces  may 
be .  placed  and  kept  warm  without  fur- 
ther cooking  until  serving-time. 

Barm.  The  scum  from  fermented  malt 
liquors,  used  as  yeast. 

Baron  of  Beef .  The  two  sirloins  not  cut 
down  the  back.  Formerly  a  favorite 
dish  in  England. 

Baron  of  Lamb.  The  entire  loin,  not 
divided  at  the  backbone,  with  the 
upper  part  of  both  legs. 

Basil.  An  herb  having  a  perfume  like 
that  of  cloves,  used  as  seasoning. 

Bavaroise.     Bavarian. 

Bay  Leaves.  The  leaves  of  the  cherry- 
laurel  tree. 

Becasses.     Woodcock. 

Bechamel.  A  white  sauce  made  with 
stock  and  cream,  named  from  a  cele- 
brated cook. 

Beignet.     A  fritter. 

Beurre  noir.     Browned  butter. 

Bisqjie.    A  shell-fish  soup. 

Bk'Mch.  To  parboil,  to  scald  vegetables, 
nuts,  etc.,  in  order  to  remove  their 
hulls  or  skins. 

Blanquette.  Any  white  meat  warmed 
in  a  white  sauce  thickened  with  eggs. 

Bouchees.     Patties. 

Boevf.     Beef. 

Bouillabasse.  Several  kinds  of  fish 
boiled  quickly,  and  highly  seasoned 
with  onion,  orange  peel,  saffron,  oil, 
etc. 

Bouille.    Broth  made  from  beef. 

Bouilli.  Beef  stewed,  generally  in  one 
large  piece,  and  served  with  a  sauce. 

Bouquet,  or  Fagot,  of  Herbs.  A  sprig 
of  each  of  the  herbs  used  in  seasoning, 
rolled  up  in  a  spray  of  parsley  and  tied 
securely. 


504 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Braising.  Stewing  in  a  covered  pan, 
with  heat  applied  both  below  and  above. 

Brawm.     Head  cheese. 

Bretonne.    A  purde  of  red  onions. 

Brioche  Paste.     Cakes  made  with  yeast. 

Broche.    A  spit. 

Brochette.    A  skewer. 

Brunoise.    A  brown  soup  or  sauce. 

Bubble  and  Squeak.  A  dish  of  vegetable 
hash  and  meat. 

Buttock.    A  round  of  beef. 


Ca/S  au  Lait.    Coffee  with  hot  milk. 

Cafe  noir.    Black  coffee. 

Caille.    Quail. 

Calipash.  The  glutinous  meat  of  the 
upper  shell  of  the  turtle. 

Calipee.  The  glutinous  meat  of  the 
under  shell  of  the  turtle. 

Canard.    Duck. 

Canellons.  Puff  paste  baked  round  a 
form  of  cardboard,  shaped  like  a  cane. 

Cannelon  of  Meat.  Minced  and  highly 
seasoned  meat,  baked  in  the  form  of  a 
large  roll. 

Capers.  Unopened  buds  of  a  low  trail- 
ing shrub  grown  in  Southern  Europe. 
Pickled  and  used  in  sauces. 

Capon.  A  chicken  castrated  for  the  pur- 
pose of  improving  the  quality  of  the 
flesh. 

Caramel.  A  syrup  of  burnt  sugar,  named 
after  Count  Caramel,  who  discovered 
what  is  called  the  seventh  degree  of 
cooking  sugar. 

Cardoon.  A  vegetable  resembling  the 
artichoke. 

Casserole.  A  mould  formed  of  rice  or 
potato,  and  filled  with  a  rdchauff6. 

Champignons.    Mushrooms. 

Charlotte.  A  preparation  of  cream  or 
fruit,  formed  in  a  mould,  lined  with 
cake  or  fruit. 

Chartreuse.  A  preparation  of  game, 
fillets,  etc.,  moulded  in  jelly  and  sur- 
rounded by  vegetables.  Invented  by 
the  monks  of  the  monastery  of  Char- 
treuse as  a  convenient  way  of  disguising 
meat. 

Chervil.  The  leaf  of  a  European  plant 
used  as  a  salad. 

Chetney.  A  hot  acid  sauce  made  from 
apples,  tomatoes,  raisins,  cayenne,  gin- 
ger, garlic,  shalots,  salt,  sugar,  lemons, 
and  vinegar. 

Chillies.    Red  peppers. 


Chine.     A  piece  of  the  V)ackbone  of  an 

animal,   with  the   adjoining  parts  cut 

for  cooking.     Usually  applied  to  pork. 

Chou-fleur.     Cauliflower. 

Citric    Acid.     The    acid    of   the  citron 

family,  lemons,  oranges,  etc.- 
Citron.     The  rind  of  a  fruit  of  the  lemon 
species  preserved  in  sugar. 

Cochineal.  Coloring  matter  made  from 
the  dried  bodies  of  insects  found  in 
Mexico,  where  they  feed  on  a  species  of 
the  cactus. 

Cock-a-leekie.  A  soup  used  in  Wales,, 
made  from  fowls  and  leeks. 

To  Collar.  To  cure  meat  in  a  spiced 
brine. 

Collops.     Meat  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Compote.     Fruit  stewed  in  syrup. 

Confitures.     Preserves. 

Consomme.    Very  rich  stock. 

Coriander.  A  plant  cultivated  for  its 
tender  leaves,  which  are  used  in  soups 
and  salads  and  in  making  curry  powder. 

Cornichons.     Pickles. 

Cotelettes.    Cutlets. 

Coulis.    A  rich  brown  gravy. 

Creme  Brulee.  Browned  sugar  or  cara- 
mel  with  cream. 

Creole,  A  la.     With  tomatoes. 

Crecettes      Shrimp. 

Crimp.  To  cause  to  contract,  or  render 
more  crisp,  as  the  flesh  of  a  fish  by  gash- 
ing it,  while  living,  with  a  knife. 

Croquettes.  A  preparation  of  mince  with 
a  bread-crumbed  coating,  and  cooked  till 
crisp. 

Croustade.  A  kind  of  patty  of  bread  or 
prepared  rice. 

Crouton.  A  sippet  of  fried  or  toasted 
bread. 

Crumpet.  Raised  muffius  baked  on  a 
griddle. 

Ctien  de  Bcerif.     Ox-tails. 

Currants .  Dried  currants  are  small  black 
grapes,  named  from  Corinth,  where  they 
are  grown . 

Curries.  Stews  of  meat  or  fish,  seasoned 
with  curry  pov^der  and  served  with 
rice. 

Carry  Poioder.  A  mixture  of  turmeric  ,^ 
coriander  seed,  pepper,  ginger,  carda- 
mons,  cumin  seed,  caraway,  and  cay- 
enne. 


De,  d'      Of;  as,  fllet  de  hosuf  fillet  of 
beef. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


505 


Desosser.    To  bone. 
JJinde.     Turkey. 


En  Coquille.    Served  in  shells. 

En  Papillote.     In  papers. 

Endive.    A  plant  of  the  Composite  family, 

used  as  a  salad. 
Entrees.    SmaU  made  dishes  served  with 

the  first  course  at  an  elaborate  dinner. 
Entremets.      Second-course    side  dishes, 

including  vegetables,  eggs,  and  sweets. 
Espagnole.      A    rich    brown  sauce,  the 

foundation  of  most  brown  sauces. 
Epinards.     Spinach. 
Eperlans.    Smelts.    ' 


Faisan.    Pheasant. 

Fanchonnettes  aud  Florentines.    Small 

pastries  covered  with  a  meringue. 
Farcie.   A  kind  of  force-meat  or  stuffing. 
Fausse  Tortue.    Mock  Turtle. 
Feuilletage.    Puff  paste. 
Fillets.    Pieces  of  meat  or  fish,  generally 

rolled  and  tied. 
Financibre.    A  rich  brown  sauce,  with 

wine  and  mushroom  catchup. 
Finnan   Haddock.      Haddock    smoked 

and  dried,   named  from    Findhorn  in 

Scotland,  where  they  are  obtained  in 

perfection. 
Flaus,  Darioles,  and  Mirlitons.  French 

cheese  cakes. 
Foie.     Liver. 

Fondue.     A  preparation  of  melted  cheese . 
Fowl  a  la  Marengo.    A  fowl  browned  in 

oil,  and  stewed  in  rich  stock,  seasoned 

with   wine.     Eaten    and    approved    by 

Napoleon  after  the  battle  of  Marengo. 
Fraise.     Strawberry. 
Fricandeau.     Meat  larded  and  browned, 

and  stewed   in    stock,    or    baked   and 

covered  with  glaze. 
Fricassee.    A  stew  in  which  the  meat  is 

first  fried  slightly. 
Fromage.    Cheese. 


Gateau.    A  cake. 

Gaufres.     Waffles. 

Gelee.    Jelly. 

Genevese  Sauce.  A  white  sauce  made 
with  white  stock,  highly  seasoned  with 
herbs,  spices,  mushrooms,  lemon,  and 
wine,  and  sei-ved  with  salmon  or  trout. 

Glace.     Covered  with  icing. 


Glaze.  .  Stock  boiled    down    to    a    thia 


Gratins.    Dishes  of  game,  fish,  or  vege* 

tables,  served  in  a  rich  sauce. 
Grilled.    Broiled. 
Grosellles.     Currants. 


A   preparation  of   the  heart, 

tongue,  and  liver  of  sheep. 
Haricot.     A  small  bean;  a  bit.      A  stew 

in  which  the  meat  and  vegetables  are 

finely  divided. 
Homard.    Lobster. 
Hors-d'osuvres.     Relishes. 
Huitres.    Oysters. 


Jambon.    Ham. 

Jardiniere.  A  mixed  preparation  ot 
vegetables  stewed  in  their  own  sauce  ;  a 
garnish  of  various  vegetables. 


Kippered.    Dried  or  smoked. 
Kromeskies.    Minces    of    meat    or    fish 
dipped  in  fritter  batter,  and  fried  crisp 


Laitue      Lettuce. 

Lardoon.    The    piece    of  salt    pork   or 

bacon  used  in  larding. 
Lentils.     A  variety  of  the  bean  tribe  used 

in  soups,  etc. 
Lit.    A    layer.    Articles    in    thin    slices 

placed    in    layers,    with    seasoning    or 

sauce  between. 


Macedoine.  A  mixture  of  fruit  moulded 
in  jelly. 

Madeline.     A  kind  of  pound  cake. 

Maigre.  Dishes  for  fast  days,  made  with- 
out flesh. 

Maitre  d'' Hotel.     Master  of  the  hotel. 

Malic  Acid.  The  acid  of  apples,  partially 
changed  to  sugar  as  apples  ripen  and 
into  a  bitter  principle  as  they  decay. 

Manna  Kroup.  A  flour  made  from 
wheat  and  rice,  sometimes  mixed  with 
saffron  and  yolk  of  egg. 

Maraschino.     A  kind  of  brandy. 

Marinade.  A  pickle  for  boiling  meat  or 
fish  in. 

Marinate.  To  pickle  or  to  sprinkle  with 
a  French  dressing. 

Matelote.  A  rich  stew,  made  offish,  and. 
flavored  with  wine. 


506 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


Mayonnaise.    Cold  sauce,  or  salad  dress 

ing. 
Menu.     A  bill  of  fare. 
Meringue.      A    kind    of   icing  made  of 

white  of  egg  and  sugar  well  beaten. 
Mi-Careme.  Dishes  used  in  mid-Lent. 
Mignonnette      Pepper.        Peppercorns 

ground  coarsely. 
Miroton.     Pieces  of  meat  cut  larger  than 

collops,  for  a  stew  or  ragout. 
Morel.     A  species  of  mushroom. 
Morue.     Codfish. 
Mouton.    Mutton. 

Nectarine.  A  variety  of  the  peach,  hav- 
ing a  smooth  skin. 

Nougat.  A  mixture  of  almonds  and 
sugar. 

Nouilles.     A  kind  of  vermicelli. 

Noyau.    A  cordial. 

(Eufs.    Eggs. 
Ognon.    Onions. 

Oxalic  Acid.  The  acid  in  sorrel  and 
rhubarb. 

Panais.     Parsnips. 

Paner.    To  cover  with  bread  crumbs. 

Panure.  Any  entree  that  is  bread- 
crumbed. 

Pdte  aux  Choux.  Cream-cake  paste,  so 
called  because  when  baked  it  resembles 
a  head  of  cabbage. 

Pate  de  Foie  gras.    A  pie  of  fat  livers. 

Perdreux.     Partridge. 

Persillade  of  Fish.    With  parsley. 

Petits  Panis.     Little  bread. 

Petits  Pois.     Pease. 

Pigeonnaux.     Squab. 

Pimento.    Allspice  or  Jamaica  pepper. 

Pistachio.  A  pale  greenish  nut  re- 
sembling the  almond. 

PoUee.  Stock  used  instead  of  water  for 
boiling  poultry,  sweetbreads,  etc. 

Polsson.     Fish. 

Pommes.    Apples. 

Pommes  de  Terre.     Potatoes. 

Pot-au-feu.     The  stock  pot. 

Potage.    A  soup. 

Poulet.     A  chicken. 

P^iree.  A  thick  soup  rubbed  through  a 
sieve. 

■Quenelle.  A  delicate  force-meat  used  in 
entries. 


Ragout.  A  highly  seasoned  stew  flavored 
with  wine. 

Ramakins.  A  preparation  of  cheese  and 
puff  paste  or  toast,  baked  or  browned. 

Ratifias.  Almond  cakes.  A  kind  of 
liquor  flavored  with  nuts. 

Rechauffe.     Anything  warmed  over. 

Removes,  or  Releves.  The  roasts  or  prin- 
cipal dishes. 

Jiis  de  Veau.    Sweetbread. 

Rissoles.  Small  shapes  of  puff  pasti- 
filled  with  some  mixture,  and  fried  or 
baked.  Or  balls  of  minced  meat,  egged 
and  crumbed,  and  fried  till  crisp. 

Rizotta.    Rice. 

Rognons.     Kidneys. 

Roux.  Thickening  made  with  butter  and 
flour. 


Salmi.     A  stew  or  hash  of  game. 
Savoy  Cakes,  or  Naples  Biscuits.    Lady 

Fingers. 
Sauce  Piquante.     An  acid  sauce. 
Saute.     Fried  in  very  little  fat. 
Scones.     Scotch  cakes  of  meal  or  flour. 
Semona,  or  Semolina.     Same  as  Manna 

Kroup. 
Shalot.    A  variety  of  onion. 
Soubise  Sauce.    A  puree  of  white  onions 

named  after  Prince  Soubise. 
Souffle.     A  very  light  pudding  or  omelet. 

The  name  means  "puffed  up." 
Soy.     A  Japanese  sauce   prepared  from 

the  seeds  of  Dolichos  Soja,     It  has  an 

agreeable  flavor  and  a  clear  brown  color. 

Used  to  color  soups  and  sauces. 
Stock.     The  essence  extracted  from  meat. 
Sultanas.      White    or    yellow    seedless 

grapes,  grown  in  Corinth. 


Tamis.     A  sieve  or  fine  strainer  cloth. 
Tarragon.     An  herb,  the  leaves  of  which 

are  used  as  seasoning  and  in  flavoring 

vinegar. 
Tendrons  de   Veau.     The  gristles  from 

the  breast  of  veal  stewed  in  stock,  and 

served  as  an  entree. 
Toad  in  the  Hole.    A  dish  of  cold  meat 

baked  in  a  batter  of  milk,  eggs,  and 

flour. 
Tourte.     A  tart. 
Truffles.     A  species  of  fungi  growing  in 

clusters  some  inches  below  the  soil,  and 

having  an  agreeable  perfume,  which  is 

easily  scented  by  pigs,  who  are  fond  of 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


507 


them,  and  by  dogs  trained  to  find  them. 
They  are  found  abundantly  in  France, 
but  are  not  subject  to  cultivation,    Used 
in  seasoning  and  garniture. 
Truite.    Trout. 


Vanilla.  The  fruit  of  a  Mexican  plant. 
Pure  vanilla  beans  are  from  seven  to 
nine  inches  long,  soft,  oily,  flexible,  can 
easily  be  wound  over  the  finger,  and 
when  cut  have  a  frosted  appearance. 


The  seeds  are  so  fine  as  to  be  hardly  dis- 
cernible. An  ounce  contains  seven  or 
eight  beans,  and  costs  §1.50. 

Veau.     Yeal. 

Veloute.    A  smooth  white  sauce. 

Vin  {Au).     With  wine. 

Vinaigrette  Sauce.  With  acid  wine  ot 
vinegar. 

Vol-au-vent.  A  crust  of  very  light  puff 
past«,  filled  with  oysters  or  chickens, 
warmed  in  a  cream  sauce,  or  filled  with 
fruit. 


ADDENDA. 


Barbecue  To  roast  any  animal  whole, 
usually  in  the  open  air. 

Gitmbo.  A  dish  of  food  made  of  young 
capsules  of  okra,  with  salt  and  pepper, 
stewed  and  served  with  melted  butter. 

Gumbo  Filet  Powder.  Made  from  the 
tender  young  leaves  of  the  sassafras, 
picked  in  the  spring,  and  dried  care- 
fully in  the  shade  like  any  herb. 
Powdered  fine  and  bottled  tight.  Used 
m  New  Orleans. 


Kohl  Cannon.  Boiled  potatoes  and  cab- 
bage, minced  together,  and  seasoned 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Olcra.  The  green  mucilaginous  pods  of 
an  annual  plant,  used  in  the  South  for 
soups  and  pickles. 

Pot-Pourri.  A  mixture  of  minced  cooked 
meat  and  vegetables.  A  mixture  of 
fruits  and  sugar. 


LIST   OF   UTENSILS   NEEDED   IN  A 
COOKING-SCHOOL. 


EARTHEN,  CHINA,  AND  GLASS  WARE. 


2  2-quart  Pitchers. 

2  quart  Pitchers. 

2  pint  Pitchers. 

2  large  oval  Baking-Dishes. 

2  small  oval  Baking-Dishes. 

2  large  round  Baking-Dishes. 

2  small  round  Baking-Dishes. 

1  8-quart  Bowl. 

2  6-quart  Bowls. 
4  4-quart  Bowls. 
2  2-quart  Bowls. 
4  quart  Bowls. 

4  pint  Bowls. 

4  half -pint  Bowls. 

6  half-pint  Kitchen  Cups. 

12  Baking-Cups  for  Pop-Overs. 

12  Custard  Cups. 


2  small  oval  Platters. 
2  medium  oval  Platters. 
2  large  oval  Platters. 
4  shallow  Pie-Plates. 
4  deep  Pie-Plates. 
2  Blanc-Mange  Moulds. 

I  2  Stone  Jugs. 

2  2-gallon  Stone  Jars. 

2  gallon  Stone  Jars. 

1  deep  Pudding-Pot. 

1  Bean-Pot. 

1  Teapot. 

Table  Dishes  as  required. 

1  Glass  Rolling-Pin. 

I I  dozen  quart  Mason's  Jars, 
1 1  dozen  pint  Mason's  Jars. 


WOODEN  WARE. 


1  Wash-Board. 

1  large  Bread-Board. 

1  medium  Bread-Board. 

1  hard-wood  Meat-Board. 

1  Meat-Block. 

1  large  oval  Chopping-Tray. 

1  small  round  Chopping-Tray. 

1  Potato-Masher. 

1  Mortar  and  Pestle. 

1  Potato-Slicer. 

1  Water-Pail. 

1  Scrubbing-Pail. 


2  Pails  for  Refuse. 

1  Knife-Box. 

1  Cover  for  Flour-Barrel. 

1  Coffee-Mill. 

1  gallon  Ice-Cream  Freezer. 

1  Wooden  Mallet. 

1  Ice-Pick. 

2  Butter-Paddles. 
2  Butter-Moulds. 

2  plain  Wooden  Spoons. 

2  perforated  Wooden  Spoons, 

4  small  Wooden  Spoons. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


509 


4  Wooden  Knives. 

2  Brooms. 

1  Whisk-Broom. 

1  Crumb  Pan  and  Brush. 

2  small  Pastry-Brushes. 

2  small  Scrubbing-Brushes. 
1  Scrubbing-Brush  for  Floor. 
1  Stove  Blacking-Brush. 

1  Stove  Polishing-Brush. 

2  Dust-Brushes. 

1  long-handled  Mop. 
1  Knife-scouring  Box. 
1  Egg-Basket. 


1  large  Market  Basket. 
1  smaU  Market  Basket. 

1  hard-wood  Rolling-Pin. 

2  Nests  of  Boxes. 

2  Nests  of  Buckets. 

Spice-Boxes. 

2  Dish-Mops. 

1  Sink-Scraper. 

2  Wash-Tubs. 
Meat-Squeezer. 

1  Lemon-Squeezer. 
Refrigerator. 


AGATE  WARE. 


1  2-quart  Double  Boiler. 

2  round  4-quart  Pans. 

1  6-quart  Covered  Kettle. 

2  round  3-quart  Pans. 

1  4-quart  Covered  Kettle. 

2  round  2-quart  Pans. 

1  2-quart  Covered  Kettle. 

2  oval  Pans. 

I  2-quart  Saucepan. 

1  6-quart  Preserving-Kettle. 

\  quart  Saucepan. 

1  3-quart  Preserving-Kettle- 

*2  pint  Saucepans. 

1  Hand-Basin. 

2  half-pint  Saucepans. 

IRON  WARE. 

Range  with  Hot  Closet  and  Water 

Thermometer. 

Tank. 

6  Kitchen  Knives. 

1  double-lipped  Spider. 

6  Kitchen  Forks. 

1  Griddle. 

2  Vegetable-Knives. 

1  Dish-Kettle. 

1  Carving-Knife. 

1  Teakettle. 

1  Bread-Knife. 

1  Dripping-Pan  for  Meat. 

1  Palette-Knife 

1  Dripping-Pan  for  Fish. 

1  Chopping-Knife. 

1  large  French  Fry-Pan. 

1  French  Vegetable-Knife. 

1  small  French  Fry-Pan. 

1  Meat-Fork. 

1  Scotch  Bowl. 

1  Pie-Fork. 

2  Gem-Pans. 

1  Meat-Saw. 

French-Roll  Pan. 

Meat-Hammer. 

1  Soup  Digester,  or 

1  Meat-Cleaver. 

1  2-gallon  Iron  Pot,  tight  Cover. 

1  Can-Opener. 

1  6-quart  Enamelled  Kettle. 

1  Boning-Knife. 

1  Enamelled  oval  Kettle  for  Fish  and 

2    large    Wooden  -  handled      Iron 

Ham. 

Spoons. 

1  Waffle-iron. 

2    medium  Wooden  -  handled  Iron 

Salamander. 

Spoons. 

Scales. 

2    small     Wooden  -  handled     Iron 

3  Flat-irons. 

Spoons. 

€lock. 

6  Iron  Tablespoons. 

5IO 


The  Boston  Cook  Book, 


6  common  Teaspoons. 
2  Ivory  Saltspoons. 
1  Set  Steel  Skewers. 
1  Set  Larding-Needles. 


Paste-Jagger. 

1  Griddle-Spade. 

1  Galvanized  Iron  Lemon-Squeezer, 

1  Galvanized  Iron  Meat-Rack. 


TIN  AND  WIRE  WARE. 


1  large  Grater. 

1  Nutmeg-Grater. 

1  Apple-Corer. 

1  Pepper-Box. 

1  Flour-Dredger. 

1  Sugar-Dredger. 

1  Salt-Dredger. 

1  Spice-Box. 

1  large-mouthed  Tunnel. 

1  small  Tunnel. 

1  large  Tin  Teakettle. 

1  small  Tin  Teakettle. 

Ice-Cream  Moulds. 

Ice-Cream  Packing-Cans. 

1  small  Oil-Can. 

1  Wire  Broiler  for  Steak, 

1  Wire  Broiler  for  Fish. 

1  fine  Broiler  for  Toast. 

1  Wire  Soap-Dish. 

1  Wire  Potato-Masher. 

1  Wire  Spoon. 

1  Wire  Egg-Whisk. 

1  Wire  Frying-Basket. 

1  fine  Wire  Strainer. 

1  large  Dover  Egg-Beater 

1  small  Dover  Egg-Beater. 

1  Flour-Sifter. 

1  Extension  Wire  Strainer. 

1  Pur(5e  Sieve. 

1  Taper  Soup-Strainer. 

2  Gravy  Strainers. 
2  small  Strainers. 

2  double-liandled  Strainers. 
1  8-inch  Squash-Strainer. 
1  4-inch  Squash-Strainer. 
1  Colander. 

1  Wire  Dish-Cloth. 

2  large  Dish-Pans. 

2  medium  Dish-Pans. 

2  small  Dish-Pans,  for  Flour. 

2  4-quart  Milk-Pans. 

2  2-quart  Milk-Pans. 

1  G-quart  Covered-Pail. 


1  4-quart  Covered-Pail. 
1  2-quart  Covered-Pail. 
1  Quart  Measure. 
6  half-pint  Measure  Cups. 
3  Tin  Scoops,  three  sizes. 
1  4-quart  Double  Boiler. 
1  2-quart  Double  Boiler. 
1  quart  Double  Boiler. 
1  Teakettle  Boiler. 
1  Steamer. 

1  plain  Pudding-Boiler. 
1   (luted  Rice  Boiler. 
1  Brown-Bread  Mould. 
1  large  Melon  Mould. 

1  small  Melon  Mould. 

2  quart  fanc}'  Moulds. 
2  pint  fancy  Moulds. 

2  2-quart  plain  oval  Moulds. 

2  3-pint  plain  oval  Moulds.  . 

2  quart  plain  oval  Moulds. 

2  pint  plain  oval  Moulds. 

2  half-pint  plain  oval  Moulds. 

1  4-6-quart  Mould  for  Boned  Turkey 

1  3-quart  Mould  for  Boned  Chicken^ 

Meat-Pie  Moulds. 

6  small  Charlotte  Moulds. 

6  Shell  Scallop  Tins. 

1  dozen  small  Tins  for  Cakes. 
6  Scallop  Patty  Tins. 

6  small  fancy  Tins. 

2  6-holed  Muffin  Pans. 
1  dozen  Muffin  Rings. 
1  Cake-Trunk. 

1  Cracker-Trunk. 
1  Whip-Cliurn. 
1  2-quart  Coffee-Pot. 
1  quart  Coffee-Pot. 

1  Wash-Boiler. 

2  Dust-Pans. 

2  plain  round  Cutters,  2  sizes- 
2  plain  oval  Cutters. 
1  Doughnut-Cutter. 
1  small  Biscuit-Cutter. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book. 


51E 


1  large  Fluted  Cutter. 
1  small  Fluted  Cutter. 
6  Vegetable-Cutters. 
6  Pastry-Cutters. 

3  Frosting-Tubes. 
1  Tube  for  Eclairs. 

1  Tube  for  Lady  Fingers. 
1  long-handled  Skimmer. 
1  short-handled  Skimmer. 
1  large  short-handled  Dipper 
1  small  long-handled  Dipper. 
1  Lad'  % 

4  Bread-Pans. 

4  Jelly-Cake  Tins. 

4  deep  Jelly-Cake  Tins. 

1  Angel-Cake  Pan. 

4  long  shallow  Pans  for  Rolls. 
4  long  Pans,  2  inches  deep. 

2  Sponge-Cake  Pans. 


2  long  deep  Pans  for  Fruit  Cake. 

2  Gingerbread  Sheets. 

1  Fisli-Sheet. 

4  plain  Pie-Plates. 

4  shallow  Pie-Plates. 

1  large  Pan  for  Meat. 

1  small  Pan  for  Meat. 

1  Can  with  Spout  for  Oil. 

2  Cans  with  Spout  for  Molasses.. 
1  gallon  Milk-Can. 

1  2-quart  Milk-Can. 

1  quart  Milk-Can. 

1  pint  Milk-Can. 

1  Canister  for  Tea. 

1  Canister  for  Coffee. 

Tin  Covers  for  Bowls  and  Braising^ 

Pans. 
Perforated  Tins  for  Steamers- 
Clamp  for  Preserve  Jars. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


1  dozen  fine  Dish-Towels. 
1  dozen  Hand-Towels. 
.6  coarse  Towels. 
6  Oven-Holders. 
3  Floor-Cloths. 

3  Sink-Cloths. 
9  Dish-Cloths. 

4  Lamp-Cloths. 

Soft  Cotton  Cloth  for  washing  Meat 

and  Fish. 
Cheese-Cloth. 
Strainer-Cloth. 
Pudding-Cloths. 
Fine  Linen  Strainers. 
Mosquito  Netting  for  Spice 
1  Canvas  Bag  for  Ice. 
Large  Darning-Needles. 
Common  Needles. 
Fine  Twine. 
Coarse  Thread. 
Scissors. 
Kitchen  Lamp. 


Ironing  Sheet  and  Holders^ 

Gimlet. 

Screw-Driver. 

Corkscrew. 

Hammer. 

Tacks. 

Screws. 

Hooks. 

Nails. 

Brad-Awls. 

White  Paper  for  Cake- Tins. 

Light  soft  Paper  for  Draining. 

Rubber  Pastry-Bags. 

Coal-Hod. 

Coal-Shovel. 

Coal-Sieve. 

Ash-Hod. 

Two  Work-Tables,  covered  with  Mar- 
bled Cloth,  and  fitted  with  Drawers 
and  Shelves  underneath. 

Chairs,  as  required. 

Writing-Desk  and  Table  combined  > 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


INTKODUCTION. 


PAGE 

Cookery 1 

Fire 3 

Fuel 4 

Making  a  Fire      ......  5 

Boiliug 8 

Stewing 12 

Fricasseeing 12 

Braising 13 

Baking 13 

Frying     , 14 

Fat  for  Frying 16 

Saut^ing •.     .     .  17 

Clarifying  Fat 18 

Egg  and  Bread  Crumbing      .     .  19 

Boasting 20 


PAGE 

Broiling ,21 

Time  Tables  for  Cooking  ...  24 

Larding 25 

Daubing 25 

Boning 26 

Measuring .28 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measm-es  30 

Table  of  Proport'ons      ....  31 
Rules  for    Mixed    Spices    and 

Herbs 32 

Mixing 33 

Stirring  and  Beating     ....  33 

Cutting  and  Folding      ....  34 

Table  of  Cost  of  Groceries  ...  35 


BREAD   AND    BREAD    MAKING. 


Importance  of  Bread      .... 
Derivation  of  Word  "Bread  '"    . 
Chemical  Composition  of  Wheat 
Preparing  Wheat  Flour      .     .     . 

St.  Louis  Flour 

Haxall  Flour   ....... 

Minnesota  Flour 

Health  Food  Flour 

Tests  of  Good  Flour  .     .     . 

Fermented  Bread 

Fermentation 

Yeast  Plant 

Chemical  Changes  in  Yeast  Bread 
Unfermented  Bread 


The  Best  Kinds  of  Yeast.        .    .  49 

Dry  and  Compressed  Yeast     .     .  49 

Home-made  Yeast 50 

Making  the  Dough        ....  51 

Manner  of  Mixing 52 

Sugar  and  Potatoes  in  Bread .    .  53 

Shortening  in  Bread      ....  53 

Kneading  the  Dough     ....  54 

Temperature  for  Raising  Bread  .  56 

Time  for  Raising  Bread     ...  56 

Soda  in  Raised  Bread   ....  57 

Shaping  into  Loaves      ....  58 

Temperature  for  Baking  Bread    .  60 

The  Care  of  Bread  after  Baking  61 


33 


514 


General  Index, 


KECEIPTS  FOR  YEAST  AND  BREAD. 


PAGE 

Raw  Potato  Yeast 62 

Boiled  Potato  Yeast 63 

Hop  Yeast 63 

Water  Bread 63 

Milk  Bread,  No.  1 64 

Milk  Bread,  No.  2 64 

Water  Bread  with  a  Sponge  .     .  65 

Milk  Bread  with  a  Sponge     .     .  65 


Whole-Wheat  or  Graham  Bread 

Squash  Bread 

Rye  Bread 

Raised  Brown  Bread     .    .     .     . 

Thirded  Bread 

Sour  Milk  Brown  Bread    .     ,     . 
Sour  Milk  Brown  Bread,  No.  2  . 


RAISED  BISCUIT,   ROLLS,   etc. 


Biscuit 68 

Imperial  Rolls  .......  69 

Finger  Rolls 70 

Cleft  Rolls 70 

Cross  Rolls 70 

Parker  House  Rolls  .....  70 

Twin  Rolls 70 

Pocketbook  Rolls 70 

Letter  Rolls 70 

Braids 71 

Crescents »     .    .  71 

Vienna  Rolls 71 


French  Rolls 71 

Sticks .71 

White  Mountain  Rolls  ....     72. 

Swedish  Rolls 72: 

Rusk,  No.  1 73 

Rusk,  No.  2     ....     o     ..    73. 

Rusk,No.  3 73. 

Dried  Rusks .    74 

Bunns ,74 

Hot  Cross  Bunns 74 

Raised  Doughnuts 74 

Raised  Bread  Cake  .     .    ,     .     .    74 


STALE  BREAD,   TOAST,   etc. 


Dried  Bread  Crumbs 
Stale  Bread  Crumbs    . 
Stale  Bread,  Steamed 
Egg  Toast      ... 
Bread  Sauted      .     .    , 
Italian  Fritters  .     .    , 


Brown  Bread  Brewis 
Brown  Bread  Brewis, 
Milk  Toast  .  .  . 
Cream  Toast '.  .  . 
Water  Toast  .  .  . 
Toast  for  Garnishing 


No 


77 
77 
78 
79 
79 
79 


SODA  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS,   GEMS,   etc. 


Potash,     Pearlash,      Saleratus, 

Soda »     .     .     .  80 

Cream     of     Tartar,      Muriatic 

Acid 81 

Baking-Powders       ,    .    .     .    .  82 

Soda  Biscuit 83 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit    ...  83 

Sour  Milk  Biscuit 83 

Whole-Wheat  or  Rye  Biscuit    .  84 

Cream  Biscuit 84 

Short  Cake,  No.  1 84  | 

Short  Cake,  No.  2 85  i  Tea  Cakes 


Strawberry  Short  Cake,  No.  1 . 
Strawberry  Short  Cake,  No.  2  . 
Peach  or  Apricot  Short  Cake  . 
Orange  Short  Cake  .... 
Whole-Wheat    or    Rye    Short 

Cakes 

Dutch  Apple  Cake 

Apple  or  Huckleberry  Cakes    . 

Raised  Muffins 

Sally  Lunns 

Oatmeal  Biscuit 


85 
85- 
85 


89 


General  Index, 


515 


PAGE 

Cream  Muifins    .     ,     .     .     . 

39 

Granulated  Wheat  Muffins   . 

89 

Eve  and  Corn  Muffins      .     . 

90 

Apple  Johnnv  Cake     .     .     . 

91 

Corn  Cake  (Thin)  .... 

91 

Sponge  Corn  Cake  .... 

91 

Spider  Corn  Cake   .... 

92 

Corn  and  Rice  Muffins     .     , 

92 

Hominy  and  Corn  Meal  Cakes 

.       92 

Maryland  Corn  Cakes       .     . 

.       92 

Dodgers,  or  Dabs,  or  Puffs  . 

.       93 

Indian  Bannock 

-       93 

PAGE 

Hoe  Cake        93 

Rice  Crusts .  94 

Rice  or  Hominy  Drop  Cakes     .  94 

Breakfast  Puffs  or  Popovers      .  94 

Rye  Gems  or  Shells      ....  94 

Whole- Wheat  or  Graham  Gems  95 

Whoie- Wheat  Crisps   ....  96 

Fine  Granuiated  Wheat  Gems  .  95 

Maryland  or  Beaten  Biscuit      .  90 

Graham  Wafers  .,.,..  96 

Wafer  Biscuit    ......  96 

Gluten  Wafers   ......  97 


WAFFLES   AND    GEIDDLE-CAKES. 


Distinction     between    Griddle- 

Cakes,  Pancakes,  etc.    ...       97 

Waffle  Iron    .... 

98 

Waffles 

98 

Lemon  Syrup      .     .     , 

98 

Raised  Waffles   .     .     . 

99 

Flannel  Cakes    .     .     . 

99 

Graham  Waffles      .     . 

99 

Corn  Meal  Waffles 

99 

To  Cook  Griddle-Cal^s 

99 

Griddle-Cakes    .     .     . 

100 

Corn  Meal  Griddle-Cakes     .     .  100 

Graham  Griddle-Cakes     ...  100 

Huckleberry  Griddle-Cakes       .  100 

Rice  or  Hominy  Griddle-Cakes  100 

Bread  Griddle-Cakes  ....  100 

Raised  Graham  Griddle-Cakes  101 

Buckwheat  Griddle-Cakes     .     .  101 

Corn  Meal  Slappers     ....  101 

Pease  Griddle-Cakes    ....  101 

Squash  Griddle-Cakes      ...  102 

French  Pancakes 102 


FRIED  MUFFINS,  FRITTERS,    AND   DOUGHNUTS. 


Fried  Drop  Cakes 102 

Fried  Flour  Muffins      ....  103 

Fried  Corn  Meal  Cakes    ...  103 

Fried  Rye  Muffins  .....  104 

Fried  Rye  Muffins,  Sour  Milk  .  104 

Doughnuts,  Sour  Milk     .     .     .  104 

Doughnuts,  No.  2   .....  104 

Doughnuts,  No.  3   ,     .    .     .    .  105 


Raised  Doughnuts 105 

Crullers 105 

Wonders,  or  Cheats     ....  106 

Henriettes 106 

Cinci,  or  Rags 106 

Fritter  Batter 106 

Oyster  and  Clam  Fritters      .  107 

Apple  and  Vegetable  Fritters    .  107 


OATMEAL  AND  OTHER  GRAINS. 


Oatmeal 108 

Groats 108 


Indian  Corn 
Rye  Meal  . 
Barley  .     . 
Buckwheat 
Rice      .    . 


108 
109 
109 
109 
109 


Oatmeal  Mush 109 

Hominy 110 

Cracked  Wheat 110 

Granulated  Wheat 110 

Hasty  Pudding 110 

Indian  Meal  Mush  .     ,     .     .     .  110 

Fried  Hasty  Pudding  ....  110 


516 


General  Index. 


BEVERAGES. 


PAGE 

Tea  .     . Ill 

Iced  Tea    ...          ....  Ill 

Russian  Tea  .......  Ill 

Coffee Ill 

Roasting  Coffee Ill 

Coffee  (Common  Coffee-Pot)      .  115 

Steamed  Coffee 115 

Coffee  made  with  Cold  Water  .  115 

Coffee  made  with  Eggs    .     .     .  115 

Filtered  Coffee 116 


PAGE 

To  Serve  Coffee 116 

After-Dinner  or  Black  Coffee     .  116 

Vienna  Coffee .116 

Cafe  au  Lait ■.  116 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate    ....  116 

To  Make  Cocoa 117 

Prepared  Cocoa 117 

Shells 117 

Chocolate 118 

German  Chocolate 118 


SOUP  AND   STOCK. 


General  Remarks  on  Soup    .     . 
Meaning  of  Stock   .  ... 

Essential  Rules  for  Soup  Making 
Soup  Digester     ...... 

Kind  of  Meat  for  Soup     .     .     . 

Skimming  Soup 

Seasoning  for  Soup      ,     .     .     . 

Dark  Stock 

Straining  Stock 

Removing  Fat  from  Stock     .     . 
Clearing  Stock   ...... 

Rule  for  Brown  Stock      ,     .     . 
Bouillon    .,...,.. 
Cle^r,   Amber    Soup,    or    Con- 
somme    

Left-over  Soup 

Julienne  Soup     ...... 

Macaroni  Soup    , 

Vermicelli  Soup       .     ,     .     .     . 
Rice  Soup ......... 

Tapioca  Soup 

Sago  Soup 

Barley  Soup  . 


119 
121 
122 
122 
123 
125 
126 
127 
127 
128 
129 
ISO 
131 

131 
132 
132 
133 
133 
133 
133 
133 
133 


Tomato  Soup  with  Stock      .     .  133 

Carrot  or  Crecy  Soup  ....  134 

Mixed  Vegetable  Soup     .    .     .  134 

Caramel  for  Soup 134 

Glaze    ........  135 

Thickening  for  Soup   ....  135 

Materials  served  with  Soup  .     .  136 

Croutons 136 

Crisped  Crackers 136 

Egg  Balls 136 

Force-Meat  Balls 137 

Mock  Turtle  Soup 137 

Oxtail  Soup  .    ■ 139 

Mullagatawny  Soup    ....  139 

Scotch  Broth"     ......  140 

Mutton  Broth 141 

Chicken  Broth 142 

Turkey  Soup      ......  142 

White' Soup  Stock  .....  143 

White  Soup,  Veal 143 

White  Soup,  Chicken  ....  144 

Potage  a  la  Reine 144 

Potage  a  la  Reine,  No.  2  .     .     .  145 


SOUP   WITHOUT   STOCK. 


Potato  Soup  .......  146 

Celery  Soup 147 

Tomato  Soup      ......  147 

Mock  Bisque  Soup  .     .     ,  .  147 

Black  Bean  Soup 148 

Split  Pea  Soup   ......  149 

Green  Pea  Soup 150 

Green  Corn  Soup     , 150 

Vegetable  Soup  (Winter)      .     .  151 

Fish  Soup ,     .  1.52 

Pur(ie  of  Salmon     .....  152 


Lobster  Soup,  or  Bisque  of  Lob- 
ster      162 

Lobster  Soup,  No.  2    .     .     .    .  153 

Oyster  Soup 153 

Oyster  Stew 154 

Clam  Soup 154 

Fish  Chowder 155 

Clam  Chowder 156 

Corn  Chowder 157 

Lobster  Chowder 157 

Pur6e  of  Clams 158 


General  Index. 


517 


FISH. 


PAGE 

General  Remarks  on  Fish     .     .  159 

To  Clean  Fish 160 

To  Skin  Fish 161 

To  Bone  Fish 161 

Fillets  of  Fish 161 

Broiled  Fish 161 

Baked  Fish 162 

Stuffing  for  Fish 163 

Oyster  Stuffing 163 

Baked  Fish  (served  whole)  .     .  16-4 

To  Carve  Baked  Fish  ....  164 

Baked  Fish,  No.  2 164 

Baked  Halibut 165 

Fried  Fish 165 

Boiled  Fish 166 

Fish  au  Court  Bouillon    .     .     .  167 

Stewed  Fish 168 

Fish  a  la  Creme      .    .     .     ,     .  168 

Remnants  of  Cooked  Fish     .     .  169 

Scalloped  Fish 169 

Fish  in  Potato  Border.     ...  169 


PAGE 

Chartreuse  or  Casserole  of  Fish  170 

Kedgeree 170 

Curried  Fish 170 

Creamed  Fish  with  Oysters  .     .  170 

Spiced  Fish 170 

Crimped  Fish 170 

Potted  Fish 171 

Salt  Fish  Balls 171 

Fish  Hash      .......  172 

Fish  Souffle 172 

To  Cook  Salt  Fish 172 

Salt  Mackerel 172 

Salt  Fish  Dinner 173 

Creamed  Salt  Fish 173 

Mock  Oyster  Stew- .     ...»  173 

Scorched  Salt  Fish      ....  173 

Tongues  and  Sounds  ....  173 

Fried  Fish  Roes 173 

Scalloped  Roes  ......  173 

Small  Fish  Baked  in  Crusts      .  174 

Table  of  Cost  of  Fish  .     .     .     .  174 


SHELL  FISH. 


Shell  Fish .  175 

Oysters      ........  175 

Oysters  Cooked  in  the  Shell  175 

Raw  03'sters  .......  175 

Oysters  on  Ice 176 

To  Prepare  Oysters  for  Cooking  176 

Oysters  Cooked  in  their  Liquor  176 

Smothered  Oysters      ....  176 

Creamed  Oysters     ....,,  177 

Fricasseed  Oysters  .....  177 

Scalloped  Oysters 177 

Oysters  en  Coquille     ....  177 
Oysters     and     Mushrooms     in 

Crust 178 

Pigs  in  Blankets 178 

Fried  Oysters 178 

Sauted  Oysters 179 

Broiled  Oysters  ......  179 

Pickled  Oysters 179 

Clams 179 

Steamed  Clams 179 

Scalloped  Clams 180 

A  Clam  Bake 180 

Scallops 181 


Fried  Scallops     ......  181 

Lobsters     . 181 

To  Choose  Lobsters     ....  181 

To  Open  Lobsters   .....  182 

Plain  Lobster 182 

Stewed  Lobster 182 

Creamed  Lobster 183 

Curried  Lobster 183 

Scalloped  Lobster  .....  183 

Devilled  Lobster     .     .     c     .     .  183 

Crabs .  183 

Soft  Shell  Crabs 184 

Boiled  Crabs . 184 

Scalloped  Crabs 184 

Devilled  Crabs  ......  184 

Crab  Salad     ....'...  184 

Shrimps  and  Prawns   ....  184 

Shrimp  Salad 184 

Shrimps  en  Coquille    ....  184 

Scalloped  Shrimps 184 

Reptiles 185 

Frogs 185 

Terrapin o     ,  186 

Green  Turtle  Soup 186 


518 


General  Index. 


MEAT   AND   FISH   SAUCES. 


PAGE 

Meat  and  Fish  Sauces .    .,     .     .  187 

Drawn  Butter 187 

Caper  Sauce 188 

Egg  Sauce 188 

Parsle}'  Sauce 188 

Lemon  Sauce 188 

Shrimp  Sauce 188 

Acid  Sauce 188 

Mustard  Sauce 188 

Lobster  Sauce 188 

Oj^ster  Sauce 188 

Celery  Sauce 189 

Richer  Drawn  Butter  Sauce  .     .  189 

Sauce  Piquante 189 

White  Sauce 189 

Bechamel  Sauce 189 

Fish  Sauce 190 


Curry  Sauce  .... 
Cream  Sauce  .  .  . 
Thick  Cream  Sauce  . 
Brown  Sauce  .  .  . 
Brown  Sauce  Piquante 
Sauce  Poivrade  .  ,  . 
Sauce  Robert      c     .     . 


190 
190 
190 
191 
191 
191 
191 


Brown  Mushroom  Sauce 
Currant  Jelly  Sauce  . 
Olive  Sauce  .... 
Cumberland  Sauce 
Flemish  Sauce  .  .  - 
Sauce  a  la  Italienne  . 
Chestnut  Sauce  .  .  , 
Peanut  Sauce  .  .  . 
Port  Wine  Sauce  .  . 
Espagnole  Sauce  .  . 
Bread  Sauce  .... 
Soubise  Sauce  .  .  . 
Tomato  Sauce  .  .  . 
Tomato  Sauce  for  Chops 
Hollandaise  Sauce  .  . 
Tartar  Sauce  (Hot) 
Tartar  Sauce .... 
Horseradish  Sauce  (Hot) 
Horseradish  Sauce  (Cold) 
Sauce  Tartare  .... 
Maitre  d' Hotel  Sauce  .  . 
Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce  (Hot) 
Sauce  for  Fish  Balls  .  . 
Mint  Sauce    ...... 


PAGE 

191 
191 
192 


192 
192 
192 
192 
193 
193 
193 
193 
193 
193 
194 
194 
194 
195 
195 
195 
195 
195 
196 
196 
196 


EGGS. 


Remarks  on  Eggs   .....    197 

Boiled  Eggs  (Soft) 199 

Boiled  Eggs  (Hard)  .  .  . 
Dropped  or  Poached  Eggs  . 
Ham  and  Eggs  .     o     .     c     . 

Spanish  Eggs 

Eggs  Poached  in  Tomatoes  . 
Scrambled  Eggs  .... 
Scrambled  Eggs,  No.  2  ,  . 
Omelet.     ..... 

Fancy  Omelets 

Creamy  Omelet  ,  .  .  .  . 
Cream}--  Omelet,  No.  2  .  . 
Sweet,  or  Jelly  Omelet  .  . 
Orange  Omelet  ..... 

Omelet  Souffle 

Baked  Eggs,  Nos.  1  and  2    . 


199 
199 
200 
200 
200 
200 
200 
200 
201 
202 
202 
202 
202 
203 
203 


Baked  Eggs,  Nos.  3  and  4    .     .  204 

Eggs  en  Coquille     .....  204 

Eggs  en  Coquille,  No.  2  .     .     .  204 

Eggs  and  Minced  Meat    .     .     ,  204 

Pannikins 205 

Curried  Eggs 205 

Egg  Verniicelli 206 

Stuffed  Eggs  .......  206 

Stuffed  Eggs,  No.  2    .     .     .     .  207 

Scotch  Eggs 207 


Scotch  Eggs,  No.  2 
'  Scalloped  Eggs  .  . 
Egg  Balls  in  Baskets 
Eggs  a  la  Creme 
Eggs  in  a  Nest  .  . 
Egg  Salad  .  .  . 
Devilled  Eggs    .    . 


207 
207 
208 
208 
209 
209 
209 


Classification  of  Meat 
Composition  of  Meat 


MEAT. 

210  I  Fibrine 
210    Albumen 


210 
210 


General  Index. 


519 


PAGE 

Gelatine 210 

Fat  of  Meat 211 

Juice  of  Flesb     ......  211 

Osmazome     ..*....  211 

Extract  of  Meat 211 


PAGE 

Seasons  for  Meat    ...,•,  211 

Diagram  of  Ox 212 

Diagram  of  Hind  Quarter    .    .  212 

Care  of  Meat 213 

Cost  of  Meat  and  Game   .     ,     .  213 


BEEF. 


Tests  for  Good  Beef     .     .     . 
Divisions  of  the  Hind  Quarter 
Divisions  of  the  Fore  Quarter 
Roast  Sirloin  of  Beef 
Rib  Roast .... 
Back  of  the  Rump  . 
Yorkshire  Pudding 
Gravy  for  Roast  Beef 
Fillet  of  Beef      .     . 
Broiled  Steak     .     . 
Broiled  Fillets  of  Beef 
Broiled  Meat  Cakes 
Hamburg  Steak 
Braised  Beef .     .     . 
Beef  a  la  Mode  ,    , 


214 
214 
218 
220 
221 
221 
221 
221 
222 
223 
223 
223 
224 
224 
225 


Beef  Stew  with  Dumplings  . 

Dumplings 

Rolled  Flank  of  Beef  .  .  . 
Smothered  Beef  or  Pot  Roast 

Spiced  Beef 

Corned  Beef 

Boiled  Dinner 

Vegetable  Hash  .... 
Tongue  in  Jelly  .... 
Smoked  Tongue  .... 
Lyonnaise  Tripe     .... 

Broiled  Tripe 

Tripe  in  Batter 

Liver     

Kidneys    


225 
227 
227 
■228 
228 
228 
229 
230 
230 
230 
230 
231 
231 
231 
231 


MUTTON   AND   LAMB. 


Mutton  and  Lamb  .     .     . 

.     232 

Saddle  of  Mutton  or  Lamb 

.     .    233 

Roasted  Leg  of  Mutton    . 

.     233 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton  .     . 

.     234 

Fore  Quarter  of  Mutton   . 

.     234 

Mntfon  Diiplc 

.     235 

Braised  Mutton 

.     236 

Lamb  or  Mutton  Chops    .     . 

.     236 

Breaded  Mutton  Cutlets  . 

.     236 

Chops  en  Papillote .  .  .  . 
Fricassee  of  Mutton  or  Lamb 
Mutton  Stew  for  Two  . 
Curry  of  Mutton  .  ,  , 
Ragout  of  Mutton  .  .  , 
Braised  Sheep's  Tongues 
Boiled  Lambs'  Tongues  , 
Pickled  Lambs'  Tongues 


236 
237 
237 
238 
238 
238 
238 
238 


VEAL. 


Veal     .                   .     . 

.     ,     .    239 

Roast  Veal 

.     .     .     239 

Fricandeau  of  Veal     . 

.     .     240 

Veal  Stew  or  Fricassee 

.     .     240 

Veal  Cutlets      .     .     . 

.     .     240 

Braised  Calf's  Liver   .     . 

.     .     241 

Braised  Calf's  Heart  .    , 

,     .     241 

Calf's  Head  .... 

.     .     241 

Brain  Sauce  .... 

.     .     242 

Minced  Calf's  Head    . 

.     .     .     242 

Sweetbreads .......  243 

Larded  Sweetbreads    .     .     ^     .  243 

Fried  Sweetbreads       ....  243 

Creamed  Sweetbreads      .     .    .  243 

Broiled  Sweetbreads    ....  243 

Scalloped  Sweetbreads     .     .     .  243 

Sweetbreads  with  Mushrooms  .  244 

Braised  Sweetbreads  ....  244 

Sweetbread  Fritters     ....  244 

To  Serve  Sweetbreads     .     .     .  244 


520 


General  Index, 


PORK. 


PAGE 

Pork 245 

Roast  Pig 245 

Roast  Pork 246 

Pork  Chops 246 

Breakfast  Bacon 246 

Fried  Salt  Pork 246 

Boiled  Ham 247 


To  Serve  Cold  Ham    .     .     . 
Fried  and  Broiled  Ham    . 

Sausages   

Souse 

Head  Cheese  .     .     ,     .     , 

To  Try  out  Lard 249 

Baked  Pork  and  Beans    ...    249 


PAGE 

247 

247 

24a 

248 
248 


POULTRY   AND   GAME. 


Poultry  and  Game  ..... 
To  Choose  and  Clean  Poultry  . 
To  Dress  a  Fowl  for  a  Fricassee 
To  Dress  a  Fowl  for  Roasting  . 
To  Stuff  and  Truss  a  Fowl   .     . 

To  Clean  Giblets 

To  Dress  Fowls  for  Broiling 
To  Carve  Poultry   =     .     .     .     . 
Gravy  for  Roast  Poultry  .     .     . 

Roast  Turkey 

Boiled  or  Steamed  Poultry  .     . 

Roast  Chicken    c. 

Chestnut  Stuffing  and  Sauce     . 

Braised  Fowl 

Chicken  Fricassee 

Chicken  Stew 

Chicken  Curry 


251 
252 
253 
253 
254 
254 


256 
256 

257 
257 
258 
258 
258 
258 
259 


Broiled  Chicken 260 

Fried  Chicken 260 

Broiled  Fillets  of  Chicken     .    .  260 

Devilled  Chicken 260 

Roast  Goose  ,..,...  261 

Roast  Duck 261 

Braised  Duck 261 

Larded  Grouse 262 

Potted  Pigeons 262 

Braised  Pigeons       .....  262 


262 
263 
263 
263 
263 
Rabbits 261 


Pigeons  Stuffed  with  Parsley 

Roast  Birds 

Quail 

Woodcock 

Venison ,    . 


ENTR]E]ES    AND   MEAT   RECHAUFFE. 


Boned  Turkey    ......  265 

Stuffing  for  Boned  Tui'key   •     .  265 

Boned  Chicken  ......  266 

Stuffing  for  Boned  Chicken  .     .  266 

To  Mould  in  Aspic  Jelly       .     .  266 

Pressed  Chicken 267 

Blanquette  of  Chicken     ..     ~     .  268 

Chicken  Pilau 268 

Scalloped  Chicken 268 

Chicken  Pie 268 

Chicken  Terrapin 269 

Chicken  Chartreuse     ....  269 

Salmis  of  Game.     .....  270 

Beef  Olives  or  Rolls    .     .    '.     .  270 

Beef  Roulette 271 

Fricadilloes 271 

Frizzled  Beef 272 

Meat  Pie 272 


Meat  Porcupice  .... 

.    272 

Ragout  of  CooKed  Meat   . 

.     273 

Hash     ..... 

.     273 

Sandwiches    ..... 

.     273 

Scalloped  Mutton 274 

Casserole  of  Rice  and  Meat  .     .  274 

Casserole  of  Mock  Sweetbreads  274 

Potato  Border 275 

Veal  Birds 275 

Melton  Veal 275 

Veal  Loaf 276 

Meat  Souffle 276 

Potting 277 

Potted  Liver 277 

Ragout    of    Lamb's    or    Calf's 

Liver 277 

Croquettes 277 

To  Shape  Croquettes  ....  278 


General  Index. 


521 


Thick  Cream  Sauce  . 
Chicken  Croquettes 

Veal  Croquettes       .  . 

Ovster  Croquettes  .  . 
Sweetbread  Croquettes 
Lobster  Croquettes 

Lobster  Cutlets  .     .  . 

Clam  Croquettes     .  . 


PAGE 

278 
279 
279 
279 
279 
280 
280 
280 


Potato  Croquettes  .... 

PAGE 

.     280 

Oyster  Plant  Croquettes  .     . 

.     280 

Turkish  Croquettes      .     .     . 

.     281 

Sweet  Rice  Croquettes     .     . 

.     281 

Savory  Rice  Croquettes   .     . 

.     281 

Rice  or  Spaghetti  Croquettes 

.     281 

Hominy  Croquettes     .     .     . 

,     282 

Creme  Frete 

,     282 

SUNDRIES. 


Welsh  Rarebit  .  . 
Cheese  Souffle  .  . 
Crackers  a  la  Creme 
Cracker  Brewis  .  . 
Sardine  Canapees  . 
Turkish  Pilaf  .  . 
Turkish  Pilaf,  No.  2. 
Sour  Milk  Cheese  . 


282 
282 
283 
283 
283 
283 
283 
283 


Forefathers'  Dinner    ....  284 

Hulled  Corn 286 

Indian  Meal  Pudding  ....  286 

Chickens  Forced  with  Oysters  .  286 

Bean  Porridge 287 

Smothered  Chicken      ....  288 
Steamed  Apple  and  Indian  Meal 

Pudding     .......  288 


VEGETABLES. 


Remarks  on  Vegetable  Food     .  289 

Potatoes 292 

Boiled  Potatoes 293 

Potatoes  a  la  Neige      ....  293 

Rice  Potatoes     -.     .     .     .'   .     .  293 

Mashed  Potatoes     .....  294 

Potato  Balls  .......  294 

Potato  Puff 294 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes      ....  294 

Creamed  Potatoes 294 

Fried  Potatoes 295 

French  Potatoes      .....  295 

Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  d' Hotel     .  295 

Baked  Potatoes 295 

Fran  con  ia  Potatoes      ....  295 
Potatoes  in  the  Half  Shell,  or 

Potato  Souffle 295 

Stuffed  Potatoes 296 

Fried  Raw  Potatoes     ....  296 

Saratoga  Potatoes  .     .          .     .  296 

Parisienne  Potatoes     ....  296 

Macaroni  Potatoes 296 

Shoo  Fly  Potatoes  .     ....  296 

Crescent  Potatoes 296 

Sweet  Potatoes 296 

A  Southern  Dish     .....  296 

Spinach 296 


Greens  .     , .  297 

Asparagus 297 

Green  Peas 298 

String  Beans .298 

Shelled  Beans 298 

Sweet  Corn 299 

Green  Corn  Fritters     ....  299 

Succotash 299 

Tomatoes,  Stewed 300 

Tomatoes,  Scalloped  and  Stuffed  300 

Onions,  Boiled 301 

Onions,  Scalloped,  Baked    .     .  301 

Cauliflower 301 

Cabbage 302 

Celery 302 

Egg  Plant ,302 

Egg  Plant  Fritters  .....  303 

Jerusalem  Artichokes .     »     .     s  303 

Globe  Artichokes 303 

Mushrooms    .......  303 

Winter  Squash 304 

Summer  Squash 304 

Carrots  and  Turnips    ....  305 

Parsnips 305 

Parsnip  Fritters 305 

Salsify 306 

Beets"' 306 


522 


General  Index. 


RICE   AND   MACARONI. 


PAGE 

Kice 306 

Boiled  Rice    ..*.....  306 

Steamed  Rice 307 

Savory  Rice 307 


Salmon  Rice 307    Spaghetti 


PAGE 

Rice  with  Cheese 307 

Macaroni  and  Vermicelli .     .     .  308 

Macaroni,  No.  2      .....  309 

Macaroni,  No.  3 309 

309 


SALADS. 


Salads  .........  309 

French  Dressing 310 

Boiled  Dressing 310 

Boiled  Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw .  311 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  ....  311 

Mayonnaise  Tartare  Dressing  .  312 

Lettuce  Salad 312 

Dressed  Celery =  312 

Cucumber  Salad 312 


Cucumber  and  Tomato  Salad    .  313 

Potato  Salad 313 

Egg  Salad 314 

Oyster  Salad 314 

Fish  Salad 314 

Chicken  Salad 314 

Lobster  Salad 315 

Salmon  Salad 315 

Salad  Sandwiches 315 


PASTRY   AND   PIES. 


Puff  Paste 316 

Baking  Puff  Paste 319 

Patties 319 

Tarts 319 

Cupid's  Wells 320 

Vol-au-vent 321 

Cakes  a  la  Polonaise    ....  321 

Bow-Knots    .......  321 

Rissoles 321 

Plaits 322 

Cheese  Straws 322 

Pies 323 

Paste  for  One  Pie  .     .     .     .     .  323 


Cream  Paste 323 

Plain  Paste 324 

Lemon  Pie 324 

Chess  Pie 324 

Apple  Pie 325 

Rhubarb  Pie 325 

Squash  Pie .325 

Custard  Pie 325 

Berry  Pie 326 

Mince  Pie 326 

Plain  Mince  Pie 326 

EcclesPie 326 

Fanchonnettes 327 


PUDDING   SAUCES. 


Hard  Sauce 328 

Snowdrift  Sauce 328 

Lemon  Sauce      ......  328 

Whipped  Cream  Sauce    .     .    .  328 

Apricot  Sauce 329 

Creamy  Sauce 329 


Foamy  Sauce 329 

Caramel  Sauce 330 

Molasses  Sauce 330 

Yellow  Sauce     ...'...  330 

Wine  Sauce 330 

Plain  Pudding  Sauce  ....  330 


HOT  PUDDINGS. 


Cottage  Pudding 331 

Dutch  Apple  Cake 331 

Scalloped  Apple 331 

Steamed  Apple  Pudding .     .     .  332 


Steamed  Carrot  Pudding 
Bread  and  Fruit  Pudding 
Eve's  Pudding  .... 
Bird's-Nest  Pudding  .     , 


332 
332 
333 
333 


General  Index. 


523 


PAGE 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding  . 
Apple  Mt'i-ingue      .     .     . 
Apple  Porcupine     .     .     , 
Friar's  Omelet   ,     .     .     . 

.  .  333 
.  333 
.  334 
.     334 

Apricots  a  la  Neige     .     . 
Apple  Snow  Balls  .     .     . 

.  .  335 
.     335 

Plain  Rice  Pudding     .     . 

.     335 

Poor  Man's  Pudding  .     . 

.     335 

Rice  and  Fruit  Pudding  . 

.     336 

Rice  SoufBe 

.     336 

Rice  Custard      .... 

.     33G 

Custard  Souffle  .... 

.     337 

Sponge  Pudding     .     .     . 

.     337 

PAGE 

Bread -Pudding 337 

Plum  Pudding  (Plain)  ...  337 
Queen  of  Puddings  ....  338 
French  Bread  Pudding  .  .  .  338 
Plymouth  Indian  Meal  Pudding  338 
Baked  Indian  Meal  Pudding  .  338 
Vv'hole- Wheat  Pudding  ...  338 
Steamed  Fruit  Pudding  ...  338 
Steamed  Suet  and  Fruit  Pud- 
ding   339 

Cabinet  Pudding 339 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding     .     .  340 

Thanksgiving  Plum  Pudding   .  340 


CUSTARDS,  JELLIES,   AND   CREAMS. 


Irish  Moss  Blanc  Mange  .     .     .  341 
dhocolate  Pudding      ....  341 
Danish  Pudding,  or  Fruit  Tapi- 
oca               ,     .     .  342 

Fruit  Pudding 342 

Boiled  Custard 342 

Flummery 343 

Tipsy  Pudding 343 

Floating  Island 343 

Chocolate  Custard  .     .■   .     .     .  3 13 

Soft  Caramel  Custard .     ,     .     .  343 

Cocoanut  Custard 343 

Macaroon  Custard 343 

Almond  Custard 343 

Candied  Fruit  Custard     .     .     .  343 

Orange  Custard 344 

Baked  Custard 344 

Steamed  Custard 344 

Caramel  Custard     .     .     .     ...  344 

Delicate  Pudding 344 

Apple  Snow 345 

Tapioca  Cream 345 

Gelatine  Pudding 345 

Spanish  and  Italian  Cream  .     .  346 

Quaking  Custard 346 

Snow  Pudding 347 

Orange  Charlotte    .....  348 

Apple  Charlotte 348 

Fruit  Charlotte ■   .  348 


Velvet  Cream 349 

Wine  Jelly 349 

Orange  Jelly 350 

Lemon  Jelly 350 

Italian  Jelly 350 

Orange  Baskets 351 

Orange  Sections 351 

Imperial  Cream 352 

Whipped  Cream 352 

Cream  Whips 353 

Newport  Whips 353 

Charlotte  Russe 354 

Plain  Bavarian  Cream     .     .     .  355 

Strawberr}^  Charlotte  ....  355 

Banana  Charlotte 355 

Riz  a  la  Impdratrice    ....  356 

Bavarian  Cream,  No.  2    .     .     .  356 

Chocolate  Bavarian  Cream  .     .  366 

Coffee  Bavarian  Cream    .     .     .  356 

Bavarian  Cream  AAith  Fruit.     .  356 

Norfolk  Cream 357 

i\Iock  Cantaloupe 357 

Prune  Pudding 357 

Creme  Diplomate 358 

Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding  .     .  358 

Gateau  St.  Honore      ....  359 

Gateau  de  Princess  Louise    .     .  360 

Chantilly  Baskets 360 


ICE-CREAM  AND   SHERBET. 


To  Freeze  Ice-Cream  . 
Philadelphia  Ice-Cream 


361 
362 


Neapolitan  Ice-Cream 
Ice-Cream,  No.  3    .     . 


363 
363 


524 


General  Index, 


PAGE 

Vanilla  Ice-Cream  .     ,     . 

.     364 

Lemon  Ice-Cream  .     .     .     . 

.     364 

Chocolate  Ice-Cream   .     . 

.     364 

Coflee  Ice-Cream     .     .     . 

.     364 

Caramel  Ice-Cream      .     . 

.     364 

Pineapple  Ice-Cream  .     . 

.     364 

Strawberry  Ice-Cream      . 

.     364 

Banana  Ice-Cream  .     .     . 

.     364 

Baked  Apple  Ice-Cream  . 

.     365 

Pistachio  Ice-Cream     .     . 

.     365 

Macaroon  Ice-Cream   .     . 

.     365 

Almond  Ice-Cream      .     . 

.     365 

Walnut  Ice-Cream      .     . 

.     365 

Cocoanut  Ice-Cream     .     . 

.     365 

Brown  Bread  Ice-Cream  . 

.     365 

Fruit  Ice-Cream      .     .     . 

.     365 

Cafe  Parfait 

.     365 

Glac^  Cream       .... 

.     365 

Ice-Cream      with       Condensed 

Milk 365 

TuttiFrutti 365 

Nesselrode  Pudding    ....     366 
Frozen  Pudding      .     .     .     .     .     366 

Plombi^re .366 

Bomb^  Glac^ 367 

Biscuit  Glace ,     367 

Frozen  Apricots 367 

Frozen  Fruit .367 

Sherbets 367 

Orange  Sherbet .368 

Pomegranate  Sherbet  ....     368 

Lemon  Sherbet 368 

Pineapple  Sherbet 368 

Strawberry  Sherbet     ....    368 
Raspberry  Sherbet      ....     368 


CAKE. 


Mixing  and.  Baking  Cake     .     .  369 

Sponge  Cake  Mixtures    .     .     .  372 

Butter  Cake  Mixtures      ...  372 

Sponge  Cake 373 

Lady  Fingers 374 

Sponge  Drops 374 

Miss  Ward's  Sponge  Cake   .     .  374 

Angel  Cake 374 

Sunshine  Cake 375 

Sponge  Cake  for  Cream  Pies     .  375 

Berwick  Sponge  Cake     .     .     .  375 

Cream  for  Cream  Pies      .     .     .  375 

Sponge  Cake  with  Fruit  .     ,     .  375 

Sponge  Cake  for  Children   .     .  375 

RollJellyCake 376 

One  Egg  Cake   ......  376 

Park  Street  Cake 376 

Orange  Cake 377 

Orange  Cream  for  Cake  .     .     .  377 

Orange  Cake,  No.  2     ...     .  377 

Orange  and  Cocoanut  Cream     .  377 

Mother's  Cake 378 

Currant  Cake 378 

Date  Cake 378 

Leopard  Cake 378 

White  Mountain  Cake     .          .  378 

Nut  Cake 378 

Cocoanut  and  Kaisin  Cream      .  378 


Macdonald  Cake 37& 

Ci.ier  Cake 379 

Dominos 379 

Madelines 379 

Gold  and  Silver  Cake       ...  379 

Watermelon  Cake 380 

Marble  Cake 380 

Cornstarch  Cake 380 

Snow  Cake 380 

Dream  Cake 380 

Buttercup  Cake 381 

Harlequin  Cake 381 

Lemon  Jelly  for  Cake      .     .     .  381 

Pink  Coloring  for  Cake   .     .     .  381 

Pokeberry  Syrup 382 

Ptibbon  Cake' 382 

Coffee  Cake  .......  382 

Spice  Cake 382 

Plum  Cakes  .......  383 

Pound  Cake  ...,«..  383 

Wedding  Cake 383 

Plain  Frosting 384 

Boiled  Frosting 384 

Ornamental  Frosting  ....  384 

Golden  Frosting 384 

Pink  Frosting 385 

Chocolate  Frosting      ....  385 

Orange  Frosting     ...    -     -  385 


General  Index. 


525 


PAGE 

Plain  Cookies     ......  885 

Richer  Cookies 385 

Cocoanut  Cookies  .....  386 

Jumbles     ........  386 

Hermits 386 

New  Year's  Cookies    ....  386 

One-Two-Three-Four  Cookies  .  386 

Thin  Sugar  Gingerbread .     .     .  386 

Superior  Gingerbread  ....  387 

Hard  Gingerbread  =     .     .     .     .  387 

Hard  Gingerbread,  IS^o.  2      ,     .  387 

Soft  Gingerbread    .     .     .     .     .  387 

Sugar  Gingerbread     ....  388 


Hot  Water  Gingerbread  .     . 

PAGE 

.     388 

Sour  Milk  Gingerbread    .     . 

388 

Ginger  Snaps      .     .     ,     „ '  . 

.     388 

Ginger  Drops      ...... 

388 

Soft  Molasses  Cookies 

389 

Cream  Cakes      .     .     .     «     . 

389 

Jhlclairs 

389 

Cream  for  Eclairs    .... 

389 

Kisses,  or  Cream  Meringues 

389 

Macaroons 

390 

Cocoanuts      ....... 

390 

Chocolate  Caramels     ,     .     . 

390 

FRUIT. 


Fruit 

To  Serve  Ripe  Fruits  .     .     .     - 

Iced  Fruits 

Nuts  and  Raisins    ..... 

Tropical  Snow 

Stewed  and  Baked  Fruits  .  . 
Stewed  Apple  Sauce  .... 
Compote  of  Apples      .... 

Baked  Apples 

Baked  Quinces   ...... 

Baked  Pears 

Steamed  Rhubarb  .  .  .  .  . 
Prunes.  ....... 

Cranberries 

Jellies  .....*... 
Cm-rant  Jell}'      ...... 

Apple  Jelly 

Quince  Jelly 

Grape  Jelly   ....... 

Marmalade 

Preserved  Peaches 

Preserved  Damsons     .... 

Preserved  Quinces 

Preserved    Strawberry    Toma- 
toes'   

Preserved  Pineapple  .... 
Preserved  Strawberries  .  .  . 
Preserved  Cherries  .... 
Preserved  Currants  .... 
Preserved  Raspberries      .     .     . 


391 
392 
393 
393 
393 
393 
394 
394 
394 
394 
394 
395 
395 
395 
395 
396 
397 
397 
397 
397 
398 
398 
399 

399 
399 
400 
400 
400 
400 


Preserved  Blackberries 

Jams 

Grape  Jam     .     .     . 
Currant  Jam .     .     . 
Raspberry  Jam  .     . 
Blackbeny  Jajn 
Apple  Jam     .     .     . 
Peach  Jam     .     .     . 
Pear  Jam  .... 
Quince  Jam   .     ,     . 
Canning     .... 
Canned  Strawberries 
Canned  Plums    .     . 
Canned  Cherries 
Canned  Quinces 
Canned  Apples  .     . 
Canned  Peaches 
Canned  Pears     .     . 
Canned  Tomatoes  . 
Sweet  Pickles     .     . 
Tomato  Sweet  Pickle 
Peach  Sweet  Pickle 
Pear  Sweet  Pickle  . 
Melon  Sweet  Pickle 
Pineapple  Sweet  Pickle 
Tomato  Catchup 
Piccalilli,  or  Chow  Chow 
Pickled  Cucumbers 
Mixed  Pickles    . 


400 
400 
400 
400 
400 
400 
400 
400 
400 
400 
401 
402 
402 
402 
402 
402 
402 
402 
402 
403 
403 
403 
403 
403 
403 
404 
404 
404 
40& 


526 


General  Index, 


HINTS   ON   CARING  AND  COOKING  TOR  INVALIDS. 


PAGE 

Ventilation 407 

The  Bed 407 

Cleanliness 408 

Conversation 408 

Conveniences  in  a  Sick-Room  .  409 

Feeding  the  Patient     ....  409 

Visitors  in  a  Sick-Room  .     .     .  410 

Diet  for  the  First  Condition      .  410 

Flour  Gruel 411 

Milk  Porridge 411 

Barley  Gruel 412 

Indian  Meal  Gruel 412 

Oatmeal  Gruel .412 

Oatmeal  Gruel,  No.  2       ...  413 

Farina  Gruel 413 

Cracker  Gruel 413 

Egg  Gruel 413 

Panada 414 

Oatmeal  Mush  for  Invalids  .     .  414 

Indian  Meal  Mush  .     ....  415 

Graham  Mush 415 

Rye  Mush 415 

Gluten  Mush 415 

Brain  Food 415 

Rice  Water  or  Jelly     ....  415 

Tapioca  Jelly     .   \     o     .     .     .  416 

Irish  Moss  Jelly 416 

Restorative  Jelly 416 

Mutton  Broth 416 

Barley  Soup .  417 

CalveV  Foot  Jelly  or  Broth  .     .  417 

Chicken  Jelly  or  Broth    ...  418 

Beef  Jelly  or  Broth     ....  418 

Barley  Water     ......  418 

Gum  Water 419 

Toast  Water 419 

Crust  Coffee 419 

Corn  Tea  and  Rice  Coffee     .     .  419 

Slippery-Elm  Tea 419 

Acid  Fruit  Drinks 419 

Apple  Tea 419 


PAGE 

Jelly  and  Ice 420 

Tamarind  Water 420 

Baked  Lemon     ......  420 

Lemonade 420 

Flaxseed  Lemonade    ....  420 

Irish  Moss  Lemonade  ....  420 

Wine  Whey 420 

Herb  Teas 420 

Diet  for  another  Condition   .     .  421 

Beef  Essence  and  Tea      .     .     .  422 

Broiled  Beef  Essence  ....  423 

Broiled  Beef  Tea    .     .     o     .     .  423 

Bottled  Beef  Essence  ....  423 

Bottled  Beef  Tea 423 

Stewed  Beef  Essence  ....  423 

Economical  Beef  Tea  ....  424 

Dr.  Mitchell's  Beef  Tea    .     .     .  424 

Raw  Beef  Sandwiches       .     .     .  424 

Eggnog 424 

Portable  Beef  Tea 425 

Broiled  Beef  Pulp 425 

Egg  Tea  and  Egg  Coffee  ...  425 

Egg  and  Beef  Tea 425- 

Dishes  for  Convalescence      .     .  425 

Broiling  for  the  Invalid  .     .     .  426 

Broiled  Steak  or  Venison     ,     .  426 

Broiled  Steak,  No.  2    .     .     .     .  426 

Chicken  Panada      .     .     .     .     ,  426 

Chicken  Custard 426 

Crackers  and   Orange  Marma- 
lade .....'....  427 
Racahout  des  Arabes  ....  427 

Laban 427 

Ash  Cake 427 

Gluten  Gems 428 

Diet  for  Infants 428 

Prepared  Flour 428 

Diet  for  Children 429 

Milk  for  Children 430 

Diet  for  Invalids     ....  ln-i'i-\ 


MISCELLANEOUS    HINTS. 


To  Chop  Suet 435 

To  Clean  Currants 435 

To  Stone  Raisins 435 


To  Core  Apples 435- 

Egg  Shells 435 

To  Boil  a  Pudding.     ....     435 


General  Index. 


527 


PAGE 

Mdringues 436 

Moulds 436 

Candied  Fruits  and  Nuts      .    .  436 

To  Blanch  Almonds    ....  436 

Corned  Meat 436 


To  Make  Paper  Boxes 
Pastry  Bag  .  .  ,  . 
Vanilla  Sugar  ,  .  . 
Canned  Fruit  Juices    • 


PAGE 

436 

437 
437 
43a 


THE   DINING-ROOM. 

The  Arrangement  of  the  Table,  etc 439-445 

The  Care  of  Kitchen  Utensils ,443-448 

AN  OUTLINE  OF  STUDY  FOR  TEACHERS. 

Food :  Its  Uses,  Classification,  and  Proportion 44^ 

The  Composition  of  the  Human  Body ^  453 

Non-Combustible  Compounds 454 

Water  and  Salts 454 

Combustible  Compounds 456 

Carbonaceous  Foods 45g 

Starch .456 

Sugar 458 

Fats 459 

Gum,  Mucilage,  etc.      ..............  460 

Nitrogenous  Foods 460 

Milk ■   ....  463 

Condiments 464 

Proper  Proportion  of  Food , 466 

Adaptation  to  Climate,  etc.     .....         ........  467 

Nourishing  and  Stimulating  Food 470 

Digestion o.,... 471 

Absorption 47& 

Nutrition 476 

Life  and  Motion 478 

Circulation  of  Water      ....     =     .. 478 

Circulation  of  Carbon 479 

Circulation  of  Nitrogen 479 

Circulation  of  Mineral  Matter 481 

Suggestions  to  Teacheks 483 

A  CouKSE  OF  Study  for  Normal  Pupils       . 485 

Questions  for  Examination 486 

Topics  and  Illustrations  for  Lectures  on  Cookery       .    .    .  490 

Books  of  Reference 494 

Course  of  Instruction  at  the  Boston  Cooking-School.      .    .  495 

Explanation  of  Terms  used  in  Cookery 503 

List  of  Utensils  needed  in  a  Cooking-School 508 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Acid,  Muriatic,  81. 
Albumen,  461. 
Almonds,  393. 

"        To  Blanch.  436 
Apple  Cake,  86 

"      Charlotte,  348. 
"      Johnny  Cake,  91. 
"      Meringue,  33o. 
"      Porcupine,  334. 
"      Pudding,  333 
"      Sandwich,  331. 
"       Sauce,  Baked,  394. 
"       Stewed,  394. 
"      Scalloped,  331. 
"      Snow,  345. 
"      Snowballs,  334. 
"      Tapioca,  333. 
Apples,  Baked,  394. 
•'       Compote  of.  394. 
"       To  Core,  43-5. 
"       Ripe,  To  Serve,  391. 
Apricots,  Frozen,  367. 

k  la  Neige,  335. 
Arrowroot,  457. 
Artichokes,  303. 
Ash  Cake,  427. 
Asparagus,  297. 
Aspic  Jelly,  266. 


B.\cox,  246,  431. 
Baked  Beans,  249. 
i'.aking,  13 
Baking-Powder,  82. 
Bananas,  392. 
Bannock,  93. 
Barley,  109. 

Soup,  417. 

Water,  418. 

bavarian  Cream,  355,  -356. 

Bean  Porridge,  287. 

Beans,  Baked.  249. 

"       Shelled,  298. 

"       String,  298. 
Beating,  33. 
Bechamel  Sauce,  189. 
Beef,  214-220. 

"     Braised,  224. 

"     Eroth,  418. 

"     Corned,  228,  4-36. 

"     Essence,  422-425. 


Beef,  Flank,  227. 
"  '  Frizzled,  272. 
"     Jellv,  418. 
"     k  laMode,  224. 
"     Ohves,  270. 
"     Pulp,  425. 
"     Roast,  220-222. 
"     Rolls,  270. 
"     Roulette,  271. 
"     Sandwiches,  424. 
"     Sausages,  271. 
"     Smoked,  272. 
"      Smothered,  227. 
*'     Soup,  130, 131. 
"      Spiced,  228. 
"      Steak,  223. 
"     Stew,  225. 
"      Tea,  422-425. 
Bei-ts,  306. 
Beverages,  111,  463. 
Birds,  Roast,  263. 

"      in  Potato  Cases,  263. 
"      Yeal  or  Mock.  275. 
Biscuit  Glace,  3'37. 
Biscuit,  68. 

"        Baking-Powder,  83. 
"        Beaten,  96. 
"        Cream,  84. 
"        Maryland,  96. 
"        Oatmeal,  88. 

Raised,  68. 
"        Rve,  84. 
"        To  Shape,  68. 
"        Soda,  83. 
'•        Sour-Milk,  83. 
"        Wafer,  96. 
'«        Whole-Wheat,  84. 
Bisque  of  Lobster,  152. 
Blanc-Mange,  341. 
Bianquette  of  Chicken,  268. 
Boiled  Dinner,  229. 
Boihng,  10. 
Bombe  Glace,  367. 
1  Boning,  26. 
I  Bouillon,  131. 
iBow-Knots,321. 
Brain  Food,  415- 
!  Braising.  13. 
i  Bread,  36-79. 

"      Baking,  60. 
I      '•      Brown,  67. 

34 


Bread,  Brown,      Sour-Milk 
68. 

"      Cake,  74. 

"      Chemical  Changes  in. 
47. 

"      Crumbs,  75. 

"      Fermented,  44. 

"      Importance  of,  36. 

"      KiieadiuK,  54. 

"      Loaves.  58. 

"      .Meaning  of,  36. 

"      Milk,  64. 

"      Milk,  with  a  Sponge, 
65. 

"      Mixing,  52. 

'•      Potatoes  in,  53. 

"      Rye,  67. 

"      Sauce,  193. 

"      Sauted,  76. 

"      Shortening  in,  53. 

"      Squash,  66. 

"      Stale,  75. 

"      Steamed,  76. 

"      Sugar  in, 53. 

"      Temperature  for,  5G 

"      Thirded,  67. 

*'      Time  for  Raising,  56. 

"      Unfermented,  48. 

"      Water,  63. 
'    '*      Water,    with    a 
Sponge,  65. 

"      Whole- Wheat,  66. 

"      Yeast,  49. 
Brewis,  77. 
Broiled  Meat  Cakes,  223. 

"       Steak,  223. 
BroiUng,  21,  426. 
Broth,  Chicken,  142. 

"       Mutton,  141. 

"       Scotch.  140. 
Buckwheat,  109. 

Cakes,  101. 
Bunns,  74. 
Butyric  Acid,  459. 


Cabbage.  302. 

"      ■  Salad,  311, 
Cafe  Parfait,  865. 
Cake,  369-383. 
"     Angel,  374. 


530 


Alphabetical  Index, 


Cake,  Baking,  370. 

"  Berwick  Sponge,  375 

"  Bread,  74. 

"  Buttercup,  3S1. 

"  Batter  Mixtures,  372 

"  for  Ciiildren,  375, 

"  Cider  379. 

"  Coffee,  382. 

"  Coloring  for,  3S1. 

"  Cornstarch,  380. 

''  for  Cream  Pies,  374. 

"  Currant,  378. 

"  Date,  378. 

"  Dream,  380. 

"  Peatlier,  376. 

"  Fruit,  375,  383. 

"  Gold,  379. 

"  Harlequin,  381. 

"  Jelly,  376,  381. 

"  "      Roll,  376. 

"  Lady  Fingers,  374. 

"  Leopard,  3(8. 

"  Loaf,  74. 

"  Macdonald,  379. 

"  Marble,  380. 

"  Mother's,  378. 

"  Nut,  378. 

"  One-Egg,  376 

"  Orange,  37  (. 

"  "        Cream,  377. 

"  Park  Street,  376. 

"  Plum,  333. 

'*  Poun4, 383. 

"  Raised  Bread,  74. 

"  Ribbon, 332. 

"  Savoy,  374. 

"  Silver,  379. 

"  Snow,  380. 

"  Spice,  382. 

"  Sponge,  374. 

"  "       Drops,  374. 

"  "       Mixing,  372, 

"  "      for    Children, 

375. 

"  "      with      Fruit, 

375. 

"  Sunshine,  3(5. 

"  Walnut,  378. 

"  Watermelon,  380. 

"  Wedding,  383. 

"  White  Mountain,  378. 
Cakes,  Apple,  87. 

"  "       Johnny, 91. 

"  Buckwheat,  101. 

"  Corn, 91-93. 

"  Cream,  389. 

"  Dutch  Apple,  86. 

"  Flannel,  99. 

"  Griddle,  99-102. 

"  Hoe,  93 

"  Hominy,  92. 

"  Huckleberry,  87. 

"  i  la  Polonaise,  321. 

"  Short,  84. 

"  Tea,  89. 
Calf's  Head,  241. 

"  "      Minced,  242. 

"  Heart,  241. 

"  Liver,  Braised,  241. 


Cairs  Liver,  Ragout  of,  277. 
Calves'-Foot  Broth  or  Jelly, 

418. 
Canapees,  283. 
Candied  Fruit,  436. 
Canning  Fruit,  491,  406. 

"      Juice.'   438. 
Caper  Sauce,  188. 
Capers,  289. 
Caramel,  134. 

Custard,  343,  344 
Caramels,  390. 
Carving  Beef,  220,  221. 
"        Fish,  1G4. 
'■-        Poultry,  255. 
Cassava,  457. 
Casserole  of  Fish,  170. 

"         of    Mock     Sweet 

bread.^,  274. 
' '         of  Rice  and  Moat 
274. 
Cauliflower.  301. 
Celery,  302.  31l3. 

"       Sauce,  189 
Cellulo.se,  430. 
Chantilly  Basket,  380. 
Charlotte  Apple,  343. 
"         Banana,  355. 
"         Fruit,  348. 
"         Orange,  348. 
"        Russe,  354. 
"         Strawberry,  355. 
Chartreuse  of  Chicken,  269. 

of  Fish,  170. 
Cheats,  106. 
Cheese  Soufflj,  282. 
"      Sour-Milk,  283. 
"      Straws,  322. 
Chestnut  Sauce,  192. 

"        Stufiing,  258. 
Chicken,  251. 

"         Blanquette  of,  268. 

To  Bone,  27. 
"        Boned,  265. 
Broiled,  260. 
"         Broiled   Fillets   of, 

260. 
"         Chartreuse,  269. 
"         Croquettes,  279. 
"         Curry,  259. 
"         Custard,  426. 
"        Devilled,  260. 
"         Forced   witli    Oys- 
ters, 286. 
"         Fricassee,  258. 

Fried,  260. 
"         Panada,  426. 
"        Pie,  268. 
"        Pilau,  268. 
"        Pressed,  267. 
"        Roast,  257- 
"        Salad.  314. 
"        Scalloped,  2G8^ 
"         Smothered,  288. 
"        Stew,  258. 
"         Stuffing  for  Boned, 

266 
"         Terrapin,  269. 
Chocolate,  llG-118. 


Chocolate,  Caramels,  390. 
Chow  Chow,  404. 
Chowder,  Clam,  156. 
"        Corn,  157. 
"        Fish;  155. 
"        Lobster,  157. 
Cine-   106. 
Clam  Bake,  180. 
"     Chowder,  156. 
"     Croquettes,  280. 
"     Soup, 154. 
Clams,  179. 

"      Puree  of,  158. 
"      Scalloped,  180. 
"      Steauied,  179. 
Coagulation,  461. 
Ooal  Fire,  3-5. 
Cochineal  Coloring,  381. 
Cocoa,  118. 
(Jocoanut  Cakes,  390. 

"         Cream,  377,  378. 
Coffee,  112. 

'•      Black,  116. 
"      Common  Pot,  115. 
"       Crust,  419. 
"      Egg,  115. 
"       Filtered,  116. 
"       Rice,  419. 
"      Roasting,  113. 
''       Serving,  116. 
"       Steamed,  115. 
"       Vienna,  116. 
Composition  of  the  Human 

Body,  453. 
Condiments,  464. 
Convalescence,    Dishes  for, 

425. 
Cookery,  1,  2. 
Cookies,  385,  386. 
Cooking,  Object  in,  452. 

"        Time  Tables  for,  24. 
Corn,  108-110. 

"      and  Beans,  299. 
"      Cakes,  90,  101. 
"         '•       Blaryland,  92. 
"         "      Spider,  92. 
"         "      Sponge,  91. 
"         "      Thin,  91. 
"     Chowder,  157. 
"     Hulled,  286. 
"     Meal,  109. 
"        "      Griddle-Cakes, 
100. 
"      Mush,  109. 
"      Puffs,  93. 
"         "       Slappers,  101 

"       Waffles,  99. 
"      Soup, 150. 
"     Sweet,  299. 
"        "      Fritters,  29&. 
Cost  of  Fish,  174. 
of  Food,  35. 
of  Meat,  213. 
Crab  Salad,  184. 
Crabs,  183. 

'      Boiled,  184. 
'      Devilled,  184. 
'      Scalloped,  184. 
'      Soft-Shell,  184. 


Alphabetical  Index. 


531 


Crackers  -i  la  Creme,  283. 
'•         Crisped,  loO. 
"         aud  Oraugc  Mar- 
malade, 4^7. 
Cranberries,  395. 
Cream,  463. 

"        Bavarian,  356. 

"        Cakes,  389. 

"        Cofoannt    and    Or- 

aiige,  377. 
-'        Cocoauut  and  Rai- 
sin, 378. 
"        for    Cream     Cakes, 

389. 
"        for  Cream  Pies,  375. 
"        Giace,  £65. 
"        Imperial,  352. 
"        Italian,  340. 
"        Norfolk,  357. 

Sauce,  190. 
"        Sauce  for  Croquettes 

and  Patties,  278. 
"       Spanish,  346. 
"       Tapioca,  345. 
"       Velvet,  349. 
"       Whipped,  352. 
"       Whips,  353. 
Cream  of  Tartar,  81. 
Creme  Diplomate,  358. 

"      Frete,  282. 
Crisps.  95. 
Croquettes,  277. 

Chicken,  279 
Clam,  280. 
Fish,  280. 
Hominy,  282. 
Lobster,  280. 
Macaroni,  281. 
Oyster,  279. 
Oyster  Plant, 

280. 
Potato,  280. 
Rice,  281 
Salsify,  280. 
Sauce  for,  278. 
Shaping,  278. 
Sweetbread , 

279. 
Turkish,  281. 
Veal,  279. 
Croutons,  136. 
Crullers,  105. 
Crumbs,  Bread,  75. 
Cucumbers,  313. 
Cumberland  Sauce,  192. 
Cupid's  Wells,  320. 
Currant  Jelly,  396. 

Sauce,  191. 
Currants,  392. 

''         Dried,  To  Clean, 
435. 
Curry  Sauce,  190. 
Custards,  341. 

"         Almond,  343. 
"         Baked,  344. 
"         Boiled,  342. 
"         Candied  Fruit, 

343 
"        Caramel,  344. 


Cust:irJs,  Caramel,  Soft.  343. 
Chocolate,  343. 

"         Cocoanut,  343. 

"        Maca/oou,  343. 

"         Orauge,  343. 

"         Quaking,  346. 
Cutting  and  Folding,  34. 


D.vBS,  93. 
Daubing,  25. 
Diet  for  the  Bilious,  432. 
'•    for  Children,  429. 
"    for    the     Constipated, 

433. 
"    for   the   Consumptive, 

433. 
■'    for  the  Corpulent,  432. 
"    for  the  Diabetic,  432. 
'■'    for  the  Dyspeptic,  432. 
"    for    the    Invalid,    410, 

422,  431. 
"   for  the  Young,  429. 
Diets,  National,  468. 
Digester,  Soup,  122, 
Digestion,  471. 
Dining-Room,  439. 
Dinner-Table,  440. 
Dish-Washing,  442-448. 
Dodgers,  93. 
Dominoes,  379. 
Dough,  52-60. 
Doughnuts,  104. 

"  Raised,  74. 

Sour-Milk,  104. 
Drawn  Butter,  187,  189. 
D4ied  Crumbs,  75. 
Drop  Cakes,  Fried,  102. 
"  "       Huckleberry, 

8  ( . 
Duck,  Braised,  261. 
"      Mock,  234. 
"       Roast,  261. 
DumpUngs,  Apple,  332. 

for  Stew,  227. 
Dutch  Apple  Cake,  86. 


Eclairs,  389. 
Egg  Balls,  136. 
"     Baskets,  208. 
''     and   Bread   Crumbing, 

19. 
"     Salad,  209. 
"     Sauce,  188. 
"     Shells,  435. 
"     Toast,  76. 
"     Vermicelli,  206. 
Eggs,  197-209. 

'•      Baked,  203,  204. 

"      BoHed,  19!). 

"      en  Coquille,  204. 

"      i  la  Creme,  208. 

"      Curried,  203. 

"      Devilled,  209. 

"      Dropped,  199. 

"      Ham  and, 203, 

"      for  Invalids,  431. 

' '      and  Minced  Meat,  204. 


Eggs  in  a  Nest,  209. 

"     Poached, 199. 

"  "        in  romato, 

200. 

"     Scalloped,  207. 

"     Scotch ,  207. 

"     Scrambled,  200. 

"     Spanish,  200. 

"     Stuffed,  20G. 
Eggnog,  424. 
Egg  Plant,  302. 

"         "      Fritters,  303. 
Entrees,  265. 
Espagnole  Sauce,  193. 
Etiquette,  441. 


Fanchonnettes,  327. 
Farina,  413. 
Fat,  To  Clarify,  18. 
"    for  Frying.  16. 
"    in  Soup,  123. 
Fats,  459. 

Fermentation,  44,  461. 
Fillet  of  Beef,  222. 

"      of  Fish,  161. 
Fire,  3,  5. 
Fish,  159-174. 

"      Baked,  162-165. 

"  ■'      in  Crusts,  174. 

"      Balls,  171. 

"      Boiled,  166,  167, 

"      To  Bone,  161. 

"      Broiled,  161. 

"      Casserole  of,  170. 

"      Chartreuse  of,  170. 

"      Chowder,  155. 

"      To  Clean,  160. 

"      an    Court    Bouillon, 
167. 

"      Creamed,  170. 

"      4  la  Creme,  168, 

"      Crimped,  170. 

"      Curried,  170. 

"      Cost  of,  174. 

"      Fillets  of,  161. 

"      Fried,  165. 
,    "      Hash,  172. 

"      in     Potato     Border. 
159. 

"      Potted.  171. 

"      Roes,  Fried,  173. 

"  "    Scalloped,  173. 

"      Salad,  314. 

"      Salt,  Creamed,  173 

"         "     Diuner,  173. 
•  "         "      To  Prepare.  172 

"         "     Scorched,  173. 

"■'      Sauce  for,  190. 

"      Sauces,  187-196- 

"      Scalloped,  169. 

"      Shell,  175-186. 

"      To  Skin,  160. 

"      Souffle,  172. 

"      Spiced,  170. 

"      Stewed.  168. 

"      Stuffing  for,  163. 

"      Warmed-over,  169. 
Flannel  Cakes.  99. 


532 


Alphabetical  Index, 


Flemish  Sauce,  192. 
I'loating  Island,  343. 
Fiour,  Haxall,  40. 

''      Health  i'ood  Co.,  42. 
'•      Minnesota,  41. 
"       l^astry,  40. 
"      Prepared,  428. 
"      St.  Louis,  39. 
'■  ■  Tests  of  Good,  42. 
"      Thickening      for 
Soups,  etc.,  13-5. 
Flummery,  343. 
Foldinii-,  Cutting  and,  34. 
Food,  449-482. 

'■      Adaptation  of,  467. 
"      Albuminous,  461. 
"      Carbonaceous,  456. 
"      Classification  of,  454. 
"      I/i(iuid,  463. 
"      ISiitrogenous,  460. 
"      Nourishing,  470. 
"      Stimulating,  470. 
"      Tables  of  Cost  of,  35, 

174,  213. 
"      Uses  of,  450. 
Force-Meat  Balls,  137. 
Forefather's  Dinner,  284. 
Fowl,  Braised,  258. 
Freezing,  361. 
French  Pancakes,  102. 
Friar's  Omelet.  334. 
Fricadilloes,  271 
Fricasseeing,  12. 
Fritters,  Apple,  107. 
"        Batter,  106. 

Clam,  107. 
"         Italian,  77. 
"         Oyster,  107. 
"         Vegetable,  107. 
Frizzled  Beef,  272, 
Frosting,  384. 
Fruit,  3!)l-406. 
"      Baked,  393. 
"      Candied,  436. 
"      Canned, 401. 

"        Juice  of,  438. 
"      Drinks,  41  n. 
"      Frozen.  3G7. 
''      Iced.  393. 
"      Jams,  400. 
"      Preserved,  398. 
"      Ripe,  391. 
"      Serving  of,  391. 
"      Stewed,  393. 
Frying,  14. 
Fuel,  4. 


GvME,  251,  431. 

"     To  Choose,  2-51. 

"     To  Clean  and  Truss. 
252. 

"     Salmis  of,  270, 
Gdteau  de  Princess  Louise, 
360. 

"        St.  Honore,  359. 
Gelatine,  1-23,  345,  462. 
Gems,  Gluten,  428. 

"      Graham,  95 


Gems,  Rye,  94. 

"       Wheat,  95. 
Giblets,  254. 
Ginger,  465. 
Gingerbread,  386-389. 
Ginger  Snaps,  3S8. 
Glaze,  135. 
Glucose,  458. 
Gluten,  38,  97. 

"      Mush,  415. 
Glvcerine,  459. 
Go'ose,  Roast,  261. 
Graham  Flour,  42. 
"        Wafers,  9G. 
Waffles,  99. 
Grapes,  392. 
Gravy,  221,  256. 
Greens,  297. 
Griddle-Cakes,  99-102. 
"         '•       Breiid,  100. 

To  Cook,  1)9. 
"         '■       Corn      Meal, 
100. 
"       Graham,  101. 
"         "       Huckleberry. 
100. 
"       Pease,  101. 
"         "       Rice  or  Hom- 
iny, 100. 
"         "       Squash,  102. 
Groats,  108. 
Grouse,  262. 
Gruel,  Arrowroot,  411. 
'       Barley,  412. 

Cornstarch,  411. 
'      Cracker,  413. 
'■      Egg,  413. 
Farina,  413. 
Flour,  411. 
Indian  Meal,  412. 
•       Oatmeal,  412. 
Rice  Flour,  411. 
Gum,  4G0. 

'     Water,  419. 


Halibut,  166. 

Ham  and  Eges,  200. 

"    Boiled,  247. 

"    Broiled.  247. 

"    Fried,  247. 

"    To  Serve  Cold,  247. 
Hamburgh  Steak,  224. 
Hash,  273. 

"      Vegetable,  230. 
Hasty  Pudding,  110. 
Head  Cheese,  248. 
Henriettes,  106. 
Herb  Tea,  420. 
Herbs,  Mixed.  32. 
Hermits,  386 
Hoe  Cake,  93. 
HoUandaiso  Sauce,  194. 
Hominy,  110. 

"      Cakes,  92. 
"      Croquettes,  282. 
"      Droi)-Cakes,  94. 
"      Griddle-Cakes,  100, 
Horseradish  Sauce.  195. 


Huckleberry  Cakes,  87,  100 
Huitres  au  Lit,  178. 
Hulled  Corn,  286. 


Ice-Cream, 


Almond,  365. 
Baked       Apple, 

365. 
Banana,  364. 
Brown      Bread, 

364, 
Caramel,  364. 
Chocolate,  364. 
Cocoanut,  365. 
Coffee,  364. 
Condensed  Milk. 


"  To  Freeze,  361. 

Fruit.  365. 
Glaci;365. 
Lemon,  364. 
"  JNIacaroou,  365. 

To  Blould,  362. 
"  Neapolitan,  368. 

"  Philadelphia, 

362. 
"  Pineapple,  364. 

"  Pistachio,  3G5 

Strawberry,  364. 
"  Tutti       Frutti, 

365. 
Vanilla,  364. 
Walnut,  365. 
Indian  Corn,  108, 110. 
Invalid,    Cookery    for    the, 
407. 
"        Diet   for  the,    410, 
422,  431. 
Irish  Moss,  291. 
"       "       Blanc -Mange, 

341. 
"       «      Jelly,  416. 
"      "      Lemonade,  420. 
Isinglass,  462. 


Jams,  400. 

"     Apple,  400. 
"     Blackberry,  400. 
"     Currant,  400. 
"     Grape,  400. 
"     Peach, 400. 
"     Pear,  400. 
"     Quince,  400. 
"     Raspberry,  400. 
Jellies,  Fruit,  395. 

"        "        Apple,  397. 
''         "        Currant,  396 
"         "        Grape,  397. 
"         "        Quince,  397. 
"       Gelatine,  349. 
"         "        Italian,  350. 
"         "        Lemon,  35i'. 
"        "        C'rauge.  350. 
•'         '•        Restorative, 
416. 
"        Wine,  349. 
Jelly,  Calves'-Foot,  417. 


Alphabetical  Index. 


533 


Jelly  and  Ice,  420. 

"    Irish  Moss,  416. 

"    Rice,  415. 

"    Tapioca,  416. 
Johnny  Cake,  91. 
Jumbles,  386. 


Kedgeree,  170. 
Kidneys,  231 
Kisses,  3S9. 
Kitchen  Utensils,  443. 
Kneading  Dough,  54. 


Lab  AN,  427. 

Lactic  Acid,  463,  471-475. 

"      Fermentation,  44. 
Lactose,  458. 
Lamb,  232. 

"       Boiled,  234. 
"      Chops,  236. 
"       Fricassee,  237. 
"      Loin  of,  233. 
"      Roasted,  233. 
"       Saddle  of,  233. 
Lamb's    Liver,  Ragout    of. 
277. 
"      Tongues,  238. 
Lard,  To  Try  out,  249, 
Larding,  25. 
Lemon,  Baked,  420. 

"      Sauce  for  Fowl,  188 
"       Sauce  for  Puddiug, 

328. 
"       Syrup, 98. 
Lemonade,  420. 

"         Flaxseed,  420. 
'•  Irish  Moss,  420. 

Lettuce,  312. 
Liver,  231. 

"      Calf  s.  Braised,  241. 
"      Potted,  277. 
"      Ragout  of,  277. 
Lobster,  Bisque  of,  152. 
"        Chowder,  157. 
"        Creamed,  183. 
"        Croquettes,  280. 
"        Curried,  183. 
"        Cutlets,  280. 
"       Devilled.  183. 
"       Plaiu,  182. 
"        Salad,  315. 
"        Sauce,  188. 
"        Scalloped,  183. 
"        Soup,  152, 153. 
"        Stewed,  182. 
Lobsters,  181-183. 

To  Choose,  181. 
"       To  Open,  182. 


Macaroni,  308. 

"  with  Cheese,  309. 

'«         with  Tomato,309. 
Macaroons,  390. 
Macedoine  of  Fruits,  360. 
Mackerel,  172. 
Madelines,  379. 


Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter,  195 

196. 
Maudioc,  457. 
Margarine,  459. 
Marmalade.  397. 
Maryland  Biscuit,  96. 

■"        Corn  Cakes,  92. 
Measures,  Table  of  Weights 

and,  30. 
Measuring,  28. 
xMeat,  210-213. 
"      Corned,  436. 
"      Cost  of,  213. 
•'      Pie,  272. 
"      Porcupine,  272. 
*'      Sauces,  187. 
"      Souffle,  276. 
Melons,  392. 
MeriDgues,  389,  435. 
Milk,  463. 

"     for  Children,  430. 
Mint  Sauce,  196. 
Miscellaneous  Hints,  435 
Mixed  Herbs,  32. 
"      Spice  Salt,  32. 
"      Spices,  32. 
Mixing,  33. 
Moulds,  436. 
Mucilage,  460. 
Muffins,  87-104. 
"        Corn,  90. 
"  "     and  Rice,  92. 

Cream,  89. 
Flour,  87. 
"        Fried,  103. 
"        Granulated  Wheat, 
89. 
■  "        Rye,  90. 
Muriatic  Acid,  81. 
Mush,  Brain  Food,  415. 
"     Corn  Meal,  415. 
"     Gluten,  415. 
"     Graham,  415. 
"     Oatmeal,  415. 
"     Rye,  41-5'. 
Mushes,  109,  415. 
Mushroom  Sauce,  191. 
Mushrooms,  291,  303. 
Mustard,  465, 

"        Sauce,  188. 
Mutton,  232. 

Boiled,  234. 
Boned,  26. 
Braised,  236. 
"         Broth,  141. 
"        Broth  for  Invalids, 
416. 
Curry  of,  238. 
"        Cutlets,     Breaded, 

236. 
"        Duck,  235. 
"         Forequarter,  234, 
"        Fricassee,  237. 
"        Ragout  of,  238, 
"        Roasted,  233. 
*'        Saddle  or  Loin  of, 

233. 
"        Scalloped,  274. 
'•        Stew  for  Two,  237. 


Nitrogen,  481. 
Norfolk  (ream,  367. 
Nuts.  393. 

"     To  Blanch,  436. 

"     Candied,  436. 


O.ITMEAL,  108. 

"        Biscuit,  88. 

"        forChildreD,414. 
Gruel,  413. 
Mush,  109. 
Oil,  Olive,  309. 
Oils,  459. 
"    Fixed,  460, 
"    Volatile,  460. 
Oleine,  459. 
Olive  Oil,  309. 

"  Sauce,  192. 
Olives,  Beef,  270. 
Omelets,  200-203, 

"       Cheese,  201. 

"       Chicken,  201. 

"       Clam,  201. 

"       Corn,  201. 

*'       Creamy,  202. 

"       Fancy.  201, 

"       Ham,  201. 

"       Jelly,  202. 

"      Mushroom,  201. 

"      Orange,  202. 

"      Oyster,  201, 

"       Parsley,  201, 

"       Shrimp,  201. 

"       Souffle,  203. 

"      Sweet,  202. 

"      Tomato,  201. 

"      Yeal,  201. 


Onion  Sauce,  193. 
Onions,  301,  431. 

"       Baked,  301, 
Boiled,  301, 

"        Creamed,  301- 

"       ScaUoped,  301. 
Orange  Baskets,  351. 

"      Charlotte,  3io, 

"      Jelly,  350. 

"      Sections,  852, 
Oranges,  392, 
Oyster  Plant,  306. 

"      Sauce,  188. 

"      Soup,  1.53. 
Stew.  154. 

"      Stuffing,  163. 

iters,  175-179. 

"        Broiled,  179. 

"        en  Coquille,  Y, , 

"        Creamed,  177. 

"        Croquettes.  279. 

"        Fricasseed,  177. 
Fried,  178. 

"        on  Ice,  176. 

"        Mock,  299. 

"        with  Mushrooms, 
178. 

"        Parboiled,  176. 

"       Pickled,  179. 


534 


A  Iphabetica I  Index. 


Oysters,   To     Prepare      for 
Cooking,  176. 
"        Raw,  175. 
"        Roasted,  175. 
Salad,  314. 
Saut-d,  179. 
"        Scalloped,  177. 
"        Smothered,  176. 
Ozuiazome,  123. 


I  >.N  Broiling,  23. 
I'.iaada,  414. 

Chicken,  426. 
Pancakes,  French,  102. 
Pannikins,  205. 
Paper  Boxes,  436. 
Parker  House  Rolls,  70. 
Parsley,  119. 

"         Sauce,  188. 
Parsnip  Fritters,  305. 
Parsnips,  305. 
Paste  Cream,  323. 
"      for  one  Pie.  323. 
"      for  Patties,  319. 
"      Plain,  324. 
»      Puff,  316-319. 
'•      for  Tarts,  319. 
Pastry  Bag,  437. 

"      Tubes,  437. 
Peaches,  392. 

Pickled,  403. 
"        Preserved,  398. 
Peanut  Sauce,  193. 
Pearlash,  80. 
Pears,  394. 

"      Pickled,  408. 
Peas,  Green,  298 

"      Pur^e  of,  149,  150. 
Pease  Griddle-Cakes,  101. 
Pectose,  396,  460. 
Pepper,  431,  465. 
Piccalilli,  404. 
Pickles,  403-405. 

' '        Cucumber,  404. 

Mixed,  405. 
"        Mustard,  406. 

Sweet,  403. 
"  "      Cucumber, 

403. 
"  "      Melon,  403. 

"      Peach,  403. 
"      Pear,  403. 
"  "      Pineapple, 

403. 
"  "      Tomato,  403. 

"  "      Watermelon, 

403. 
Pie,  Apple,  ,325. 
"     Berry,  .326. 
"    Chess,  324. 
"     Chicken,  268. 
"    Custard,  325. 
"     Eccles,  326. 
*'     Lemon,  324. 
"     Meat,  272. 
"     Mince,  326. 
"  "       Plain,  326. 

"    Paste  for  one,  323. 


Pie,  To  Roll  Paste  for,  S22. 
"    Rhubarb.  325. 
"     Squash,  325. 
Pies,  322-326. 
Pig,  Roast,  245. 
Pigeons,  Braised,  262. 
"         To  Choose,  252. 
"        Potted,  262. 
"        Stuffed  with  Pars- 
ley, 262. 
Pigs  in  Blankets,  178. 
Pilaf,  Turkish,  283. 
Pilau,  Chicken,  268. 
Pineapples,  392,  399. 
Pistachio  Ice-Cream,  365. 
Plaits,  322. 
Plombiere,  366. 
Pokeberry  Syrup,  382. 
Polonaise  Cakes,  321. 
Pop-overs,  94. 
Porcupine  of  Meat,  272. 
Pork,  245-250. 

"      and  Beans,  249. 
"      Chops,  246. 
"      Roast,  246. 
"      Salt,  246. 
Porridge,  Bean,  287. 

"        Milk  and  Plum, 
411. 
Port  Wine  Jelly,  416. 
"        "     Sauce,  193. 
Pot  Roast,  227. 
Potage  k  la  Reine,  144,  145. 
Potash,  80. 
Potato  Balls,  294. 
"      Border,  275. 
"      Croquettes,  280. 
"      Puff,  294 
•'      Salad,  313. 
"      Soup, 146. 
"      Yeast,  62. 
Potatoes,  Baked,  295. 
"        Boiled,  293. 
"         in  Bread,  53. 

Creamed,  294. 
"        Franconia,  295. 
"         French,  295. 
"        Fried,  295. 
"  "      Raw,  296. 

"        on  Half  Shell,  295. 
"         Lyonnaise,  294. 
"        Macaroni,  296. 
"        &.  la  Maitre 

d'Hotel,  295. 
"        Mashed,  294. 
"         a  la  Neige,  293. 
"         Parisienne,  296, 
"        Rice,  293. 
"         Saratoga,  296. 
"        Stuffed,  296. 
"         Sweet,  296. 
"  "     Baked,296. 

Potting,  277. 
Poultry,  251-264. 

"        To  Carve,  255. 
"        To  Choose,  251. 
"        To  Clean,  252. 
"       To  Dre-R  for  Broil- 
ing, 255. 


Poultry,  To  Dress  for  Fricas. 
see,  253. 
"       To  Dress  for  Roast- 
ing, 253. 
"        Gravy  for,  256. 
"        To  Stuff  and  Truss, 
254. 
Prawns,  184. 
Preserves,  398. 

"  Cherries,  400. 

"  Currants,  400. 

"         Damsons,  398. 
"  Peaches,  398. 

"         Pineapples,  399. 
"  Quinces,  399. 

*'  Raspberries,  400. 

"         Strawberries,  400. 
"  Strawberry 

Tomatoes,  399. 
Proportions,  Table  of,  31. 
Prunes,  395. 
Pudding,  Apple  M6ringue, 

333. 
"        Apple  Porcupine, 

334. 
"        Apple  Snowballs, 

335. 
"        Apple  Tapioca, 

333. 
"        Apricot,  335. 
"        Bird's-Nest,  333. 
"        Boiled  in  a  Cloth, 

435. 
"        Bread,  337.. 
"        Bread  and  Fruit, 

332 
"        Cabinet,  339. 
'•        Carrot,  332. 
"        Chocolate,  341. 
"        Christmas.  340, 
"        Cottage,  331. 
"        Danish,  342. 
'<        Delicate,  344. 
"        Dutch  Apple,  331. 
"        Eve's,  333. 
"        French  Bread, 

338. 
"        Frozen,  366. 
"         Fruit,  342. 
"        Fruit,  Steamed, 

339. 
"        Fruit  Tapioca, 

342. 
"         Gelatine,  346. 
"        Indian  Corn  Meal, 

286,  288,  338. 
*'        Nesselrode,  366, 
Plain  Plum,  337. 
"        Poor  Man's,  335. 
"         Prune,  357. 

Queen  of,  338 
"        Rice,  335. 
"       .  Rice  and  Fruit, 

336. 
"        Royal  Diplomatic, 

358. 
"        Sauces,  328. 
"        Scalloped  Apple, 

331. 


Alphabetical  Index. 


535 


Pudding,  Snow,  347. 
"         Sponge,  337. 
"         Steamed  Apple, 

332. 
"        Suet  and  Fruit, 

a39. 

"         Thanksgiving 
Plum,  341. 
Tipsy,  343. 
"         Whole- Wiieat, 

338. 
"        Yorkshire,  221, 
Puddings,  331-360. 
Puree  of  Beans,  148, 
of  Celery,  147. 
"      of  Clams,  158. 
^'      of  Fish,  152. 
*'      of  Green  Corn,  150, 

of  Lobster,  152. 
"      of  Peas,  Green,  150. 
"      '•     "       Split,  149, 
"      of  Potatoes,  146. 
■'      of  Salmon,  152. 
"      of  Vegetables,  151. 
Putrefaction,  462. 

Quail,  263. 

Quinces,  394,  397,  399, 

Rabbits,  264. 
Racahout  des  Arabes,  427. 
Ragout  of  Cooked  Meat,  273 
Raisins,  393, 

To  Stone,  435, 
-iaspberries,  392. 
Rechauffe,  Meat,  265, 
Reptiles,  185, 
Rhubarb,  395. 
Rice,  109. 

'•     Boiled,  306. 

"      with  Cheese,  307. 

"     Croquettes,  281. 

'■     Crusts,  94, 

"     Drop-Cakes,  94, 

"     Griddle-Cakes,  100. 

"     Jelly  or  Water,  415, 

' '     Salmon,  307. 

'■•     Savory,  307. 

"•     Steamed,  307, 
Rissoles,  321, 
Hiz  i  rimperatrice,  356, 
Roasting,  20. 
Rolls,  68. 

"      Braided,  71. 
Cleft,  70. 
Crescents,  71. 

■"      Cro!5s,  70. 

■"      Finger,  70. 

■'      French,  71. 

^'       Imperial,  69, 

*'       Letter,  70. 

*'       Parker  House,  70, 

"      Pocket-Book,  70. 

*'       Swedish,  72. 

"      Twin,  70, 

"      Vienna,  71 

"      White  Mountain,  72. 
Rusks,  73. 

"       Dried,  74. 


Rye,  109. 
"    Bread,  67. 
"    Gems,  94. 
"     Meal,  lu9. 
"    Muflins.  90. 

'•     Fried,  104. 
"    Mush,  415. 

Sago,  457. 
Salads,  309-315. 

''       Celery,  312. 

"       Chicken,  314. 

"       Crab,  184. 

"       Cucumber,  .312. 

"       Egg,  209,  314. 

"      Fish,  314. 

"       Lettuce,  312, 

"      Lobster,  315, 

"       Ovster,  314. 

"      Potato,  313, 

"       Salmon,  315. 

"       Sandwiches,  315. 

"       Shrimp,  184, 

"      Tomato,  313. 
Saleratus,  80. 
Sally  Lunn,  87,  88, 
.■^aluiis  of  Game,  270. 
Salmon,  Fur(5e  of,  152. 

Salad,  315, 
Salsify,  280,  306. 
Salt,  455. 

"    Mixed,  32. 
Salts,  Mineral,  455. 
Sandwiches,  273. 

Raw  Beef,  424. 
"  Salad,  315. 

Sardine,  273. 
Sardine  Canapees,  283. 

■'        Sandwiches,  273. 
Sauces,  Meat  and  Fish,  187- 
196. 

"      Acid,  188. 

"       Bechamel,  189. 

"       Brain,  242. 

"       Bread,  193. 

"       Brown,  191. 

"       Caper,  188. 

"       Celery.  189. 

"      Chestnut,  192. 

•'       Cream,  190. 

"       Cumberland,  192. 

"       Currant  Jelly,  191. 

"       Curry,  190. 

"       Drawn  Butter,  187. 

'*      Drawn  Butter,  Rich- 
er, 18;i. 

"      Egg,  188. 

"       Espagnole,  193. 

"       Fi.sh,  190. 

"      for  Fishballs,  196. 

"       Flemish,  192. 

"       Hollandaise,  194. 

"       Horseradish,  195. 

"       a  la  Itali»nne,  192. 

"       Lemon,  188. 

"       Lobster,  188. 

"      Maitre  d'Hotel,  195, 
196. 

"      Mint,  196. 


Sauces,  Mushroom,  191. 

"      Mustard,  188. 
"      Olive,  192. 
"      Ovster,  188. 
"      Parsley,  188. 
"       Peanut,  193. 
"       Piquante,  189. 
"       Poivrade,  191. 
"       Port  ^Vine,  198. 
"      Robert,  191. 
"       Shrimp,  188. 
"      Soubise,  193. 
"       Tartar,  194,  195. 
"       Tartare,  195. 
"       Tomato,  193, 194. 
"      White,  189. 
Sauces,  Pudding,  328-330. 
Apricot,  329. 
.  Caramel,  330. 
Creamy,  329, 
Foamy,  329. 
Hard,  328. 
Lemon,  328. 
Molasses,  330. 
Plain,  330. 
Snowdrift,  328. 
Whipped       Cream, 

328.- 
Wine,  330. 
Yellow,  380. 
Sausages,  248. 
Sauteing,  17. 
Scallops,  181, 
Scotch  Broth,  140. 

Eggs,  207. 
Seasoning  for  Soup,  126, 
Shells,  117. 
Sherbets,  368. 

Lemon,  368. 
Orange,  368. 
Pineapple,  368, 
Raspberry,  368, 
Strawberry,  368. 
Short  Cakes,  84-86. 

"        Apricot,  85. 
"        Orange,  86. 
"        Peach,  85. 
"       Rye,  86. 
"        Strawberry,  85. 
"        Whole- Wheat, 
86. 

Shrimps  en  Coquille,  184. 
Salad,  184. 
Sauc  .18R. 
Scalloped,  184. 
Sick-Room    Cookery,     407 

434. 
Soda, 80. 

"      Biscuit,  83. 
"      in  Yeast  Bread,  57. 
Soubise  Sauce,  li*3. 
Souffle  Cheese,  282. 

"      Meat,  276. 
Soup,  119-186. 

Amber,  131. 
Barley,  133. 
Black  Bean,  148. 
Brown ,  130. 
Carrot,  134. 


536 


Alphabetical  Index. 


Soup,  Celery,  147. 
"      Chicken,  144. 
"      Clam,  154. 
"      Clear,  131. 
"      Consomme,  131. 
"      Corn,  150. 
"      Crecy,  134. 
"      Digester,  122. 
"      Fish,  152. 
"      Green  Corn,  150. 
"      Green  Pea,  150. 
"      Green  Turtle,  186. 
"      Julienne,  132. 
"      Left-over,  132. 
"      Lobster,  152,  153. 
"      Macaroni,  133. 
"      Mock  Bisque,  147. 
"      Mock  Turtle,  137. 
*'      Mullagatawny,  139. 
"      Ox-Tail,  139. 
"      Oyster,  153. 
"      Pea,  Green,  150. 
"         "     Split,  149. 
"      Potage    i    la    Reine, 

144. 
"      Potato,  146. 
"      Rice,  133. 
"      Sago,  133. 
"      Salmon,  152. 
«      Tapioca,  133. 
"      Tomato,  with   Stock, 

133. 
"      Tomato,  without 

Stock,  147. 
«'      Veal,  143. 
"      Vegetable,  Mixed, 

134. 
"      Vegetable,  Winter, 

151. 
«      Vermicelli,  133. 
"      White,  143,  144. 
Souse,  248. 
Spaghetci,  309. 
Spanish  Cream,  346. 

"      Eggs,  200. 
Spice,  Mixed,  32. 
Spinach,  296. 
Squash,  Summer,  304. 

"        Winter,  304. 
Stale  Bread,  75. 
Starch,  456. 

"       Corn,  456. 
Stearine,  459. 
Stew,  Beef,  225. 
"     Chicken,  258. 
' '     Mock  Oyster,  173. 
"      Mutton,  237. 
Stewing,  12. 
Sticks,  71. 
Stock,  121. 

"     To  Clear,  129. 
"     To  Make  Dark,  127. 
"     To  Strain,  127. 
"     To  Remove  Fat  from, 
128. 
Strawberries,  392. 
Stuffing  for  Fish,  163. 
Chestnut,  258. 
"        Chicken,  258. 


Stuffing,  Oyster,  163. 

Succotash,  284,  299. 
Sucrose,  458. 
Suet,  To  Chop,  435 
Sugar,  458. 

"      in  Bread,  53. 
Sweetbreads,  243. 

"  Braised,  244. 

"  Broiled,  243. 

Creamed,  243. 
"  Croquettes, 

279. 
Fried,  243. 
"  Fritters,  244. 

"  Larded,  243. 

' '  with        Mush' 

rooms,  243. 
"  Scalloped,  243 

Tablk  of  Cost  of  Fish,  174. 
"     "     "     "  Food,  35. 
"     "     "     "  Meat,  213. 
"     "  Proportions,  31. 
"     "  Time  for  Cooking 

24. 
"     "  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures, 30. 
Tamarind  Water,  420 
Tapioca,  457. 

"      Apple,  333. 
"       Cream,  345. 
"      Fruit,  342. 
"      Jelly,  416. 
Tartar  Sauce,  194. 
Tartare  Sauce,  195. 
Tarts,  319. 
Tea,  111. 
"    Apple,  419 
"    Beef,  422-425. 
"    Corn,  419. 
'•    Egg,  425. 
"    Herb,  420. 
"    Iced,  112. 
"    Russian,  112. 
'*    Slippery-Elm,  419. 
Tea  Cakes,  89. 
Terrapin,  185. 

"        Chicken  or  Mock, 
269. 

Thirded  Bread,  67. 
Toast,  77. 

Cream,  79. 
Egg,  76. 
French,  79. 
for  Garnishing,  79. 
Milk,  78. 
Water,  79. 
Toast  Water,  419. 
Tomato  Catchup,  404. 
"       Salad,  313. 
"       Sauce,  193, 194. 
Tomatoes,  300. 

Scalloped,  300. 
Stewed,  300. 
Stuffed,  300. 
Tongue  in  Jelly,  230. 
•'       Smoked,  230. 
Tongues,  Lamb's,  238. 
"       Sheep's,  238. 


Tongues  and  Sounds,  173. 
Tripe  in  Bixtter,  231. 

"     Broiled,  231. 

"     Lyonnaise,  2?0. 
Tropical  Snow,  30?. 
Turkey,  Boiled,  256. 
"        Boned,  27,  265. 
"        Roast,  256. 
Turnips,  305. 
Turtle,  Green,  186. 
Tutti  Frutti,  365. 

Vanilla,  431. 

"        Sugar,  437. 
Veal,  239. 
"     Birds,  275. 
"     Croquettes,  279 
"     Cutlets,  240 
"     Fricandeau,  240'. 
"     Fricassee,  24U. 
"     Loaf,  276. 
"     Melton,  275. 
"     Roast,  239. 
"     Stew,  240. 
Vegetables,  289. 

"  Food,  291. 

Hash.  230 
Velvet  Cream,  349. 
'      Sauce,  ILO. 
Venison,  263,  426. 
Vermicelli.  308. 

■  Egg,  206. 
Vol-au-vent,  321. 

Wafer  Biscuit,  96. 
Wafers,  Gluten,  97. 
"       Graham,  96. 
Waffle-iron,  98. 


"       Corn  Meal,  99. 

"       Graham,  99. 

"       Raised,  99. 
Washing  Dishes,  442-448 
Water,   8-13,454. 

'       Ices,  367,  369. 
Weights  and  Measures.  30: 
Welsh  Rarebit,  282. 
Wheat,  37. 

"       Cracked,  110. 

"      Flour,  39. 

"       Granulated,  110. 
Whey,  464. 
Whips,  Cream,  353. 

"       Newport,  353 
Whole- Wheat  Gems,  95. 

"        "       Muffins.  89. 
Wine  Jelly,  349. 

'     Whey,  464. 
Wonders,  106. 
Woodcock,  263. 

Yeast,  46. 

■'      Compressed,  49. 

'      Dry,  49. 

'      Honie-Made,  50. 

'      Hop,  63 

*      Potato,  Raw,  62. 

'  "         Boiled,  68. 

Yorkshire  Pudding,  221. 


BOSTON  SCHOOL  KITCHEN  TEXT-BOOK. 


Lessons  in  Cooking,  for  the  use  of  Classes  in 
Public  and  Industrial  Schools.  By  Mrs. 
D.  A.  Lincoln,  author  of  "The  Boston  Cook 
Book,"  "  Carving  and  Serving,"  etc. 

1  vol,    12mo.    Price,  $1.00. 


I  regard  the  book  as  a  very  practical  one  for  a  text-book.  It 
will  be  especially  valuable  to  the  teacher  as  a  guide  to  the  lessons 
she  gives.  I  find  the  questions  at  the  end  of  the  lessons  useful 
for  the  purpose  of  analysis.  They  call  attention  to  the  essential 
points.  The  physiological  information  and  chemical  analysis  of 
foods,  together  with  the  tables  of  cost  at  the  end  of  the  book,  add 
to  the  usefulness  of  the  work.  It  is  an  undoubted  success  for  the 
school-room. — William  T.  Harris,  Co/icord,  Mass. 

Your  "  Boston  School  Kitchen  Text-Book  "  appears  to  be  based 
on  correct  principles  and  admirably  executed  as  regards  details. 
I  hope  that  my  girls  will  have  a  chance  to  practically  study  its 
interesting  lessons.  Your  quiet  assumption  (which  runs  through 
the  whole  book)  that  there  is  a  good  and  satisfactory  reason  be- 
hind every  process  which  is  indorsed  by  good  usage,  is  a  whole- 
some one  which  it  is  well  that  children  should  early  learn.  —  C.  M. 
Woodward,  Manual  Training  School,  Washington  University, 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Allow  me  to  say  that  you  have  made  our  whole  country  your 
debtor  by  the  composition  of  a  book  so  much  needed,  and  so 
simple,  sensible,  and  thorough.  I  am  sure  the  book  is  its  own 
best  plea  for  a  place  in  our  public  schools.  I  believe  it  will  greatly 
aid  in  making  instruction  in  the  theory  and  practice  of  cookery  a 
part  of  our  school  courses.  I  am  glad  to  see  that  it  has  constant 
reference  to  the  education  of  the  mind,  as  well  as  to  the  training 
of  the  hand.  —  George  C.  Chase,  Professor  of  English  Literature, 
Bates  College,  Lewiston,  Me. 


In  her  "  Boston  School  Kitchen  Text-Book,"  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lhicoln 
has  done  a  great  service  to  the  cause  of  Industrial  Education. 
The  book  is  well  arranged,  and  the  lessons  are  so  drawn  up  as  to 
inculcate  principles  and  processes,  not  results  merely.  I  wish  that 
the  other  departments  of  manual  training  were  as  well  represented 
in  text-books  as  cooking  is  by  this  book  of  Mrs.  Lincoln's.  — 
Nicholas  Murray  Butler,  President  of  the  N'ew  York  Indicstrial 
Education  Association. 

I  think  your  "Boston  School  Kitchen  Text-Book"  admirably 
adapted  for  the  purpose  designed,  and  am  very  much  pleased  to 
see  the  progress  made  in  this  style  of  education.  I  think  the  day 
is  not  far  distant  when  such  practical  instruction  will  be  more  gen- 
eral in  school  than  it  is  now.  —  H.  H.  Belfield,  Chicago  Manual 
Traijiijig  School. 

I  have  examined  your  book  very  thoroughly,  and  I  think  it  the 
best  elementary  work  on  cooking  that  I  have  seen  ;  and  I  have 
looked  through  quite  a  number.  If  cookery  ever  becomes  a 
branch  of  public-school  instruction  here,  as  I  hope  it  will  before 
the  world  gets  much  olde:,  I  can  imagine  no  better  text-book  for 
it  than  yours.  —  ALICE  Clinton,  Chairman  Comjnittee  Domestic 
Training,  Women'' s  Edticational  and  Industrial  Union,  Buffalo,  JV.Y. 


The  Boston  Cook  Book.  What  to  Do  and  What 
Not  to  Do  in  Cooking.  Illustrated.  Handsome 
i2mo  volume.     600   pages.     Price,  $2.00. 

Carving"  and  SeFVing".  Board  covers.  i6mo.  Illu- 
minated covers.     Price,  60  cents. 


Mrs.  Li7icoMs  Cook  Books  can  be  obtained  at  any 
bookstore,  or  of  the  author.^  Mrs.  D.  A .  Lincoln.,  Wollaston,, 
Mass..,  or  of  the  Publishers,  who  will  mail  it,  post-paid,  on 
receipt  of  price. 

ROBERTS    BROTHERS,  Publishers, 

Boston. 


CARVING  AND  SERVING. 

By   Mrs.    D.    A.    LINCOLN, 

AUTHOR  OF  "the   BOSTON   COOK   BOOK." 

Square  i2mo.     Illuminated  board  covers.     Price,  60  cents. 


"Carving  and  Serving,"  by  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln,  author  of  the  ''Boston  Cooif 
Book,"  is  a  little  manual  by  the  aid  of  which  any  gentleman  or  lady  can  become  an 
expert  carver.  What  an  advantage  it  must  be  to  be  able  to  place  with  the  left  hand  a 
fork  in  the  breast  of  a  turkey,  and,  without  once  removing  it,  with  the  right  hand  to 
carve  and  dissect,  or  disjoint,  the  entire  fowl  ready  to  be  helped  to  admiring  guests ! 
This  is  done  by  skilful  carvers.  The  book  also  contains  directions  for  serving,  with  a 
list  of  utensils  for  carving  and  serving. 

"  The  student  of  this  attractive  little  book  has  no  excuse  for  inefficiency  and  bun- 
gling, as  the  directions,  both  general  and  specific,  are  so  clear  that  no  room  is  left  for 
uncertainty.  The  scope  of  the  book  broadens  somewhat  beyond  its  expressed  range 
in  giving  a  word  of  needful  advice  to  the  guest,  who  is  conjured  to  bear  in  mind  that 
he  is  invited  to  dine,  not  to  take  a  lesson  in  carving ;  adding  that  there  'seems  to  be 
an  irresistible  fascination  about  carving  which  silences  all  tongues,  and  draws  all  eyes 
to  the  head  of  the  table.'  However,  if  the  process  is  performed  ti  la  Mrs.  Lincoln, 
scrutiny  need  not  be  feared.  .  The  directions  in  serving  are  no  less  timely  and  valuable, 
being  founded  upon  a  combination  of  experience  and  good  taste  that  may  safely  be 
regarded  as  oracular." —  Commonzvealth. 

"  '  Carving  and  Serving,'  by  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln,  is  a  capital  book  for  housekeepers. 
It  gives  minute  and  clear  directions  how  to  carve  everything  that  goes  on  to  the  table 
in  the  way  of  beef,  poultry,  and  game.  It  also  gives  instructions  how  to  prepare  all 
these  edibles,  and  appetizing  dishes  like  sweetbreads,  chops,  cutlets,  meat  pies,  salads, 
soups,  and  many  others.  And,  what  is  greatly  essential,  it  gives  detailed  information 
how  to  serve  the  different  edibles  and  drinks,  to  cut  bread,  and,  last  but  not  least,  gives 
some  very  much-needed  advice  how  to  offer  all  these  things  at  the  table.  .  .  .  The 
book  is  full  of  such  pretty  suggestions,  as  well  as  solid  information,  and  there  is  such  a 
wide-spread  interest  to-day  among  educated  women  regarding  cooking,  serving,  and 
managing  dishes  on  the  table,  they  will  find  this  little  book  a  valuable  assistant  in  all 
such  matters."  — Hartford  Times. 


Sold  by  all  booksellers.      Mailed,  post-paid.,  on  7-eceipt  of  price.^ 
by  the  publishers^ 

ROBERTS   BROTHERS, 

Boston. 


"Among  all  the  Cook-Books  this  will  certai^ily  take  its 
lace  as  one  of  the  very  best!^ — -The  Christian  Union. 


MRS.    LINCOLN'S 

BOSTON    COOK-BOOK. 

WHAT  TO  DO  AND  WHAT  NOT  TO  DO 
IN  COOKING. 

By   MRS.    D.    A.    LINCOLN, 

OF  THE   BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL. 

With   50  Illustrations,      One  handsome   i2mo   volume  of  600  pages y   neatly 
half  bound.    Price  $2.00. 


A  SELECTION  FEOM  SOME  OF  THE  MANY  NOTICES  BY  THE  PRESS. 

"  Mrs.  Lincoln,  nothing  daunted  by  the  legion  of  cook-books  already  in  existence, 
thinks  there  is  room  for  one  more.  Her  handsome  and  serviceable-looking  volume 
seems  to  contain  everything  essential  to  a  complete  understanding  of  the  culinary  art. 
The  Introduction  of  thirty-five  pages  discusses  such  subjects  as  cooking  in  general, 
fire,  fuel,  management  of  a  stove,  the  various  processes  of  boiling,  stewing,  baking, 
frying,  roasting,  and  broiling,  with  full  explanation  of  the  chemical  theory  underlying 
each  and  distinguishing  them ;  also  hints  on  measuring  and  mixing,  with  tables  of 
weights,  measures,  and  proportions ;  of  time  in  cooking  various  articles,  and  of 
average  cost  of  material.  One  who  can  learn  nothing  from  this  very  instructive 
Introduction  must  be  well-informed  indeed.  Following  this  comes  an  elaborate  and 
exhaustive  chapter  on  bread-making  in  all  its  steps  and  phases.  To  this  important 
topic  some  seventy  pages  are  devoted.  And  so  on  through  the  whole  range  of  viands. 
Exactness,  plainness,  thoroughness,  seem  to  characterize  all  the  author's  teachings. 
No  point  is  neglected,  and  directions  are  given  for  both  necessary  and  luxurious 
dishes.  There  are  chapters  on  cooking  for  invalids,  the  dining-room,  care  of  kitchen 
utensils,  etc.  There  is  also  a  valuable  outline  of  study  for  teachers  taking  up  itie 
chemical  properties  of  food,  and  the  physiological  functions  of  digestion,  absorption, 
nutrition,  etc.  Add  the  miscellaneous  questions  for  examination,  the  topics  and 
illustrations  for  lectures  on  cookery,  list  of  utensils  needed  in  a  cooking-school,  an 
explanation  of  foreign  terms  used  in  cookery,  a  classified  and  an  alphabetical  index, 
—  and  you  have  what  must  be  considered  as  complete  a  work  of  its  kind  as  has  yet 
appeared."  —  Mirror^  Springfield,  III. 


"  The  most  valuable  feature  of  INIrs.  Lincoln's  Cook-Book  is,  without  doubt,  the 
application  of  scientific  knowledge  to  the  culinary  art.  Mrs.  Lincoln  has  the  gift  of 
teaching,  and  its  use  in  this  connection  is  worthy  of  the  warmest  commendation.  She 
has  made  the  necessary  explanations  in  a  very  lucid  and  succinct  manner.  To  the 
thousands  of  intelligent  housekeepers  who  recognize  the  importance  of  the  art  of  the 
kitchen,  this  book  will  be  a  boon."  —  Eclectic. 

"  The  book,  although  at  first  sight  it  seems  no  larger  than  other  cook-books,  has 
over  five  hundi-ed  pages,  and  takes  up  the  minutest  details  of  housekeeping.  Having 
examined  all  the  standard  cook-books  now  in  the  market,  this  seems  superior  to  all. 
There  is  so  much  in  this  that  is  not  found  in  other  cook-books,  that  it  is  equal  to  a 
small  library  in  itself."  —  Extracts  from  Anna  Barrow's  letters  in  Oxford  and 
Portland  pafers, 

"  We  have  at  last  from  Boston  something  better  than  the  Emersonian  philosophy 
or  the  learning  of  Harvard.  —  something  that  will  contribute  more  to  human  health, 
and  consequently  to  human  happiness  ;  and  that  is,  a  good,  practical  cook-book,  with 
illustrations.  .  .  .  We  commend  Mrs.  Lincoln's  volume  heartily,  and  wish  it  might 
make  a  part  of  every  bridal  outfit." —  The  Churchtnaii. 

"  For  plain,  practical,  and  at  the  same  time  scientific  treatment  of  a  difficult  sub- 
ject, commend  us  to  Mrs.  Lincoln's  '  Boston  Cook-Book.'  No  better  book  has  appeared 
to  keep  pace  with  the  wholesome  advance  of  culinary  art,  as  practised  in  the  common- 
sense  cooking-schooL"  —  Toledo. 

"  It  combines  whatevier  is  best  in  those  which  have  gone  before,  with  improvements 
and  refinements  peculiar  to  itself.  It  is  so  complete  and  admirable  in  its  various 
departments,  that  it  seems  to  fill  every  requirement.  How  soon  it  will  be  rivalled  or 
superseded  it  is  imsafe  to  predict ;  but  for  the  present  we  may  commend  it  as  in  every 
respect  unsurpassed."  —  The  Dial. 

"  The  volume  is  a  compound  of  information  on  every  household  matter ;  well 
arranged,  clearly  written,  and  attractively  made  up.  Of  the  many  valuable  cook-books, 
not  one  better  deserves  a  place,  or  is  more  likely  to  secure  and  hold  it."  —  Helen  Camp' 
bell. 

"  The  possession  of  your  cook-book  has  made  me  quite  beside  myself.  I  prize  it 
ighly,  not  only  for  personal  reasons,  but  because  of  its  real  worth.  I  feel  so  safe  with 
••  as  a  guide,  and  if  I  abide  by  its  rules  and  laws  no  harm  can  befall  me."  —  Adaline 
/iller^  a  former  pupil ^  Atlanta,  Georgia. 

"  One  need  only  glance  over  the  pages  of  Mrs  Lincoln's  Cook-Book  to  realize  the 
fact  of  her  aptness  in  scholarship."  — Alta^  San  Francisco. 

"  Mrs.  Lincoln  brings  not  only  the  fruits  of  a  long  experience  to  the  preparation  of 
her  work,  but  a  great  amount  of  scientific  research,  so  that  the  book  is  really  a  mine 
of  information  in  its  way."  —  The  Post,  Washington. 

''  It  is  one  of  the  most  Interesting  treatises  on  cooking  and  housework  that  we  have 
ever  read.  It  contains  much  useful  information  to  the  general  reader,  and  is  one  we 
would  recommend  to  every  housekeeper."  —  Saratoga  Sentinel. 


Mrs.  Lincoln's  Boston  Cook-Book  is  kept  on  sale  by  all  booksellers  every- 
where. If  you  cannot  readily  obtain  it,  enclose  the  amount^  $2.00,  directly 
to  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lincoln,  Wollaston,  Mass.,  or  to  the  Publishers,  who 
will  mail  it,  postpaid, 

ROBERTS    BROTHERS,   Boston. 


THE 


CRAWFORD  GRAND. 


USED  BY  MRS.  LINCOLN 


MADE     BY 


Walker  and  Pratt  Manfg.  Co. 

Warerooms  : 
31    AND    35    UNION     STREET, 


BOSTON,  MASS. 


GEORGE  H.  MASON  &  CO., 

MANUFACTURERS    OF 

Japanned,   Planished,    Stamped,   and  Plain  Tin  Wares. 

Dealers    in   House-Furnishing    Hardware,    White 

Mountain  and  Packer's  Ice-Cream  Freezers. 

ALSO    AGENTS    FOR    THE 

CELEBRATED  PERFORATED  PIE  PLATES. 


4,,.rt,  ?"«»».  *(i,i    1 

r 

m 

%\^  Celebra^gQ, 

Enamelled  Ware.       1 

1 

M 

Agate  Iron  Ware- 

\ 

^'"'^  req 

uires 

ORDERED  ^A/^ORK  A  SPECIALTY. 

150,  152,  AND  154  Blackstone  Street,  Boston. 


GO 


CO 


CO 


The  GARLAND  OIL  STOVE  is  one  of  the  wonders  of  this  progressive  age. 
Its  power  and  capacity  for  cooking  and  heatine  purposes  is  almost  unlimited.  With 
the  No.  ?,  stove,  shown  in  the  cut,  all  the  cooking  of  an  ordinary  family  can  be  per- 
formed with  ease  The  ovpn  and  two  boilers  can  be  used  at  the  same  time.  Boiling,, 
Baking,  Broiling,  and  Heating  Flatirons  can  be  done  satisfactorily,  and  without 
the  heat,  dust,  smoke,  and  dirt  of  a  coal  fire.  With  the  addition  of  a  heating  drum 
the  G.ARLAND  will  warm  a  Inrcre  room  in  winter.  Thousands  of  families  can  speak 
in  praise  of  the  Garland  Oil  Stove.     Send  for  Descriptive  Circular. 

BAHSTOTV      STO^^E      COIWCT^AT^Y, 

56   Union  Street,   Boston. 

ProTidence.  K.  I.  230  T\"atcr  Street,  New  York. 


•^ 


v^ 


tlil 


;alth  food  company 


OF    NEW    YORK 


jT^the  tent»  year  of  its  existence.     Its  valuable  and  important  work  has 
niz^  2&^d  commended  by  thousands  of  physicians,  by  many  writers 


no 

;en 

^  thfc  iTieclica-Niiyd  general  press,  and  by  multitudes  of  the  sick  and  suffering 
ho  ha^jt  found^health  and  comfort  through  its  products.     It  has  had  man^ 
but  it  has  conscientiously  adhered  to  its  original  mission  of  preparing 

PER^CT  FOODS  FOR  SICK  AND   WFLL 

its  ^rk  upon  exact  science,  and  being  presided  over  by  a  scientific 
is  gii'^^'i  the  support  and  co-operation  of  the  scientific  world.  Prof. 
Leepa^Public  Analyst  for  the  State  of  New  Jersey  and  Professor  of 
in  tha  Stevens  Institute,  has  microscopically  examined  and  chemi- 
Aze^nTOst  of  the  Health  Food  Company's  products,  and  asserts  their 
iellencsk  (In  our  limited  space  we  can  only  briefly  quote  from  the 
's  published  statement,  but  we  are  assured  that  he  will  cheerfully  mail 
'the  pamphlet  to  any  one  who  shall  address  him  at  the  College  named, 
Holjciflten,  New  Jersey.)  He  found  in  the  Health  Food  Company's 
it  Flour  16.74  per  cent  of  albuminoids,  chiefly  gluten,  thus 
^superiority  over  all  other  bread-fiours  in  general  use.  Of  the 
'  Flour,  said  to  be  made  from  "  entire  wheat, "  he  writes:  "  It 
cent  of  albuminoids,  chiefly  gluten,  together  with  a  very  large 
lulose  or  finely-ground  bran.  It  is  greatly  lacking  in  nutritive 
^leiueht^.'L  Pkof.  Leeds  further  testifies  that  the  Glutens  prepared  by  the 
)mpany  are  richer  in  the  gluten  element  than  any  which  he  has 
to  Sbtairi^  whether  of  American  or  foreig-n  origin,  and  more  than  twice 
i^o-calle^gluten  made  by  Farwell  &  Rhines,  of  Rochester.  He  also 
mai^'^Sjthat  "  Robinson's  Prepared  Barley  Flour  "  contains  only  5.13 
^of  ali^hs4,noids,  while  the  Health  Food  Company's  barley  flour,  retail- 
f oi:Jjps%4l^f?^ oiie^ighth  as  much,  contains  13.83  per  cent,  showing  it  to  be 
ji|s  as  rich  in  substantial  nutriment.  The  flours  and  foods  of  the 
)mpany  are  nourishing  in  health  and  remedial  in  sickness.  Their 
)od  wprk  is  iir  the  improvement  of  the  blood-making  processes,  in  better 
jestion,  in  increased  nutrition.  Many  physicians  have  testified  to  the  readi- 
*ss  jif^sease^to  yield  to  their  treatment  when  the  patients  have  been  sustained 
soluble,  non-irritating,  nourishing  nutriments  prepared  by  the 
impany.  Its  products  still  stand  at  the  head  of  the  long  list  of 
^for  infants  and  invalids,  for  the  sick  who  seek  to  recover 
Ith^d  stu^igth-ji&r  the  strong  who  desire  to  remain  strong.  It  has  elevated 
reparation  to  the  dignity  of  a  science,  and  has  sought  to  render 
)rthy  of  the  warm  encomiums  so  ably  pronounced  by  scholars, 
scientists,  conspicuous  among  whom  stand  the  Rev.  John  F. 
lustin  Flint,  and  Mrs.  Laura  Lyman  Shipherd,  Editor  of  "  Home 
le  New  York  Tribune, 

against  attempts  to  deceive  the  public  by  offering  other  foods 
'ob«i  Be  sure  to  insist  upon  having  the  gemune^  and  rejoort 
;ing  our  name  to 

HElltWi  FOOD  CO.,  199  Tremont  Street,  Boston, 


Depot  of  Supplies, 
jailed  free. 


Descriptive  pamphlets,  price-lists,  and  all 


-^^U-'1X/V<V  *=^  r-. 


v^^^^-^^^-^T 


VESTIBULED    TRAINS 

ARE    RUN    DAILY    BETWEEN 

CHICAGO,  ST.  PAUL 

AND  MINNEAPOLIS 

VIA  THE  FAST  MAIL  LINE  OF  THE 

Chicago,  Milwaukee  &  St.  Paul 

(  ^^^^^4-y  RAILWAY.  , 


^^/ttZi-'^'A^.- - — - 


^i?riX7^:.X"  ''^'^"^^  ^  '-^ 


%JL^ , -f' ^ iH/^y^ ■  '■         '.■■-'"  f"  ,.^ 


->xt-M^^J      /, 


"^  '  ' '      ^^  /  /  /      / 

IP^voix^  -y^w^f^  /;  t^a<f  -  >vx^  4i:<x^e^^  ,  ^t^^^  -vt^:^^    '^f^-^aW     ^7~^^yy 


^^,. . 


'^\.  -i^-<-y^^  -^^^-  ^5^^'    '>>-^^C^^    -yy^iXf -y^i '^^^e-^    -^i. 


^Xyt'Xy^f     "~ 


/• .  y 


/CC-€^c--'t/fT''V- 


•^n^hj^.     ^.^Q^ZiJi,  /,   ^cc-ij^g^ 


^i-V'^'jB  ■ 


— ^>t^^> 


'^v^-^  ■  ,   'X^^  -r  a  .««VN 


il.  'Z^^M 


f 


^-TH^^ii^ 


'^.  ^ 


/^ 


'^^-^-^^'/^  /^T^A-^  .    ^^^-^v"  ^ 


>^^>1>UX^  .    ^.    y^:^^^.^,^^^^  fl    A        il 


y  ^K-L-  <x 


-cC^w  -J^^^t^'-^ 


/. 


Ci^xy 


O-'C^ 


/S<-^^^ctcO 


77ul/^ 


^t^aI^^^  ji^uMA^]^ 


O-^^'^'^A^U 


^j^-T-n^ 


a 


^'<^Uy  -    ^^Vv^i, 


'v-^;^^ 


^^m/^lA^L 


A^^^yyx<l^  ^/^^ ^/  ">>ty  ^s^'  g^:g^ 


Jl 


^Y^^h-'^AZ'^ 


'  <,o%4^  ^ 


i 


jXZ^  O-^^Xf   (?^   '^^-^^^^''^<^^^ 


y;ua.^ 


-  Q 


^d^i;,,^'^^^^^^-^ 


/.'^'^ 


')//T^ 


-ou2^^;^ 


(7   /., 


^JlyiAA)uJw  i/  qMXtl^^o^^  a^^^'tl^  TuCc^,  /Aw  cLy^^t^ 


'A' 


Sc 


//f^CMAd  ^Jyqc^V^  A^^"^^  <f^ 


/^/lyOiA^  yX4/^iAAi 


p>^-t^->>^' 


Ciry\ 


^-T   ' 


Scd^,  rrvL^^  ^'^-  J-^^-^->y&Sl^  ^a 


■u 


,  /QyCfyV^    /cllXnJ^ 


>yzoC'(^xJ        [ 


X 


^x-t-i-C^ 


^hA^a^e^  C/ ^'^'^^-^^--^  ^^^-^^  r'^^'*^^ 


^5^7^ 


/; 


(/I^^^^Ui/^^ 


/  0  ^   ">-v>i'-a^2^ 


iyxxM^  iry—  -^L-i4^^ti:(^  Jir-  /^.0^^^^^4/e^, 


/>%^     6^>7^>^^  .    cC 


Gayf^^ 


0,       ^t-^Vtl/^, 


/tUa^Z^.  C&ui^^^-e.  oa^/i^^^J^j-^^f^^ 


ci.-GcJ<XyiJ     •fZlryxy^y,     /-CcA^    S^t^aA^ .     '^'CcJo  /ic/ZiX 


1^1^  Pi 


^.^  'ATX.  ^..^^.  /w-  /-  ^w^^/^-^ 


'jrmomvtJl-' 


'^yT^ 


t'- ~ n '- -^ 


^^^"^-^ 


'c^^\ 


o^ 


'^yyuo- 


^/^^-^^x>^ 


/?%-^^^   /y^c^yiMo'  /Ca^M^  ^a/ii 


-     --;     ^    .,^>^.^^  ^  /^^^ 


'^IAC<^ 


'<^Z^nty 


<S'i^^-iMyo 


ti. 


/  w&  //  -  Att^.  ^a^vn>  p>^^ 


A  -  <2t^  ywe4^  "^^dlw  ■v^^'^Cti!^  Oi'^.  ^-^^  ^■'<Ztuj  K 


^viw   (X/ 


...;.^ 


UjLOu 


'        .1  /f    //9  ^  /T- 


OriMii^  .  ^^^^  TntJ^  ^tvo/C.  T^W^  fi>td - 


.  -t^^yc-^o  Cy^ 


^'^rff^^  Mj  oj  CiA/i/i^  /fi}y^ 


^^-^2-2^    h^ 


^- 


*'*^  /^'         v"*^/ 
^ 

■/f,  - 


^TkV*^  /l^^*-  -^^w^  -  ^  f 


i^m*^ 


r*'^ 


^-^*lfc: 


^^ 


Hi::;- 

si 


*  V ■St '  'Ml'  '  'i 


7»r»4 


