'mnnm«ii^m»ii>i!mMwm»^^^ 


U 


cn4ooo^.'^6w 


Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Arcinive 
in  2013 


littp://arcliive.org/details/mrsrorersdietforOOrore 


Mrs.  Rorer's 

Diet  for  the  Sick 


Dietetic  Treating  of  Diseases  of  the  Body, 
What  to  Eat  and  What  to  Avoid  in  each 
case,  Menus  and  the  Proper  Selection  and 
Preparation  of  Recipes,  together  with  a 
Physicians'  Ready  Reference  List. 


By 

SARAH   TYSON    RORER 

Author  of  The  Philadelphia  Cook  Book, 
Mrs.  Rorer's  New  Cook  Book,  and  many 
other  valuable  works  on  Cookery. 


Philadelphia 

ARNOLD   AND   COMPANY 

420  Sansom  Street 


'    ^"trr^.  s  fY 


Copyright  1914  by  Sarah  Tyson  Rorer 
All  Rights  Reserved 


?M.  tt'^^i^f 


C 


Press  of  George  H  Buchanan  Company,  Philadelphia 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Foreword 7 

A  Word  to  the  Wise 9 

A  Few  Golden  Rules .• 15 

PART   ONE— DISEASES 

Asthma 31 

Tuberculosis   25 

Pneumonia 29 

tonsilitis 29 

Quinzy    30 

Diseases  of  the  Heart 30 

Senile  Heart 32 

Angina  Pectoris 34 

Aneurism    36 

Apoplexy 37 

Pernicious  Anemia 39 

Anemia  (Chlorosis)    40 

Diseases  of  the  Stomach 45 

Dyspepsia  with  Flatulency 49 

Atonic  Dyspepsia ; 50 

Hungry  Dyspepsia .....,.., 51 

Nervous  Dyspepsia  ......,..• 52 

Acute  Gastritis  54 

Chronic  Gastritis 55 

Ulcer  of  the  Stomach 57 

Intestinal  Indigestion 59 

Acute  Intestinal  Catarrh  . .  ., 61 

Chronic  Intestinal  Catarrh ,  62 

Ulcer  of  the  Duodenum 62 

(3) 


4  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


PAGE 


Chronic  Constipation   63 

Appendicitis qq 

Chronic  Diarrhcea  68 

Acute  Dysentery 69 

Hemorrhoids   71 

Peritonitis 72 

Obesity    , 73 

Leanness 77 

Gout 79 

Rheumatism    81 

Chronic  Rheumatism 84 

Liver  Troubles 85 

Catarrhal  Jaundice 87 

Cirrhosis ■     88 

Gall  Stones 88 

Sick   Headache    90 

Diseases  of  the  Urinary  System 91 

Uric  Acid  Diathesis 92 

Albuminuria 95 

Functional  Albuminuria  in  Children 96 

Chronic  Bright's  Disease ' 97 

Acute  Nephritis   99 

Nephritis   99 

oxaluria    101 

Calculi   ,. 102 

Diabetes 103 

Pregnancy   ' 110 

Puerperal 113 

A  Few  Golden  Rules  for  Mothers  of  Bottle- 
fed  Babies 114 

Feeding  of  Infants   116 

To  Modify  Milk 117 

Partial  Milk  Feeding 121 

After  the  Weaning 122 


MRS.    RORER'S    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  5 

PAGE 

Diet  for  Older  Children 126 

Marasmus 132 

Measles 133 

Chorea    133 

Diphtheria    131 

Mumps •  . .  .  135 

Whooping   Cough    ' 135 

Enuresis   13G 

Diet  in  Relation  to  Age 137 

Combinations  Suited  to  the  Aged 139 

Feeding  in  Fever 141 

Typhoid  Fever 142 

Convalescing  Typhoid  144 

Dengue  Fever  145 

Malarial  Fever   145 

Scarlet  Fever 145 

Yellow  Fever  147 

Purpura  Hemorrhagica   147 

Smallpox    148 

Skin  Diseases 149 

Urticaria  or  Nettle  Rash 149 

Acne 150 

Eczema    152 

Eczema  in  Children 153 

Alcoholism    154 

The  Insane  160 

Cancer 161 

Exophthalmic  Goiter   163 

Locomotor  Ataxia 164 

Epilepsy •. 165 

Erysipelas 166 

Insomnia 167 

Addison's  Disease 168 

Diet  After  an  Anesthetic 169 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


PART   TWO— RECIPES 

PAGE 

Proprietary  Foods 173 

Measurements 178 

Digestibility  of  Foods  178 

Methods  of  Cookery 180 

Soups   183 

Fish 210 

Meats 215 

Poultry  and  Game   ,. .  228 

Sauces  236 

Condiments   240 

Milk 241 

Peptonized  Milk 259 

Eggs 274 

Vegetables 282 

Salads   339 

Bread  Making .' 342 

Cereal  Foods 355 

Fruits 361 

Nuts 411 

Gelatin  Jellies 423 

Vegetable  Gelatin  Jellies 431 

Desserts 434 

Pudding  Sauces 439 

Ice  Cream , 441 

Beverages  and  Water  Gruels 443 


PART   THREE 
PHYSICIANS^  READY  REFERENCE   LIST 


FOREWORD 

This  book  has  been  written  especially  for  the  sick.  The 
foods  here  recommended  for  special  diseases  are  not  suited 
to  the  well.  A  person  in  perfect  health  must  simply  repair 
the  tissues  of  the  body  with  .proper  foods,  every  twenty- 
four  hours;  but  when  ill,  the  first  object  is  to  regain  health, 
with  a  special  diet  suited  to  the  disease.  Simple,  easily 
digested  foods  recommended  for  the  sick  are  not  necessarily 
good  for  even  children  or  invalids;  in  fact,  foods  for  the 
well  and  foods  for  the  sick  are  not  interchangeable. 

My  sole  desire  in  writing  this  book  has  been  to  assist 
those  persons  who  must  care  for  their  sick  at  home,  and  the 
doctor  and  the  nurse,  without  trespassing  on  the  domain  of 
either.  In  disease  each  case  requires  special  attention,  and 
the  knowledge  that  comes  from  observation  cannot  be  sup- 
planted by  any  dictated  rules.  Book  directions  are  valueless 
unless  modified  by  common  sense. 

I  have  purposely  avoided  the  caloric  plan  of  feeding, 
as  I  find  many  physicians  who  object  to  this  theoretical  and 
mathematical  method  of  feeding,  especially  in  diseases  of 
the  stomach  and  intestines. 

As  an  assistance  to  my  thirty  years'  experience  in 
feeding  the  sick,  I  have  read  most  of  the  recent  works  on 
diet,  and  have  added  any  new  ideas  that  have  been  well 
tried  out.  The  lists  of  foods  given  for  each  disease  may  be 
depended  upon  for  ordinary  cases,  but  each  case  must  be 
watched  carefully  and  the  food  changed  if  it  does  not  agree. 
The  value  of  a  thorough  acquaintance  with  the  facts  and  the 
requirements  of  each  individual  disease  cannot  be  too  highly 
estimated. 

(7) 


8  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Bartholow  says :  'The  food  supplied  to  the  organism 
may  be  so  managed  as  to  secure  very  definite  therapeutical 
results,  and  by  employment  of  a  special  and  restricted 
method  of  feeding,  cures  may  be  effected  not  attainable  by 
medicinal  treatment." 


A  WORD  TO  THE  WISE 

As  food  is  the  most  important  of  our  wants,  it  is  wise 
to  say  a  word  about  diet  in  health  before  we  discuss  diet 
in  disease. 

"An  ounce  of  prevention  is  worth  a  pound  of  cure." 

Food  requirements  vary  with  the  occupation,  climate 
and  method  of  life,  but  a  general  outline  may  be  followed 
by  all  healthy,  right  living  persons. 

Do  not  place  too  much  dependence  on  individual  opin- 
ions. Startling  announcements  are  every  now  and  then 
made  that  some  one  form  of  food  has  produced  a  wonderful 
cure,  or  has  made  persons  very  ill.  These  statements  are, 
as  a  rule,  exaggerated,  and  many  of  them  are  advertise- 
ments for  patented  foods. 

Do  not  go  off  on  a  tangent  and  follow  every  new  line 
of  diet  that  is  recommended.  Stop,  look,  and  listen,  before 
you  cross  the  road  of  the  faddist.  A  correct  diet  must 
contain  all  the  nutritive  elements  of  the  body  in  proper 
proportions — protein,  carbohydrates,  fats,  minerals,  water 
and  air. 

Study  the  chemical  elements  of  the  body,  and  the 
natural  foods  that  will  best  feed  these  elements.  Do  not 
think  too  much  about  your  food,  and  never  talk  of  it  at 
table.  Keep  your  mind  free  from  fear,  and  do  not  imagine 
that  you  have  indigestion  simply  because  you  feel  uncom- 
fortable after  eating;  you  probably  have  eaten  too  much. 

It  is  not  the  amount  of  food  one  eats  that  builds  the 
body,  but  it  is  that  which  is  digested  and  assimilated.  Cease 
eating  before  you  have  a  sensation  of  fullness ;  distention 
of  the  stomach  frequently  makes  digestion  lax,  and  over- 
taxes the  heart  and  excretory  organs. 

One  must  enjoy  food  in  order  to  have  it  do  its  best 
work;  one's  table  must  be  in  harmony  with  one's  self. 

Eat  just  enough,  but  not  an  ounce  too  much.  "Keep 
the  patient  well  nourished"  has  taken  many  a  person  out  of 

(9) 


10  MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK 

the  world  who  might  have  lived  comfortably  for  many 
years  on  a  slim  diet  or  a  partial  fast  during  an  illness.  A 
loss  of  appetite  is  Nature's  way  of  saying:  "fast."  Give 
thought  to  your  food  in  selection,  cooking  and  combina- 
tions. Variety  is  necessary  to  keep  up  the  appetite  and 
produce  health. 

Do  not  live,  for  instance,  every  day  in  the  year,  on 
roasted  meat  and  mashed  potatoes.  If  your  neighborhood 
does  not  give  full  markets,  change  the  accessible  foods  by 
different  methods  of  cooking.  For  instance,  beef  may  be 
broiled,  roasted,  baked,  stewed,  rolled,  spiced,  chopped  and 
made  into  twenty  different  dishes,  and  still  it  is  all  beef. 

Do  not  eat  unhealthful  combinations.  Flour,  fruit  and 
butter  are  excellent  foods  in  their  places,  but  when  made 
into  complicated  puddings  or  pies,  are  difficult  of  digestion. 
Time,  money  and  health  have  been  wasted. 

Do  not  cater  to  habits ;  they  are  blots  upon  your  char- 
acter; get  rid  of  them  as  soon  as  possible.  If  your  father 
and  mother  had  them,  so  much  the  greater  need  for  you 
to  struggle  against  them,  that  the  next  generation  may 
start  life  without  a  handicap. 

Do  not  make  excuses.  Nature  knows  nothing  of  cir- 
cumstances. Her  laws  are  harmonious,  and  if  they  are 
broken,  you  must  pay  the  penalty.  She  never  forgets,  nor 
does  she  forgive  bodily  abuses.  Knowledge  is  one  thing, 
but  the  intelligence  that  puts  knowledge  into  practice  is 
quite  another  thing.     Be  intelligent. 

Do  not  eat  when  tired. 

Masticate  thoroughly  'every  mouthful  of  food,  solid 
or  liquid. 

Masticate  all  hard  foods  until  they  are  soft;  do  not 
soften  them  with  liquids. 

If  your  digestion  is  already  impaired,  bring  it  back  to 
its  natural  condition  by  selecting  proper  food,  with  not  too 
great  a  variety  at  one  meal.  Good  results  are  obtained 
from  eating  meat  at  one  meal,  and  starches  at  another. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  11 

Avoid  all  fried  foods ;  the  frying  pan  is  a  remnant  of 
barbarism. 

Life  and  vigor  do  not  depend  on  the  amount  of  meat 
one  eats. 

It  is  far  easier  to  keep  v^ell  than  to  allow  one's  self  to 
run  down,  become  ill,  and  then  try  by  a  curative  diet  and 
drugs  to  get  back  to  the  right  road. 

The  dietary  of  the  so-called  civilized  people  of  the 
world,  has  come  largely  from  the  teachings  of  convenience 
and  instinct.  Primitive  man  must  have  thought  little  about 
the  question  of  dietetics.  He  probably  knew  nothing  of 
food  values,  and  like  the  Eskimo  ate  and  drank  that  which 
was  accessible,  and  consumed  enough  to  keep  up  activity 
and  health.  Can  any  student  of  dietetics  truly  say  that 
we,  in  this  twentieth  century  of  learning,  with  all  our 
experiments  and  knowledge,  have  thought  out  or  taught 
a  better  method?  Even  among  the  learned,  the  palate  is 
still  the  guide,  and  "I  like"  or  "I  do  not  like"  plays  the 
most  important  part  in  the  daily  bills  of  fare.  The  animal 
of  our  existence  is  still  prominent,  and  what  we  call  natural 
instinct  or  natural  tastes  have  been  largely  influenced  by 
our  parents  and  conditions  of  life. 

Modern  dietitians  argue  that  a  diet  composed  largely 
of  lean  meats  is  best  for  the  business  man,  and  a  vege- 
table diet  is  best  suited  to  the  outdoor  laborer.  Examina- 
tions, however,  prove  that  the  average  United  States  busi- 
ness man  breaks  down  between  the  ages  of  forty  and  fifty, 
with  diseases  that  come  from  an  over-nitrogenous  diet.  If 
the  organs  of  the  body  are  made  to  do  the  work  in  forty 
years  instead  of  in  eighty,  as  planned  by  Nature,  a  man 
at  forty  is  eighty  years  old.  We  have  been  told  over  and 
over  again  that  "man  is  as  old  as  his  arteries,  digestive 
and  excretory  organs."  A  man  is  what  he  eats,  and  the 
diet  he  selects  is  the  measure  of  his  intelligence. 

We  have  been  teaching  diet,  cookery  and  methods  of 
serving  in  all  our  public  schools  for  thirty  years.  Have  you 
noticed  any  great  change  in  the  family  tables  of  the  masses? 


12  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Have  the  fried  pork  and  fried  potatoes  been  replaced  by 
carefully  selected  and  broiled  meats?  Have  the  fruits  been 
served  in  perfection,  or  are  they  still  stewed  with  sugar 
for  hours  ?  Are  the  dining-rooms  artistic  and  restful,  or  are 
they  still  semi-barbaric?  I  see  but  little  change,  and  I  do 
not  believe  that  we  can  reach  our  highest  attainments  with- 
out being  artistic  and  learned  in  all  branches  that  pertain 
to  life  and  living. 

A  very  young  child  can  easily  be  taught  the  needs  of 
the  body  and  how  to  select  a  general  diet.  One  need  not 
necessarily  weigh  or  measure  every  mouthful  of  food  nor 
give  hours  to  the  thought  and  preparation  of  a  meal  at  the 
expense  of  every  other  thing  in  life. 

Serve  every  meal,  three  times  a  day,  three  hundred  and 
sixty-five  days  a  year,  in  a  simple,  artistic  fashion.  Sit 
down,  eat  slowly  and  comfortably,  and  enjoy  it.  Eat  to 
live.     Health  is  always  worth  while. 

A  little  reading  and  a  few  weeks'  good  study  will 
enable  any  housewife  to  create  from  the  materials  at  hand, 
acceptable  bills  of  fare.  She  must  first  learn  combinations 
that  go  to  form  a  balanced  ration.  She  may  have  fat  pork 
and  beans,  lean  beef  and  potatoes,  desserts  made  from 
starchy  foods  and  fruits,  but  not  eggs  and  milk,  after  a  meat 
dinner.  Bread  and  butter,  not  bread  and  molasses.  Meat, 
potatoes  and  cauliflower  or  cabbage,  not  meat,  potatoes  and 
rice.  One  starchy  food,  one  green  vegetable,  one  nitroge- 
nous dish.  A  puree  of  lentils,  with  baked  potato  and 
tomato  salad,  with  bread  and  butter,  form  a  complete 
meal.  Beef  or  mutton,  following  puree  of  lentils,  upsets 
the  balance  and  gives  too  much  nitrogenous  food. 

Use  plenty  of  pure  cold  water;  take  it  at  the  end  of 
the  meal,  and  drink  it  freely  between  meals.  Do  not  wash 
your  foods  down  with  slops — tea  and  coffee  saturated  with 
sugar  and  milk. 

If  you  have  aches  and  pains,  stop  and  think  what 
natural  law  you   have  violated.     When   you   discover  the 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  13 

error,  avoid  it  at  another  time,  for  simple  errors,  repeated 
frequently,  produce  incurable  diseases. 

The  Bath — Bathe  every  day  in  cold  or  tepid  water,  and 
rub  thoroughly!  to  keep  the  skin  active.  Live  and  sleep  in 
the  open  air.  I  have  frequently  noticed  that  persons  who 
are  afraid  of  air  are  unhygienic  and  uncleanly  in  other 
respects. 

Appetite — The  true  natural  appetite  is  a  calling  of  the 
tissues  of  the  body  for  sustenance,  not  the  gnawing  of  an 
ill-fed  stomach.  When  one  is  constantly  overfed,  naturally 
the  appetite  flags.  A  fast  of  three  or  four  days,  drinking 
plenty  of  water,  will  bring  about  satisfactory  results. 

Do  not  tempt  the  appetite  when  it  flags ;  give  it  a  rest. 

Do  not  resort  to  tonics  or  stimulants,  for  in  nine  out 
of  ten  cases,  the  pricking  up  of  a  flagging  appetite  is 
dangerous.  Natural  conditions  are  cast  aside ;  tonics, 
stimulants  and  appetizing  foods  are  temptations.  Appe- 
tites thus  created  are.  unnatural ;  you  overtax  your  digestion 
and  are  now  really  sick — not  because  you  ought  to  be, 
but  because  you  have  not  listened  to  Nature's  warning. 

Light  breakfasts  are  always  desirable ;  they  prevent 
the  appetite  from  flagging.  A  cup  of  black  coffee,  early  in 
the  morning,  with  no  food  until  twelve  o'clock,  is  an  excel- 
lent cure.  The  "torpid  liver"  becomes  active,  and  the  ever- 
present  headache  disappears.  Cut  off  all  sweets  at  the  end 
of  meals.  Do  not  drink  tea  and  coffee,  except  the  one  cup 
early  in  the  morning.  Do  not  eat  until  food  tastes  good. 
One  can  take  the  "appetite  cure,"  as  well  as  the  "tubercu- 
losis cure,"  within  the  four  walls  of  his  own  home,  if 
he  will  only  obey  Nature's  calling.  Use  the  money  spent 
for  traveling,  on  food  and  conveniences,  and  cures  will 
come  easily.  There  never  was  a  more  foolish  fashion  than 
trying  to  get  well  traveling  from  pillar  to  post.  Stay  in 
comfortable  quarters,  build  your  own  outdoor  sleeping 
rooms,  and  later  you  may  take  a  journey  for  pleasure,  not 
for  health. 


14  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Avoid  pies,  cakes,  preserves,  dishes  of  rich  meats, 
highly-seasoned  sauces  and  soups.  A  half  pint  of  hot, 
scalded,  not  boiled,  milk,  sipped  before  going  to  bed,  will 
relieve  hunger  and  induce  sleep. 

As  a  rule,  foods  that  are  pleasant  to  the  palate,  and 
do  not  give  discomfort,  are  not  injurious.  This  does  not 
mean  that  the  nurse  or  caretaker  must  listen  to  the  notions 
of  the  sick.  Even  in  health,  habit  and  early  training  decide 
the  appetite.  The  mother  likes  and  dislikes  things,  and 
in  bringing  up  her  children  she  teaches  them  her  own  short- 
comings. 

Sightly  foods,  with  pleasant  odors,  nicely  served,  fre- 
quently induce  a  patient  to  eat,  but  as  a  rule,  the  sick  will 
never  overeat  unless  they  are  mentally  deranged.  Com- 
plete satisfaction  of  the  appetite  comes  from  the  stomach, 
not  from  the  palate.  Palate  appetites  frequently  create 
disturbances  which  complicate  after  feedings.  The  sick, 
more  than  the  well,  take  note  of  results,  and  when  once 
overfed  they  mark  the  discomfort  and  remember  it,  and 
frequently  refuse  even  plain  foods  that  heretofore  were 
acceptable. 

Monotony  will  destroy  even  a  good  appetite.  When 
only  one  or  two  articles  are  admissible,  change  the  flavor 
by  some  simple  method.  Seek  new  ways  of  serving;  use 
new  flowers  for  decorations;  change  the  china  in  the 
service.  Even  a  new  doily,  or  a  new  tray,  will  attract 
attention. 

Appetite  is  a  useful,  but  not  an  infallible  guide  to  a 
correct  diet. 


A  FEW  GOLDEN  RULES 
FOR  THOSE  WHO  FEED  THE  SICK 

First  of  all,  I  should  like  to  impress  on  the  minds  of 
the  attendants  that  constant  nourishment  does  not  always 
bring  about  good  conditions  or  cures. 

When  the  appetite  flags,  stop  feeding. 

Study  the  case  carefully,  and  give  the  food  indicated  by 
the  disease. 

If  the  trouble  is  acute,  give  the  parts  of  the  body  most 
affected  by  the  disease,  rest. 

If  the  trouble  is  chronic,  give  the  parts  most  affected 
by  the  disease,  moderately  good  exercise. 

If  a  person  has  tuberculosis,  for  instance,  give  a  goodly 
quantity  of  fats  and  oils,  eggs  and  milk,  rich  in  those  ele- 
ments which  will  give  the  lungs  good  healthful  exercise. 

Pneumonia,  an  acute  trouble,  will  recover  more  quickly 
on  skimmed  milk,  beef  tea  and  foods  deficient  in  fat. 

Acute  indigestion  can  be  corrected  quickly  by  a  fast 
of  two  or  three  days. 

Chronic  indigestion  calls  for  foods  that  require  a  slight 
effort  on  the  part  of  the  digestive  tract  to  excite  the  neces- 
sary digestive  fluids. 

A  diet  for  the  sick  is  not  a  normal  diet,  and  is  abso- 
lutely unsuited  to  those  in  health. 

If  the  person  is  very  ill,  give  liquid  foods  through  a 
glass  tube  or  a  straw.  This  will  excite  a  flow  of  the  secre- 
tions of  the  mouth  and  aid  digestion. 

Forget  the  isolated  facts  that  you  have  stored  up  from 
everyday  sayings,  and  apply  common  sense  to  each  patient, 
for  each  is  a  law  unto  himself.  Do  not  give  four  hundred 
calories  of  food,  for  instance,  if  only  two  hundred  can  be 
digested.    Rigid  rules  usually  have  exceptions. 

Never  overfeed  the  sick;  it  ruins  digestion  and 
hinders  cure. 

(15) 


16  MRS.    RdRER's   DIET    FOR    THE   SICK 

Arrange  all  foods  in  an  attractive  and  dainty  manner; 
see  that  the  silver  is  bright,  the  china  clean,  that  grease  is 
not  floating  on  the  top  of  soups.  A  cup  of  unskimmed  beef 
tea  will  frequently  upset  the  patient  and  destroy  a  liking 
for  all  soups. 

Do  not  overload  a  dish ;  it  robs  a  delicate  patient  of 
his  appetite. 

See  that  all  foods  are  well  cooked,  well  blended  and 
nicely  garnished. 

Do  not  speak  of  the  quality  of  food,  nor  its  character, 
nor  what  you  like,  before  the  patient.  Avoid  conversations 
about  food,  especially  while  the  patient  is  eating. 

While  nursing  is  not  the  province  of  this  book,  I  should 
like  to  say  to  the  nurse :  do  not  dwell  on  unpleasant  con- 
ditions while  the  patient  is  eating.  A  patient  disturbed  in 
mind  cannot  get  the  best  results  from  food.  Any  excite- 
ment preceding  or  during  the  feeding  hour  will  produce 
unfavorable  conditions,  even  if  the  food  is  correct. 

Do  not  think  that  every  ounce  of  meat  your  patient 
eats  is  an  ounce  of  nourishment  or  strength,  for  this  is  a 
great  mistake. 

Milk  is  the  most  important  of  all  foods  for  the  sick; 
eggs,  perhaps,  come  next,  and  in  some  cases  fruit  juices 
are  of  first  value. 

Do  not  cram  your  patient.  If  the  digestive  organs  are 
over  worked,  the  heart  will  be  afifected  and  the  patient 
generally  worse :  sick  people,  as  a  rule,  require  rest,  not 
labor. 

"Keep  up  the  nourishment"  has  killed  many  a  person. 
"Keep  the  patient  alive  on  a  rational  and  limited  diet"  is 
a  much  wiser  saying. 

Do  not  rely  on  the  patient's  judgment.  There  are 
thousands  of  misfit  palates  in  the  world. 

Do  not  dish  foods  before  the  patient;  bring  the  tray 
complete.  If  foods  must  be  cooked  in  the  kitchen  and 
brought  directly  to  the  sick  room,  the  nurse  must  have 
them  placed  out  of  sight  of  the  patient  until  she  can  over- 


MRS.   RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  17 

look  and  rearrange  the  tray.  A  dish  of  oatmeal  porridge, 
with  a  little  spilled  on  the  outside,  will  frequently  produce 
nausea. 

The  sick  are  supersensitive ;  every  dish,  no  matter  how 
simple,  must  be  perfectly  prepared  and  well  served. 

Remove  immediately  from  the  sick  room  every  particle 
of  left-over  food;  do  not  reheat  or  serve  it  again.  Do  not 
repeat  a  dish  in  less  than  two  days,  if  possible,  unless  the 
patient  is  on  a  milk  diet.  A  mistake  of  this  kind  will  fre- 
quently rob  the  patient  of  appetite  and  complicate  feeding. 
Serve  hot  foods  comfortably  hot,  on  hot  dishes,  and  cold 
foods  comfortably  cold  on  cold  plates. 

If  flowers  are  used  for  tray  decorations,  see  that  they 
have  an  agreeable,  mild  odor;  heavy  odors  frequently 
destroy  the  appetite.  Violets,  roses  and  pansies  are  to  be 
preferred. 


PART  I 

DISEASES 


ASTHMA 

This  disease  usually  overtakes  those  who  overeat  or 
eat  hurriedly,  and  those  who  "nibble"  between  meals.  The 
asthmatic  patient,  as  a  rule,  is  not  particular  as  to  the 
character  of  his  food,  if  the  quantity  pleases  his  eye.  The 
stomach  is  forever  at  work,  the  digestive  powers  are  worn 
out,  unnatural  fermentations  are  developed,  and  the  poisons 
formed  are  taken  up  by  the  circulation.  The  victim  be- 
comes exceedingly  sensitive  to  changes  in  the  weather, 
takes  cold  easily,  and  is  always  looking  for  drafts. 

The  great  difficulty  in  the  treatment  of  asthma  is  that 
the  disease  travels  slowly,  and  is  frequently  in  the  chronic 
stage  before  medical  advice  is  sought.  The  disease  may 
be  cured  permanently  if  medical  advice  is  aided  by  a  cor- 
rect and  restricted  diet. 

Asthmatic  patients  must  never  dissipate ;  they  must 
not  overeat.  Flatulency  and  indigestion  are  the  forerun- 
ners of  severe  attacks,  and  even  after  a  cure  has  been 
brought  about,  such  persons  can  never  again  eat  and  drink 
with  impunity.    Each  attack  becomes  more  difficult  to  cure. 

Air  and  water  are  necessary  accompaniments  to  good 
diet.  Keep  the  pores  of  the  skin  open ;  live  in  the  open 
air  both  day  and  night. 

All  foods  must  be  cooked  without  fat.  If  the  patient 
has  been  accustomed  to  taking  coffee,  drink  a  small  cup 
early  in  the  morning  before  the  general  breakfast.  Green 
vegetables  must  be  crisp,  carefully  washed  and  cooked  in 
salted  water,  or  served  raw  with  olive  oil  and  a  few  drops 
of  vinegar.    All  foods  must  be  thoroughly  masticated. 

Divide  the  meals  into  convenient  hours,  five  a  day  if 
necessary,  three  preferable.  Use  all  starchy  foods  spar- 
ingly. 

(21) 


22 


MRS.  ROREr's  diet  FOR  THE  SICK 


MAY  EAT 


Clear  soups 

Lean  beef 

Mutton 

Poultry 

Venison 

Sweetbreads 

Tripe 

Broiled  white-fleshed  fish 

A  little  lettuce 

Tender  celery 

Stewed  cucumbers 

Squash 

Cress 

Jerusalem  artichokes 

Globe  artichokes 

Spinach 

Almonds 

Brazilian   nuts 


Prunes 

An  occasional  baked 

Oranges 

Grape  fruit 


apple 


Plums 

Strawberries 

Currant  juice  and  raspberries 

Blackberries 

A  little  apple  butter 

An    occasional    baked    potato    at 

noon 
Eggs 

Rice  pudding,  unsweetened 
Shredded  wheat 

Whole  wheat  bread,  twice  baked 
Gluten  bread 
Gluten  biscuit 

Coffee,  early  in  the  morning 
A  cup  of  weak  tea  in  the  middle 

of  the  afternoon 
Milk  and  milk  preparations 
Buttermilk 
Bonnyclabber 
Koumys,  Matzoons 
Orange  marmalade 


AVOID 


Fats 

Fried  foods 

Sweets 

Pies 

Cakes 

Puddings 

Starchy  desserts 

Mashed  potatoes 

Gravies 

Highly-seasoned  soups 

Cheese 


Cabbage 
All  cereals 

Breads,  except  twice  baked 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Underground    vegetables,    as    tur- 
nips,  carrots,  asparagus,   salsify 
Pork 
Veal 

Warmed-over  meats 
Acids,  as  pickles 


MENUS 

The  following  menus  are  arranged  to  show  combina- 
tions of  food,  and  how  great  a  variety  can  be  selected  from 
a  restricted  diet. 

After  an  acute  attack,  give  the  patient  only  milk  and 
milk  preparations. 

Breakfast,  seven  o'clock.  Two  broiled  chops.  Peeled 
sliced  tomato,  plain. 


MRS.   RORER's  diet  FOR  THE  SICK  ^3 

Ten  o'clock.  A  half  pint  of  either  buttermilk  or  sweet 
milk,  koumys  or  matzoon,  taken  slowly. 

Twelve-thirty  o'clock.  Rare  roasted  beef,  spinach, 
lettuce  salad  with  French  dressing,  almond  wafer. 

Supper,  six  p.  m.  Three  good-sized  pieces  of  zweiback 
with  a  half  pint  of  hot  milk,  over  which  grate  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  that  have  been  cooked  thirty  minutes. 

Plain  apollinaris  or  vichy  water  may  be  taken  between 
meals. 

Breakfast,  seven  o'clock  Broiled  white  fish,  A  slice 
of  toasted  gluten  bread. 

Dinner,  twelve-thirty.  A  bowl  of  clear  soup.  Boiled 
mutton,  mint  sauce  without  sugar,  made  simply  by  pound- 
ing the  mint  in  a  little  vinegar.  Plain  boiled  cauliflower. 
SHced  tomato  with  a  little  French  dressing.    Almond  wafer. 

Supper,  six  p.  m.  Half  of  a  broiled  chicken  with  two 
whole  wheat  crackers  which  must  be  thoroughly  masti- 
cated. 

Breakfast.  Baked  apple.  Two  soft-boiled  eggs.  Two 
whole  wheat  crackers. 

Dinner.  Clam  broth.  Roasted  chicken.  Two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiled  rice.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  carefully- 
cooked  spinach.  An  almond  wafer,  and  an  after-dinner  cup 
of  black  coffee. 

Supper.  Toasted  whole  wheat  crackers  spread  lightly 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  peanut  butter,  masticated  thor- 
oughly. 

Just  before  retiring,  sip  slowly  a  half  pint  of  hot  milk. 

Breakfast.  Chopped  meat,  quickly  broiled  over  a  clear 
fire.  Four  tablespoonfuls  of  thoroughly  cooked  gluten, 
with  a  little  milk  poured  over;  it  may  be  eaten  with  the 
beef. 

Dinner.  A  bowl  of  clear  soup.  A  juicy  broiled  steak, 
with  a  baked  tomato.  A  little  finely  chopped  celery,  with 
French  dressing.  Two  almond  wafers  or  toasted  pilot 
bread. 


24  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Supper.  A  pint  of  carefully-baked  custard  without 
sugar.  A  Roman  meal  cracker  may  be  masticated  and  eaten 
with  the  custard. 

Breakfast.    Broiled  sweetbreads.    A  cup  of  clear  coffee. 

Dinner.  Clear  chicken  soup.  The  breast  of  a  carefully- 
boiled  chicken.  Young  tender  peas  pressed  through  a  sieve. 
A  little  lettuce  salad  with  French  dressing.  Two  almond 
wafers.  A  mellow  peach,  or  a  baked  apple,  or  a  dish  of 
stewed  prunes  may  form  the  dessert. 

Supper.    A  pint  of  carefully-made  rice  pudding. 

Breakfast.  Broiled  mushrooms  served  on  a  slice  of 
very  hard-toasted  bread,  masticated  thoroughly. 

Dinner.  Clear  soup.  Roasted  mutton,  carefully-cooked 
cauliflower  or  Brussels  sprouts,  two  baked  onions  and  a 
small  cup  custard  without  sugar. 

Supper.  Either  a  pint  of  buttermilk  sipped  slowly,  or 
a  pint  of  junket  eaten  with  two  almond  wafers. 


MRS.  RORER's  diet  FOR  THE  SICK  25 

TUBERCULOSIS 

Doctor  Osier  tells  us  that  the  cure  of  tuberculosis  is 
largely  a  question  of  nutrition ;  if  one  can  make  the  patient 
grow  fat,  the  local  disease  may  be  left  to  care  for  itself. 
As  eggs,  cream  and  milk  are  easily  digested,  and  are  rich 
in  fatty  matter,  we  at  once  turn  to  these  as  the  all-important 
foods.  It  was  only  a  few  years  ago  that  tuberculosis 
patients  were  sent  to  the  country,  where  they  might  drink 
the  milk  warm  from  the  cow.  There  seems  to  be  more 
virtue  and  more  health-giving  qualities  in  milk  with  the 
natural  warmth  than  in   milk  artificially  heated.. 

The  cure  of  tuberculosis  depends  upon  pure  air,  both 
day  and  night,  and  correct  nutrition.  The  disease  calls 
for  easily-digested  fatty  matter — cream,  butter,  olive  oil, 
marrow,  the  yolks  of  eggs.  I  am  speaking  now  of  pulmon- 
ary tuberculosis.  From  the  first  the  patient  must  be  im- 
pressed that  if  a  cure  is  to  be  effected,  the  given  rules  must 
be  carefully  followed,  otherwise  the  race  is  not  worth  the 
running. 

The  amount  of  food  and  the  hours  of  feeding  must  be 
regulated  by  the  condition  of  the  patient.  The  writer  can- 
not establish  rules,  as  each  patient  is  a  law  unto  himself.  Be 
careful,  however,  not  to  overeat.  On  the  other  hand  the  ap- 
petite must  be  kept  up  by  a  pleasing,  well-served  variety  of 
food. 

I  fully  believe  that  almost  any  tuberculosis  patient, 
not  too  far  gone,  can  be  cured  at  home,  providing  he 
will  follow  directions,  better  than  at  the  average,  poorly- 
managed  sanitarium.  In  many  sanitariums  too  much  de- 
pendence is  placed  on  climate  and  air  and  too  little  on 
correct  diet.  Stay  at  home,  build  an  outdoor  sleeping  room, 
wear  warm  clothing,  not  necessarily  wool — linen  is  prefer- 
able. Take  milk  and  eggs  in  large  quantities  between  meals. 

To  keep  up  the  appetite  change  the  method  of  serving 
both  the  eggs  and  milk.  At  one  time  separate  the  egg,  beat 
the  yolk,  add  the  white  and  a  little  powdered  sugar;   later 


26  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

drink  a  glass  of  milk.  At  another  time,  take  eg-gnog;  or 
shake  the  whites  of  eggs  with  milk,  and  use  the  yolks, 
hard  boiled,  grated  over  toast  as  a  supper  dish.  Do  not 
give  too  much  meat;  it  is  not  as  nutritious  as  eggs 
and  milk,  and  nourishment  is  of  cardinal  importance. 
Give  nut  dishes,  Brazilian  nut  butter,  cocoanut  cream  and 
egg  occasionally,  in  the  place  of  cow's  milk.  Use  now  and 
then  for  an  afternoon  luncheon  a  cup  of  well-made  chocolate, 
with  whipped  cream,  in  place  of  egg  and  milk. 

At  regular  meals  give  puree  of  beans,  lentils  or  old 
peas,  made  v/ith  good  stock,  and  thinned  with  milk  or 
cream;  or  cream  soups,  well-roasted  beef  and  mutton, 
boiled  rice  or  potato,  and  hard  bread  that  will  require  mas- 
tication, breakfast  bacon,  with  eggs,  and  fruits. 

It  is  necessary  for  dispensary  nurses,  who  visit  the 
patients  at  their  homes,  to  select  the  most  suitable  from 
foods  that  are  accessible  and  within  their  price  limit.  If 
eggs  and  cream  are  expensive,  substitute  bacon,  meat  stews, 
hominy,  lentils,  peanut  and  bean  soup,  cornmeal  mush,  oat- 
meal, milk  and  suet  puddings,  and  the  cheaper  fruits, 
stewed  prunes  and  baked  bananas. 

Arrange  the  meals  for  ordinary  patients  as  follows: 
Early  in  the  morning  give  a  cup  of  hot  milk,  flavored  with 
strong  coffee,  no  sugar.  The  patient  may  rest  a  half  hour, 
then  bathe,  then  rest  again  for  half  an  hour,  and  breakfast. 
Give  orange  juice  or  other  fruit,  and  a  well-cooked  cereal 
with  cream,  or  two  shirred  eggs  with  two  slices  of  broiled 
bacon  and  a  half  ounce  of  butter  on  a  bit  of  toast.  For 
variety,  if  the  patient  is  a  meat  eater,  give  a  couple  of 
broiled  chops,  or  a  meat  cake,  or  fish,  in  the  place  of  eggs. 

If  breakfast  is  taken  at  eight  o'clock,  at  eleven 
give  a  glass  of  milk  and  egg  shaken  thoroughly  together. 
At  twelve-thirty  or  one  (be  careful  not  to  crowd  the 
patient)  give  puree  of  lentils,  and  a  slice  of  zweiback,  with 
a  half  ounce  of  butter;  or  broiled  meat  and  a  baked  potato, 
with  cream  or  butter;  or  meat  and  boiled  rice,  or  carefully- 
boiled  hominy  grits,  or  mush  bread,  with  a  half  ounce  of 


MRS.   RORER^S  DIET   FOR  THE  SICK  ^7 

butter;  followed  by  a  "heart"  of  lettuce  with  olive  oil 
and  a  drop  of  lemon  juice.  In  the  middle  of  the  afternoon, 
give  either  a  bowl  of  junket,  or  koumys,  or  leban,  butter- 
milk or  zoolak,  without  other  food;  or  eggs  and  milk.  At 
six  o'clock,  a  bowl  of  cream  soup,  with  zweiback,  well  but- 
tered; a  little  piece  of  steak  or  chop;  a  small  dish  of  care- 
fully-cooked macaroni  with  cream  sauce ;  a  toasted  cracker, 
well  buttered,  and  a  bit  of  cheese.  At  bedtime,  a  glass  of 
modified  milk,  with  a  double  quantity  of  cream,  or  plain 
milk. 

If  for  any  reason  the  patient  should  have  an  attack  of 
indigestion,  stop  all  vegetable  foods  at  once  and  substitute 
modified  milk,  albumin  and  milk,  chopped  meat  cakes,  and 
whole  wheat  bread  only.  Large  quantities  of  foods  are 
called  for,  but  if  the  digestion  is  upset  the  whole  scheme 
fails.    Avoid  too  great  a  variety  at  a  meal. 

Do  not  give  preparations  to  aid  digestion ;  they  fre- 
quently upset  the  stomach  and  cause  a  "set  back."  All 
drugs  should  be  avoided,  except  those  ordered  by  the  physi- 
cian. Do  not  give  cod  liver  oil  unless  ordered.  Depend 
for  your  fatty  foods  on  cocoanut  cream,  milk  and  eggs, 
olive  oil,  nut  soups,  nut  milks,  especially  those  made  from 
black  walnuts  and  Brazilian  nuts. 

The  nurse  who  has  charge  of  tuberculosis  patients 
should  study  carefully  the  character  and  idiosyncrasies  of 
each  patient.  Recovery  usually  follows  an  increase  of 
weight ;  if  the  patient  loses  weight,  the  road  to  recovery  is 
difficult.  Constipation  should  not  be  allowed;  foods  that 
do  not  agree  should  not  be  repeated.  If  tgg  and  milk 
disagree,  give  milk  and  barley  water,  or  milk  with  cocoa- 
nut  cream.  If  the  taste  of  milk  is  disagreeable,  change 
its  flavor  by  adding  articles  recommended  under  the  head- 
ing of  "Milk  and  Milk  Preparations,"  in  the  Second  Part  of 
this  book. 

The  care  of  the  mouth  is  of  great  importance.  Wash 
a  half  pound  of  water  cress  carefully,  pick  the  leaves  from 
the  stems,  chop  them  fine,  and  rub  them  to  a  pulp ;    stir 


28 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


them  into  a  pint  of  water,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  strain, 
bottle  and  cork.  Use  this  as  a  mouth  wash  once  or  twice  a  day. 
It  must  be  made  fresh  once  a  week.  If  cress  is  not  obtain- 
able, Listerine,  Glycothymoline,  or  salt  and  water  are  rec- 
ommended. 

The  following  list  may  offer  suggestions  to  the  care- 
taker: 


MAY  EAT 


Eggs,  raw,  in  milk 

Egg  flip 

Eggnog 

Beaten    white    of    egg    on    orange 

juice,    on   grape   juice    or    fresh 

apple  juice 
Hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg  on  cream 

toast 
Hard-boiled     egg     grated     over 

creamed   chicken 
Ceylon  chicken 
Plain  milk 

Milk  and  barley  water 
Milk  and  rice  water 
Junket  cream 
Koumys 
Leban 
Matzoon 
Zoolak 

Meiggs'  Food 
Eskay's  Food 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Graham  bread 
Toasted   pilot   bread 
Crisp  rolls 
Baked  potato 
Broiled  steak 
Panned  steak 


Hamburg  steak 

Smothered  meat 

Broiled  chops 

Roasted  lamb  or  mutton 

Roasted  beef 

Sweetbreads 

Tripe 

Broiled  chicken 

Creamed  chicken 

Chicken    timbale 

Boiled  rice 

Carefully-boiled  hominy 

Fresh     peas     pressed     through     a 

sieve 
Lima  beans  with  cocoanut  sauce 
Lettuce  heart  with  cocoanut  cream 
Olive  oil 

Carefully-cooked  spinach 
Cocoa 
Chocolate 
Alkathrepta 
Racahout 
Puree    of    dried    peas,    beans    and 

lentils 
A  few  ground  oily  nuts  (not  with 

meals) 
Fresh   ripe   fruits 


AVOID 


All  bulk  foods 

Coarse  vegetables 

Pork ;  veal ;  duck ;  goose 

All    acid    foods — sorrel,    rhubarb, 

lemons,  limes,  pickles 
Pears 


Bananas,  unless  well   cooked 

Strong  tea 

Pastry ;  sweets  in  general 

All  fried  foods 

Hot  breads;  white  bread 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  29 

PNEUMONIA 

Pneumonia,  an  inflammatory  disease  of  the  lungs, 
calls  for  light  stomach-digested  foods  quite  free  from  fat. 

The  fever  and  weak  heart  action  that  are  always  pres- 
ent must  also  be  taken  into  account.  Give  skimmed  milk 
shaken  with  whites  of  eggs,  or  plain  milk  containing  not 
over  three  per  cent,  of  fat. 

Continue  this,  if  it  agrees,  "during  the  acute  stage  of 
the  disease.  Then  add,  at  alternate  feedings,  beef  juice, 
nutritive  beef  tea,  almond  milk,  strained,  once  a  day.  The 
white  of  Qgg  shaken  with  skimmed  milk,  if  it  is  well  borne, 
should  be  continued  four  times  a  day  until  the  physician 
orders  a  change. 

Give  no  solid  foods  of  any  kind  and  be  careful  not  to 
over  feed,  as  the  heart  action,  already  very  weak,  must  not 
be  overtaxed. 

During  Convalescence  Add 

Milk  foods  such  as  Beef  panada 

Zoolak  Bouillon 

Koumys  Veal  broth,  strained 

Matzoon  Scraped  beef  cake 

Sour  buttermilk  A  little  milk  toast 

Eggs,  raw,  with  milk  Zweiback 
Egg,  coddled 


TONSILITIS 

In  the  acute  stages  of  this  disease,  give  egg  flip,  junket, 
koumys,  matzoon,  sweetened  cream  frozen  slightly,  or  choc- 
olate or  coflfee  ice  cream,  about  four  ounces  at  a  feeding. 
Lemon  and  orange  gelose.  Plain  frozen  cream  may  be 
given  twice  a  day.  When  convalescence  begins,  give  egg- 
nog,  laibose,  panada,  bouillon,  beef  juice,  fruit  juices,  frozen 
cream,  milk  with  dry  albumin,  junket,  zoolak,  buttermilk. 
Later  scraped  meat  cake,  ground  m^utton  cake  with  almond 
meal,  gluten  mush,  aleuronat  with  cream,  raw  egg  and 
sherry. 


30  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

QUINZY 

Dietetic  treatment  is  the  same  as  for  tonsilitis.  If  the 
patient  is  anaemic  give  in  the  very  beginning  four  raw  eggs 
and  a  quart  of  milk  a  day,  and  four  ounces  of  frozen  cream 
twice  a  day. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  HEART 

There  are  certain  general  rules  that  may  be  followed 
to  a  great  extent  in  all  cases  of  cardiac  trouble,  no  matter 
whether  the  defects  are  partly  counterbalanced  or  not.  It 
is  now  recognized  by  all  dietitians  that  the  prolific  source 
of  heart  troubles  is  an  irregular  mode  of  life,  an  unbalanced 
dietary  or  foods  badly  cooked. 

The  road  to  relief  is  by  a  straight  and  narrow  diet. 
Foods  must  be  well  selected,  simply  cooked  and  easily 
digested ;  and  a  sufficiently  long  time  allowed  after  each 
meal  to  digest  it  thoroughly.  Eating  between  meals  must 
be  strictly  prohibited.  Even  a  glass  of  water  taken  long 
after  the  meal  but  before  digestion  is  completed  may  give 
rise  to  flatulency  and  produce  a  paroxysm.  All  indigestible 
foods,  coarse  vegetables,  dense  raw  fruits,  such  meats  as 
pork,  veal,  lobsters,  clams,  pink-fleshed  fish,  coarse  breads, 
badly-cooked  cereals,  effervescing  drinks,  strong  tea,  coffee 
and  chocolate,  must  be  avoided.  The  stomach  must  never 
be  overloaded  or  palpitation  will  occur. 

In  each  case  the  digestive  capacity  of  the  patient  must 
be  carefully  studied,  and  each  meal  must  be  just  enough, 
not  an  ounce  over.  Any  residue  of  undigested  food  remain- 
ing in  the  stomach  and  intestines  will  set  up  unnatural 
fermentations  and  again  cause  flatulency  and  a  paroxysm. 

Palpitation — When  this  occurs  stop  all  solid  foods  at 
once.  The  meals  have  been  too  heavy,  or  the  patient  has 
eaten  too  much.  Give  milk,  or  milk  and  barley  water, 
koumys  or  matzoon,  every  two  hours,  for  several  days. 
Then  add  an  tgg,  and  go  gradually  on  to  the  usual  spare 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  31 

diet.  Persons  who  have  ''heart  trouble"  must  never  eat 
eggs,  milk  and  meat  at  the  same  meal,  acid  fruit  with 
bread  or  cereals,  drink  coffee  or  tea  at  meals,  nor  should 
they  take  soup  at  the  beginning  of  a  meal.  All  rich  sauces, 
salads,  cooked  fats,  sweet  dishes  and  over-starchy  dishes 
must  be  avoided.  A  baked  potato  mashed  with  cream,  and 
a  little  well-cooked  dry  rice  are  allowable  two  or  three 
times  a  week. 

If  Edema  Occurs — Give  for  several  days  predigested 
foods,  milk,  hot  peptonized  milk,  peptonized  milk  gruels, 
peptonized  beef  and  oysters,  or  such  easily-digested  foods 
as  plain  junket  or  egg  junket,  koumys,  matzoon  or  leban. 

Constipation — This  complication  is  usually  the  fore- 
most among  the  symptoms  of  heart  trouble,  and  follows 
gastric  disturbances.  For  relief  add  a  tablespoonful  of  milk 
sugar  to  a  glass  of  plain  milk,  or  give  the  juice  of  two 
oranges,  or  a  small  cup  of  cafe  au  lait,  following  a  glass  of 
water,  early  in  the  morning,  or  a  saucer  of  Roman  meal 
mush  with  cream.  Do  not  give  purgatives  unless  ordered 
by  a  physician. 


32  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

SENILE  HEART 

Most  patients  with  this  disease  are  thin  and  rather 
lighter  in  weight  than  is  their  usual  habit. 

Avoid  soups  at  the  beginning  of  meals.  If  cream 
soups  with  bread  agree  they  should  form  the  meal,  and 
no  other  food  should  follow.  From  five  to  six  hours 
should  be  allowed  between  meals.  The  heavy  meal  should 
be  taken  in  the  middle  of  the  day.  A  cup  of  chocolate 
or  Meiggs'  food,  or  any  of  the  sour  milk  preparations, 
with  a  bit  of  bread,  make  an  exceedingly  nice  supper.  All 
indigestible  or  coarse  foods  must  be  avoided.  White  fish, 
chicken,  mutton  and  boiled  beef  are  the  only  meats  allowed. 
A  tablespoonful  of  boiled  rice,  or  a  small  baked  potato,  are 
the  admissible  starchy  foods.  Spinach,  asparagus  tips  and 
raw  tomato,  with  olive  oil  or  cocoanut  cream,  may  be  taken 
now  and  then.  Bread  may  be  well-baked  whole  wheat  or 
stale  white  bread. 

Avoid  alcohol  and  all  stimulating  foods,  unless  ordered 
by  the  physician.  If  the  patient  is  thirsty  give  a  cup  of  hot 
water,  rather  than  a  glass  of  cold  water;  or  give  the  juice 
of  an  orange. 

In  arranging  meals,  give  for  breakfasts  one  poached 
or  soft-boiled  egg,  with  one  slice  of  hard  bread,  well  but- 
tered. An  hour  before  this,  a  cup  of  coffee,  half  milk,  or 
the  juice  of  two  oranges.  Variation  must  cOme  from  the 
different  methods  of  cooking,  as  the  diet  is  limited. 

For  dinner,  the  main  meal  of  the  day,  which  should 
be  as  near  noon  as  possible,  unless  the  breakfast  has  been 
very  late,  give  any  of  the  meats  mentioned,  with  either  a 
little  spinach  or  baked  potato.  Do  not  give  a  green  vege- 
table and  a  starchy  vegetable  at  the  same  meal. 

Dessert  may  consist  of  ripe  grapes,  or  a  sliced  orange, 
or  a  simple  custard.  If  the  patient  feels  hungry  in  the 
middle  of  the  afternoon,  give  a  cup  of  weak,  clear  tea,  abso- 
lutely alone,  with  not  a  mouthful  of  any  other  food. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


33 


Supper,  which  should  be  not  later  than  half  past  six 
or  seven,  may  consist  of  a  warm  custard  with  hard  toast, 
or  toast  and  milk,  or  milk  toast,  or  milk  and  albumin,  with 
a  crust  of  bread,  or  any  of  the  milk  preparations. 

When  the  patient  is  ready  for  bed,  let  him  sip  slowly 
a  cup  of  hot  milk. 

MAY  EAT 


Tender  lamb 

Chopped  beef  cake,  broiled 
Chicken,  broiled  or  boiled 
White-fieshed     fish,      broiled     or 

boiled 
Oysters  when  in  full  season 
Whole  wheat  bread,  well  baked 
Eggs 
Warm     custards     in     place     of 

meat 


Fruit  juices 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Cream    soups,    with    bread,    as    a 

meal 
Almond  meal  soup 
Well-cooked  spinach 
Asparagus  tips 
An  occasional  baked  potato 
Boiled  rice 
Almond  milk 


AVOID 


Salads 

All  raw  vegetables 

Coarse     vegetables,     as     cabbage, 

onions,  string  beans,  old  beans, 

peas,  turnips,  carrots 
Pears 
Plums 
Cherries 

Fruits  cooked  with  sugar 
Mashed  and  fried  potatoes 
Green  corn 
Melons 


Cantaloupes 

Hot  breads 

Very  hot  and  iced  foods 

All  fried  foods 

Rich  soups  and  sauces 

Pastry 

Cakes 

Preserves 

Hot  puddings 

Tea,    coffee    and    chocolate 

meals 
Effervescing  drinks 


with 


34  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

ANGINA  PECTORIS 

In  this  disease  the  stomach  must  be  kept  in  the  best 
possible  condition.  The  food  must  be  just  enough,  and  not 
one  ounce  too  much.  Flatulency  must  be  avoided.  Like 
many  other  troubles  of  the  circulatory  system,  the  disten- 
tion of  the  stomach  presses  against  the  diaphragm,  and  in 
turn  against  the  heart.  The  heavy  meal  should  be  taken 
at  noon.  Breakfast  should  be  light  and  composed,  largely 
of  w^ell-cooked  cereals  and  cream,  or  poached  or  soft-boiled 
eggs  and  toast. 

Do  not  give  liquids  with  meals.  If  the  patient  has  been 
accustomed  to  coffee,  give  a  cup  of  coffee  an  hour  before  the 
regular  breakfast.  Tender  boiled,  broiled  or  baked  meats 
may  be  given  in  moderation.  Pork,  veal,  and  such  dense 
meats  as  rabbit,  or  fatty  meats  as  duck,  goose  and  turkey, 
must  be  avoided.  Fresh  fruits  and  fruit  juices  are  to  be 
recommended.  Such  green  vegetables  as  spinach,  well 
cooked,  lettuce,  or  cooked  cress  and  asparagus  tips,  do 
not,  as  a  rule,  cause  flatulency.  Hot  water  may  be  taken 
a  half  hour  before  each  meal,  in  the  place  of  soup.  The 
patient  must  avoid  all  highly-seasoned  foods,  rich  sauces, 
sea  foods  with  the  exception  of  oysters  and  white-fleshed 
fish,  rich  desserts,  sweets  and  salads.  Unleavened  bread, 
or  any  hard  bread  that  requires  mastication,  is  best. 

If  flatulency  occurs  in  the  early  morning,  give  the 
patient  two  tablespoonfuls  of  clam  broth,  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  moderately  strong  coffee  mixed  with  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk;  this  must  be  sipped  slow^ly.  Some- 
times a  cup  of  hot  water  will  have  the  desired  effect.  If 
flatulency  is  persistent  in  the  mornings,  give  a  cup  of  hot 
water,  and  follow  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  strained  lemon 
juice.  Continue  this,  and  the  flatulency  will  usually  be 
entirely  corrected. 

The  patient  should  never  try  the  second  time  a  food 
that  has  not  agreed  at  first. 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK  6b 

If  constipation  occurs,  give  a  scraped  apple,  or  Roman 
meal  mush,  or  four  ground  almonds. 

A  good  motto  is  ''Eat  less  than  you  want." 

MAY   EAT 

Eggs  Tender     green     vegetables,     as 
Milk  and  milk  foods  "spinach,  cooked  cress,  aspara- 

Leban  gns    tips,    tender    cauliflower, 

Koumys  summer  squash 

Buttermilk  Oysters    lightly    cooked,    either 
Well-cooked  cereals,  with  cream  soups,  stewed  or    broiled 

White  bread,  stale  or  dry  A  little  white-fleshed  fish,  broiled 

Fresh    fruits,    and     fruit    juices  Stewed  prunes 

alone  Baked  apples 

Cream  soups  Scraped  mutton  cake,  broiled 

Predigested  milk  and  oysters,  if  A  little  broiled  young  chicken 

necessary  Rice 

An  occasional  baked  potato 


AVOID 

Hot  breads  All  sea  foods  except  oysters  and 
Fresh  breads  white-fleshed  fish 

Cakes  Rabbit 

Buns  Rare  steak 

Pies  Rare  roasted  beef 

Sweets  of  all  kinds  Turkey 

Pickles  Duck 

Meat  salads  Goose 

Pork  All  coarse  vegetables 

Veal  Cereals  with  sugar 

All  fried  foods  Starchy  vegetables  with  the  ex- 
ception of  rice 


36  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

ANEURISM 

This  disease  calls  for  a  non-stimulating  diet.  The  heart 
beat  must  be  kept  even  and  slow,  to  lessen  as  much  as  pos- 
sible the  arterial  pressure.  The  diet  must  necessarily  be 
rather  monotonous,  get  variety  by  changing  the  method  of 
service  and  flavoring-s.  Easily-digested  combinations  must 
be  rigidly  enforced.  Flatulency  is  always  dangerous.  If 
the  patient  is  to  be  helped  without  surgical  aid,  a  limited 
diet  must  be  continued  for  some  time. 


BREAKFASTS 

Glass  of  milk,  one-third  barley  water,  sipped  slowly ; 
or  two  ounces  of  stale  bread  with  four  ounces  of  milk ; 
or  four  ounces  of  any  of  the  milk  gruels ;  or  tAvo  ounces 
of  fruit  juice  over  a  small  saucer  of  dextrinized  cereals  of 
some  sort ;  or  the  top  of  a  shredded  wheat  biscuit,  toasted, 
with  milk ;  or  the  top  of  a  shredded  wheat  biscuit,  toasted, 
with  two  ounces  of  grape  juice ;  or  the  beaten  white  of 
Qgg  on  orange  juice,  and  a  Avafer;  or  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
beaten  with  four  ounces  of  milk;  or  the  white  of  an  egg 
thoroughly  shaken  with  six  ounces  of  milk. 

DINNERS 

Two  ounces  of  scraped  meat,  broiled,  with  two  ounces 
of  zweiback,  pulled  bread  or  stale  bread;  or  two  chops  (a 
quarter  of  a  pound)  with  stale  bread  ;  or  a  mutton  cake  (two 
ounces)  with  stale  bread  or  cracker;  or  chicken  timbale 
(three  ounces),  stale  bread  or  cracker;  or  four  ounces  of 
broiled  sweetbread,  stale  bread  or  pulled  bread;  or  four 
ounces  of  cream  of  potato  soup,  with  one  ounce  of  toast. 

SUPPERS 

Three  slices  of  milk  toast  (two  ounces  of  bread  and 
six  ounces  of  milk)  ;  or  six  ounces  of  gelatin  milk;  or  two 
ounces  of  toast,  four  ounces  of  hot  milk  poured  over,  cov- 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  37 

ered  with  the  grated  hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg ;  or  six  ounces 
of  beef  meal  gruel,  with  two  ounces  of  toast. 

If  at  any  time  the  quantities  here  given  should  be  more 
than  can  be  easily  digested,  cut  them  down.  Quantities 
really  have  no  place  in  a  book ;  they  should  be  regulated 
by  the  physician  and  the  nurse. 


APOPLEXY 

Follow  the  first  attack  by  a  fast  of  two,  three  or  four 
days,  as  is  deemed  necessary  by  the  physician.  It  fre- 
quently becomes  necessary  to  give  predigested  foods  by 
rectum.  As  this  disease  often  occurs  in  the  obese,  absti- 
nence from  food  for  even  five  days  is  advantageous.  This 
must,  however,  be  done  by  the  physician's  orders,  and 
under  his  observation.  When  the  coma  has  passed  and 
the  patient  can  swallow,  give  predigested,  condensed  liquid 
foods  by  teaspoonfuls,  and  see  that  each  quantity  is  swal- 
lowed before  a  second  is  given,  otherwise  the  patient  may 
choke  and  draw  the  fluid  into  the  lungs,  causing  inspi- 
ration pneumonia.  As  the  patient  progresses  and  swallow- 
ing becomes  more  natural,  if  there  is  facial  paralysis,  keep 
up  the  concentrated  liquid  foods.  Eggs  and  milk ;  puree 
made  with  milk  and  vegetables ;  cream  and  milk  mixed ; 
"ye  perfect  food" ;  rice  boiled  in  milk  until  tender,  and 
pressed  through  a  sieve ;  rice  cooked  in  chicken  broth  for 
an  hour,  and  pressed  through  a  sieve ;  puree  of  split  peas 
— may  all  be  given  if  they  can  be  swallowed.  Later,  if  the 
patient  has  no  facial  paralysis,  whole  wheat  bread,  baked 
potato,  boiled  rice,  chopped  chicken  made  into  a  timbale, 
soup  a  la  Reine  and  scraped  mutton  cake,  are  next  in  order. 
If  the  patient  is  constipated,  give  two  ounces  of  fruit  juices 
or  almond  milk,  two  or  three  times  a  day.  All  foods  must 
be  nutritious  but  non-stimulating.  Chicken  and  a  little 
mutton  should  be  the  only  meats  used.  The  less  meat,  the 
better.  The  patient  must  not  overeat.  A  little  cold  water, 
early   in   the   morning,   and   between   meals,    is    advisable. 


38 


MRS.    RORERS   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


Alcoholic  liquors  should  not  be  given  unless  ordered  by 
a  physician. 

If  the  patient  recovers  from  this  attack  he  must, 
as  long  as  he  lives,  keep  up  a  vegetable  diet,  substi- 
tuting eggs,  nuts  and  milk  for  meats.  He  must  eat  less 
than  the  appetite  calls  for.  A  "full  meal," — **just  a  little 
dissipation,"  frequently  brings  on  a  second  and  fatal  attack. 


MAY   EAT,   WHEN   SUFFICIENTLY   RECOVERED 


Cream  soups 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

"Ye  perfect  food" 

Cornmeal  mush 

Chicken  noodle  soup 

Eggs  in  all  forms  except  hard 
boiled  and  fried 

White  meat  of  chicken 

Boiled  white  fish 

Baked  potato 

Boiled  rice 

Summer  squash 

Topground  green  vegetables  lightly- 
cooked 

Desserts  made  from  vegetable 
gelatin 

Fresh  fruits  without  skin 

Fruits  stewed  without  sugar,  as 
prunes  and  figs 

Dry,   hard  bread 

Gluten  gems 

Swedish  bread 

Unleavened  bread 

Cocoanut  sticks 

Soups,  maigre 


Custards 

Warm  baked  custards 

Occasionally  tender  lettuce,  Ro- 
maine,  tender  celery,  with 
French  dressing- 
Fresh  fruits,  except  rhubarb 

Cooked  bananas 

Light  milk  puddings 

Milk  and  cream  toast 

Mock  charlotte 

Sago  snow 

A  few  coffee-flavored  desserts 

Cream  of  Wheat,  farina,  well 
cooked 

Toasted  shredded  wheat,  with  hot 
milk  and  cream 

Rice  pudding 

Rice  a  I'lmperatrice 

Rice  dumpling 

Rice  cream 

Rice  pudding  with  malt 

Fruit  toasts — elderberry,  black- 
berry and  raspberry 

Apples,  simply  cooked 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


39 


AVOID 


Meats 

Pink-fleshed  fish 

Oysters 

Crabs 

Clams 

Lobsters 

Shrimps 

Scallops 

All  made-over  dishes 

Fried  foods 

Rich  soups  and  sauces 

Boiled  and  mashed  potatoes 

Fried  potatoes 

Hot  breads 

All  sweets 

Pies 

Puddings 


Cakes 

Preserves 

Stewed  fruits  with  sugar 

Ice  creams  and  ices  at  the  end  of 

a  meal 
Pickles 

Condiments  of  all  kinds 
Rhubarb 

Raw  apples,  unless  scraped 
Concentrated  beef  soups,  like  beef 

tea 
The  internal  organs  of  animals,  as 

sweetbreads,  tripe,  and  liver 
All  coarse  vegetables 
White  bread  made  with  sugar  and 

lard 


PERNICIOUS  ANEMIA 

The  defective  assimilation  of  proteids  seems  to  be  the 
chief  obstacle  to  overcome  in  the  feeding  of  this  disease. 
It  is  always  a  question  whether  those  from  animal  or  from 
vegetable  foods  are  more  easily  assimilated.  In  a  well-known 
sanitarium  in  this  country,  pernicious  anaemia  patients  are  put 
on  a  diet  rich  in  proteids,  but  free  from  the  flesh  of  animals. 
Milk  and  eggs,  with  such  vegetables  as  ground  and  cooked 
nuts,  and  the  leguminous  seeds,  are  substituted.  The  eating 
of  fatty  foods,  butter,  cream,  cocoanut  cream  and  nut  oils,  is 
encouraged  to  the  limit  of  toleration  and  digestion. 

In  severe  cases,  it  is  wise  at  first  to  predigest  all  foods 
given.  Specially-peptonized  milk,  milk  jelly  and  milk 
punch  are' to  be  preferred.  If  starches  are  given,  arrow- 
root, rice  flour  and  potato  flour  cooked  in  milk,  are  best, 
and  they  should  be  given  alone,  between  meals.  Home- 
made pemmican  is  a  food  par  excellence  in  this  disease. 
The  marrow  must  be  taken  from  the  long  beef  bones,  and 
if  the  patient  refuses  to  eat  it  raw,  it  may  be  boiled  and  then 


40 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE  SICK 


broiled  and  served  on  toast;  but  it  is  far  better  chopped, 
uncooked,  and  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  stale  bread 
crumbs ;  season  it  with  a  little  plain  salt  or  celery  salt. 


MAY  EAT 


Eggs,  raw,  with  milk 
Egg  flip 

Raw  egg  with  sherry- 
Raw  egg  with  cream 
Milk  with  cream 
"Asses'  milk" 
"Tigers'  milk" 
Orgeat 

Wheat  germ  food  with  cream 
Beef  meal 
Beef  panada 
Soup  a  la  Reine 
Milk    soups    with    whole    wheat 

bread 
Meigg's  food 
Chocolate 
Cocoa 
Arrowroot 
Rice  flour 

Potato  flour  cooked  in  milk 
Boiled  rice 
Laibose 
Meltose 
Samatose 
Roborat 


Revalenta    Arabica 

Albuminized  milk 

Modified  milk 

Whey  with  cream 

Whole  wheat  bread,  well  buttered 

Ground  almonds  in  milk 

Almond  butter  on  bread 

Brazilian  nut  butter 

Cocoanut   cream 

Cocoanut  milk  and  egg 

Albuminized  cocoanut  milk 

Broiled  sweetbreads 

Predigested   sweetbreads 

Predigested  milk 

Broiled  scraped  beef 

Broiled  scraped  mutton 

Stewed  tripe 

Arrowroot 

Rice  flour 

Potato  flour 

Puree  of  dried  peas 

Puree  of  lentils 

Beef    marrow,    raw    and    cooked 

Homemade  pemmican 

Milk,  with  a  little  cream  added 


ANEMIA  (CHLOROSIS) 

Acute  anaemia  arising  from  hemorrhage,  needs  the  im- 
mediate care  of  a  physician  and  is  not  considered  here. 

These  directions  are  for  the  "anaemic  girl,"  who  is  fre- 
quently neglected  and  becomes  a  chronic  invalid  before  any 
one  realizes  she  is  ill. 

The  body  is  properly  nourished  when  the  condition  and 
circulation  of  the  blood  are  good.  In  anaemia  the  blood  becomes 
thin  and  watery,  impoverished  in  red  corpuscles,  and  while 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  41 

this  is  not  a  true  disease  in  the  minds  of  many  persons,  it  is 
certainly  a  sign  of  a  serious  trouble  near  at  hand  that  calls  for 
immediate  and  special  treatment. 

Young  girls  coming  into  womanhood  are  frequently  over- 
taxed by  a  multiplicity  of  duties  and  social  engagements. 
Hard  study  frequently  lasts  into  the  night  and  robs  her  of  the 
proper  rest  and  outdoor  physical  .exercise.  Indoor  exercise, 
even  if  taken  in  a  well-ventilated  room,  does  not  take  the  place 
of  the  outdoor  romp.  She  eats  candy  before  going  to  bed 
and  frequently  sleeps  in  the  same  room  in  which  she  has 
studied  and  without  changing  the  air.  She  is  simply  under- 
going a  slow  process  of  poisoning.  Headaches,  lassitude, 
and  indifference  to  things  in  general,  are  the  first  symptoms 
of  "the  breakdown."  She  is  not  hungry  in  the  morning;  but 
our  present  school  system  makes  it  obligatory  for  her  to  eat 
when  breakfast  is  on  the  table,  at  a  regular  and  early  hour. 
She  is  criticised  if  she  does  not  eat,  so  she  eats  and  carries 
the  food  in  her  stomach,  undigested,  until  luncheon  time. 
This  is  the  first  step  to  serious  digestive  troubles.  To  allay 
the  craving  of  her  stomach  she  eats  pickles,  lemons,  candy, 
salt,  any  unnatural  thing  she  can  find  and  keep  in  her  room. 
Doctor  Fothergill  tells  us,  ''Health  is  a  long  price  to  pay  for 
education,  and  our  modern  system  of  feeding,  in  both  boys' 
and  girls'  schools,  kills  off  the  weak,  ruins  the  middling 
and  makes  invalids  of  the  well." 

Another  type  is  found  among  the  society  girls,  whose 
physical  foundations  have  been  neglected  from  early  childhood. 

Treatment  for  anaemia  must  continue  until  there  is  a 
perfect  recovery.  Rest  is  necessary ;  early  to  bed  and  late 
to  rise  is  a  good  motto.  In  the  morning,  brush  the  teeth 
and  drink  slowly  a  glass  of  milk  or  a  cup  of  cafe  au  lait, 
before  arising.  Rest  two  hours,  then  take  a  sponge  bath, 
with  a  thorough  rub.  Rest  a  half  hour,  then  eat  breakfast 
composed  of  two  soft-boiled  eggs  and  a  bit  of  toast;  or  a 
dish  of  beauregard  eggs ;  or  golden  toast ;  or  a  scraped  beef 
cake,  broiled ;  or  two  eggs  with  a  slice  of  whole  wheat  bread 
well  buttered ;  or  oatmeal  or  cornmeal  mush  with  cream ; 


42  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

or  poached  eggs  on  broiled  bacon  or  toast;  or  a  broiled 
chop,  with  creamed  potato. 

The  noonday  meal  should  consist  of  concentrated 
foods,  broiled  steak,  chop  or  chicken,  baked  potato  or  boiled 
rice,  eggs,  except  fried  or  hard  boiled,  tender  hearts  of 
lettuce  with  French  dressing.  Between  dinner  and  supper 
give  a  glass  of  milk,  quarter  cream ;  for  the  sake  of  variety 
this  may  be  alternated  with  koumys  or  zoolak. 

For  supper  give  cream  toast;  whole  wheat  bread  well 
buttered,  with  sliced  tomato  covered  with  cocoanut  cream; 
old-fashioned  rice  puddings;  Wheatena  and  cream;  dates 
and  milk;  corn  bread,  or  baked  apples  and  cream  with  hard 
bread ;  stewed  prunes  with  rice  and  cream ;  steamed  figs 
with  cream  and  corn  gems;  or  a  bowl  of  cream  soup  with 
whole  wheat  bread. 

At  the  close  of  the  noonday  meal,  if  a  salad  is  not  eaten, 
sip  slowly,  almost  drop  by  drop,  a  teaspoonful  of  olive  oil, 
and  eat,  masticating  thoroughly,  six  blanched  and  dried, 
not  toasted,  almonds. 

Anaemic  girls  frequently  continue  in  their  lassitude 
until  they  can  assimilate  a  goodly  quantity  of  easily-digested 
proteids  and  raw  fats  such  as  butter,  cream,  cocoanut  cream 
and  olive  oil.  However,  they  must  avoid  fat  meats ;  to  be 
palatable  and  wholesome  the  fats  of  meat  must  be  cooked, 
and  heat  renders  fats  less  liable  to  agree  with  a  delicate 
stomach.  Bacon  is  the  exception ;  if  it  is  relished,  give  two 
slices  every  other  morning.  It  is  an  agreeable  addition 
to  poached  eggs  on  toast. 

If  olive  oil  cannot  be  taken  from  the  spoon,  make  it 
into  French  dressing  with' a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and 
use  it  over  tender  lettuce,  imported  endive,  tender  celery, 
cold,  carefully-cooked  spinach,  string  beans,  or  cress. 

Plenty  of  fresh  air  without  violent  exercise  is  of  equal 
importance  with  correct  diet.  A  short  walk  each  day  is  to 
be  recommended.  In  walking,  hold  the  body  erect,  draw 
the  abdomen  in,  put  the  ball  of  the  foot  first  to  the  ground. 
The  clothing  must  be  loose,   light,   warm   and   suspended 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  43 

from  the  ^Houlders.  Skirts  should  be  of  light  material, 
wool  preferably;  they  should  be  comfortably  narrow  and 
short,  and  buttoned  to  the  bottom  of  a  loose  waist  or  corset. 
Shoes  must  fit  the  feet,  and  have  broad  soles  and  low,  broad 
heels.  Gloves  should  be  sufficiently  loose  not  to  press  the 
circulation  at  the  wrist. 

Under  no  circumstances  must  the  patient  become 
weary ;  better  spend  all  day  in  a  hammock  in  the  open  air 
than  have  a  moment's  fatigue. 

Avoid  bulk  foods ;  the  appetite  becomes  satisfied  before 
a  sufficient  amount  of  food  has  been  eaten.  If  the  appetite 
flags,  and  it  usually  does  in  the  early  morning,  give  the 
juice  of  two  oranges,  or  two  ounces  of  good  percolated 
coffee  with  two  ounces  of  hot  milk ;  these  are  light  and 
desirable  stimulants.  Some  authorities  object  to  coffee, 
but  the  writer  can  see  no  harm  in  a  cup  of  good  coffee, 
taken  alone  in  the  morning. 

In  cases  where  anaemic  conditions  are  of  long  standing, 
a  selected  diet  must  be  continued  for  months. 


MAY  EAT 

Cream  soups  ,    Whole  wheat  bread 

Noodle  soup  Corn  bread 

Chicken  jelly  Gluten  breads 

B'eef  jelly  Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Broiled  white-fleshed  fish  Eggs   in    any   way   but    fried    and 
Boiled  fish  hard  boiled 

Planked  fish  Cup  custards 

Beef  Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 

Mutton  Whipped  cream  desserts 

Chicken  Fruit  juices 

Turkey  Fresh  fruits 

Occasionally  duck  Unleavened   bread   and   crisp   bis- 
Game  of  all  kinds  cuits 

Tender  green  vegetables  Fruit  tapioca  with  cream 

Baked  potato  Oatmeal   occasionally 

Boiled  rice  Wheat  germ  cereals 

Macaroni  with  cheese  Farina 

Macaroni,  Italian  fashion  Cream  of  Wheat,  with  cream 


44 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


MAY   EAT— Continued 


Simple  plain  salads,  with  French 
dressing 

Occasionally  cold  chicken  with 
mayonnaise ;  cold  fish  with  may- 
onnaise 

A  little  ripe  cheese 

Cottage  cheese ;  schmierkase 

Chocolate,  occasionally,  and  cocoa 

Milk  and   cream 

Leban 

Koumys 

Matzoon 

Buttermilk 

Junket  with  cream 

Butter 

Olive  oil 

A  small   quantity  of  rich  cream 

Cocoanut  cream 

Soft  custards 

Wheatlet 

Wheatena 

Oatmeal  occasionally 

Top  ground  green  vegetables 

Puree  of  lentils 


Portuguese  soup 

Beef  gruel 

Ye  perfect  food 

Golden  toast 

Beauregard  eggs 

Cocoa 

Desserts    of    rice    and    milk 

Prunes,  figs  and  dates,  without 

sugar 
Sweetbreads 
Tripe 

Brown  bread 
Rye  bread 
Tender  cauliflower 
Peas 

Summer  squash 
Sweet   corn 
Very     young     turnips,      stewed 

with  cream 
Asparagus  tips 
Spinach 
A  little  water  cress,  lettuce  and 

imported    endive 


MUST    AVOID 


Pork 

Veal 

Salt  meats 

Salt  fish 

Pink-fleshed  fish 

Lobster 

Crabs 

Shrimps 

Clams 

Oysters 

Made-over  dishes 

Rich  made  dishes 

Warmed-over  meats 

Hot  bread 

White  bread 

Skimmed  milk 


Tea 

Coffee,   except  in  the  morning 

All  coarse  vegetables 

Mashed  potatoes 

Fried  foods 

Sweets 

Pies 

Puddings 

Cakes 

Candies 

Ice  water 

Rhubarb 

Lemons 

Limes 

Pickles  of  all  kinds 

Highly-spiced  dishes 


MRS.   RORER'S   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  45 

DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH 

In  all  diseases  of  the  stomach  cures  are  effected  by- 
diet  that  are  quite  unattainable  by  drugs.  No  absolute  rules 
can  be  formulated  that  will  enable  people  to  cure  them- 
selves. The  term  "dyspepsia"  is  used  to  cover  a  multitude 
of  sins ;  in  fact,  every  pain  in  the  stomach  or  discomfort  after 
eating  is  called  by  most  persons  dyspepsia  or  "indigestion." 
Food  is  correct,  as  a  rule,  when  it  produces  no  discomfort 
in  the  stomach  and  passes  into  the  intestines  without  creat- 
ing gas  and  flatulency.  "Intestinal  indigestion" — starch 
indigestion — is  by  far  the  most  common  among  the  people 
of  the  United  States,  and  is  perhaps  most  easily  cured. 
Gastric  troubles  are  much  more  difficult  to  regulate,  as 
almost  invariably  the  motor,  as  well  as  the  secretory  action, 
is  impaired.  In  such  cases  the  food  eaten  must  be  most 
easily  digested  and  yet  it  must  be  very  nutritious. 

Dyspeptics  like  rheumatics  are  found  in  two  classes: 
the  hearty  eater  who  lives  on  rich  foods  until  the  digestive 
powers  are  over  taxed,  and  the  "moderate"  eater,  who  eats 
toast,  tea,  fruits  stewed  with  sugar,  fried  meats,  fried  pota- 
toes, pies  and  layer  cakes,  which  for  some  unknown  reason 
he  considers  a  simple  diet.  The  latter  class  are  by  far  the 
more  difficult  to  cure.  The  first  class  are,  as  a  rule,  greatly 
benefited  by  a  fast  for  two  or  three  days,  then  a  milk  diet 
for  two  weeks,  coming  back  gradually  to  a  normal  diet, 
composed  of  milk  soups,  stale  breads,  chopped  broiled  beef, 
and  simple  well-cooked  green  vegetables. 

The  second  class  will  do  well  to  live  on  milk,  eggs  and 
meat,  bread  and  rice,  for  one  or  two  months,  as  case  may 
require.     They  must  avoid  all  fried  food,  tea  and  coffee. 

To  keep  up  the  balance  a  patient  in  bed  requires  one- 
fifth  the  food  of  an  active  person  in  health.  In  all  gastric 
disorders  the  appetite  is  never  keen — nature's  warning  to 
eat  but  little. 

Kest  the  stomach  as  much  as  possible.  A  two  or  three 
days'  fast  frequently  forms  a  foundation  on  which  to  build 
a  cure. 


46 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


A  FEW  GOLDEN  RULES  FOR  THE  ORDINARY 
DYSPEPTIC 

Masticate  everything  twice  as  long  as  you  think  it  is 
necessary. 

Do  not  drink  while  food  is  in  the  mouth. 

Do  not  soften  hard  foods,  as  toast  or  bread  crusts,  by 
dipping  them  in  water,  milk,  tea  or  coffee. 

Never  drink  tea  and  coffee  at  meals.  A  cup  of  milk 
flavored  with  coffee  may  be  taken  in  the  morning.  Weak 
tea,  with  lemon  and  sugar,  may  be  taken  between  the  noon- 
day and  night  meals. 

Leave  the  table  before  you  feel  quite  satisfied. 

Eat  food  at  moderate  temperatures,  never  too  hot 
nor  iced. 

Rest,  but  do  not  sleep,  thirty  minutes  after  each  meal. 


AVOID 

at  all  times  and  under  all  conditions,  even  after  a  so-called 
cure  is  effected : 


All  fried  foods 

Sweets 

Cooked  fats  on  meat 

Tea    and    coffee    with    sugar    and 

cream  with  meals 
Chocolate  with  meals 
Salads   with   mayonnaise   dressing 
Pork 
Veal 
Sausages 

Highly-seasoned  sauces 
Meat  gravies  of  all  kinds 
Pies 
Cake 


Preserves 

Iced  food  at  the  end  of  the  meal 

Pickles 

Boiled  cabbage 

Boiled  dinners  in  general 

The  outside  pieces  of  baked  or 
roasted  meats 

Hot  breads,  except  crisp,  well- 
baked  waffles 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Sea  foodg,  except  white-fleshed  fish 

Thick  rich  soups 

Wines  at  meals 


Where  there  is  too  little  hydrochloric  acid  in  the  gas- 
tric secretions,  give  peptonized  milk,  peptonized  oysters, 
skimmed  milk  gruels,  white  of  egg  and  whey,  well-cooked 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR   THE    SICK 


47 


light  cereals,  with  skimmed  milk,  vegetable  gelatin  with 
very  little  sugar  and  orange  juice ;  puree  of  chestnuts  made 
without  cream  or  butter;  rice  pudding  made  from  skimmed 
milk ;  albumin  and  skimmed  milk ;  milk  toast  without  but- 
ter; rice  flour  custards;  potato  flour  custard  made  with 
white  of  egg,  no  yolk ;  buttermilk ;  matzoon ;  koumys ; 
samatose. 

Later,  if  conditions  allow,  give  a  scraped  meat  cake, 
broiled ;  eight  blanched,  dried  and  grated  almonds,  mixed 
with  four  times  the  quantity  of  scraped  mutton,  broiled ; 
cocoanut  milk  custard;  lightly  cooked  eggs;  a  little  broiled 
young  chicken ;  boiled  rice ;  Cream  of  Wheat,  with  skimmed 
milk ;  stale  white  bread ;  fruit  juices  alone ;  almond  wafers. 
A  plain,  simple  diet  must  be  continued  for  some  time. 
Other  easily  digested  foods  that  are  neither  sweet  nor  fatty, 
may  be  added  gradually. 


MAY   EAT 


Peptonized  milk 

Peptonized    oysters 

White  of  egg  and  whey 

Skimmed  milk  gruels 

Well-cooked  Cream  of  Wheat 
and  farina  with  skimmed  milk 

Baked  potato  with  salt,  no  but- 
ter 

Scraped  beef  cake,  broiled 

Scraped  mutton  cake,  mixed 
with  eight  blanched,  grated 
almonds;   broiled 

Cocoanut  milk  custards 

Lightly  cooked  eggs 

Boiled  mutton 

Boiled  chicken 

Rice  pudding  made  from  skim- 
med milk 

Skimmed  milk  koumys 

Stale  bread  without  butter 


Daintily  cooked  top-ground 
vegetables,  skimmed  milk 
sauce 

Nut  butter 

Tender  hearts  of  lettuce  with 
lemon  juice 

Albumin   in   skimmed   milk 

Albumin  whey 

Beef  panada,  made  with  water 

An  occasional  clear  beef  soup 

Chestnut  puree  made  from  skim- 
med milk 

Boiled  rice 

Carefully  baked  banana  without 
sugar  or  butter 

Bananas  stewed  in  water,  very 
slightly  sweetened 

Fruit  juices 

Fresh  ripe  soft  fruits  without 
skin  or  seeds 


48 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


AVOID 

All  fatty  foods,  as  cream,  butter,       Puddings 


olive  oil,  cocoanut  creams 
Hot  dishes 
Iced  dishes 
Iced  water 

Strong  tea  and  coflfee 
Chocolate 
Pork;  veal 
Goose 
Turkey 
Fried  foods 
Sweets 


Pies 

Cakes 

Coarse   underground   vegetables 

Hot  breads,  as  muffins,  gems, 
etc. 

Rich  cream  soups 

All  sea  foods,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  white-fleshed  fish  and 
oysters,  broiled 

All  spiritous  liquors,  unless  or- 
dered by  a  physician 


If  there  is  an  excess  of  hydrochloric  acid  in  the  gastric 
secretions,  fatty  foods  are  called  for.  Cream,  olive  oil,  but- 
ter, cocoanut  cream,  an  occasional  piece  of  broiled  bacon; 
cereals  with  cream ;  baked  potatoes  with  butter  or  cream ; 
minced  chicken  in  cream  sauce;  broiled  steak  with  butter 
sauce ;  broiled  chop ;  boiled  pigeon ;  tender  green  vegeta- 
bles with  cream  sauce,  may  all  be  used  for  dinner.  Give 
for  the  night  meal,  cream  toast,  or  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
beaten  with  a  half  pint  of  milk,  and  dry  toast ;  stale  bread, 
with  milk  and  cream ;  rice  puddings,  cup  custards  or  well- 
cooked  cereals  with  cream. 

MAY   EAT 


Whole  milk 

Milk  soups 

Cream  on  cereals 

Whipped  cream  desserts 

Nut  dishes 

Nut  milk 

Whole   wheat   and   white   bread 

one  day  old,  well  buttered 
Eggs,   lightly  cooked,  not   fried 
Koumys 
Matzoon 
Buttermilk 
Leban 
Dainty    green    vegetable    salads 

with  French  dressing 


Baked  potatoes,  mashed,  with 
cream 

Boiled  rice 

Gluten  bread,  well  buttered 

Broiled  meats  in  a  small  quan- 
tity 

Puree   of   lentils 

Purees  of  fresh  green  vege- 
tables 

Broiled  bacon 

Beef  meal 

Cocoa 

Chocolate  made  from  milk  with 
whipped  cream 

One  hour  before  meals  a  table- 
spoonful  of  olive  oil 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  49 

AVOID 

Excessive  meat  diet  Coarse  underground  vegetables 

Pickles;   spiced  foods  Pork;  veal 

All  sweets  Duck 

Soft  breads;  hot  breads  Goose     and     turkey,     except     a 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar  little  white  meat 

Fried  foods  Ice  creams  and  ices 

Fish;   Crustacea;   mollusks  All   spiritous  liquors,  unless  or- 

Tea  and  coffee  dered  by  a  physician 

Milk  and  meat  at  the  same  meal  Malt  liquors 

Eggs  and  meat  at  the  same  meal  Iced  drinks 

Sauces  and  rich  soups  Nibbling  between  meals 

In  dilatation  of  the  stomach,  the  selection  of  the  proper 
quantity  of  correct  food  is  quite  difficult.  There  may  be 
an  excess  or  a  deficiency  of  hydrochloric  acid  in  the  gastric 
secretions;  this,  of  course,  will  be  determined  by  the  phy- 
sician, who  will  from  his  analysis  formulate  a  diet.  In 
this  disease  bulk  must  be  given  to  excite  the  motor  action 
of  the  stomach,  and  bulk  is  frequently  the  very  thing  to 
avoid  on  account  of  accompanying  conditions.  If  there  is 
dilatation  and  a  deficiency  of  hydrochloric  acid,  exclude 
all  fats  and  fatty  foods.  Give  a  full  diet  of  broiled  lean 
meats,  boiled  mutton,  with  baked  potatoes,  rice,  spinach, 
cauliflower,  lettuce,  cress,  stewed  summer  squash,  stewed 
cucumber,  fruit  tapiocas,  dried  fruits  stewed  without  sugar, 
farina,  Cream  of  Wheat,  milk  puddings  and  fruit  vegetable 
gelatins ;  stale  whole  wheat  or  white  bread,  or  toasted  pilot 
bread,  potato  sticks  or  cocoanut  fingers ;  any  hard  bread 
that  requires  mastication. 

On  the  other  hand,  if  there  is  an  excess  of  hydrochloric 
acid,  cream  may  be  added  to  the  preceding  diet  in  quanti- 
ties determined  by  the  physician. 

"Dyspepsia"  with  Flatulency — This  usually  comes  to 
persons  who  drink  tea  and  coffee,  with  sugar  and  milk, 
with  their  meals,  and  to  those  who  eat  soft  foods,  and  to 
those  who  bolt  most  of  the  solid  foods.  To  correct  these 
conditions,  avoid  all  starches,  sugars,  all  made-over  dishes, 
tea  and  coffee,  liquids  with  meals;  in  fact,  it  is  better  to 
4 


50  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

take  meat  at  one  meal,  and  vegetables  at  another,  if  vege- 
tables do  not  cause  flatulency.  Sip  a  half  pint  of  hot  water 
a  half  hour  before  each  meal,  and  drink  a  cup  of  weak  tea, 
with  lemon  and  no  sugar,  in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon. 
Take  clear  orange  juice  early  in  the  morning  in  place  of  hot 
water.  Sometimes  four  tablespoonfuls  of  black  coffee,  hot, 
may  be  sipped  in  the  morning  to  advantage.  This  may  be 
followed  by  two  soft-boiled  eggs  and  a  bit  of  very  stale 
bread,  nothing  more.  If  hunger  comes  in  the  middle  of  the 
morning  take  a  glass  of  modified  milk,  or  beef  tea,  mutton 
broth,  or  chicken  broth. 

For  the  noonday  meal,  eat  boiled  meats,  or  chopped 
meats,  broiled  or  panned,  and  eat  with  them  a  saucer  of 
sliced  oranges,  or  a  few  white  grapes,  and  one  dozen 
blanched  and  dried,  not  roasted,  almonds.  These  fruits 
may  be  alternated  with  a  tender  heart  of  lettuce,  a  slice  of 
tomato  without  vinegar  or  oil,  or  very  tender  celery  or 
endive.  For  the  night  meal,  take  milk  toast  or  milk  toast 
with  hard-boiled  egg,  any  of  the  nut  dishes,  or  cold-boiled 
chicken,  but  not  any  two  of  these  together,  unless  it  is 
chicken  and  lettuce.  It  is  wise  never  to  eat  meat  and  milk, 
or  meat  and  vegetables,  at  the  same  meal.  A  restricted 
diet  of  this  kind  must  be  kept  up  until  a  cure  is  effected. 

Atonic  Dyspepsia — Fruit  juices  are  foods  par  excel- 
lence in  this  disease.  The  gastric  secretions  are  weak. 
Foods  must  be  tasty,  because  the  appetite  is  slim.  A  baked 
potato,  mashed  with  a  little  butter,  and  a  drop  of  tabasco, 
is  frequently  relished ;  chopped  meat  cakes,  seasoned  with 
tabasco.  It  is  preferable  .to  use  liquid  pepper,  as  it  does 
not  contain  the  irritating  outside  hull  of  black  pepper. 
Broiled  steak,  a  chop,  roasted  beef,  chicken,  turkey,  are 
all  admissible.  Meat  or  eggs  should  be  given  twice  a  day. 
No  coarse  vegetables  are  allowable,  but  dainty  green  vege- 
table salads,  seasoned  with  French  dressing — oil,  a  drop  of 
tabasco  and  lemon  juice — are  to  be  recommended.  Very 
ripe  raw  fruits  and  fruit  juices,  cauliflower,  tender  lettuce, 
summer  squash,  tapioca,  flavored  with  fruit  juice,  and  cream 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE   SICK    '  51 

soups,  are  admissible.  Highly-seasoned,  rich  food  must  be 
given  up  entirely. 

Hungry  Dyspeps,ia — There  are  certain  dyspeptics  who 
seem  to  be  always  hungry.  Digestion  has  been  overtaxed 
for  so  long,  that  but  little  of  the  food  ingested  is  assimi- 
lated, the  remaining  portions  pass  from  the  body  in  almost 
the  same  condition  as  when  eaten.  It  is  not  the  stomach 
that  is  calling  for  food,  but  the  ill-fed  body.  The  tissues 
are  starving. 

Avoid  all  irritating  foods,  as  bran  bread,  peas,  husks  of 
corn,  skins  of  fruit,  black  pepper,  ground  spices,  and  coarse 
vegetables,  that  contain  cellulose. 

To  bring  about  a  cure,  eating  between  meals  must  be 
stopped.  When  hunger  comes,  giye  a  glass  of  water,  or 
fruit  juices.  The  stomach  must  have  absolute  rest  between 
each  of  the  three  meals  a  day.  If  the  patient  cannot  be 
taught  to  restrain  the  appetite  at  the  regular  table,  weigh 
the  correct  quantity  of  food,  and  insist  upon  his  eating 
alone.  Purees  of  old  beans,  peas,  and  lentils,  cream  soups, 
strained  cereals,  baked  potato,  boiled  rice,  stewed  macaroni 
and  cheese,  cauliflower,  nut  dishes,  and  boiled  meats,  are 
best  to  allay  the  hunger.  Do  not  give  more  than  two  dishes 
at  a  meal.  Give  meat  and  potato  at  one  meal,  cream  soup 
and  bread  at  another,  or  macaroni  and  cheese,  or  meat  and 
lettuce,  or  eggs,  bacon  and  bread,  or  cereals  with  milk. 

MAY  EAT 

Cream  soups  Eggs 

Strained  cereals  Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Baked  potatoes  Nuts  (a  few) 

Boiled  rice  Almonds  with  meat 

Stewed  macaroni  Raw    pineapple,    grated,    served 

Hom.iny;  hominy  grits  as   a   sauce    to  broiled    meats, 

Baked  sweet  potatoes  or    sliced    eaten    with    broiled 

Mashed  and  baked  sweet  potatoes  meats 

Pumpkin,  baked  or  stewed  Light  desserts,  like   fruit  tapiocas 

Stale  breads  Very  tender  green  salads 

Green  peas  Cauliflower 

Broiled,  roasted  or  baked  meats  Spinach 


52  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

AVOID 

Tea  Spiced  foods 

Coffee  Coarse  vegetables 

Pork  Beans  with  hulls  on 

Veal  Underground  vegetables,  with  the 

Fried  foods  exception  of  potato 

Sweets  in  general  Pears 

Pickles  Watermelons 

Bran   bread  Cantaloupes 

Pepper  Rich  soups  and  sauces 

Nervous  "Dyspepsia" — Nervous  indigestion  is  a  term 
used  to  cover  all  sorts  of  morbid  conditions  that  arise  from 
defective  nutrition  and  physical  abuses.  When  we  speak  of 
physical  abuses,  we  have  in  mind  the  active  business  man 
and  the  editor,  who  are  overworked  and  badly  fed.  Defect- 
ive nutrition  does  not  always  come  from  lack  of  food ;  on 
the  contrary,  the  overfed,  the  obese  and  the  painfully  thin, 
are  all,  as  a  rule,  ill-nourished.  Bolting-  one's  food  pro- 
duces indigestion  that  is  the  forerunner  of  nervousness. 
The  vital  question  is,  however,  how  can  we  best  correct 
these  conditions?     What  is  the  royal  road  to  cure? 

Keep  your  thoughts  in  the  right  place,  and  do  not 
worry  about  your  ailments  or  your  business.  Do  not  talk 
of  them  to  either  your  family  or  your  neighbors ;  it  is 
inelegant.  All  forms  of  sickness  are  more  or  less  deform- 
ities, not  to  be  spoken  of  in  public. 

Do  not  take  drugs  without  a  physician's  advice;  it  is 
always  dangerous. 

Fried  foods,  fruits  stewed  with  sugar,  mashed  potatoes, 
soups,  and  things  that  can  be  swallowed  quickly  at  the 
luncheon  counter,  must  be  given  up.  These  foods  kill  the 
weak,  ruin  the  middling  and  help  many  thousands  to  hos- 
pitals for  the  insane. 

Do  not  eat  too  many  dead  foods — overcooked  meats 
and  made  dishes,  doughnuts,  pies  and  puddings.  Use  raw 
fruits,  fresh  green  vegetables,  lightly  cooked,  and  fresh 
green  salads  with  French  dressing. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  53 

A  cure  is  frequently  brought  about  by  eating  meat  at 
one  meal,  and  vegetables  at  another;  fruits  early  in  the 
morning  or  between  meals,  or  if  you  eat  a  hearty  breakfast, 
eat  fruit  for  luncheon,  and  depend  upon  a  nutritious  dinner 
for  general  body-building  material. 

Avoid  slops — fermented  liquors,  weak  tea  and  coffee 
loaded  with  sugar  and  cream.     Eat  three  good  meals  a  day. 

Do  not  drink  milk  rapidly  as  though  it  were  water; 
it  is  not  a  beverage ;  it  is  a  food. 

Do  not  take  milk  and  fruits  at  the  same  meal,  nor  milk 
and  meats. 

Avoid  rich,  oily  fish,  as  shad,  pike,  salmon,  sturgeon, 
catfish,  eels  and  mackerel ;  all  Crustacea,  as  lobsters,  crabs, 
shell  fish,  clams,  scallops  and  oysters;  condiments  and  hot 
foods  covered  with  melted  butter. 

Clam  broth  and  oyster  bouillon  may  be  taken  with 
good  results. 

Complicated  sweets  and  heated  fats  induce  false  fer- 
mentation and  produce  flatulency  and  generate  an  excess 
of  undesirable  acids  which  prevent  perfect  digestion. 

Avoid  pork,  veal  and  overfat  poultry,  as  ducks,  turkeys 
and  geese. 

Eat  milk,  eggs,  broiled  steak,  chops,  roasted  beef,  mut- 
ton, broiled  chicken  and  dishes  made  from  chopped  meats, 
carefully  broiled;  now  and  then  a  baked  potato;  whole 
wheat  bread,  well  buttered ;  crisp  Erench  bread,  well  but- 
tered; fresh  green  peas,  spinach,  tender  white  celery,  im- 
ported endive,  Romaine,  hearts  of  lettuce,  stewed  cucum- 
bers, dry  boiled  rice,  stewed  spaghetti  and  macaroni.  A 
dozen  unroasted  and  unsalted  almonds,  well  masticated,  at 
the  close  of  dinner,  will  aid,  digestion.  Put  a  bit  of  butter 
(not  salt)  on  each  piece  of  celery  as  you  bite  it  off. 

Use  pure  olive  oil  and  lemon  juice  over  dinner  salads, 
and  masticate  every  piece  thoroughly.  In  fact,  butter, 
cream,  olive  oil  or  homemade  cocoanut  milk  and  cream 
should  be  used  in  moderate  quantities  once  a  day. 


54  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

An  excellent  breakfast  cereal  is  ordinary  white  bread, 
cut  into  inch  cubes  and  dried,  not  toasted,  served  with  half 
cream  and  half  milk. 

An  excellent  plan  is  to  use  a  half  pint  of  cream  a  day; 
use  it  in  the  morning  on  hard  bread ;  for  dinner,  over  a  light 
dessert 

ACUTE  GASTRITIS 

Immediate  treatment  is  necessary ;  do  not  neglect  a 
day ;  incurable  conditions  may  appear.  Diet  is  of  primary 
importance,  as  drugs  frequently  irritate  the  stomach  and 
should  never  be  given  except  under  the  supervision  of  a 
physician.  Select  a  non-stimulating  diet,  one  that  will 
utilize  the  secretions  formed  by  its  presence  in  the  stomach. 
The  patient  should  have  rest,  and  the  motor  action  of  the 
stomach  must  not  be  taxed  in  the  slightest  degree.  A  good 
balance  can  be  maintained  for  several  days  by  the  use  of 
milk  preparg-tions.  Albuminized  milk,  modified  milk,  pep- 
tonized milk,  sipped  slowly — held  in  the  mouth  a  second  or 
two  before  swallowing.  Later,  when  the  appetite  comes, 
give  cornmeal  and  arrowroot  gruels,  "ye  perfect  food," 
Meiggs'  food,  egg  flip,  egg  cordial,  almond  milk  and  plum 
porridge.  After  this,  if  the  patient  is  improving,  add  a  little 
finely-minced  sweetbread ;  scraped  mutton  cake,  with  dry, 
un-buttered,  bread ;  soup  a  la  Reine  and  Salisbury  meat 
cake.     1)0  not,  however,  add  solid  foods  too  soon. 

Fruit  juices  may  be  given  throughout  the  disease,  not 
with  meals,  but  as  a  feeding.  If  any  of  these  foods  do  not 
irritate  the  stomach  and  seem  to  agree,  continue  for  several 
days,  changing  from  one  to  another  to  keep  up  variety.  If 
sweet  milk  does  not  agree  (and  it  will  not  unless  sipped 
slowly)  substitute  modified  milk,  or  milk  and  lime  water, 
or  whey,  with  the  addition -of  milk  sugar. 

This  disease  calls  for  moist,  not  dry  foods.  Well- 
cooked  light  cereals,  as  farina.  Cream  of  Wheat  and 
Wheatlet,  will  take  the  place  of  bread,  but  should  be  thor- 
oughly masticated.     Hot  water  may  be  sipped  thirty  min- 


'      MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE   SICK  55 

utes  before  each  feeding,  and,  in  fact,  for  several  months 
to  come  give  a  cup  of  hot  water  an  hour  before  each  meal. 
Subacid  fruits  —  bananas,  blackberries,  raspberries  and 
peaches  — jnay  be  cooked  in  a  little  water  thickened  with 
arrowroot,  and  strained  through  a  fine  sieve  and  served 
warm  with  a  little  whole  milk.  Banana  meal  mush,  with 
milk,  is  frequently  borne  with  greater  ease  than  other 
foods. 

If  fermentations  begin,  stop  at  once  all  carbohydrates 
(starches  and  sugars),  substituting  meat  broth,  fruit  juices 
and  modified  milk. 

Lightly  broiled  sweetbread,  chopped  fine  with  a  silver 
knife,  seasoned  with  a  little  celery  salt,  makes  an  exceed- 
ingly good  meal,  if  the  patient  can  be  induced  to  eat  it.  A 
scraped  beef  cake,  mixed  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh- 
grated  pineapple,  seasoned  and  broiled  lightly  usually 
agrees  very  well.     Mutton  may  be  substituted  for  beef. 

After  the  patient  recovers,  he  must  live  on  simple, 
carefully-cooked  foods  for  a  year,  and  perhaps  longer. 
Avoid  pork,  veal,  fried  foods,  lobster,  clams,  crabs,  shrimps, 
rich  sauces  and  highly-seasoned  soups,  coarse  vegetables, 
raw  apples,  pears,  condiments,  excessive  salt  dishes, 
anchovies,  herring,  caviar,  strong  tea,  coffee,  and  wine 
with  meals. 

CHRONIC   GASTRITIS 

A  curative  diet  for  this  disease  is  milk  and  milk  prep- 
arations, with  stale  bread,  free  from  husks  or  bran ;  lean 
meats,  free  from  fat,  scraped  and  broiled ;  carefully-boiled 
rice ;  baked  potato,  potato  puflFs ;  cream  soups ;  globe  arti- 
chokes, stewed  cucumbers,  summer  squash ;  fresh  fruit 
juices;  grape  fruit,  ripe  peaches;  unfermented  bread; 
broiled  bacon;  junket;  all  sour  milk  preparations,  leban, 
zoolak,  clabber,  matzoon  and  eggs. 

Do  not  give  too  great  a  variety  at  one  meal.  If  cereals 
are  taken,  they  must  be  strained  or  free  from  husk.  Very 
succulent  vegetables  may  be  serA^ed  with  meats,  but  starchy 


56 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


foods  must  be  served  alone.  Cream  soups  must  not  be 
followed  by  meats.  Cream  soup  and  bread  should  form 
the  meal.  At  the  close  of  the  meal  give  half  a  glass  of  cool, 
not  iced,  v^ater,  unless  soup  has  been  eaten;  then  do  not 
drink  for  two  hours. 


MAY  EAT 


Broiled  tender  meats 

White  fish 

Cream  soups 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Junkets  of  all  kinds 

Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 

Milk  gelose 

Fruit  gelose 

Carefully-boiled  rice 

Occasionally,  tender  lettuce  or 
celery 

Stewed  prunes,  without  skins 

Eggs,  carefully  cooked 

Baked    apples 

Scraped  apple 

Fruit  juices 

Cereals,  strained  and  well  masti- 
cated 


Dark    grapes,    without    seeds    or 

skins 
Crackers 
Pilot  bread 

An  occasional  aleuronat  gem 
Cocoanut  milk 
Cocoanut  cream 
Tomato  with  cocoanut  cream 
Heart    of    lettuce    with    cocoanut 

cream 
Spinach 
Green  peas 
Asparagus 
Stewed  cucumbers 
Squash 
Cooked  cress 
A  little  olive  oil 
A  little  cream 


AVOID 


Pork 

Veal 

Oysters 

Clams 

Crustacea 

Salt  foods 

Warmed-over  meats 

Fried  foods 

Candies 

Puddings 

Pies 

Cakes 

Sweets 


Hot  breads 

Highly-seasoned  foods 

Beef  tea 

Tea,    coffee    and    chocolate    with 

meals 
All    liquors,    unless   ordered   by   a 

physician 
Black  pepper 
Spices 

Very  little  salt 
Fats  in  general 
Fruits  with  sugar,  stewed  or  raw 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  57 

ULCER  OF  THE  STOMACH— GASTRIC 
ULCER 

It  is  of  Utmost  importance,  in  this  disease,  to  protect 
the  stomach  against  all  sorts  of  irritations.  The  body  and 
the  stomach  should  have  absolute  rest  if  the  case  is  severe. 
Maintain  the  nutrition  by  rectal  feeding.  When  mouth 
feeding  is  admissible,  cleanse  the  nose,  throat  and  mouth 
before  each  feeding  with  lemon  vegetable  gelatin  water,  but 
do  not  use  enough  to  be  swallowed.  The  stomach  must  be 
kept  empty  except  at  feeding  time,  and  feedings  should  be 
sufficiently  far  apart  to  give  the  stomach  rest  between. 
Prevent  at  all  times  the  swallowing  of  the  pus-like  dis- 
charges from  the  nose,  if  there  be  any. 

An  exclusive  milk  diet  is  best,  if  it  agrees.  If  fresh 
raw  milk  does  not  agree,  try  sterilizing  it.  The  physician 
who  observes  the  case  will  decide  the  quantity  of  milk  to 
be  given,  and  the  time  of  feedings — four  ounces  is  the  usual 
amount,  given  every  two  hours.  If  sterilized  milk  does  not 
agree,  try  modified  milk;  or  plain  milk,  one-third  almond 
milk;  this  frequently  is  more  acceptable  than  any  other 
food.  If  the  stomach  is  still  intolerant,  return  to  rectal 
feeding.  Frequently  arrowroot  milk,  German  flour  gruel, 
gelose  milk  gruel,  albuminized  milk,  almond  milk,  milk, 
peptonized  by  the  cold  process,  and  peptonized  milk  gruels 
served  cold,  agree  and  are  retained  without  discomfort. 

If  these  foods  are  well  borne,  add  now  and  then  the 
beaten  white  of  an  egg  to  four  ounces  of  milk;  and,  if  the 
physician  believes  in  meat  (I  do  not)  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  somatose  or  beef  meal  to  a  cup  of  fresh  beef  tea,  or 
mutton  broth  or  milk.  The  nourishment  is  reduced  as  soon 
as  you  begin  to  give  meat  preparations ;  if  they  are  con- 
tinued for  any  length  of  time,  without  alternate  feedings  of 
milk,  you  cannot  protect  the  body  against  loss  of  weight 
and  strength.  Liquid  diet  must  be  continued  until  all  signs 
of  discomfort  are  absent — a  month  or  a  year.  Do  not  begin 
solid  foods  too  soon ;  serious  conditions  are  sure  to  reap- 
pear. 


58  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

If  no  complications  arise  at  the  end  of  one  or  two 
months,  add  a  little  well-cooked  Cream  of  Wheat  or  farina, 
served  with  cream,  no  sugar.  Now  and  then  well-cooked 
farina  served  with  butter;  milk  soups;  tgg  and  milk; 
junkets,  with  and  without  eggs;  gelose  milk  jelly,  and 
Irish  moss  jelly  with  milk.  Continue  this  diet,  alternating 
with  the  first  to  give  variety,  for  three  or  four  months. 
Then  add  slowly,  watching  the  patient  most  carefully,  milk 
toast,  egg  soup,  carefully-broiled  sweetbread,  soup  a  la 
Reine,  a  little  finely-minced  white  meat  of  chicken,  a  mut- 
ton cake,  baked  potato,  boiled  rice ;  a  little  carefully-cooked 
cucumber  or  summer  squash,  with  butter  and  a  little  salt; 
two  or  three  prunes,  without  skins.  Fruit  juices  may  be 
taken  alone  at  almost  any  time  during  the  day  if  they  seem 
to  agree,  strained  orange  juice,  grape  juice  and  apple  juice 
preferable. 

Avoid,  for  a  long  time,  all  fried  foods,  sweets,  severe 
acids,  coarse  vegetables,  hot  breads,  pastry,  uncooked  vege- 
tables, acid  fruit  juices,  uncooked  fruits,  coarse  cereals, 
condiments,  highly-seasoned  soup,  rich  dishes,  fruit  jellies, 
fruits  stewed  with  sugar. 

May  eat,  when  a  cure  is  effected 

Milk  and  milk  preparations  Carefully-stewed  spaghetti,  with- 

Milk  and  vichy  out  cheese 

Milk  and  apollinaris  Stewed  cucumbers 

Finely-minced      meats,  carefully       Stewed  summer  squash 

broiled  Green    peas,    pressed    through    a 

Cream  soups  sieve 

Broiled  chop  A  little  pulp  of  sweet  corn,  with- 

Broiled  chicken  .      out  the  husk  of  the  grains 

Sweetbreads  Oysters,   stewed  and  in  soup 

Tripe  An   occasional  baked  apple 

Birds  ^       Stewed  prunes 

Baked  potato  Prune  souffle 

Pulled  bread  Prune  jelly 

Unleavened  breads  Vegetable  jellies 

Boiled  rice  Guava  jelly 

Fruit  juices  Warm  cup  custards 

Soft  custards 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR   THE   SICK  59 

AVOID 

All  fried  foods  Coarse  cereals;  condiments 

Sweets;  severe  acids  Highly     seasoned     sauces     and 

All  undergrojjnd  and  coarse  veg-  soups 

etables,    as    cabbage,    onions,  Rich  dishes 

turnips  Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Hot  breads;  pastry  Sea  foods,  except  oysters 

Uncooked     vegetables,     as     let-  All  salt  foods 

tuce,   celery  Old  peas,  beans  and  lentils 

Uncooked   fruits  Fruit  jellies,  except  guava 

INTESTINAL  INDIGESTION 

Intestinal  indigestion  comes,  as  a  rule,  from  continued 
overeating  of  starchy  foods  and  sweets.  It  is  found  among 
people  who  eat  large  quantities  of  bread,  and  drink  at  the 
same  time  two  or  three  cups  of  tea  or  coffee,  with  sugar 
and  milk,  or  to  those  who  eat  large  quantities  of  illy- 
cooked  cereals,  pastries,  pies,  cakes  and  puddings.  This 
form  of  indigestion  is  most  common,  and  may  be  cured 
permanently  by  living  for  three  or  four  months  on  chopped 
beef  or  milk,  cream  soups,  eggs  and  stale  bread.  In  this 
disease,  the  secretions  of  the  intestines  become  dull, 
deficient,  abnormal  fermentation  is  set  up,  gases  are  formed, 
the  abdomen  becomes  distended,  and,  unless  taken  in  time, 
the  patient  goes  from  bad  to  worse  until  he  is  really  ill. 
Nervous  and  mental  conditions  have  their  origin  frequently 
in  intestinal  indigestion.  The  bile  is  insufficient  and  poor 
in  quality,  and  constipation  follows.  The  skin  becomes  dry, 
dark,  and  loses  its  activity,  and  this  overtaxes  the  kidneys. 
The  care  of  the  skin  is  of  equal  importance  with  correct 
diet.   Use  water  freely,  inside  and  out.    Do  not  drink  at  meals. 

Cut  down  at  once  the  quantity  of  food  taken,  especially 
the  sugars  and  starches  that  require  intestinal  digestion. 
Give  this  part  of  the  economy  which  is  affected  by  disease, 
rest,  that  it  may  regain  its  lost  strength.  Koumys,  butter- 
milk, leban,  matzoon,  milk  with  barley  water,  cream  soups, 
white  of  egg  and  milk,  may  be  used  for  a  week  or  two  in 
severe  cases;  then  add  a  scraped  beef  cake,  broiled;  broiled 


60  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

birds,  broiled  chops,  breasts  of  chicken,  coddled  eggs,  a 
piece  of  hard  toast,  well  masticated;  or  well-baked  whole 
wheat  bread ;  and  so  continue  until  the  patient  is  relieved 
of  all  unpleasant  symptoms.  The  patient  may  now  add 
broiled,  boiled  or  roasted  meats,  an  occasional  baked  potato, 
boiled  rice,  bread  made  without  shortening,  either  pulled 
or  toasted ;  fruit  juices  alone,  either  early  in  the  morning 
as  a  breakfast,  or  between  meals ;  a  little  broiled  fish ;  the 
heart  of  lettuce,  with  French  dressing;  mush  bread,  rice 
puddings,  cup  custards  at  meals  where  meat  is  not  served ; 
a  little  carefully-boiled  macaroni  with  Parmesan  cheese, 
and  delicate  green  vegetables,   simply  cooked. 

Fats  must  for  a  long  time  be  used  sparingly  and  care- 
fully. A  teaspoonful  of  pure  olive  oil  once  a  day  may  be 
taken  on  lettuce  or  cress,  or  over  carefully-cooked  spinach. 
Use  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  over  the  breakfast  cereal,  or 
it  may  be  taken  from  the  spoon,  and  masticated  thoroughly. 

Bear  in  mind  that  a  small  quantity  of  food  taken  at 
frequent  intervals  will  bring  about  a  cure  more  quickly 
than  larger  meals  at  long  intervals.  Do  not  drink  with 
meals.  ^^Y  EAT 

Beef,     mutton     and     chicken.  Prunes,  dates,  or  figs,  stewed  with- 

broiled,  boiled,  baked,  roasted  out  sugar 

Birds;  venison  Lettuce;  celery 

White-fleshed   fish,   broiled   or  Cream  soups,  as  spinach,  celery,  or 

boiled  lettuce 

Eggs,      soft      boiled,      steamed,  Carefully-cooked  cauliflower 

poached;  yolks  hard  boiled,  Roquefort  or  other  ripe  cheese  in 

pressed    through    a    sieve,    on  small  quantities 

milk  toast  The  early  spring  mushrooms 

Sweetbreads,  creamed  or  broiled  New  turnips,  cooked  below  boiling 

Olive  oil    (a  little)  point  in   unsalted  water,  served 

Butter    (a  little)  with  cream  sauce 
Whole  wheat  bread,  well  baked     •       Stewed  cucumbers,  stewed  squash 

Bread  sticks;   mush  bread  Baked  bananas,  cream,  horseradish 

Boiled  rice;  rice  pudding  sauce 

Warm  cup  custard;  junket  Young  peas  pressed  through  sieve 

Soft  custards  Cress,    chicory,    endive,    lettuce 

Koumys,  modified  milk  A  cup  of  coffee  once  a  day 

Orange  juice  Very  weak  tea 


MRS.    RORER  S    mET    FOR    THE   SICK 


61 


AVOID 


Boiled  coffee 

Boiled  tea 

All  sweets 

Fried  foods 

White  bread 

Crackers 

Cakes 

Small  acid 

Pork  in  all 

Veal 

Turkey 

Duck 

Cooked  cabbage 

Beets 

Corn,  green 


fruits 
forms 


Potatoes 
Pickles 
Spiced  foods 
Gelatin  desserts 
Red  or  dark  fish 
Salt  foods 
All  the  Crustacea 
Clams 
Oysters 
Iced  water 
Acid  drinks 
Flavored  soda  water 
Starchy  foods  and  sweets  in  gen- 
eral 


ACUTE  INTESTINAL  CATARRH 

In  this  disease,  the  intestines  need  rest.  Give  stomach 
digested  foods  with  a  minimum  of  light  starchy  gruels; 
beef  juice,  albumin  and  water,  dried  albumin  in  broth,  modi- 
fied milk  without  milk  sugar,  German  flour  gruel,  arrow- 
root gruel,  weak  tea,  cocoa  shells  and  cocoa  nibs,  with 
very  little  milk ;  blackberry  cordial.  Do  not  give  whole 
milk.  As  the  intestines  begin  to  recover,  add  to  the  diet 
broiled  white  meat  of  chicken,  broiled  fish,  soft-cooked 
eggs,  broiled  sweetbread.  Give  six  ground  almonds  once  a 
day,  after  a  meat  meal. 

MAY  EAT 

Leban 


Modified  milk,  without  milk  sugar 

Albuminized  water 

Gelatinized  water 

Tea 

Vegetable  gelatin  with  fruit  juice 

Soft-cooked  eggs 

Meal  cake  with  six  ground  al- 
monds 

Broiled  chops 

Meat  broths,  with  dry  albumin 

Zwieback,  Aleurona  wafers,  al- 
mond wafers 


Koumys,  occasionally 

Strained  gruels 

Meat  juice 

An  occasional  bit  of  toast 

Grape  juice 

Strained  orange  juice 

Apple  juice 

Blackberry  toast 

Huckleberry  jelly 

Elderberry  jelly 


62  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

MUST  AVOID 

All  vegetable  foods  All  fats  and   fatty  foods 

Coarse  cereals  Puddings 

Fruits,  except  those  mentioned  Pies 

All   acid   foods,   as   pickles,   etc.  Cakes 

Highly-seasoned  meat  soups  Rich  desserts 

Coffee  Sauces 

Bread  Sea  foods 


CHRONIC  INTESTINAL  CATARRH 

A  person  troubled  with  chronic  intestinal  catarrh  must 
live  largely  on  broiled  meat,  dry  bread  or  zweiback,  or 
water  crackers.  Occasionally  very  sweet  blackberries  and 
ripe  peaches,  but  fruits  must  not  be  indulged  in  too  freely. 
Guava,  quince  and  orange  jellies  are  admissible.  Avoid 
cereals  and  all  coarse  vegetables.  Junket  and  junket  prep- 
arations, warm  cup  custards,  milk  toast,  golden  toast,  make 
pleasant  supper  dishes,  but  the  diet  must  necessarily  be 
more  or  less  monotonous  for  a  considerable  period. 

ULCER  OF  THE  DUODENUM 

Give  only  stomach  digested  foods  at  first — white  of 
egg  and  water,  or  whey,  Meiggs'  food,  followed  by  modified 
milk,  if  mouth  feeding  is  allowable.  As  the  patient  pro- 
gresses, add  barley  water  to  plain  milk ;  German  flour  gruel ; 
rice  water  and  milk;  milk  and  vichy ;  albuminized  milk; 
nut  milk ;  fruit  gelose ;  mutton  broth  cooked  with  barley 
and  strained ;  Bartholow's  Food ;  soup  a  la  Reine ;  cocoa 
made  from  the  nibs  ;  a  little  weak  tea.  During  convalescence 
follow  the  diet  given  for  convalescing  typhoid  patients. 

Avoid  all  vegetable  foods,  breads,  coffee,  cereals,  fruits, 
except  orange  and  grape  juice ;  sweets ;  toast ;  fatty  foods, 
except  a  little  cream ;  cheese ;  meats  except  chopped  beef  or 
mutton ;  rich  soups,  tomato  especially,  and  sea  foods. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  63 


CHRONIC  CONSTIPATION 

Many  persons  seem  totally  ignorant  of  what  causes 
and  prolongs  constipation.  The  mind  has  a  more  powerful 
influence  over  this  than  over  any  other  disease;  for  this 
reason  impress  upon  the  patient  that  the  given  course  of 
diet  is  curative. 

Among  the  numerous  conditions  which  cause  and 
prolong  this  disease  are  the  overeating  of  starches  ami  the 
drinking  of  tea  and  coffee  with  sugar  and  cream  with  meals. 

Too  concentrated  food,  and  too  great  a  variety  at  a 
meal. 

Drinking  too  little  water  between  meals. 

Softened  bread  or  toast  by  dipping  in  tea  or  coffee. 

Overeating  of  sweets,  stewed  dried  fruits  with  sugar. 

Eating  heavy  meals  early  in  the  morning,  whether 
hungry  or  not. 

Disobeying  the  call  of  nature  until  a  more  convenient 
hour. 

All  these  things  provoke  indigestion,  with  its  accom- 
panying nervousness,  constipation  and  lassitude,  and  a  dis- 
inclination to  be  well,  and  a  delight  in  invalidism. 

Such  persons  could,  if  they  would,  even  after  long 
continued  constipation,  bring  about  better  circulation,  more 
natural  and  healthful  conditions.  The  giddiness  and  faint- 
ness,  important  complaints  in  the  mind  of  the  patient,  are 
always  emphasized  at  the  expense  of  the  real  trouble,  which 
continues. 

Green  vegetables,  carefully  and  simply  cooked,  fruits, 
raw  or  cooked  without  sugar,  between  meals  or  taken  as 
a  meal  alone,  are  beneficial.  Stewed  fruits  with  meals  or 
at  the  end  of  a  meal  as  a  dessert,  are  nine  out  of  ten  times 
constipating. 


64  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

The  few  "Dont's"  that  follow  may  help  you  in  selecting 
a   suitable   diet: 

Don't  eat  an  early  breakfast,  especially  in  bed. 

Don't  eat  fruits  stewed  with  sugar  at  the  end  of  meals. 

Don't  drink  at  the  beginning  of  a  meal. 

Don't  preface  your  dinner  with  a  soup. 

Don't  eat  rich  sauces. 

Don't  eat  mayonnaise  on  vegetables ;  use  French 
dressing. 

Don't  eat  when  not  hungry.  Fresh  ingested  foods 
meeting  remnants  of  a  preceding  meal,  rapidly  ferment, 
producing  sour  stomach,  and  frequently  in  turn  palpitation 
of  the  heart. 

Don't  eat  too  great  variety  at  a  meal. 

Don't  drink  large  quantities  of  fluids  with  meals ;  they 
cause  discomfort  and  interfere  with  the  action  of  the  heart. 


Things  To  Do 

Bathe  or  sponge  every  morning;  rub  until  the  skin  is 
aglow. 

Drink  immediately  a  glass  of  cool,  not  iced,  water. 
In  thirty  minutes  drink  a  cup  of  clear  coffee. 

If  hungry  a  little  later,  eat  fruit,  or  a  soft-boiled  egg 
and  bacon. 

Drink  a  pint  of  cool,  not  iced,  water  between  breakfast 
and  luncheon. 

Masticate  every  mouthful  of  food  thoroughly. 

Drink  at  the  end  of  the  meal. 

Buttermilk  and  brown  bread  make  an  exceedingly 
good  luncheon  or  supper. 

Take  fruits  with  cereals,  vegetables  with  meat. 

At  bedtime  eat  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  scraped 
turnip,  or  grated  carrot,  or  apple,  or  two  ounces  of  peanut 
brittle,  or  a  half  pint  of  freshly-popped  corn. 

When  ready  for  bed,  drink  a  glass  of  cool,  not  iced, 
water. 


MRS.    RORERS    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


65 


MAY    EAT 


Coffee  with  scalded  milk,  no 
sugar 

Well-cooked  cereals 

Steamed  figs 

Dates 

Baked  apples 

Plums,  very  ripe,  without  skins 

Grape   fruit 

Orange  juice 

Grape  juice 

Apple  juice 

Toasted  shredded  wheat  and 
milk 

Bran  mush;  oatmeal  mush 

Wheatlet 

All  top  ground  green  vege- 
tables, carefully  cooked 

Raw  cabbage  salad 

Lettuce;    cress;    endive;    chicory 

Celery 

Celery  and  apple  with  French 
dressing 

Stewed  macaroni  without  cheese 

Baked  potato 

Baked  pumpkin 

Stewed  squash 

Nut  foods  in  place  of  meat 

Buttermilk 

Leban;  koumys 

Matzoon;  zoolak;  kefir 

Broiled  white  fish 


Raw  scraped  apple  at  night 

Grated  turnip  with   salt 

Stewed  grated  carrot 

Milk  with  milk   sugar   added 

Carefully-cooked  spinach 

Kale 

Asparagus  tips 

Young  peas 

Roman   meal   breads 

Bran  bread 

Graham  bread 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Brown  bread 

Corn  bread 

Gelatin   desserts 

Vegetable   gelatin   desserts 

Brown  Betty 

Bread   and  milk  pudding 

Chicken 

Lamb 

Mutton 

Chopped  meat  cakes 

Broiled  steak 

Stewed  veal 

Sweetbreads 

Tripe 

Sliced     tomato     with     cocoanut 

cream 
Green  vegetable  salads 
Fruit  salads,   French  dressing 


AVOID 


Milk  with  meals 
Cheese  and  cheese  preparations 
All  fried  foods 
Pies;  cakes 
Preserves 
Coarse  vegetables 
Soft  foods  in  general 
Salt  foods 
Hot  breads 
5 


Coffee,    tea    and   chocolate   with 

meals 
Stewed  fruit  with  meals 
Pickles 
White  bread 
Mashed  potatoes 
Fried  potatoes 
Beef  tea 
Meat  soups 


66  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

APPENDICITIS 

Without  entering  into  the  causes  or  theories  concern- 
ing appendicitis,  it  is  frequently  met  with  in  persons  who 
are  troubled  with  habitual  constipation,  and  persons  who 
sit  in  unnatural  positions,  stooping  over,  as  tailors,  seam- 
stresses, and  bookkeepers. 

The  first  important  step  toward  recovery,  is  to  correct 
the  irregularities  of  the  stomach  and  bowels. 

Give  up  one  meal  a  day,  preferably  breakfast.  A  walk- 
ing patient,  going  every  day  to  the  office,  may  cut  out  the 
noonday  meal,  taking  in  its  place  a  glass  of  buttermilk, 
matzoon  or  koumys. 

Give  plenty  of  pure  cold  water  between  meals  and  a 
cup  of  hot  water  before  dinner. 

If  breakfasts  are  not  eaten,  give  in  its  place  a  cup  of 
cafe  au  lait  without  sugar,  or  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  or 
a  half  glass  of  apple  juice. 

If  breakfasts  are  eaten,  the  food  must  be  light  and 
easily  digested :  Cream  of  Wheat,  farina,  Wheatena,  wheat- 
let,  shredded  wheat,  toasted  corn  flakes,  or  strained  oatmeal 
and  cream,  with  hard  bread  or  whole  wheat  bread  or  Roman 
bannocks  well  buttered,  are  quite  enough. 

Luncheons  should  be  composed  largely  of  cream  soups 
or  milk  preparations.  For  dinners,  give  boiled  mutton, 
beef,  chicken  or  white-fleshed  fish,  a  baked  potato,  or  boiled 
rice,  or  carefully-cooked  hominy,  or  plain  macaroni,  fol- 
lowed by  a  dainty  salad  of  carefully-cooked  string  beans  or 
cauliflower,  or  asparagus  with  French  dressing. 

Rub  the  plate  in  which  you  make  the  French  dressing 
with  a  clove  of  garlic,  or  cut  the  clove  into  slices  and  mash 
it  with  a  fork  in  the  oil  before  adding  the  vinegar.  Garlic 
is  a  desirable  stimulant  in  this  disease. 

Induce  the  patient  to  stop  eating  while  the  food  tastes 
good.    Thorough  mastication  is  of  importance. 

Do  not  give  desserts. 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


67 


If  constipation  is  persistent,  give  a  glass  of  cold  water, 
with  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  added,  at  bedtime,  and  a 
glass  of  cool,  not  iced,  water,  early  in  the  morning,  an  hour 
before  giving  the  coffee. 

Do  not  depend  on  large  quantities  of  meat  for  the 
nitrogenous  portion  of  the  diet ;  substitute  eggs,  milk,  and 
ground  nuts.  Whole  wheat  bread  well  buttered,  milk  prep- 
arations, as  koumys,  matzoon,  clabber  and  buttermilk,  are 
all  advantageous. 

Avoid  dried  fruits,  fruits  stev^ed  with  sugar,  pork,  veal, 
old  peas,  beans,  lentils,  dry  toast,  milk  toast,  rich  sauces, 
meat  soups,  pies,  puddings,  cakes,  preserves,  candies, 
pickles,  and  sea  foods,  with  the  exception  of  white-fleshed 
fish. 


MAY    EAT,    IN 

Milk  and  cream 

Modified  milk  with  double  quan- 
tity of  sugar  of  milk 

Meigg's  Food 

Egg  and  milk 

Fruit  juices,  especially  orange 
and  apple  juice 

Prune  pulp 


EARLY    STAGES 

Prunes,    steamed,   without   skins 

Grape   fruit 

Baked  apple 

Apple  sauce 

Cranberry  jelly 

All  fruit  jellies  not  too  sweet 

Coffee,  if  allowable 


LATER 


Whole  wheat  bread,  well  but- 
tered and  masticated  thor- 
oughly 

Cornmeal  souffle 

Baked  potato 

Milk  soups 

Carefully-cooked    strained  cereals 

Spinach 

Puree  of  green  peas 

Asparagus  tips  with  French 
dressing 

Sliced  tomato  without  seeds 

Puree  of  tomato 


Stewed   cucumbers 

Stewed  squash 

Nut  roll 

Almond  and  apple  pudding 

Eggs,     poached,     steamed,     and 

hard-boiled  yolks 
Artichokes 
Jerusalem  artichokes 
Cauliflower 
Puree  of  sorrel 
Stewed  rhubard 

Boiled  mutton,  beef  and  chicken 
White  fish,  broiled  or  boiled 
Game 


68 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


AVOID 


All  bulk  foods 

Skins  of  fruit  and  vegetables 

Pork;  veal 

All  fried  foods 

Lobsters,  crabs,  clams,  oysters 

Mashed  potatoes 

Boiled  cabbage 

Underground  coarse  vegetables, 

as  turnips 
All   complicated   sweets 


Toast,   dry,   buttered   or 

Seeds  of  small  fruits 

String  beans 

Pickles  of  all  kinds 

Condiments 

White  bread 

Soft   drinks 

Lemonade 

Milk 

Chocolate;   tea 


milk 


CHRONIC  DIARRHCEA 

During  the  severe  symptoms  of  this  disease  the  patient 
must  eat  predigested  foods,  adding,  as  conditions  allow, 
mutton  broth,  ground  rice  gruel,  barley  water,  and  scalded 
milk;  and  later,  a  broiled  lamb  chop,  meat  juice  on  toast, 
a  little  minced  chicken,  and  a  scraped  meat  cake.  Tea  may 
be  taken  in  the  morning,  and  again  in  the  afternoon,  but 
not  with  other  food.  Moderately  hot  and  clear,  it  is  a 
stimulant. 

In  certain  conditions,  even  in  chronic  intestinal 
diarrhoea,  the  patient  will  be  troubled  with  constipation. 
This  does  not  mean  that  the  disease  is  cured;  it  is  simply 
another  phase  of  the  same  trouble.  Return  to  the  liquid 
diet,  modified  milk,  or  add  sugar  of  milk  to  ordinary  milk. 
Stop  solid  foods  for  the  time  being,  and  the  tea.  Use  no 
purgatives  unless  ordered  by  the  physician. 


MAY    EAT 


Predigested  milk 

Modified  milk  without  milk  sugar 

Blackberry  cordial 

Elderberry  toast 

Blackberry  toast 

Mutton    broth,    with    barley    and 

rice 
Browned  rice  gruel 
German  flour  and  milk 
Barley  gruel 


Toasted  crackers 
Zweiback 
Hard  dry  toast 
Weak  tea 
Mulled  port  wine 
Port  wine   whey 
Claret  whey 
Fresh  grape  juice 
Concord  grapes 
Soft  ripe  peaches 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


69 


followed  later  by  milk  soups,  hard  crackers,  lamb  chops, 

boiled  minced  mutton,  Cream  of  Wheat,  well  cooked  and 

thoroughly  masticated,  a  little  boiled  rice,  and  an  occasional 
baked  potato. 

AVOID 

Variety  at  meals  Puddings 

All  vegetable  foods  except  baked      Dates 

potato  and  boiled  rice  Pears 

All  uncooked  vegetables  Rhubarb 

Prunes  Strawberries 

Figs  Raspberries 

All  fried  foods  Currants 

Coffee  Citrus  fruits 

All   the   Crustacea,   oysters,  clams       Pork 

and  fish  Veal 

Soft  breads  Bacon 

Rich  sauces  Ducks 

Soups  Geese      , 

Pies  Turkeys 
Cakes 


ACUTE  DYSENTERY 

In  this  disease  milk  foods  must  be  depended  on.  Dry 
albumin  in  modified  milk,  Meiggs'  food,  modified  milk 
without  sugar  of  milk,  mutton  broth  boiled  with  rice  or 
barley  and  strained ;  dry  toast,  zweiback,  water  crackers, 
boiled  rice,  arrowroot  gruel,  bouillon  or  consomme,  "ye  perfect 
food,"  cornmeal  gruel,  milk  and  barley  water,  German  flour 
gruel,  blackberry  jelly,  blackberry  drink,  grape  juice,  ripe 
blackberries  without  the  core,  and  very  ripe  peaches.  Give 
vegetable  gelatin  flavored  with  brandy  once  a  day.  Two  hour 
feedings  are  recommended  in  acute  cases. 

As  the  patient  begins  to  convalesce,  milk  soups,  butter- 
milk, leban,  koumys,  may  be  added,  followed  by  broiled 
chops,  boiled  mutton,  scraped  beef  cake,  an  occasional  bit 
of  broiled  fish,  with  baked  potato,  boiled  rice,  and  some- 
times a  little  stewed  macaroni.  Variety  must  come  from 
change  of  service  and  cooking,  as  this  list  must  be  adhered 


70 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


to  for  some  time.    A  second  attack  is  frequently  more  diffi- 
cult to  cure  than  a  first. 


MAY  EAT,  WHEN  CONVALESCING 


Broiled,  boiled  or  roasted  mutton 

White  fish,  broiled 

Baked  potato 

Boiled  rice 

Cream  of  Wheat 

Farina 

Eggs,  soft 

Raw  eggs 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Junket 

Occasionally  tapioca,  cup  custards, 

soft  custards 
Zweiback 
Pilot   bread 
Brandy  gelose 


Water  crackers 

Hard  toast 

White  bread  without  lard 

Tea 

Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 

White  of  egg  on  orange  juice 

Dark,   ripe  grapes,   without   seeds 

or  skins 
Very  ripe  peaches 
Toast  water 
Blackberry  dishes 
Elderberry  jelly 
Guava  jelly 
Orange  marmalade 


AVOID    WHEN    CONVALESCING 


All  coarse  vegetables 

Bran  bread 

Cereals 

Fruits,  except  those  mentioned 

Fats  and  fatty  foods 

Coffee 

Chocolate 

Cocoa 

Raw   vegetables 


Gelatin 

Sweets,  pastries  and  preserves 

Sea  foods 

Pork 

Beef 

Veal 

Chicken 

Salt  foods 

Soft  bread 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


71 


DIET  IN  HEMORRHOIDS 

Strange  as  it  may  seem,  diet  has  a  marked  influence 
over  this  disease.  If  people  lived  correctly,  irregularities 
of  this  kind  would  never  occur.  Chronic  constipation  fol- 
lows indigestion,  and  hemorrhoids  follow  chronic  consti- 
pation, so,  after  all,  the  stomach  is  the  "hub"  on  which  the 
body  revolves. 


MAY    EAT 


Baked  potatoes 

Grated  and  stewed  carrots 

Carefully-cooked  spinach 

Cauliflower 

Young  sweet  peas 

All     green     vegetable     salads — 

especially    string    bean    salad 
Onions,    carefully    boiled,    baked, 

made  into  soup 
Cereals,  well  cooked 
Graham  bread 
Unleavened  bread 
Corn  bread 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Nut  milk 

Vegetable  gelatin  dishes 
Leban 
Koumys 
Matzoon 


Buttermilk 

Clabber 

Broiled  and  roasted  beef 

Mutton 

Chicken 

Duck 

Turkey 

All  fresh  fruits 

Dates 

Figs 

Prunes,   cooked   without   sugar 

Fruit   juices 

Tomatoes,  raw  or  baked 

Eggs 

Butter 

Cream 

Cocoanut  cream 

Kefir 

An  abundance  of  water 


AVOID 


All  fried  foods 

Pork 

Veal 

Fat  meats 

Fruits  with   seeds 

Rhubarb 

Pickles 

Sour  dishes 

Asparagus 

Boiled  cabbage 

Old  beans,  peas  and  lentils 


Cheese 

All  spiced  dishes 

Alcoholic  beverages  unless  ordered 

Strong  tea 

Rich  sauces 

Meat  soups 

Puddings 

Pies 

Cakes 

Candies 


72 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


PERITONITIS 

In  the  early  stages  of  this  disease  give  modified  milk, 
white  of  egg  beaten  in  water  or  whey,  a  little  mutton  broth, 
chicken  tea  or  chicken  broth,  veal  and  lamb  broth,  all 
strained ;  port  wine  whey ;  junket  whey ;  gelatin  water,  or 
toast  water.  As  the  disease  subsides,  add  a  little  strained 
gruel,  milk,  koumys,  leban  or  matzoon.  When  solid  foods 
are  allowable,  add  a  little  scraped  meat,  broiled,  coddled 
eggs,  junket  and  junket  preparations  and  cream  soups ;  fol- 
lowed by  a  broiled  chop,  broiled  bird,  zwieback  and  milk 
toast. 

Avoid  for  a  long  time  all  starchy  foods,  excessive  fats, 
the  curd  of  milk  unless  it  is  especially  treated,  raw  vege- 
tables, and  fruits,  except  fruit  juices. 


MAY    EAT,    IN    EARLY    STAGES 


Modified  milk 

White  of  egg  beaten  with  water 

Strained  mutton  broth 

Chicken  tea 

Chicken  jelly 

Beef  jelly- 


Strained  gruels 

Milk 

Koumys 

Matzoon 

Bonnyclabber 

Buttermilk 


Veal  and  lamb  broth,  strained 

Port  wine   whey 

Junket  whey 

Gelatin  water 

Toast  water 

Arrowroot  gruel  and  milk 


FOLLOWED    BY 

Bartholow's  Food 
Beef  panada 
Gelatin  bouillon 
Bouillon  a  la   Colbert 
Semi-solid  beef 
Eggs 


LATER 


Scraped  meat  cake 

Broiled  chop 

Stewed  tripe 

Oyster  soup 

Oatmeal  broth,  with  mutton 

Cornmeal   broth   with   mutton 

Sweetbreads 

Chicken  souffle;  chicken  pufiF 

Chicken  in  potato  cases 


Golden   chicken 
Ceylon   chicken 
Baked  potato 
Boiled   rice 
Stewed  prunes 
Baked  apple 
Fruit  juices 
Toast,     hardtack 
fingers 


or     cocoanut 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  73 


AVOID,   FOR   A   LONG   TIME 

Excessive  fats  All  highly  seasoned  meats,  soups 

Starchy  foods  and  sauces 

Mashed   potatoes  Curd   of   milk   unless    especially 

All  underground  vegetables  treated 

Coarse  vegetables,   as   kale   and  Raw  fruits,  except  orange  juice 

cabbage  and  grape  fruit 

Condiments  Sour  foods 

Raw  vegetables 


OBESITY 

Obesity  is  the  natural  result  of  overeating  and  drink- 
ing, and  a  disinclination  to  regular  exercise. 

The  reduction  of  fat,  while  it  does  not  necessarily  in- 
volve a  radical  change  in  diet,  does  involve  great  will 
power  and  patience  on  the  part  of  the  patient.  An  excess 
of  fat  must  be  looked  upon  as  an  objectionable  form  of 
disease.  It  does  not  come  without  invitation.  One  fre- 
quently notices  among  members  of  the  same  family,  eating 
practically  at  the  same  table,  great  differences  in  weight, 
and  the  excuse  of  the  overfat  is  they  are  inclined  to  store 
fat,  or  it  is  an  inherited  tendency  from  some  remote 
ancestor.  Upon  observation,  however,  one  will  find  that 
the  fat  person  eats  a  large  quantity  of  fat-producing  food — 
sugars  and  starches — and  drinks  large  quantities  of  liquids 
with  meals,  while  the  thin  person  will  live  largely  on  nitro- 
genous compounds — lean  meat,  eggs  and  milk.  Both  are 
in  danger,  but  it  is  more  difficult  to  add  fat  to  the  lean 
person  than  to  reduce  the  obese. 

The  quantity  of  food  given  is  of  far  greater  importance 
than  a  radical  change.  If  the  patient  has  been  in  the  habit 
of  taking  a  heavy  breakfast — cereal,  egg  and  toast,  with 
coffee — drop  first  the  cereal,  continue  the  egg  and  toast,  and 
coffee ;  later,  drop  the  toast,  and  take  the  coffee  early  in  the 
morning,  and  a  raw  egg  and  milk  later.  If  hunger  is  felt 
in  the  middle  of  the  morning,  give  a  cup  of  clam  broth  or 


74  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

bouillon,  or  a  glass  of  water.  A  radical  change  frequently 
upsets  digestion  and  produces  undesirable  conditions.  In- 
crease slowly  the  exercise,  both  mental  and  physical ;  this 
will  absorb  a  portion  of  the  fat  already  stored  in  the  body, 
and  you  will  begin  at  once  to  reduce  the  weight.  The  over- 
fat  woman  is  more  liable  to  disease  than  the  overfat  man, 
because  she  naturally  takes  less  exercise,  and  to  correct  her 
unsightly  figure  she  wears  tight  clothing,  pushing  the  fat 
from  one  place  to  another,  frequently  on  the  diaphragm,  in 
turn  upon  the  heart,  which  reduces  the  circulation  until  she 
really  becomes  an  invalid. 

Her  face  is  purple,  the  end  of  her  nose  is  red,  her  breath- 
ing heavy  and  short,  and  she  is  pitiful  to  behold.  Light  gym- 
nastic exercises,  without  apparatus,  should  be  taken  morn- 
ing and  night.  Strengthen  the  muscular  tissues  of  the 
body  by  increasing  the  nitrogenous  foods — lean  meats,  old 
beans,  peas,  lentils,  nut  foods,  milk  and  eggs,  and  decreas- 
ing the  starches  and  sugars.  Keep  up  the  bulk  by  using 
green  vegetables,  carefully  cooked,  tender  lettuce,  cress, 
with  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  fruits  and  fruit  juices.  Give 
a  little  cool  water  between  meals,  but  not  with  meals. 

A  Word  About  Coffee — Coffee  is  a  laxative  if  it  fol- 
lows a  glass  of  cool  water  in  the  early  morning;  it  also 
spares  the  tissues,  and,  in  reducing  weight,  the  patient 
should  take  a  cup  of  good  percolated  coffee,  at  least  once 
a  day,  if  it  agrees.  In  fact,  the  first  meal  of  the  day  may 
consist  of  one  cup  of  good,  strong  coffee,  diluted  with  one 
cupful  of  scalded,  not  boiled,  milk.  The  writer  sees  no 
objection  to  a  small  cup  of  coffee  after  dinner,  if  it  does 
not  upset  digestion.  The  stimulating  principles  of  coffee 
spare  the  tissues  and  assist  the  obese  in  reducing  weight. 
Coffee,  unlike  alcohol,  allays  rather  than  increases  the 
appetite. 

Give  two  meals  a  day,  and  no  nibble  between  meals. 
For  dinner,  give  two  well-broiled  chops,  or  two  poached 
eggs,  or  a  steak  or  chicken.     For  dessert,  a  half  pound  of 


MRS.   RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


75 


grapes,  or  one  ripe  peach,  or  one  baked  apple,  or  better  still, 
a  dish  of  lettuce  with  a  few  drops  of  oil  and  lemon  juice,  and 
a  cracker  with  a  bit  of  ripe  cheese. 

Suppers  should  be  light  and  composed  of  easily- 
digested  foods,  as  milk  toast ;  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs 
and  hard  bread ;  chopped  rare  meat  sandwich ;  koumys ; 
matzoon ;  buttermilk ;  one  slice  of  brown  bread  and  a 
glass  of  buttermilk ;  or  one  glass  of  matzoon  and  two 
Uneeda  biscuits ;  broiled  sweetbreads,  eggs  in  various  forms, 
lettuce,  chicory  or  endive  salad,  apple  and  celery  salad,  sliced 
oranges,  two  baked  bananas  with  two  ounces  of  gluten  bread. 

The  very  obese  should  rest  after  the  noonday  meal, 
but  after  supper  should  take  a  short  walk.  Rest  by  chang- 
ing the  occupation.    Play  tennis  or  golf  every  day. 


MAY   EAT 


Clear  vegetable   soups 

Meat  broths,  strained 

Chicken  tea 

Chicken  jelly 

Chicken  in  jelly 

Broiled,  boiled  and  baked  beef, 
mutton  and  chicken;  occasion- 
ally veal 

Broiled  chipped  beef 

White-fleshed  fish 

Eggs,   lightly   cooked 

Tender  green  vegetables,  as 
cooked  cucumbers,  squash, 
string  beans 

Lettuce,  chicory,  celery,  endive 
and  raw  cabbage,  with  lemon 
juice  and  a  little  oil 

Stewed  turnips 

Spinach 

Kale 


Asparagus 
Onions 
Cauliflower 
Brussels  sprouts 
Dandelions 
Sour  dock 
Artichokes 
Olives 
Tomatoes 

Fruit   juices   without    sugar 
Raw  fruits  without  sugar 
Very  little  stale  bread 
Cocoanut  fingers 
Almond  wafers 
Aleuronat  gems 
Gluten  gems 

Junket  from  skimmed  milk 
Buttermilk  occasionally 
Ripe    cheese,    as    parmesan 
schmierkase 


and 


76 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


MAY  EAT— Continued 


Hazel  nuts  and  cob  nuts 

Soy  bean  preparations 

Coffee  without  sugar  and  cream 

Clear  weak  tea 

One    glass    of    water    between 

meals 
Oranges 


Grape  fruit 

Ripe  peaches 

Baked  apple  without  sugar  and 

cream 
Currants 
Raspberries 
Blackberries 


AVOID 


Milk  soups 

Butter 

Cream 

Olive    oil,    except    a    little    on 

green  vegetables 
Sea  foods,  except  white  fish 
Salt  foods 
Pork 
Veal 

All  made  meat  dishes 
Rich  sauces  and  soups 
Potatoes,    sweet    and    white 
Macaroni 
Cereals 

Rice,  except  occasionally 
Parsnips 
Beets 


Corn 

All  sweet  dishes  and  candies 

Malt  and  alcoholic  liquors  un- 
less ordered 

All  sweet  wines,  including  cham- 
pagne 

Pickles 

Bacon 

Breads  in  general 

Duck 

Goose 

Liver  and  kidneys 

Dates  and  figs 

Pears 

Chocolate  and  cocoa 

Water  in  large  quantities 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  77 

DIET  FOR  LEANNESS 

The  writer  does  not  believe  that  leanness  is  really  a 
disease  that  needs  to  have  either  dietetic  or  medical  treat- 
ment, except  when  accompanied  by  anaemia,  tuberculosis, 
or  diseases  of  this  kind.  The  ordinary  person  who  is  per- 
fectly well,  and  lean,  is  to  be  congratulated;  he  is  sure  to 
have  a  long  and  comfortable  life.  People  with  nervous 
activity,  who  are  perfectly  well,  are  apt  to  be  lean,  and  it 
is  well  to  let  this  leanness  alone.  ''A  lean  dog  is  good  for 
a  long  chase."  Oils,  butter,  cream,  milk,  cocoa,  chocolate, 
cocoanut  fat.  bread  well  buttered,  baked  potatoes  with 
butter,  well-cooked  cereals  with  cream,  oatmeal  and  corn- 
meal  are  all  fat-producing  foods.  Such  sweet  dishes  as  figs, 
dates,  prunes,  farinaceous  foods  with  sugar  and  cream, 
and  honey,  are  to  be  recommended.  A  person  who  is  lean 
should  avoid  acids,  pickles,  bulky  foods,  as  turnips,  cab- 
bage, carrots,  parsnips,  and  substitute  potatoes,  rice,  stewed 
macaroni  and  cereals.  They  may  also  add  to  the  diet  now 
and  then  a  dish  of  preserves,  jellies,  or  fruits  with  sugar; 
and  may  take  between  the  morning  and  noon,  and  the  noon 
and  night  meals,  a  glass  of  milk  and  an  egg,  or  a  glass  of 
plain  milk,  or  a  glass  of  buttermilk.  All  foods  must  be 
thoroughly  masticated. 

Give  an  ounce  of  butter  and  a  third  of  a  half  pint  of 
cream  at  each  meal. 

For  the  morning  meal,  give  two  soft-boiled  eggs,  a 
piece  of  dry  toast,  or  a  piece  of  whole  wheat  bread,  well 
buttered.  If  dinner  is  taken  at  noon,  it  should  consist  of  a 
small  quantity  of  cream  soup,  a  piece  of  steak  or  a  chop, 
chicken  or  a  roast,  with  whole  wheat  bread,  well  buttered, 
a  baked  potato,  followed  by  a  cup  of  whipped  cream,  or 
some  dessert  over  which  cream  can  be  used.  For  the  night 
meal,  use  a  cereal  and  cream,  baked  and  stuffed  potato, 
potatoes  ail  gratin,  with  a  chop  or  omelet,  or  broiled  chicken, 
or  sweetbread,  with  three  or  four  stewed  figs  or  prunes, 
with  cream,  or  a  cup  custard  and  sponge  cake. 


78 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


Remember,  to  increase  weight  one  must  keep  the 
digestive  tract  in  a  perfectly  healthy  condition.  If  cream 
disagrees,  stop  it  at  once,  and  give  milk  and  Qgg.  Give  a 
glass  of  water  at  the  close  of  each  meal,  not  with  the  meal. 
If  digestion  is  slow,  give  six  blanched,  not  roasted,  almonds 
after  each  meal.  Two  or  three  times  a  week,  slice  two 
Brazilian  nuts  over  a  lettuce  salad,  and  dress  the  salad  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice. 

Theoretically  all  these  foods  increase  fat,  but  they 
fail  utterly,  from  a  practical  standpoint,  if  they  upset  diges- 
tion. Give  three  good  meals  a  day,  and  egg  and  milk 
between  meals. 


MAY 

EAT 

Cream  soups 

Macaroni 

Broiled  beef 

Hominy  and  hominy  grits 

Mutton 

Well-cooked  cereals,  with  cream 

Turkey 

Salads 

Chicken 

Butter 

Game 

Olive  oil 

Breakfast   bacon 

Cocoanut    cream 

Good  white  bread,  well  baked 

Such   nuts   as   pecans,   black   wal- 

Baked potatoes 

nuts,  pinons,  a  few  almonds  and 

Asparagus 

peanuts 

Onions 

All  forms  of  sweet  fruits 

Cauliflower 

Light  cream  desserts 

Rice 

Fruits 

AVOID 

All  bulk  foods,  as 

Pies,  puddings  and  cakes 

Cabbage 

Rich  sauces 

Turnips 

' 

Liver  and  kidneys 

Kale 

Tripe 

Clear  soups 

Pork 

Sea   foods,  with  the 

exception  of 

Veal 

white-fleshed  fish  and  oysters 

Pickles,  lemons,  olives 

Candies 

Fried  foods 

All  salt  meats 

MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE   SICK  79 

GOUT 

Gout,  like  rheumatism,  may  be  cured  on  a  ''shilling  a 
day,"  if  you  -earn  it.  The  overfed  and  underworked — the 
idle — are  frequently  gouty. 

Give  plenty  of  pure  w^ater  between  meals ;  fruit  juices, 
especially  orange,  apple  and  grape  juice ;  the  yolk  of  an 
egg  in  milk ;  the  hard-boiled  yolks  grated  over  milk  toast ; 
puree  of  nuts  ;  puree  of  lentils  ;  sweet  fresh  peas  and  corn  ; 
an  occasional  bit  of  broiled  white-fleshed  fish,  with  an 
abundance  of  succulent  green  vegetables  lightly  cooked. 
In  fact,  such  tender  uncooked  vegetables  as  lettuce,  cress, 
celery,  endive,  with  citrous  fruits,  should  form  the  bulk  of  the 
diet.  Give  at  least  two  quarts  of  water  a  day  between 
meals,  and  insist  upon  the  patient  giving  up  all  red  meats, 
pink-fleshed  fish,  the  Crustacea,  lobsters,  crabs,  oysters  and 
clams,  subacid  fruits,  sweets  and  highly  seasoned  soups 
and  sauces.  Puree  of  lentil  and  puree  of  nuts  must  take 
the  place  of  meat.  Do  not  reduce  the  gouty  obese  patient  too 
rapidly.  The  general  vitality  must  be  kept  up.  For  this  reason 
avoid  the  bulky  foods,  such  as  coarse  underground  vege- 
tables, potatoes,  and  white  bread.  Give  skimmed  milk  in 
place  of  whole  milk.  Buttermilk,  matzoon  and  zoolak  are 
to  be  preferred  to  sweet  milk. 

When  digestion  is  weak  and  the  patient  emaciated, 
give  lean  chopped  mutton  cake,  once  a  day ;  the  yolk  of  a 
hard-boiled  egg  on  toast,  once  a  day ;  sweet  milk  with  a 
little  cream  between  breakfast  and  luncheon.  Boiled  rice, 
stewed  cucumber  or  boiled  string  beans  may  be  given  with 
the  mutton  cake. 


80 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


MAY 

All  forms  of  hard  bread 

Milk  soups  without  butter 

Vegetable  soups — no  meat 

Clam  broth 

Bellevue  bouillon 

Skimmed  milk 

Roquefort  cheese  (small  quantity) 

Yolks  of  eggs  occasionally 

Broiled  bacon 

Chopped  meat  cakes,  broiled 

Farinaceous  foods  and  cereals 

Rice 

Sago  and  fruit 

Tapioca  and  fruit 

Strawberries,  if  they  agree 

Vegetable  gelatin,  with   fruits 

Nut  dishes 


EAT 

Puree   of  lentils 

Young  peas 

French  canned  peas 

String  beans 

Celery 

Stewed  turnips 

White  potatoes,  occasionally 

Okra 

Artichokes,  French  and  Jerusalem 

Stewed  cucumbers 

Light  salads,  little  oil  and  plenty 

of  lemon  juice 
Stewed  summer  squash 
Cauliflower 
Kohl-rabi 
Baked  eggplant 
Lettuce,  cress,  endive 


Meats  in  general 

salt  meats  in  particular 
All     appetizers,     as     anchovies, 

caviar,    herring    and    herring 

roe 
All     warmed-over     meats     and 

entrees 
Fat  foods  in  general 
All   fresh   hot   breads ;   buckwheat 

cakes 
Pastries,  preserves  and  candies 
All  sweet  drinks 
Jams  and  jellies 


AVOID 

pork,  veal  and       Such  green  vegetables  as  radishes, 


asparagus,  rhubarb,  spinach,  to- 
matoes, garden  cress,  beets, 
parsnips,  salsify,  yellow  turnips, 
boiled  cabbage,  onions,  baked 
beans 

Melons,  peaches,  plums,  necta- 
rines, apricots,  grapes,  figs, 
bananas,  prunes 

All  sour  foods  and  condiments ; 
pickles  and  spiced  dishes 

Indigestible  foods,  as  mushrooms 
sea  foods  and  cheese 


The  above  dishes  may  be  arranged  in  menus  so  that 
each  meal  will  be  attractive  and  appetizing  and  still  simple. 

Give  a  cup  of  clear  .coffee,  without  milk  or  sugar,  or 
fruit  juice,  early  in  the  morning;  the  heavy  meal  at  noon- 
day, and  supper  at  six  o'clock,  composed  largely  of  cereals. 

Caution — If  the  patient  has  been  in  the  habit  of  taking 
wine  with  every  meal,  cut  it  off  gradually.  If  tea  and 
coffee  disagree,  give  an  infusion  of  cocoa  nibs  or  shells, 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  81 

with  a  very  little  milk  or  cream.  Rich  chocolate  and  cocoa 
must  be  avoided.  Saline  waters  are  to  be  recommended 
for  the  obese.  A  man  who  has  been  accustomed  to  strong- 
drink  generally  prefers  a  saline  water,  purchased  at  a  drug 
store,  to  a  good  spring  water.  Humor  him  in  these  mat- 
ters. If  the  patient  is  thin  and  rather  anaemic,  do  not  give 
him  saline  waters.     Give  plain  pure  soft  water. 

Watch  the  patient  carefully,  and  note  the  results  from 
every  meal.  It  is  of  utmost  importance  that  the  stomach 
should  be  kept  in  good  condition.- 

RHEUMATISM 

One  cannot  decide  for  one's  self  whether  one  has 
rheumatism  or  not.  Twinges  of  pain  may  come  from  other 
causes.  Where  rheumatism  occurs,  the  care  of  the  skin 
is  of  equal  importance  with  food.  The  patient  must  be 
protected  from  sudden  changes  in  the  weather.  A  sudden 
change  from  dry  to  damp,  from  hot  to  cold,  will  fre- 
quently cause  much  trouble.  On  the  other  hand,  he  must 
not  sit  in  a  close,  overheated  room;  this  makes  one  sensi- 
tive to  cold.  See  that  the  patient  is  warmly  dressed  in 
light  wool,  that  he  may  live  in  the  open  air;  this,  with 
correct  food,  will  aid  greatly  in  a  cure. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  rheumatism,  one  a  sort  of  first 
cousin  to  gout,  which  comes  to  the  obese,  the  individual 
who  always  gratifies  his  appetite  on  rich,  highly-seasoned 
foods ;  the  other  we  find  in  rural  districts,  among  persons 
who  live  on  illy-selected  foods — pork  and  potatoes,  fol- 
lowed by  pie, .  all  washed  down  with  weak  tea  or  coffee, 
for  dinner,  and  bread  and  butter  and  stewed  fruit  for  sup- 
per; or  those  who  take  milk  with  their  meals  as  a  "bev- 
erage." 

Persons  in  the  first  class  should  be  made  to  live  on  a 
"shilling  a  day,"  and  earn  it.  Wines  must  be  exchanged  for 
large  drafts  of  pure  cold  water.  Rich  nitrogenous  foods, 
sauces,  soups,  entrees  and  sweets,  must  be  given  up  entirely. 

6 


82  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Eggs  and  milk  may  now  and  then  be  given  in  the  place 
of  meat.  Boiled  rice  and  carefully-stewed  macaroni,  with 
such  cereals  as  Cream  of  Wheat,  farina  and  hominy  grits, 
must  take  the  place  of  potatoes.  Milk  soups  must  take  the 
place  of  meat  soups.  Green  vegetables  in  goodly  quantities 
should  be  added  to  the  diet.  A  dish  of  lettuce  salad,  with  a 
little  oil  and  lemon  juice,  well-cooked  spinach,  cucumbers, 
tender  celery,  carefully-boiled  dandelions,  cooked  cress,  Ro- 
maine,  string  beans,  young  green  peas,  okra,  Jerusalem  and 
globe  artichokes,  are  all  admissible.  An  occasional  piece  of 
broiled  white  fish,  or  a  few  broiled  oysters,  or  a  little 
stewed  veal,  are  allowable  in  cases  that  are  not  severe. 
Bread  must  be  stale  and  dry.  Tea  and  coffee  with  sugar 
and  milk  must  not  be  given. 

A  cup  of  black  coffee  is  admissible  after  the  morning 
bath  and  before  the  breakfast. 

Fruits  may  be  eaten  between  meals,  but  not  with  other 
foods. 

Starchy  foods  should  consist  of  carefully-boiled  rice, 
macaroni,  carefully-boiled  chestnuts,  with  now  and  then  a 
sweet  potato;  tapioca  flavored  with  fruit  juices,  and  sago. 
Cream  soups  are  always  allowable,  but  must  not  be  taken 
with  other  foods ;  with  whole  wheat  bread  or  hard  white 
bread  they  form  an  easily-digested  night  meal.  Milk  toast 
may  be  given  for  breakfast,  or  supper. 

Class  two  must  be  fed  wheat  germ  cereals,  shredded 
wheat  or  oatmeal  with  cream,  egg  and  milk  for  breakfast. 
Lean  beef,  mutton,  chicken,  puree  of  lentils,  Roman  bread, 
corn  bread,  wheat  bread,  well  buttered,  cup  custards,  suet 
puddings,  occasionally,  for  dinner.  Junket,  milk  foods, 
leban,  buttermilk,  brown  bread,  milk  toast,  eggs  and  chops 
for  supper.     Rice  and  cream  are  also  good. 

If  the  patient  is  in  bed,  give  a  tepid  bath  and  rub  about 
eight  o'clock  in  the  morning;  then  a  half  pint  of  cool,  not 
iced,  water  to  drink,  then  a  rest  for  thirty  minutes,  fol- 
lowed by  a  breakfast  of  one  toasted  shredded  wheat  biscuit, 
or  a  saucer  of  Wheatlet  with  a  half  pint  of  pasteurized  milk. 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


83 


At  twelve  o'clock  give  a  dinner,  consisting  of  whole  wheat 
bread  and  butter,  broiled  meat,  with  a  dish  of  stewed  prunes, 
or  three  or  four  ripe  peaches,  or  a  half  pound  of  dark  grapes. 

In  the  middle  of  the  afternoon  give  a  half  pint  or  more 
of  soft,  cool  water,  not  iced.  There  is  no  objection  to  a 
glass  of  milk  in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon  if  the  patient 
seems  hungry,  but  water,  after  all,  is  the  keynote  to 
recovery.  At  five  o'clock  give  a  puree  of  lentils,  or  any  of 
the  cream  soups,  leaving  out  all  high  seasoning.  Vary  the 
foods,  but  keep  up  this  routine  until  the  patient  is  better. 
A  glass  of  milk  may  be  given  at  bedtime,  if  necessary. 

Even  after  cured,  the  patient  must  continue  a  simple 
diet  for  many  months. 


RHEUMATICS   MAY   EAT 


A  little  chicken 
White-fleshed  fish 
Lightly-cooked  eggs 
Milk  and  milk  foods 
Puree  of  peanuts 
Milk  soup 
Boiled  rice 
Stewed  macaroni 
Boiled  chestnuts 
Popped  corn 
Fruits,     except     dates, 
prunes 


figs 


Fruit  juices 

Carrots 

Young  peas 

Stewed  squash 

Stewed  cucumbers 
H^^rtichokes 
^l^ttuce 
"Cress 

Endive 

Celery 
and      Cauliflower 

Brussels  sprouts 


MUST    AVOID 


All  meats,  except  chicken 
Sea    foods,     except    white-fleshed 
.     fish 
Fried  foods 
Pies 

Cakes,  cookies 
Candies 
Rich  puddings 
Rich  sauces 
Meat  soups 


Jellies 

Preserves 

Tea  with  sugar  and  cream 

Coffee  with  sugar  and  cream 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Liquids  with  meals 

Fresh  bread 

Hot  breads 

Griddle  cakes 


84  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

CHRONIC  RHEUMATISM 

The  treatment  of  chronic  rheumatism  differs  from 
that  of  the  acute  disease. 

Most  persons  with  this  disease  are  underfed  and  badly 
nourished ;  they  have  been  starved  in  the  land  of  plenty  ; 
they  have  been  ignorant  of  the  foods  necessary  for  perfect 
nutrition.  It  is  not  an  unusual  thing  to  find  chronic  rheu- 
matism among  the  tea  and  toast  maidens,  or  the  so-called 
vegetarians  of  the  rural  districts,  who  live  on  bread,  fruit, 
cereals,  *'weak"  tea  or  coffee,  or  cambric  tea,  or  pork  and 
potatoes — all  carbonaceous  foods.  They  usually  have  heavy 
dinners  in  the  middle  of  the  day,  go  to  work  quickly  after 
eating,  and  their  suppers  are  ''light,"  composed  of  dough- 
nuts, stewed  fruits,  white  bread,  all  well  washed  down  with 
two  or  three  cups  of  tea.  Persons  of  this  type  are  naturally 
"subject  to  colds."  They  wear  three  or  four  times  as  much 
clothing  as  is  necessary  for  warmth,  and  heavy  flannels 
which  prevent  normal  activity  of  the  skin  —  in  fact,  the 
skin  is  almost  in  a  dead  condition.  If  they  remove  their 
underclothes  at  night  and  shake  them  out,  a  fine  white 
powder  falls  over  the  floor.  ^-^Phey  sit  in  a  warm,  unventi- 
lated  room,  and  sleep  in  a  room  with  the  ''night  air"  shut 
out.  These  people  look  on  pure  air  and  water  as  their 
greatest  enemies. 

Feed  these  patients  rather  than  starve  them.  Give 
them  eggs  and  milk,  and  red  meats.  Lean  beef  is  frequently 
found  advantageous.  Cream  soups  are  advisable ;  yolk 
of  egg  and  milk;  infant  foods,  as  Eskay's,  malted  milk 
and  Mellin's  food ;  junket ;  now  and  then  a  glass  of 
koumys.  Tea  and  coffee  can  be  taken  between  meals 
alone,  but  never  with  food.  All  foods  must  be  thoroughly 
masticated.  The  use  of  sour  milk  and  buttermilk  must  be 
determined  by  the  physician ;  in  certain  cases  they  are 
good,  in  others  bad.  Give  cottage  cheese  three  or  four  times 
a  week  in  the  place  of  meat;  stale  bread  and  rice  are  the 
acceptable  starch  foods.    Give  citrus  fruits  and  apples. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  85 

LIVER  TROUBLES 

Just  what  is  meant  by  liver  troubles  must  be  decided 
by  the  physician.  Overeating  of  rich  or  badly-cooked  food, 
and  overdrinking,  will  frequently  overtax  both  the  digestive 
tract  and  the  liver.  Persons  who  indulge  excessively  in 
sweets,  preserves  and  cream  are  apt  to  have  what  they  call 
"torpid  liver."  The  portal  system  of  the  liver  has  been 
overtaxed.     Give  it  rest  before  it  is  too  late. 

Biliousness  is  another  term,  inaccurately  used  to 
express  a  functional  disorder  of  the  liver  where  there  is  an 
excessive  secretion  of  bile.  An  excess  of  food,  both  in 
quantity  and  quality,  may  now  and  then  be  disposed  of  in 
a  "bilious  attack"  ;  if,  however,  this  warning  is  disregarded, 
more  serious  troubles  may  result. 

Of  all  the  organs  of  the  body,  the  liver  responds  most 
quickly  to  a  correct  diet.  Cut  oft  at  once  fried  foods, 
sweets,  entrees,  sauces,  liquors,  pork,  veal,  sea  food,  tea, 
coffee,  chocolate,  for  at  least  'a  year,  and  note  the  change. 
Give  plenty  of  water  between  meals.  Substitute  whole 
wheat  bread  for  white.  Boiled  chestnuts  and  rice  may  take 
the  place  of  potato.  Frui^^Jl  take  the  place  of  desserts. 
Fruit  juices  should  be  tal^W^::e  or  twice  a  day.  Give 
green  vegetables  every  day,  asparagus,  spinach,  summer 
squash,  cucumbers,  lettuce,  cress,  endive  with  French 
dressing  made  from  a  little  oil  and  lemon  juice.  Hard  bread 
is  to  be  recommended,  because  it  requires  mastication, 
which  aids  digestion,  and  good  digestion  aids  in  the  activity 
of  the  liver.  Do  not  give  water  with  meals  but  plenty  be- 
tween meals.  If  foods  disagree,  drop  them  at  once.  If 
flatulency  occurs,  too  much  starch  or  fat  has  been  given. 
Give  the  heaviest  meal  in  the  middle  of  the  day ;  a  light  sup- 
per, composed  of  eggs,  milk  toast,  cereals,  or  cocoa  with 
toast.    Buttermilk  and  leban  are  to  be  recommended. 


86 


MRS.    RORER's  diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


MAY    EAT 


Chicken 

Beef 

Mutton 

White-fleshed  fish 

Clam  broth 

Oyster  bouillon 

Nut  milks 

Stale  bread 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Boiled   rice 

Leban 

Koumys 

Clabber 

Buttermilk 

Tender  green  vegetables,  carefully 
cooked  without  fat,  as  spinach, 
string  beans,  asparagus,  summer 
squash,  stewed  cucumbers,  dan- 
delions cooked  and  raw 

Delicate  green  salads  with  French 
dressing 

Tender  celery 

Fruit  juices 

Apples 

Oranges 


Grape  fruit 

Strawberries 

Raspberries 

Currant  juice  and  raspberry 

Prunes 

Figs 

Spinach 

Kohl-rabi 

Stewed  cucumbers 

Summer  squash 

Young  peas 

Water  cress 

Watermelon 

Nut  dishes 

Broiled    or    roasted    beef,   mutton 

and  chicken 
Sweetbreads  and  tripe 
Grapes 

Eggs  occasionally 
Junket 

Milk  and  vichy 
Lemonade 
Raspberry  vinegar 
lackberry  vinegar 

enty  of  water 


AVOID 


Fatty  foods 

Pies,  cakes  and  puddings 

Sweet  dishes 

Candy 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Pears 

Cantaloupes 

Peaches 

Potatoes 

All  spices 

Pepper 

Salt  in  quantities 

All  fried  foods 

Tea 

Coffee 

Chocolate 


Cocoa 

Veal 

Pork 

Sausages 

Hot  breads 

Buckwheat  cakes 

Crustacea 

Old  peas  and  beans 

Corn  breads 

Alcoholic  and  malt  liquors 

Tomatoes 

Turnips 

Beets 

Carrots 

Sweet  potatoes 

Cabbage 


MRS.   RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  87 

AVOID— Continued 

Cauliflower;  brussels  sprouts  Internal  organs,  as  liver,  kidneys 

Kale;  pickles-  Cereals 

Rich  sauces  and  soups  Such     oily     dishes     as     sardines, 
All  salt  foods  canned     salmon  —  in     fact     all 

All  dried  fruits  canned  fish  should  be  avoided 


Fatty  Liver — Salisbury  restricted  his  patients,  who  had 
fatty  liver,  to  a  diet  of  from  one  to  three  pounds  of  chopped 
lean  beef  per  day,  with  an  orange  or  a  half  pound  of  white 
grapes.  The  meat  must  be  put  twice  through  a  meat 
grinder,  slightly  salted,  made  into  small  cakes  and  broiled; 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  may  be  added  at  the  last  minute. 

If  the  patient  is  tubercular,  serve  with  the  meat  cakes 
a  green  salad,  or  carefully-boiled  rice  with  a  little  melted 
butter.  Between  meals  each  day  give  a  pint  of  milk  and  two 
eggs,  and  the  juice  of  two  oranges  early  in  the  morning. 

Starch  Liver — In  this  disease  the  diet  is  practically  the 
same  as  for  Fatty  Liver. 


CATARRHAL  JAUNDICE 

In  this  disease  a  fast  is  frequently  the  first  aid  to  recov- 
ery. When  feeding  is  allowable,  begin  with  a  small  quan- 
tity of  light  food :  whey,  clam  broth,  albuminized  water, 
albuminized  whey,  buttermilk,  leban,  matzoon,  zoolak, 
lemonades,  and  fruit  juices  with  effervescing  waters. 

If  these  foods  agree  and  the  fever  subsides,  add  a  little 
nut  milk.  Cream  of  W^heat  and  skimmed  milk,  milk  toast 
made  from  skimmed  milk,  mutton  broth,  beef  broth, 
chicken  broth;  later,  beef  panada,  soup  a  la  Reine,  beef 
pats,  broiled ;  a  broiled  chop ;  zweiback  or  hard  toast ;  raw 
fruits  alone,  not  with  meals.  If  the  patient  has  been  a 
coffee  drinker,  give  a  small  cup  of  clear  coffee  the  first 
thing  in  the  morning.  Lemonade  with  effervescing  waters 
may  be  used  freely.  Avoid  all  sweets,  fats,  eggs,  fried 
foods,    indigestible    meats,    as    pork    and    veal,    sea    foods, 


88  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

coarse  vegetables,  pickles,  strong  tea  and  coffee,  chocolate, 
cocoa,  hot  and  soft  breads. 


CIRRHOSIS 

This  disease,  which  usually  accompanies  alcoholism, 
must  have  very  careful  feeding.  Usually  a  milk  diet,  inter- 
changed with  whey  and  milk  preparations,  is  used  for  sev- 
eral weeks  or  months.  Bartholow  recommended  the  ''grape 
cure"  and  the  "whey  cure,"  but  the  selection  of  food  for 
this  disease  is  best  left  to  a  physician,  as  each  individual 
case  requires  individual  feeding. 


GALL  STONES 

This,  like  a  hundred  and  one  other  diseases,  comes 
from  faulty  digestion.  Gall  stones  are  found  more  fre- 
quently in  persons  who  have  passed  middle  life,  whose 
digestion  and  assimilation  for  fats,  sweets  and  starches  are 
gradually  lowering,  and  among  women  who  wear  tight 
clothing,  or  those  who  sit  in  cramped  positions,  as  tailors, 
dressmakers  and  sewing  machine  operators.  In  these  cases 
give  a  well-cooked  cereal.  Cream  of  Wheat,  gluten  mush, 
farina,  banana  flour  mush  and  taro  mush  with  cream. 
Broiled  white  meat  of  chicken  or  white-fleshed  fish,  with 
lettuce,  cress,  endive,  spinach,  cauliflower,  asparagus, 
oranges,  grape  fruit,  and  lemonade  with  very  little  sugar, 
must  form  the  bulk  of  the  diet.  A  baked  potato  may  be 
eaten  once  a  day.  Yolk  of  egg  with  milk,  with  hard 
bread,  may  be  eaten  now  and  then  between  meals.  Weak 
tea  may  be  given  in  the  afternoon  and  plenty  of  soft  water 
between  meals.  A  tumblerful  of  hot  water  the  first  thing  in 
the  morning  and  last  at  night,  will  be  advantageous. 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


89 


MAY 

Coffee  early  in  the  morning 

Tea  in  the  middle  of  the  after- 
noon, without'  food 

Olive  oil  in  goodly  quantities 

Lettuce  and  cress  with  French 
dressing 

Cabbage 

Brussels  sprouts 

Acid  fruits 

White  bread 

Unleavened  bread 

Gluten  biscuits 

Cocoanut  sticks 

Fruit  gelose 

Baked  potatoes 

Potatoes  mashed  and  baked 

Nut  dishes 

Hard-boiled  yolks   of  eggs 

Grapes 


EAT 

Lemonade 
Orangeade 
Effervescing  waters 
Plain  water  in  abundance 
An  occasional  nut  dish 
Almond  milk 
Leban 
Koumys 
Buttermilk 
Clabber 

Albuminized  milk 
Albuminized  whey 
Orange  juice  and  white  of  egg 
Apple  juice  and  white  of  egg 
Baked  apples 
Strawberries 

Strained  currant  juice  with  effer- 
vescing waters 
Grape  juice 


AVOID 

Avoid   all   the  internal  organs   of      Prunes 


animals   used  as   food 
Calves'  brains 
Tripe 
Kidneys 
Sweetbreads 
Liver 
Old  peas 
Beans 
Lentils 
Bananas 
Dates 


All  fried  foods 

Fat  meats  in  general 

Sea  foods  in  general 

Yolks  of  eggs 

Peaches 

Carrots 

Figs 

Raisins 

All  made  dishes 

Sweets  of  every  kind 


90 


MRS.   RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


SICK  HEADACHE 

Sick  headache,  like  biliousness,  is  foremost  among  the 
diseases  that  come  from  an  over-rich,  incorrect  or  badly- 
cooked  food.  It  seems  to  be  a  disease  of  women,  and 
strangely  enough,  the  writer  has  seen  a  grandmother 
impregnate  two  succeeding  generations  of  women  with  the 
idea  that  they  must  have  it,  because  she  and  her  mother 
had  it.  Progression  would  cease  if  such  thoughts  were 
common.  Let  us  inherit  the  good,  and  strive  to  correct  the 
bad  of  our  ancestors. 


MAY 

Breakfasts : 

One  cup  of  clear  coffee,   or 
The  juice  of  two  oranges,  or 
A  grape  fruit,  or 
A    saucer    of    prunes,    without 

sugar,  or 
A  mellow  sour  apple, 

All  without  other  food 
10.30: 

A    glass    of    zoolak,    or    butter- 
milk, or  koumys,  or  skimmed 
milk 
12.30  luncheon  : 
A  bit  of  white-fleshed  fish,  or 
Chicken,  boiled  or  broiled,  or 
Boiled    calf's    head    with    lemon 

juice,  or 
Acid  fruits  without  sugar 


EAT 

Boiled    calf's    feet    with    lemon 
juice, 

With  asparagus,  or  spinach, 
cress,  dandelions,  endive, 
cauliflower,  kohl-rabi,  cu- 
cumbers, stewed  summer 
squash,  stewed  young 
turnips,  string  beans  with- 
out fat,  stewed  tender 
celery 

Gluten  biscuit 

Stale  bread 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Water  between  meals 

Acid  fruits  with  meat,  not  bread 

Strawberries 

Oranges 

Grape  fruit 

Water  ices,  now  and  then 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR   THE   SICK  91 


AVOID 

Tea 

Sweetbreads 

Coffee 

Tripe 

Chocolate 

Liver 

Soups 

Sea  foods 

Pork 

Kidneys 

Veal 

Starchy    foods,    as    potatoes,    rice, 

Turkey  in  particular 

macaroni 

Goose 

White  bread;  hot  breads 

Game 

Sour  dishes ;  pickles 

Rich  sauces 

Mayonnaise  dressing 

Puddings 

Tomatoes 

Pies 

Old  peas,  beans  and  lentils 

Cakes 

Rice 

Sweets 

Sweet  fruits 

Cabbage 

Fried  foods 

Kale 

Fats  in  general 

Peppers 

Ice  creams 

Carrots,  except  grated  raw 

DISEASES  OF  URINARY  SYSTEM 

It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  a  large  quantity  of  foods 
rich  in  protein  throws  undue  work  on  the  kidneys,  and  the 
poisons  retained  greatly  influence  the  composition  of  the 
urine.  Kidney  troubles  usually  come  to  men  who  have 
passed  forty-five  or  fifty,  those  individuals  who  eat  meat 
three  times  a  day  ''to  keep  up  their  strength."  Diseases 
caused  by  incorrect  diet  are  greatly  modified  by  correct 
diet.  In  most  of  these  troubles  a  skimmed  milk  diet  is  to 
be  recommended.  Large  quantities  of  water  are  advan- 
tageous. If  the  patient  will  not  take  plain  water,  buy  a 
good  spring  water  and  use  it  plentifully.  I  have  observed 
that  the  sick  feel  that  a  bottled  water  purchased  at  a  drug 
store  has  a  greater  curative  power  than  a  good  cool,  soft 
water  drawn  from  their  own  spigot  or  spring. 

In  many  of  these  diseases,  after  a  cure  has  been 
effected,  a  simple  vegetable  diet  will  enable  the  person  to 
live  comfortably  for  many  years.  All  meats  must  be  per- 
manently given  up.     Sugars  and  starches  must  be  limited. 


92  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Alcoholic  and  malt  liquors  are  injurious.  The  diet  must 
be  composed  largely  of  fruits,  green  vegetables,  milk  and 
milk  preparations.  Oranges,  grape  fruit  and  lemonade 
without  sugar  are  frequently  beneficial.  Strange  as  it  may 
seem,  the  fruits  that  contain  organic  acids  frequently  by 
virtue  of  their  salts,  promote  alkalinity  of  the  blood  and 
urine.  Such  green  vegetables  as  spinach,  cauliflower, 
Brussels  sprouts,  savoy,  onions,  string  beans,  lettuce,  en- 
dive, celery,  young  turnips,  and  very  young  carrots,  are 
admissible. 

There  is  a  great  variety  of  opinions  regarding 
asparagus.  Some  physicians  order  it  frequently  for  urinary 
troubles,  others  condemn  it.  One  writer  claims  that  the 
peculiar  odor  that  is  noticed  after  even  a  small  quantity 
of  asparagus  is  eaten,  is  due  to  an  oil  rich  in  sulphur,  which 
is  in  some  way  digested  or  converted  in  the  intestines, 
and. has  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  the  kidney  action. 

The  most  common  of  these  diseases  will  be  treated 
under  their  special   headings. 

URIC  ACID  DIATHESIS 

The  causes  of  this  disease  are,  as  a  rule,  excessive 
eating  of  rich  foods  and  lack  of  exercise.  The  blood  con- 
tains an  excess  of  uric  acid  or  its  salts. 

It  frequently  follows  digestive  troubles  of  long  stand- 
ing. Uric  acid  should  be  converted  into  urea,  if  all  the 
functions  do  their  work  properly ;  but  if  there  is  any  lack 
of  oxidation  in  the  tissues,  the  process  is  frequently  upset 
or  entirely  checked,  and  sediment  appears  in  the  urine. 
When  this  occurs,  animal  foods  and  sugar  must  be  reduced 
in  amount,  or  better  still,  entirely  given  up.  Substitute 
nitrogenous  vegetables,  such  as  soy  beans  and  lentils,  and 
milk,  for  meats.  The  morning  bath  and  rub,  and  exercise 
in  the  open  air,  are  of  importance ;  in  fact,  the  patient  would 
recover  in  much  less  time  if  he  would  live  and  sleep  out  of 
doors. 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


93 


I 

^AY 

EAT 

Cream  soups 

Rice  and  arrowroot,  but  not  with 

White-fleshed     fish,     broiled 

or 

sugar 

boiled 

Macaroni    and    spaghetti,    without 

An  occasional  bit  of  chic 

ken 

cheese 

Soup  a  la  Reine 

Gluten  mush 

Puree    of    lentils,    peas, 

old 

peas 

Gluten  bread 

and  beans 

An  occasional  aleuronat  gem 

Vegetable  gelatins,  unsweetened 

Soups,   maigre 

Very  little  butter 

Fresh  green  vegetables 

Dishes  made  from  yolks 

of 

eggs 

Peas 

Cofifee,    cocoa,    chocolate. 

,    broma, 

Lima  beans 

alkathrepta,     racahout. 

without 

Tender  hearts  of  lettuce 

sugar 

Young  celery 

Skimmed  milk 

Baked  potato 

Modified  milk 

Globe  artichokes 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Stewed  turnips 

Oatmeal  bread 

Jerusalem  artichokes 

Unleavened  bread 

Fruits  without  sugar 

Crisp  crackers 

Fruit  juices 

Well-cooked  cereals 

Roborat 

AVOID 

All  sweets 

Grapes 

Red  meats 

Pears 

Sauces 

Dates 

Meat  soups 

Figs 

Yolks  of  eggs 

Raisins 

Fat 

Prunes 

Pork 

Currants 

Veal 

Coarse  vegetables 

All    pink-fleshed     fish,     Crustacea, 

Cheese 

oysters,  clams 

Milk,   except  in  coffee  and  cocoa 

Rhubarb 

All    milk    dishes,    as    leban    and 

Gooseberries 

koumys 

Strawberries 

In  Children — This  disease  is  frequently  seen  in  chil- 
dren of  rheumatic  or  gouty  parents.  As  each  case  is  a  law 
in  itself,  the  food  must  be  regulated  by  the  attending 
physician.  A  general  outline,  however,  may  be  given  for 
the  benefit  of  the  caretaker. 


94  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Fothergill,  in  speaking  of  uric  acid  diathesis  in  chil- 
dren, says  "lean  meats  and  beef  tea  are  equivalent  to  so 
much  poison." 

A  child  under  five  years  of  age  must  be  kept  strictly 
on  skimmed  milk  and  milk  preparations.  Milk  gruels  made 
from  farina,  cornmeal  and  banana  flour  are  to  be  recom- 
mended. The  hard-boiled  yolk  of  tgg  may  be  grated  over 
milk  toast  and  given  once  or  twice  a  week.  Baked  apples 
without  sugar,  dry  whole  wheat  bread  without  butter,  an 
occasional  bit  of  white  meat  of  chicken,  cooked  spinach, 
cauliflower,  summer  squash  and  cucumbers,  are  admissible. 
Avoid  for  some  time  to  come  all  fats,  cream,  butter,  olive 
oil ;  such  foods  as  rice,  potato,  sago,  tapioca,  sweet  dishes, 
sugar,  red  meats  and  the  internal  organs  of  animals  used 
as  food.  Nut  dishes,  milk,  puree  of  lentils,  with  an  occa- 
sional egg,  must  take  the  place  of  meat.  As  the  case  pro- 
ceeds toward  a  cure,  add  to  this  diet  weak  cocoa,  dry  toast, 
zwieback,  tender  celery,  hominy  grits,  plain  stewed  mac- 
aroni, watermelons,  prunes,  cooked  without  sugar;  oranges, 
apples,  raw  and  baked  without  sugar,  and  baked  bananas. 
There  must  be  no  nibbling  between  meals.  All  foods  must 
be  lightly  cooked.  The  method  of  cooking  is  quite  as  im- 
portant as  the  food  prescribed.  Children  even  at  the  age 
of  twelve  to  fourteen  should  not  be  given  pink-fleshed  fish, 
veal,  pork,  salt  foods,  dried  meats,  fried  foods,  hot  breads, 
candies,  pastry,  cake,  dense  hard  vegetables,  condiments 
or  pickles. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  95 

ALBUMINURIA 

This  disease,  like  most  urinary  troubles,  comes  to  big 
meat  eaters,  people  who  "live  to  eat,"  and  must  have  big 
juicy  steaks  every  day  in  the  week.  The  system  is  able 
to  store  surplus  starch  and  sugar,  the  carbohydrates,  but 
frequently  fails  in  many  of  its  functions  when  the  proteids 
(tissue-building  foods)  are  taken  in  greater  quantity  than 
the  system  requires.  We  can,  if  we  cut  off  the  carbo- 
hydrates, burn  the  proteids  to  produce  heat  and  energy, 
but  it  is  an  extravagant  and  illogical  way  of  living.  In 
albuminuria  there  is  a  tremendous  waste  of  tissue,  which 
must  be  counterbalanced  with  some  nitrogenous  foods,  but 
care  must  be  taken  to  keep  the  balance  equal. 

Of  the  leguminous  seeds,  lentils  are  preferable,  as  they 
supply  nitrogen  in  an  acceptable  form.  Skimmed  milk, 
and  modified  milk  without  cream,  may  also  be  used  for 
supplying  the  necessary  albumin.  If  constipation  occurs, 
substitute  cream  soups,  and  nut  milks,  and  give  orange 
juice  in  the  early  morning  before  breakfast.  Avoid  sweets 
and  starchy  foods  as  potatoes,  white  bread  and  cornstarch. 
Give  pure  soft  water  in  goodly  quantities. 

MAY  EAT 

Water  gruels,  especially  cornmeal  Cereals  with  milk 

gruel  Skimmed  milk  toast 

Skimmed  milk  Gluten  toast,  without  butter 

Modified  milk,  without  cream  Baked  apple,  occasionally 

Buttermilk  Vegetable   gelatin   preparations 

Skimmed  milk  koumys  Stale  breads 

Fruit  juices  Cocoanut  fingers 

Carefully-cooked     fruits,     without  Gluten  biscuits 

sugar  Unleavened  bread 

Light  vegetables  Whole   wheat  bread 

Cream  soups  Corn  breads 

Rice  and  rice  preparations 

Later,  add,  white  meat  of  chicken,  white-fleshed  fish, 
broiled,  and  occasionally  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs;  but 
butchers'  meats  must  be  Avholly  excluded  for  a  long  while. 


96  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Crisp  crackers  may  now  and  then  be  substituted  for  bread. 
All  green  vegetables  are  admissible  except  boiled  cabbage 
and  onions. 

AVOID 

All  red  meats  Meat  soups  in  general 

Rich  sauces  Coarse  vegetables 

Sweets  Hot  breads 

Pastries  Fresh  white  bread 

Pies  New  beets 

Puddings  Corn 

Spiced  dishes  Raw  cucumbers 

Pickles  Salt  meats 

Tea  and  coffee  Lobsters 

Sour  salads  Crabs 

Fried  foods  Shrimps 

Pink-fleshed  fish  Clams 

Beef  tea  Cantaloupes 

Consomme  Mushrooms 

Bouillon  Cheese 


FUNCTIONAL  ALBUMINURIA  IN 
CHILDREN 

This  disease  frequently  comes  to  children  who  have 
had  meat  feeding  too  early,  and  sweets  and  starchy  foods 
have  been  allowed  in  too  large  quantities.  Milk  and  milk 
preparations  should  be  the  sole  diet  until  the  urine  is  free 
from  albumin.  Then  give  a  grated  hard-boiled  yolk  of  an 
egg  over  a  dish  of  milk  toast ;  milk  soups,  nut  soups,  fruit 
juices,  cereals,  boiled  rice,  rice  pudding,  stewed  macaroni, 
puree  of  lentils,  soy  bean  preparations,  carefully-cooked 
spinach,  cauliflower,  celery,  lettuce  with  French  dressing, 
apples  raw  and  baked,,  fruit  gelose,  sour  milk  foods,  as 
zoolak,  matzoon  and  buttermilk;  small  fruits,  very  ripe; 
stale  bread,  whole  wheat  and  nut  bread,  and  an  occasional 
baked  potato. 

Avoid  all  meats  and  meat  soups,  sea  food,  white  of 
egg,  raw  eggs,  fried  foods,  rich  sweet  dishes,  pastry,  cakes, 
preserves  and  candies. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  97 


CHRONIC  BRIGHT'S  DISEASE 

No  matter  what  the  origin  of  the  disease,  dietetic 
treatment  is  the  same.  Osier  says,  "care  in  food  and  drink 
is  the  most  important  element  in  the  early  treatment  of 
these  cases."  All  highly-seasoned  foods,  meat  broths  and 
meat  and  eggs  must  be  wholly  excluded.  Whether  or  not 
the  patient  needs  albumin  must  be  determined  by  the 
physician  or  nurse  in  attendance.  An  uninstructed  care- 
taker, cannot  feed  a  case  of  Bright's  disease,  without 
danger  to  the  patient ;  for  the  volume  of  albumin  in  the 
urine  is  not  an  infallible  guide  to  dietetic  treatment. 

In  many  cases  the  patient  may  be  kept,  to  his  advan- 
tage, for  two  or  three  months  on  an  exclusive  diet  of 
skimmed  milk.  The  quantity  will  vary,  according  to  the 
age  and  condition  of  the  patient,  but  as  a  rule  three  quarts 
of  milk  a  day  will  be  sufficient,  or  two  quarts  of  milk  and 
one  quart  of  barley  water;  rice  water  and  German  flour 
gruel  may  be  alternated  with  barley  water. 

If  barley  water  is  added  to  the  milk,  there  will  be  but 
little  danger  of  constipation.  If  it  should  occur,  however, 
orange  juice  or  a  small  cup  of  French  coffee  early  in  the 
morning,  will  correct  it.  This  diet  may  seem  severe  at  first, 
but  if  the  patient  is  made  to  understand  that  life  depends 
on  the  diet,  he  will  submit,  if  his  life  is  worth  the  living. 

Keep  the  throat  and  mouth  clean  and  free  from  odor. 
After  each  feeding  swab  with  Listerine  and  water,  or  vege- 
table gelatin  and  lemon  juice  or  Irish  moss  water. 

As  the  patient  improves,  add  milk  soups,  milk  gruels, 
tapioca  custards,  sago  custards,  rice  pudding,  various  nut 
dishes,  carefully-cooked  topground  vegetables,  excepting 
cabbage ;  boiled  or  broiled  fish ;  a  little  boiled  or  broiled 
chicken,  stewed  chestnuts,  with  sauce  thickened  with  yolk 
of  eggs,  and  milk  toast.  Give  pure  soft  water  between 
meals. 


98 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


MAY  EAT,  FOLLOWING  THE  MILK  DIET 


Milk  toast 

Milk  gruels 

Cream  soups 

Carefully-made   nut    dishes 

An  occasional  puree  of  lentils 

Golden  toast 

Occasionally  boiled   white   fish 

Chicken  timbale 

Soup  a  la  Reine 

Topground  vegetables 

Baked  potato 


Cereals 
Buttermilk 

Skimmed  milk  clabber 
Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 
Fruits  cooked  without  sugar 
Dry  bread,  crackers 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Corn  bread 

Light  green  vegetable  salads 
Weak  chocolate  and  cocoa ;  alka- 
threpta,  broma  and  racahout 


AVOID 


All  meats 

Fish 

Crustacea 

Oysters;  clams 

Coarse  vegetables 

All  meat  soups 

Eggs,  unless  ordered 

Hot  breads 

Fresh  white  bread 

Tea 

Coffee,  unless  ordered 


All  sweet  dishes 

Pickles 

Spiced  foods 

Rich  sauces 

Pastry 

Cakes 

Preserves 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Rhubarb 

All  fried  foods 

Coarse  vegetables 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  99 

NEPHRITIS 
ACUTE  NEPHRITIS 

Diet  is  of  equal  importance  with  medical  treatment.  Foods 
must  be  easily  digested,  and  the  diet  must  be  restricted  until 
the  activity  of  the  kidneys  becomes  normal. 

If  the  case  is  incurable,  the  diet  may  be  more  variable; 
milk  soups,  light  meats,  freshly-killed  game,  broiled  white- 
fleshed  fish,  are  all  admissible.  These,  however,  must  be  given 
under  the  direction  and  observation- of  a  physician.  Patients 
should  avoid  coarse  vegetables,  even  raw  celery  and  such  green 
vegetables  as  asparagus,  string  beans,  Brussels  sprouts  and 
mushrooms.  Cauliflower,  young  peas,  tender  corn,  pressed 
from  the  hulls,  are  allowed.  The  patient  should  be  kept  in 
bed,  on  an  exclusive  milk  diet  for  three  weeks,  followed  by  a 
non-stimulating  diet  for  many  months  to  come. 

Three  quarts  of  skimmed  milk  alone,  or  modified, 
without  cream,  adding  an  extra  half  quantity  of  milk  sugar 
or  mixed  with  barley  or  rice  water,  or  cornmeal  gruel, 
strained,  may  be  given  every  two  and  a  half  hours. 

If  there  is  inclination  to  diarrhoea,  give  brow^ned  rice 
gruel  or  Evans's  tea  gruel,  twice  a  day.  If  there  is  constipa- 
tion, give  buttermilk,  koumys  or  leban.  Do  not  give  more 
than  four  ounces  at  a  time,  in  feedings  two  and  a  half 
hours  apart,  unless  otherwise  ordered  by  a  physician.  Nut 
milk,  especially  almond  milk,  made  from  Sanitas  almond 
meal,  may  be  substituted  now  and  then  for  plain  milk. 
Give  Imperial  drink,  lemonade  and  tamarind  whey  between 
meals  once  a  day.     Avoid  all  salted  and  sweet  foods. 

When  solid  foods  are  indicated,  give  a  chicken  tim- 
bale,  milk  toast,  farina  pudding,  blancmange,  a  few  green 
peas,  boiled  and  pressed  through  a  sieve,  stewed  tender 
celery,  rice  and  whole  wheat  bread.  Ripe  dark  grapes  may 
be  given  at  noonday.  A  half  dozen  blanched,  unroasted 
almonds  may  be  added  to  the  timbales  or  eaten  alone,  if 
well  masticated.  Baked  apples,  a  little  strained  orange  juice, 
apple  juice  and  grape  juice,  are  all  beneficial. 


100 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


When  the  patient  has  quite  recovered,  a  broiled  chop, 
a  little  broiled  white-fleshed  fish,  may  be  added  to  the 
preceding  list.  Oatmeal  gruel  is  frequently  very  beneficial, 
and  may  be  used  as  a  breakfast  food. 


MAY 

Skimmed  milk  and  barley  water 

Modified  milk,  without  cream 

Koumys 

Buttermilk 

Meiggs'  food 

Cornmeal  gruel 


EAT 

Alkaline  waters 
Effervescing  waters 
Lemonade 
Lemon  squash 
Imperial  drink 


LATER 


Chicken  timbale 

Poached  egg,  occasionally 

Rice  pudding 

Blancmange 

Bartholow's  food 

Carefully-cooked  prunes 

Prune  souffle 

Minced  white  meat  of  chicken 

Boiled  rice 


Occasionally  a  baked  potato 

A     piece     of     white-fleshed     fish, 

broiled 
Cream  soups 

Fresh    fruits    in    moderation 
Stale  bread 
Gluten  biscuits 
Delicate    green     vegetables,     with 

French  dressing 


AVOID 


All  red  meats 

Rich  sauces 

Sweets 

Pastries 

Pies 

Puddings 

Spiced  dishes 

Pickles 

Tea  and  coffee 

Sour  salads 

Fried  foods 

Pink-fleshed  fish 

Beef  tea 

Consomme 

Bouillon 


Meat  soups  in  general 

Coarse  vegetables 

Hot  breads 

Fresh  white  bread 

New  beets 

Corn 

Raw  cucumbers 

Salt  meats 

Lobsters 

Crabs 

Shrimps 

Clams 

Cantaloupes 

Mushrooms 

Cheese 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  101 

OXALURIA 

In  this  disease  oxalate-of-lime  crv'stals  are  found  in  the 
urine.  By  some  it  is  supposed  they  are  created  from  eating 
certain  kinds  of  food  rich  in  the  constituents  they  contain ;  by 
others,  from  fauky  digestion.  Xo  matter  which  theory  be  cor- 
rect, the  curative  diet  is  practically  the  same.  Such  vegetables 
and  fruits  as  rhubarb,  sorrel,  onions,  garlic,  chives  and  leeks, 
old  turnips,  both  white  and  yellow,  tomatoes,  pears  and  sweets, 
especially  candy,  and  sugar  in  tea  and  coffee,  and  such  foods  as 
sago,  tapioca,  cassava  and  potatoes  are  prohibited.  The 
diet  should  consist  largely  of  milk  and  milk  foods ;  for 
meat-eating  patients,  chopped  beef  and  mutton  are  prefer- 
able. Serve  with  them  a  little  stale  bread,  or  an  occasional 
bunch  of  grapes  or  tender  celery.  A  half  pint  of  hot  water 
should  be  sipped  a  half  hour  before  each  meal.  If  consti- 
pation occurs,  give  a  glass  of  cold  water  early  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  follow  almost  immediately  by  a  cup  of  cafe  au  lait, 
merely  warm,  so  the  patient  may  drink  it  rapidly.  Give  a 
large  cup  of  hot  water  the  last  thing  at  night. 

MAY    EAT 

Beef  Meiggs'  food 

Mutton  Cornmeal  gruel 

Chicken  Vegetable   jellies,    with   prunes   or 

White-fleshed  fish  apricots  or  peaches 

Broiled  or  boiled  game  Nut  dishes 

Stale  bread,  with  very  little  butter       Milk  toast,  without  butter 

Crisp  crackers  Imported  endive 

Gluten  biscuits  An  occasional  baked  potato 

Orange  juice  occasionally  Very  young  turnips 

Apples  New  green  peas 

Plain  boiled  rice,  without  sugar  Lettuce 

Farina  Stewed  cucumbers 

Cream  of  Wheat  Summer  squash 

Shredded  wheat  biscuits  Dandelions  cooked  and  raw 

Cream  of  pea  soup  Cocoa 

Cream  of  turnip  soup 


102  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


AVOID 

Chocolate  Sorrel 

Tea  Currants 

Carbonated  waters  Strawberries 

Rhubarb  Green  string  beans 

Tomatoes  Fresh  green  or  red  peppers 

Onions  Gelatin  dishes 

Kohl-rabi  Rich  sauces 

Asparagus  Internal    organs    of    animals,    as 

Spinach  liver,    kidney,    sweetbreads    and 

Sourdock  tripe 

Cress  Meat  soups 

Cabbage  Pastries 

Cauliflower  Cakes 

Bananas  Fried  foods 

Native  endive  Liquors 

Pears  Alcohol 


CALCULI 

Induce  the  patient  to  drink  abundantly  of  pure,  soft 
water.  Any  good,  soft  spring  water  will  answer.  Distilled 
water,  which  is  usually  procurable  in  small  towns  and 
cities,  is  excellent.  The  name  on  the  bottle  makes  no  dif- 
ference whatever,  so  the  water  is  pure  and  soft.  In  the 
early  stages  an  exclusive  milk  diet  is  to  be  recommended. 


MAY    EAT 

In  the  early  stages  an  exclusive  skimmed  milk  diet. 

If  all  goes  well,  ten  days  later,  light  cereal,  as  farina, 
Cream  of  Wheat,  with  milk,  hominy  grits,  cornmeal  mush 
with  milk  but  no  sugar,  dry  white  bread,  an  occasional 
gluten  biscuit,  apples  baked  without  sugar,  nut  purees, 
nut  dishes  in  general,  almond  milk,  blancmange,  and  eggs 
occasionally. 

In  three  weeks,  add  to  the  above  a  little  white  meat  of 
chicken,  light  green  vegetable  salads  with  very  little  olive 
oil  and  considerable  lemon  juice;  orange  juice,  grape  fruit, 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR   THE   SICK  103 

endive,  tender  celery,  lettuce,  cauliflower,  savoy,  milk 
gruels  between  meals,  koumys,  zoolak,  buttermilk,  and  milk 
soups. 


AVOID 

All  meats,  including  liver, 

sweet- 

Puddings 

breads,  kidney  and  tripe 

All  rich  dishes 

Sea  foods 

Potatoes 

Fats,  raw  and  cooked 

Turnips 

Butter 

Carrots 

Cream 

Cabbage 

Sugar 

Tomatoes 

Spices 

Prunes 

Vinegar 

Dates 

Salt  foods  of  all  kinds 

Figs 

Meat  soups 

Grapes 

All  small  fruits,  as  raspberries  and 

Guavas 

strawberries,  unless   ordered  by 

Peaches 

a  physician 

Pears 

Oatmeal 

Alligator  pears 

DIABETES 

Pathologists  differ  as  to  the  cause  and  origin  of 
diabetes;  some  believe  the  disease  may  be  definitely  located 
in  the  nervous  centers  of  the  brain ;  others,  equally  skilled, 
advance  the  idea  of  defective  pancreatic  digestion.  We 
all  know  that  the  disease  produces  a  peculiar  nervous  con- 
dition, and  that  the  pancreas  is,  after  death,  found  altered 
in  size  and  structure.  No  matter  which  of  these  theories 
is  correct,  all  are  agreed  that  a  proper  diet  is  the  most 
important,  and  the  only  treatment  which  will  bring  about 
a  cure. 

In  this  disease  the  lobular  or  glycogenic  portion  of  the 
liver  is  incapable  of  performing  its  natural  functions ;  more 
sugar  is  secreted  than  it  is  capable  of  holding,  consequently 
the  kidneys  are  taxed  to  eliminate  sugar  from  the  blood,  a 
work  for  which  they  are  not  constructed,  and  as  a  result 


104 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


the  secretions  are  not  normal ;  they  are  more  copious  than 
usual,  and  are  found  to  contain  sugar.  This  leads  us  to 
believe  that  the  system  is  overloaded  v^ith  sugar,  and  that 
all  food  containing  sugar,  and  starches,  which  are  converted 
into  sugar  by  digestion,  must  be  eliminated  from  the  diet. 
This  being  done,  the  patient  Avill  however  for  a  time  excrete 
sugar.  Bartholow  recommended  an  exclusive  skimmed 
milk  diet,  while  Salisbury  told  of  his  wonderful  cures  on 
an  exclusive  chopped  meat  diet. 

Green  vegetables  should  take  the  place  of  starchy 
vegetables.  Olive  oil,  cream  and  butter  are  acceptable,  but 
all  cooked  fats  must  be  avoided.  Dense  vegetables,  as 
turnips,  radishes,  raw  cucumbers,  boiled  cabbage,  pickles, 
and  spiced  foods  interfere  with  the  digestion  of  other  foods 
and  must  be  avoided.  If  digestion  is  weak,  give  artificially- 
digested  milk.  Do  not  continue  this  longer  than  six  or  ten 
days,  or  a  cure  will  be  retarded.  Begin  feeding  two  quarts 
of  milk  a  day,  continuing  this  for  two  days,  then  add  a 
pint  for  the  next  two  days,  and  a  pint  each  day  after  until 
four  quarts  a  day  can  be  easily  taken. 

One  fact  is  worth  noting:  a  potato  contains  less  starch 
than  the  same  weight  of  bread,  but  is  so  easily  digested  and 
transformed  that  it  produces  in  the  end  a  greater  amount 
of  sugar  in  the  urine.  For  this  reason  potatoes  are  for- 
bidden even  for  convalescing  patients.  Alcoholic  and  malt 
liquors  must  be  avoided.  Vichy  water  may  be  used  now 
and  then  to  allay  thirst. 

The  following  table  is  for  seven  days'  feeding: 

MENUS 
First   Day 


7  a.  m.  4  ounces  milk 

9  a.  m.  4  ounces  milk 

II  a.  m.  4  ounces  milk 

I  p.  m.  4  ounces  milk 


3  p.  m.  4  ounces  milk 

5  p.  m.  4  ounces  milk 

7  p.  m.  4  ounces  milk 

9  p.  m.  4  ounces  milk 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


105 


Second  Day  Same 

Third  Day  Same 

Fourth   Day 


7  a.  m.  5  ounces  milk 

9  a.  m.  5  ounces  milk 

II    a.   m  6  ounces  milk 

I  p.  m.  5  ounces  milk 


3  p. 
7  p. 
9  p. 


m.  5  ounces  milk 
m.  6  ounces  milk 
m.      4  ounces  milk 


Fifth 

Day 

7  a. 

m. 

6  ounces  milk 

3  p. 

m. 

7  ounces  milk 

9  a. 

m. 

6  ounces  milk 

5  p. 

m. 

7  ounces  milk 

II  a. 

m. 

6  ounces  milk 

7  p. 

m. 

7  ounces  milk 

I  p. 

m. 

7  ounces  milk 

9  p. 

m. 

5  ounces  milk 

Sixth  Day  Same 
Seventh  Day  Same 


MAY    EAT 


Soups : 

Clear  meat  soups 

Tomato  broth 

Clam  broth 

Oyster  broth 

Chicken  broth,  with  celery 
Fish: 

Fresh  white-fleshed  fish,  broiled, 
boiled  or  planked 

Oysters  in  small  quantities 

Terrapin 
Meats : 

Beef,  mutton,  poultry  and  game; 
broiled,  baked  or  stewed 

Calves'  sweetbreads 

Tripe 

Boiled  calves'  heads 


Milk: 

Skimmed  milk 

Skimmed  milk  junket 

Cheese  in  small  quantity 
Vegetables : 

Celery 

Shaved  raw  cabbage 

Carefully-boiled     cucumbers, 
without  sauce 

Cauliflower 

Broiled   fresh   mushrooms 

Cress 

Lettuce 

Chicory 

French    artichokes,    with    butter 
sauce 

Spinach 

Raw  tomatoes 

Cymlins 


106 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR   THE    SICK 


MAY  EAT— Continued 


Eggs  : 

Eggs   in  all  ways,  except   fried 
or  hard  boiled 
Breads: 

Almond  wafers 

Almond  bread 

Gluten  bread,  made  from  eighty 
percent,  gluten  flour 

Gluten  gems 

Aleuronat  gems 

Aleuronat  zvveiback 

Soy  gems 

Bran  loaf 

Bran  wafers 

Eighty  percent,  gluten  biscuits 
Beverages : 

Clear  weak  tea  and  coffee 

Plain  and  aerated  waters 


Fruits : 

Oranges 

Lemons 

Grape  fruit 

Strawberries 

In  mild  cases,  peaches 
Desserts : 

Cup  custard  without  sugar 

Almonds 

Brazilian  nuts 
Fats: 

A    little    olive    oil    with    lemon 
juice   on    lettuce 

Cocoanut  butter  may  be  used  on 
vegetables 

Unsalted,  perfectly  fresh  butter 
may  be  taken  once  a  day 


AVOID 


All  warmed-over  meat  dishes 
All    highly-seasoned    soups ;    milk 

soups  with  thickening 
Salt  fish  ;  lobster ;  crabs  ;  shrimps  ; 

pink-fleshed     fish ;     clams     and 

scallops 
Veal  and  pork,  with  the  exception 

of     broiled     bacon,     liver     and 

kidneys 
Potatoes 
Parsnips 
Carrots 
Peas 
Salsify 
Old  Peas 
Beans 
Lentils 


Sweet  corn 

Asparagus 

Boiled  cabbage 

Canned  mushrooms 

Radishes 

Raw  cucumbers 

Winter  squash 

Sweet  potatoes 

Yams 

Breads  and  all  cereals 

Boiled  coffee 

Cocoa 

Chocolate 

Wines 

Liquors,  beer 

All  fruits,  except  those  mentioned 

All  sweets,  pastries  and  puddings 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  107 

MENUS     FOR     DIABETIC     CONVALESCENTS     MAY     BE 
ARRANGED     AS     FOLLOWS: 

BREAKFAST 

Orange 

Broiled   Chop  Bran   Bread 

Clear  Coffee 

DINNER 

Half  pint   Bouillon 

Rare  Beef  (roasted)  Spinach,  Cocoanut  Butter 

Roquefort  Cheese  Aleuronat  Gems 

Clear  Coffee 

SUPPER 

Eight  ounces  Hot  Milk,  sipped  slowly 


BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit 

Half  broiled  Sweetbread  Gluten  Gems 

Clear  Coffee 


DINNER 

Plalf  pint  Consomme 

Roasted  Chicken  Stewed  Celery 

Lettuce,  Lemon  Dressing 

Almond  Wafer 

SUPPER 

Broiled  Tripe  Gluten  Gems 

Weak  Clear  Tea 


BREAKFAST 

Orange  Juice 

Broiled  Chicken  Soy  Gems 

Clear  Coffee 


108  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

DINNER 

Chicken  Bouillon 

Boiled  Mutton  Stewed  Cucumber 

Tomato  Salad  Bran  Wafers 


SUPPER 

Plain  Terrapin  Lettuce  Salad 

Gluten  Biscuits 

One  ounce  Cranberry  Jelly,  no  sugar 


BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit 

Coddled  Eggs  Gluten  Biscuit 

Clear  Coffee 


DINNER 

Broiled  White  Fish  Stewed  Cucumber  or  Celery 

Lettuce  Salad 

Bit  of  Cheese  Aleuronat  Zweiback 


SUPPER 

Cold  Roast  Beef  Cress  Salad 

Gluten  Roll 

Sliced  Oranges 


BREAKFAST 

Broiled  Fish  Soy  Gems 

Coffee 


DINNER 

Egg  Soup 

Broiled  Meat  Cake  with  Pine  Nuts 

Baked  Tomatoes 

Salad  of  Chicory  Almond  Wafers 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  109 

SUPPER 

Broiled  Chop  Tomato  with  Cocoanut  Cream 

Gluten  Biscuit 

Weak  Tea 


BREAKFAST 

Strawberries   (if  they  agree) 

Sweetbreads,   broiled  "  Bran    wafers 

Coffee 

DINNER 

Tomato  Soup 

Baked  Birds  Fresh  Mushrooms 

Spinach 

Salad  of  Cress  Gluten  Bread 

Floating  Island,  no  sugar 


BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Chopped  Mutton  Cakes 

Gluten  Toast  Coffee 


DINNER 

Oyster   Bouillon 

Roasted  Chicken  Stewed  Celery 

Cauliflower 

Lettuce  Salad  Bran  Bread 

SUPPER 

Omelet  Soy  Gems 


Sliced  Oranges 


110  MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK 


PREGNANCY 

If  all  is  well  during  pregnancy,  the  food  need  not 
necessarily  be  changed  (providing  the  patient  is  a  normally 
healthy  woman)  until  the  fourth  month  before  delivery.  If 
complications  arise,  special  diets  must  be  given,  which  will 
be  directed  by  the  physician  in  charge.  If  albumin  is  pres- 
ent in  the  urine,  cut  off  red  meats  and  sweets.  If  vomiting 
occurs  and  is  annoying,  give  orange  juice,  sterilized  milk 
and  lime  water  early  in  the  morning  and  without  other 
food.  If  the  patient  becomes  pale  and  anaemic,  give  a  diet 
rich  in  eggs,  milk,  cream  and  butter,  red  meats  and  fruits. 
If  the  appetite  is  physically  perverted  and  there  comes  a 
mental  desire  for  all  sorts  of  indigestible  foods,  especially 
those  that  are  inaccessible,  it  is  purely  the  outcome  of  a 
hysterical  mind  and  should  not  be  humored.  IMuch  harm 
can  be  done,  both  to  the  mother  and  child,  if  such  appetites 
are  gratified.  The  desire  for  pickles  or  vinegar  can  usually 
be  overcome  by  giving  orange  juice  an  hour  before  break- 
fast. 

Breakfast  should  be  light  and  composed  of  fruits,  eggs 
and  well-buttered  bread.  Give  plenty  of  water  between 
meals.  The  heavy  meal  is  best  at  noon,  and  it  should 
consist  of  such  foods  as  milk  soups,  broiled,  boiled  or 
baked  beef,  mutton,  chicken  or  fish,  with  a  baked  potato 
mashed  with  cream,  or  boiled  rice  with  a  little  butter,  or 
stewed  macaroni  with  a  little  Parmesan  cheese,  and  such 
green  vegetables  as  lettuce,  cress,  carefully-stewed  carrots, 
turnips,  celery,  fresh  green  peas,  okra,  new  sweet  corn,  and 
fruits. 

Suppers  should  consist  of  such  light  dishes  as  milk 
toast,  cream  soup,  baked  apple  and  cream,  with  toast,  or 
a  well-cooked  cereal  and  milk  or  chocolate,  or  cocoa  and 
toast. 

If  constipation  occurs  give  three  steamed  figs  before 
retiring,  or  two  ounces  of  peanut  brittle,  or  an  ounce  of 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  111 

raw  peanuts,  which  must  be  thoroughly  masticated,  and 
a  glass  of  water  the  last  thing  at  night  and  the  first  thing 
in  the  morning. 

The  fourth  month  before  delivery  the  diet  should  be 
composed  largely  of  carefully-cooked  light  meats,  green 
vegetables  and  fruits.  Cut  off  slowly  all  starches  and 
sugars,  and  take  only  half  the  amount  of  liquids.  Green 
vegetable  salads  are  advisable.  Asparagus,  cress,  lettuce, 
string  beans  and  celery,  may  be  served  with  French  dress- 
ing. Broiled  white-fleshed  fish  may-  be  used  twice  a  week, 
boiled  mutton  three  times  a  week,  broiled  chicken  twice 
a  week.     Beef  may  be  used  now  and  then,  but  not  often. 

Do  not  follow  fads ;  they  are  frequently  dangerous, 
both  to  the  mother  and  the  child. 


MAY  EAT  FOR  THE  FIRST  FIVE  MONTHS 

Breakfast  cereals  Puree  of  potato 

Milk  and  milk  foods  Lentils 

Cream  Old  peas 

Whole  wheat  bread  Beans 

Corn  bread  Cream  soups 

Baked  potato  ^                 White-fleshed  fish 

Carefully-boiled  potato  Mutton 

Boiled  rice  Lamb 

Stewed    macaroni,     with  a    little       Chicken 

Parmesan  cheese  Sweetbreads 

Carefully-cooked    string   beans  Light  puddings 

Peas  Custards 

Okra  Fruits,  both  raw  and  stewed 

Nut  foods  Ligljt  desserts 

Fruit  gelose  Sponge  cake 

Summer  squash  Angel's  food 

Cucumbers  Sunshine  cake 


112 


MRS.    RORERS    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


AVOID 


Meat  soups 
Rich  sauces 
Sea  foods,  with  the  exception  of 

white-fleshed  fish 
Highly-seasoned  complicated  meat 

dishes 
Entrees 
Cakes 
Pies 


Puddings 

Preserves 

Candies 

Pickles 

Mayonnaise  salads 

Alcoholic  and  malt  liquors 

Hot  breads 

Cinnamon  bun 

Tea 


MAY   EAT   AFTER   THE   FIFTH   MONTH 

Lettuce,  cress,  endive,  carefully- 
cooked  string  beans,  all  in 
salads 

Eggs 

Milk 

Gluten  bread 

Gluten  biscuits 


Boiled  mutton 
Chicken 

White-fleshed  fish 
Sweetbreads 

An  occasional  chopped  meat  cake 
Lamb  chops 

Fruits,    raw    and    stewed,    without 
sugar 


In  this  list  meals  must  be  arranged  with  a  meat  and  a 
green  vegetable,  or  eggs  and  a  green  vegetable ;  eggs  give 
nourishment,  and  vegetables  give  bulk  sufficient  to  satisfy 
appetite.  Bread  must  be  used  sparingly,  but  at  all  times 
the  appetite  must  be  satisfied. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK  113 


PUERPERAL 

Do  not 'give  slops;  they  lack  nourishment  and  upset 
digestion.  The  days  of  water  panada  and  cracker  gruel 
are  past.  Five  or  six  hours  after  delivery  give  a  cup  of  hot 
milk,  or  a  cream  soup,  or  mutton  broth,  strained.  When 
hunger  comes,  and  not  before,  and  this  may  be  in  ten  or 
in  twenty  hours,  give  eggnog,  without  liquor,  milk  and 
lime  water,  milk  and  vichy,  egg  soup,  chicken  broth,  cream 
of  celery  soup,  mutton  and  oatmeal  broth,  mutton  and 
cornmeal  broth,  matzoon,  koumys  or  leban.  On  the  third 
day,  if  all  is  well,  add  a  milk  puree  of  lentils,  a  soft-poached 
egg,  milk  toast,  hot  cup  custard,  Wheatena  and  cream. 
Cream  of  Wheat  and  cream,  toast,  plain  or  slightly  but- 
tered. On  the  fourth  or  fifth  day,  add  to  the  foregoing  a 
scraped  meat  cake,  a  bit  of  broiled  chicken  or  bird,  orange 
juice,  well-baked  whole  wheat  bread  without  shortening 
or  sugar,  soft  and  cup  custards,  chocolate,  alkathrepta, 
cocoa,  broma,  strained  oatmeal,  cornmeal  mush,  baked 
potato  and  boiled  rice.  Do  not  urge  the  patient  to  overeat, 
with  the  idea  of  increasing  the  supply  of  milk.  Digestion 
once  upset  brings  bad  results,  and  while  the  patient  is  in 
bed  she  requires  less  food.  If  complications  arise  the  phy- 
sician will  suggest  the  change  in  diet. 

Puree  of  lentils,  made  from  lentil  flour,  and  milk  and 
chocolate  preparations,  are  supposed  to  make  rich  milk 
in  goodly  quantities.  Sometimes  they  do,  and  sometimes 
they  do  not,  for  the  ability  to  nurse  the  infant  depends 
largely  on  the  healthful  condition  of  the  mother. 

If  hunger  comes  between  the  morning  and  the  noon- 
day meal,  give  the  patient  a  glass  of  milk,  or  egg  and  milk. 
If  constipation  occurs  give  fruit  juice  early  in  the  morning, 
and  add  a  simply-cooked  green  vegetable  and  a  salad  to 
the  noonday  meal.  Give  a  glass  of  water  the  last  thing 
before  retiring  and  the  first  thing  in  the  morning.  Use 
whole  wheat  bread  exclusively. 

8 


114  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

A  FEW  GOLDEN  RULES 
FOR  MOTHERS  OF  BOTTLE-FED  BABIES 

Purchase  the  best  quality  of  cows'  milk,  in  sealed 
bottles.  If  this  is  impossible,  and  you  have  to  buy  milk 
in  bulk,  pasteurize  it  as  soon  as  you  receive  it. 

Put  the  milk  in  the  refrigerator  or  in  a  cold  place  as 
soon  as  it  is  received.  Fifteen  minutes'  standing  in  a  warm 
kitchen  will  frequently  cause  it  to  sour.  Keep  it  covered 
or  sealed  until  you  are  ready  to  modify  it. 

Modify  enough  each  morning  to  last  for  twenty-four 
hours. 

Keep  modified  milk  in  bottles  if  possible ;  if  not,  in  a 
covered  jar  in  the  refrigerator. 

Ask  the  physician  to  write  down  the  quantity  that 
the  infant  is  to  have  at  each  feeding,  and  the  number  of 
feedings  per  day.  Commit  them  to  memory  that  you  may 
make  no  mistake.  Any  deviation  from  this  rule  is  detri- 
mental to  the  infant. 

Do  not  put  the  bottle  in  the  baby's  mouth  every  time 
he  cries,  for  nine  out  of  ten  times  he  is  not  crying  for  food. 

A  correct  diet  will  produce  a  firm,  healthy  baby,  not 
a  fat  one.    Fat  babies  usually  fall  ill  on  the  slightest  cause. 

If  the  baby  vomits  after  eating,  it  has  either  had  too 
much  food,  or  the  food  does  not  agree.  Consult  the  physi- 
cian.    Such  conditions  should  not  be  overlooked. 

If  the  baby  sleeps  well  and  looks  well,  nine  out  of  ten 
times  the  food  agrees.  If  it  fails  to  gain  in  weight,  consult 
the  physician,  that  he  may  change  the  food. 

If  undigested  food  is  found  in  the  stools,  the  milk  does 
not  agree.  Add  ten  drops  of  lime  water  to  each  feeding. 
Do  not  continue  this  beyond  the  requirements  of  this  at- 
tack of  indigestion.  The  use  of  lime  water  continued  is 
unnatural  and  unhealthful. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  115 

The  Gordon  Walker  table  is  arranged  for  the  fifty-two 
weeks.  After  this  comes  the  weaning  time,  regulated  ac- 
cording to  the  health  and  vigor  of  the  infant  and  mother. 
Many  infants  are  nursed  too  long;  the  mother's  milk  has 
deteriorated,  and  the  child  does  not  thrive  after  weaning. 
Some  argue  that  when  the  eight  incisor  teeth  have  been 
cut  with  ease,  and  this  should  be  about  the  end  of  the 
twelfth  or  fourteenth  month,  the  child  should  be  weaned ; 
the  saliva  now  is  flowing  abundantly  and  the  digestive 
organs  are  by  Nature  fitted  for  a  little  solid  food. 

Dr.  Joseph  E.  Winters,  Professor  of  the  diseases  of 
children,  Cornell   University   Medical   College,  says: 

"Late  weaning,  or  the  too  prolonged  use  of  milk  as 
the  exclusive  diet  of  a  child  artificially  fed.  causes  anaemia. 
This  is  the  first  pathological  condition  which  we  mark  as 
arising  from  failure  to  modify  the  diet  of  a  child  at  the 
proper  time.  The  chemistry  of  milk,  the  physiological 
chemistry  of  the  child,  and  the  physiology  of  the  digestive 
organs  denote  that  such  change  should  be  made  at  a  fairly 
definite  time.  From  the  seventh  to  the  tenth  month, 
according  to  the  degree  of  development  of  the  child  and 
the  advancement  of  dentition,  the  ferments  which  digest 
farinaceous  substances  are  present  in  sufficient  quantity 
to  indicate  that  a  change  of  food  should  be  made." 

"Oatmeal  is  rich  in  all  the  constituents  which  are 
essential  for  the  growth  and  development  of  the  child; 
they  are  rich  in  proteid,  fat  and  mineral  matter.  Oatmeal, 
the  richest  in  iron,  is  an  excellent  food  to  be  added  first; 
strained  at  first  when  you  add  it  to  the  milk  in  the  bottle ; 
later,  plain  cooked,  with  milk,  no  sugar.  It  is  seldom  wise 
to  begin  the  use  of  farinaceous  foods  with  a  child  during 
the  warm  months,  as  they  are  prone  to  cause  fermentation 
and  diarrhoea  if  the  child  is  teething.  Milk  and  barley 
water  will  constitute  the  child's  food  during  these  months." 


116  MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE   SICK 

FEEDING  OF  INFANTS 

If  possible,  every  healthy  mother  should  nurse  her 
babe ;  there  are,  however,  a  few  excellent  reasons  why  she 
should  not.  Nervous  women,  those  who  are  tubercular, 
or  who  were  born  of  tubercular  mothers,  or  those  who  have 
any  form  of  chronic  disease  or  general  debility,  should 
not  attempt  to  nurse  a  child.  It  not  only  endangers  the 
life  and  health  of  the  child,  but  it  is  injurious  to  the  mother. 
Volumes  of  directions  might  be  given  every  mother  who 
wishes  to  nurse  her  infant,  but  each  individual  case  is  a 
law  unto  itself  and  should  be  regulated  by  the  attending 
physician. 

For  Artificial  Feeding  secure  good,  clean  cows'  milk, 
from  a  herd  of  good  cows,  and  not  from  a  single  cow, 
unless  so  ordered,  and  modify  it  to  resemble  as  nearly  as 
possible,  human  milk.  Use  no  farinaceous  substances  of 
any  sort,  or  cane  sugar.  An  infant  is  wholly  unprovided 
with  the  necessary  secretions  for  the  digestion  of  starches 
or  cane  sugar. 

Overfeeding  and  dirty,  diluted  cows'  milk,  and  '"In- 
fants' Foods"  kill  thousands  of  babies  every  year;  in  fact, 
in  crowded  sections  of  large  cities  these  badly-fed  babies 
rarely  reach  the  end  of  their  first  year,  and  it  must  not  be 
forgotten  that  most  of  these  deaths  occur  from  preventable 
causes. 

Milk  is  the  natural  food  for  an  infant.  Human  milk 
contains  more  fat,  more  sugar  of  milk,  less  mineral  matter 
and  more  friable  casein  than  cows'  milk.  Cows'  milk  simply 
diluted  with  water  is  not  enough,  for  cows'  milk  is  in- 
tended for  the  rapid  growth  of  the  young  of  the  cow,  the 
calf.  If  we  simply  add  water  to  cows'  milk,  we  have 
reduced  the  fat  and  milk  sugar,  two  elements  very  neces- 
sary to  the  growth  of  the  infant :  we  have  not  changed 
the  casein,  nor  have  we  reduced  the  mineral  matter. 
Children  fed  on  diluted  milk  are  usually  underfed  and 
colicky.  If  their  constitutions  are  strong  they  thrive  and 
grow    for   a    time,    but    fall    ill    on    the    slightest   provoca- 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE    SICK  117 

tion.  The  cutting  of  teeth  is  a  task.  Extreme  hot  or 
cold  weather  influences  them  to  a  marked  degree.  Their 
childhood  is  too  often  a  drawn-out  invalidism.  Such  chil- 
dren are  frequently  found  among  the  "backward"  at  school. 
Their  foundations  are  poor. 


TO   MODIFY   MILK 

This  process  is  simple  and  can  be  done  easily  and 
efficiently  in  any  kitchen,  with  the  ordinary  utensils  found 
there,  provided  they  are  used  only  for  this  purpose.  Clean- 
liness must  be  strictly  observed.  Wash  and  scald  the 
utensils  each  time  before  using;  rinse  them  with  boiling 
water,  but  do  not  wipe  them.  Towels  hanging  in  the 
kitchen  or  pantry  are  apt  to  hold  particles  of  dust,  and 
will  contaminate  the  milk.  Before  beginning,  read  care- 
fully all  the  directions,  and  get  out  all  the  necessary  uten- 
sils. See  that  the  nursing  bottles  are  perfectly  clean;  they 
should  have  round  bottoms  and  be  kept  in  a  basket  or 
stand  made  for  the  purpose.  The  bottles  should  be  scalded 
immediately  after  each  feeding,  and  filled  with  boric  acid 
or  a  solution  of  baking  soda  made  by  adding  a  level  tea- 
spoonful  to  a  pint  of  water.  When  ready  to  fill  the  bottles 
with  milk,  pour  the  solution  out  and  rinse  with  cold-boiled 
water.  The  nipples  used  should  be  of  good  quality  black 
rubber.  They  should  be  kept  scrupulously  clean,  turned 
inside  out  and  washed  every  day,  scalded  and  kept,  when 
not  in  use,  in  a  solution  of  boric  acid,  in  a  fruit  jar  used  for 
no  other  purpose.  Do  not  use  the  soft  nipples,  or  any  form 
of  nipples  fastened  to  a  tube  or  bone  shield. 

Prepare  enough  milk  at  one  time  to  last  for  the  entire 
twenty-four  hours.  If  the  weather  is  warm  and  there  is  no 
ice  at  hand,  the  milk  must  be  pasteurized. 

Purchase  good,  pure  milk  in  a  sealed  quart  bottle, 
and  allow  it  to  stand  for  three  or  four  hours  in  a  cold 
place,  unless  the  cream  has  already  risen  to  the  top  of 
the   bottle    when    it    is    received.      Remove    the    cap,    and 


118  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

with  a  milk  dipper  that  has  been  scalded,  or  a  siphon, 
take  off  the  upper  half  of  the  quart  (i6  oz.)  ;  the  lower 
half  will  not  be  needed.  In  this  quantity  you  have  the 
necessary  amount  of  fat  and  protein,  but  you  have  too 
much  mineral  matter  and  not  enough  sugar  of  milk.  To 
correct  this,  add  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  of 
milk  (4/5  oz.)  and  a  half  pint  (8  oz.)  of  cold  boiled  water; 
stir  the  mixture,  pour  it  into  the  nursing  bottles,  fasten 
them  with  plugs  of  ordinary  non-absorbent  cotton,  and 
place  them  at  once  in  the  refrigerator,  preferably  on  the 
floor  of  the  refrigerator,  with  no  other  food.  At  feeding 
time  take  out  one  bottle  and  stand  it  in  a  saucepan  of 
hot  water  sufficiently  long  to  warm  it  to  98°  Fahrenheit. 
Remove  the  cotton  plug,  put  on  the  nipple,  turn  the  bottle 
upside  down  to  see  if  the  milk  flows  readily,  and  it  is  ready 
for  feeding.  Do  not  allow  the  nurse  or  caretaker  to  put 
the  nipple  in  her  own  mouth  to  see  if  it  is  warm  enough  ; 
many  an  infant  has  been  made  ill  by  this  slovenly  method. 

As  the  child  grows  older  increase  the  proi)ortion  of 
the  "top  milk."  At  the  end  of  the  fourth  month  it  should 
be  necessary  to  use  the  "top  milk"  from  a  second  quart  of 
milk,  or  use  one  whole  quart  of  milk  containing  four 
per  cent  fat.  and  eight  ounces  of  the  "toj)  milk"  from  the 
second  quart,  and  eight  ounces  of  cold  boiled  water.  If 
undigested  curds  appear  in  the  stools,  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lime  water  to  the  day's  feeding,  at  the  time  of  prep- 
aration. 

For  the  first  two  weeks,  the  infant  may  not  take  all 
the  food  at  a  feeding.  If  there  is  any  left  over  throw  it 
away;  never  think  of  using  it  the  second  time.  If  the 
infant  is  not  satisfied  after  the  feeding,  speak  at  once 
to  the  physician ;  let  him  examine  the  strength  of  the  milk 
and  order  it  changed  according  to  the  requirements  of  the 
child.  Food  agrees  when  the  child  is  comfortable  and 
happy,  free  from  colic  and  sour  stomach,  and  is  not  con- 
stipated. After  the  infant  has  two  or  three  teeth,  if  curds 
are   vomited,   or   milk    seems   to  be   undigested,   add   barley 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


119 


water  in  the  place  of  plain  water.  If  the  child  is  con- 
stipated, use  strained  oatmeal  water  in  the  place  of  barley 
water,  or  German  flour  gruel,  lightly  cooked. 

The  intervals  of  feeding  will  be  regulated  by  the  physi- 
cian. Otherwise  the  food  needed  during  the  twenty-four 
hours  should  be  divided  into  nine  two-hour  feedings.  If  the 
baby  is  robust,  perhaps  eight  feedings  will  be  sufficient. 
During  the  second  and  third  months  the  feedings  are 
increased  in  size,  and  the  number  of  feedings  decreased. 
As  the  child  grows  older  and  stronger,  four-hour  feedings 
will  be  correct.  Very  small  and  rather  delicate  infants, 
who  are  apt  to  take  a  small  quantity  of  food  at  a  time, 
must  be  fed  at  shorter  intervals.  A  healthy  child  of 
five  months  should  sleep  from  eight  in  the  evening  until  six 
next  morning.  The  first  feeding  to  be  dropped  is  always  the 
last  feeding  at  night :  do  this  as  soon  as  possible. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  the  Gordon  Walker  Labora- 
tories, the  writer  is  able  to  give  the  following  table  as  a 
guide  to  the  correct  quantity  that  the  infant  should  get  at 
each  feeding. 


Weeks  of  life 

First    

Second    

Third    

Fourth    

Fifth    

Sixth    

Seventh    

Eighth    

Ninth    

Tenth    

Eleventh     

Twelfth    

Thirteenth    

Fourteenth    

Fifteenth    


Amount  fed 


in  ounces 


1^4 

2 

2'4 
2^ 

3 
3 

zVa 

3/2 

3/ 
3H 
3^ 
4 


Fat 


2. GO 
2.50 

3-0O 
3.00 
3.25 
3.25 
3.50 
350 
3-50 
3-50 
3.50 
3.50 
3.50 
3-50 
3-75 


Percentages 

Sugar 

Prot 

4-5 

0.; 

5.5 

i.( 

6.0 

i.( 

6.0 

i.( 

6.5 

i.( 

6.5 

^ 

6.5 

i.^ 

6.5 

i.i 

6.5 

i.i 

6.5 

\..c 

6.5 

i.i 

6.5 

.       6.5 

i.i 

6.5 

i.i 

6.5 

i.^ 

120 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE   SICK 


Weeks  of  life 

Sixteenth    

Seventeenth    

Eighteenth    

Nineteenth    

Twentieth     

Twenty-first  .... 
Twenty-second  . 
Twenty-third  . . . 
Twenty- fourth  .. 
Twenty-fifth  .... 
Twenty-sixth  . .  . 
Twenty-seventh  . 
Twenty-eighth  . . 
Twenty-ninth    . . . 

Thirtieth     

Thirty-first    

Thirty-second  .  . 
Thirty-third  .... 
Thirty-fourth    ... 

Thirty-fifth   

Thirty-sixth  .... 
Thirty-seventh  .. 
Thirty-cit;hth  . . . 
Thirty-ninth     .... 

Fortieth    

Forty-first    

Forty-second    — 

Forty-third    

Forty-fourth    

Forty-fifth    

Forty-sixth    

Forty-seventh  . . . 
Forty-eighth    .... 

Forty-ninth    

Fiftieth   

Fifty-first    

Fiftv-second    .... 


Amount  fed 


in  ounces 


4^4 

4/2 
4K 
4M 

aYa 

5 

5 

SVa 

SVa 

5/2 

5/2 

5/2 

sYa 

6 
6 
6% 

6% 
6% 
6y2 
6/2 
6K' 
634 

6V4 

7 
7 


7'/4 

7% 
7'A 


Fat 

2)-7'i 
3-75 
3-75 
3-75 
3-75 
3-75 
3-75 
3-75 
3-75 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 


Percentages 
Sugar 

6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
7.0 
7.0 
7.0 
7.0 
7.0 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.0 
6.0 
6.0 
6.0 
6.0 
6.0 
6.0 
6.0 
5.5 


Proteins 

1-25 

1.50 
1.50 
1.50 
1.50 
1.50 
1.50 
1-50 
1.75 
1.75 
1-75 
1-75 
1. 75 
1.75 
1.75 
1-75 
1-75 
1-75 
2.00 
2.00 
2.00 
2.00 
2.00 
2.00 
2.00 
2.00 
2.00 
2.25 
2.50 
2.50 
2.50 
2.50 
2.50 
2.75 
2.75 
2.75 
3.00 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK  T^l 


PARTIAL  MILK   FEEDING 

No  harm  and  a  great  deal  of  good  may  come  when  an 
infant  is  nursed  part  of  the  time  and  the  bottle  used  once 
or  twice  a  day  to  help  out.  Sometimes,  although  a  mother 
has  a  good  quality  of  milk,  it  is  insufficient  for  the  full 
development  of  the  child,  yet  even  a  small  quantity  of  breast 
milk  is  a  great  help  to  the  infant.  .  The  better  way  is  to 
reserve  the  bottle  for  the  night  feeding.  If  it  must  be  used 
twice  a  day,  better  give  it  at  the  period  nearest  noon,  and 
again  when   the  child  goes  to  bed. 

When  it  is  impossible  to  give  the  hand-fed  baby  modi- 
fied milk,  use  good  unsweetened  condensed  milk  or  Eskay's 
food.  The  writer  has  had  excellent  results  with  the  latter 
food.  When  traveling  and  in  the  tropics,  Eskay's  food  is 
especially  to  be  recommended.  If  cream  cannot  be 
obtained,  use  ten  drops  of  olive  oil  at  each  feeding. 

Babies  fed  on  artificial  foods  are  apt  to  have  rough 
and  slightly  scaly  skin.  Correct  this  by  giving  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  orange  juice  every  morning,  an  hour  before 
feeding  or  between  feedings. 

Meiggs'  food  will  be  found  beneficial  in  cases  of  intes- 
tinal troubles. 

German  flour  gruel,  farina,  arrowroot,  cornstarch  and 
cornmeal  gruel,  thoroughly  cooked  and  strained,  with  milk 
added,  may  be  used  for  infants  with  teeth. 

Excellent  results,  especially  in  warm  countries,  may 
be  obtained  from  exclusive  diet  of  plantain  pap. 


122  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

AFTER  THE  WEANING 

After  the  infant  is  weaned,  during  the  second  year  of 
its  life,  great  care  must  be  taken  in  the  warm  months. 
The  basis  of  the  diet  of  a  child  until  it  reaches  its  fourth 
year  should  be  well-cooked  cereals,  fruits,  milk  and  eggs. 
Milk  may  be  taken  alone  or  mixed  with  cereals.  Fruits 
must  always  be  given  alone,  and  eggs,  lightly  cooked,  either 
poached,  coddled  or  shirred  may  be  served  with  a  crust  of 
bread.  The  bottle  may  be  continued  for  a  while,  using  barley 
water  and  milk,  oatmeal  gruel,  strained,  with  milk,  or  any  of 
the  milk  gruels.  Do  not  add  sugar.  Three  meals  a  day 
should  be  given,  with  a  feeding  between  the  morning  and  noon, 
and  the  noon  and  night  meal.  Dispense  with  the  bottle  as 
early  as  possible :  it  saves  trouble.  Carefully-made  milk 
toast,  with  hard-boiled  yolk  of  ec:;^  grated  over,  is  attractive, 
palatable  and  wholesome.  Cereal  jellies,  with  milk  and 
cream,  make  an  exceedingly  nice  supper.  The  first  meal 
in  the  morning  should  be  milk,  one-third  barley  water.  In 
the  middle  of  the  morning  give  orange  juice,  a  very  mellow 
ripe  peach,  an  apple  carefully  baked  without  sugar,  or  a 
cereal  with  milk.  At  the  noonday  meal,  which  should  be 
the  heavy  meal,  the  child  may  have  a  bowl  of  mutton  broth 
with  rice ;  or,  far  better,  give  cream  of  celery  soup,  or  peas, 
or  lentils,  or  ground  nuts,  with  stale-bread  crumbs.  Another 
day  give  the  yolk  of  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  Another  day, 
milk  toast  and  the  yolk  of  egg.  Tlie  next  betvveen-meal  feeding 
should  be  milk  and  barley  water. 

The  last  meal  at  night  before  going  to  bed  should  be 
milk,  from  six  to  eight  ounces,  slightly  warmed.  Induce 
the  child  to  take  this  from  a  glass  or  cup,  rather  than  the 
bottle.  To  give  variety  change  the  method  of  cooking,  but 
do  not  get  very  far  away  from  eggs,  milk,  cereals  and  fruits. 
One  day  for  the  noonday  meal  give  a  baked  potato  mashed 
with  cream,  very  slightly  salted,  or  a  bowl  of  junket,  or 
a  cup  custard,  warm,  not  hot.  If  the  child  is  to  be  brought 
up  a  meat  eater,  it  may  have  a  little  very  finely-chopped 
white  meat  of  chicken,  or  a  scraped  beef  or  mutton  cake. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  123 

At  the  end  of  the  second  year  give  a  little  carefully- 
cooked  spinach,  stewed  celery,  stewed  cucumber,  stewed 
summer  squash,  not  mashed ;  well-boiled  rice,  rice  pud- 
dings, fruit  gelose,  soft  custard  with  bread  crumbs,  and 
the  upper  half  of  a  shredded  wheat  biscuit  with  warm  milk. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  third  year  the  diet  may  be 
slightly  increased  in  quantity,  but  do  not  add  too  great 
a  variety.  Cream  may  be  used  on  such  cereals  as  Cream 
of  Wheat  and  farina.  Wheatena  and  Wheatlet  should  be 
served  with  milk.  Ice  cream,  lightly  flavored,  may  be 
allowed  once  a  week.  Oranges,  ripe  peaches,  baked 
bananas,  stewed  prunes,  carefully-scalded  dates,  and  large 
grapes,  skinned  and  seeded,  may  be  added.  Small  fruits 
should  be  mashed  and  strained. 

Wlien  the  child  has  reached  its  fourth  year  add  delicately- 
cooked  green  vegetables  in  greater  variety  than  heretofore. 
Very  young  lima  beans,  pressed  through  a  sieve,  tender  hearts 
of  lettuce  with  a  little  olive  oil  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice,  very  young  sweet  peas.  Whole  wheat  bread  should  be 
used  in  the  place  of  white  bread.  Tea,  coffee  and  chocolate 
should  never  be  given,  nor  should  jelly  and  jam  be  used  on 
bread  in  place  of  butter.  During  the  warm  months  use  the 
lighter  cereals,  as  farina.  Cream  of  Wheat,  barley  flour 
mush,  rice  and  rice  pudding.  For  the  winter  breakfasts, 
oatmeal,  rye  mush,  cornmeal  mush  and  Wheatlet. 

W^hen  the  child  is  learning  to  eat,  devote  considerable 
time  to  teaching  it  the  art  of  mastication.  In  this  way  the 
jaws  are  developed,  the  teeth  strengthened  and  the  stom- 
ach kept  in  good  condition.  Children  who  live  on  soft 
foods  and  swallow  them  without  mastication,  have  fre- 
quently undeveloped  jaws,  too  small  to  hold  the  teeth, 
which  are  apt  to  come  in  crowded  and  decay  almost  as 
soon  as  they  are  through  the  gums.  A  child  should  be 
taught  to  keep  its  mouth  perfectly  clean.  Conditions  aris- 
ing from  decayed  teeth  frequently  cause  serious  digestive 
disturbances. 


124  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Whether  you  feed  your  children  on  meat  or  not  must 
be  settled  by  the  habits  of  the  family.  If  meat  is  given,  it 
should  not  be  used  more  than  four  times  a  week.  Lean 
scraped  beef,  broiled,  mutton  or  lamb,  white  meat  of 
chicken  and  an  occasional  piece  of  white-fleshed  fish,  only 
should  be  used.  Pork,  veal,  goose,  fat  fowl,  the  internal 
organs  of  animals,  as  sweetbreads,  brains  and  liver,  should 
be  strictly  avoided.  Meat  substitutes  are  puree  of  old 
peas,  beans,  lentils,  eggs,  milk  and  nut  dishes.  Balance 
the  rrbeals  if  possible ;  for  instance,  at  one  meal  give  a  puree 
of  lentils,  followed  by  a  baked  potato  and  a  carefully- 
cooked  green  vegetable,  or  an  egg  with  whole  wheat  bread, 
followed  by  a  saucer  of  stewed  ])runes,  or  a  baked  potato, 
mashed  with  cream,  and  carefully-stewed  spinach,  followed 
by  a  cup  custard.  A  cream  soup  with  stale  bread  crumbs 
may  be  followed  by  a  warm  cup  custard.  A  puree  of  lentils 
may  be  followed  by  boiled  rice,  carefully-cooked  fresh  peas 
and  a  fruit  ta])i()ca  or  a  mock  charlotte.  Do  not  give  eggs 
and  milk  and  meat  at  the  same  meal.  Children  enjoy 
pleasant  conil)inations. 

THE    FOLLOWING    ARTICLES   ARE    STRICTLY 
FORBIDDEN 

Pork    and    all    dishes    made    from  Dry  cakes 

pork  Pies 

All  salt  meats  and  fish  Puddings  , 

All  dried  meats  Candies 

Sauces    and    gravies    made    from  Preserves  and  sweet  jellies 

heated  fats  Salads   with   mayonnaise   dressing 

The    internal    organs    of    animals,  Tea,  coffee  and  chocolate 

as  liver  and  kidneys  Cherries 

Stews  .  Plums 

Rich  soups  Figs 

Coarse  vegetables,  as  cabbage,  rad-  Pears 

ishes,  raw  cucumbers,  tomatoes.  Cranberries 

green    corn,    eggplant,    peppers,  Rhubarb 

beets,  yellow  turnips,  boiled  and  Raw  bananas 

mashed  potatoes,  fried  potatoes.  All  dried  fruits 

raw  onions  Canned  fruits 

All  hot  breads  and  griddle  cakes  Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


125 


FOODS    ADMISSIBLE 

Milk  and  milk  foods 

Milk  gruels 

Buttermilk 

Matzoon 

Leban 

Clabber 

Junket  and  junket  preparations 

Vegetable  gelatin  with  fruit  juices 

Nut      preparations      made      from 

ground  nuts 
Whole  wheat  bread 
An  occasional  piece  of  corn  bread 
Now  and  then   stale  white  bread 
White  meat  of  chicken 
Beef 
Lamb 

White-fleshed   fish 
A  little  olive  oil 
Butter 
Cream 

Cocoanut  cream 
Custards 

Occasionally  ice  cream 
Raked  potatoes 

Soft-boiled  onion  now  and  then 
Stewed  cucumbers 
Stewed  summer  squash 
^inach 


FOR    YOUNG    CHILDREN 

Cauliflower 

Tender  celery,  stewed 

Lettuce  hearts,  with  a  little  French 

dressing 
Prunes,  stewed  without  sugar 
Scalded  dates 
Baked  bananas 
Stewed  bananas 
An  occasional  mutton  chop  cooked 

in  a  paper  bag 
Cream  soups,  especially  those  made 

from    celery,    green    peas,    split 

peas  and  ground  nuts 
Rice  pudding 
Boiled  rice  as  a  savory,  not  with 

sugar 
Now   and    then    a    little   carefully- 
stewed  macaroni 
Oranges 
Grape   fruit 
Lemonade 
Ripe  peaches 

Apples   baked   without   sugar 
Mellow  apples,  raw 
Small   fruits  made  into  mush  and 

strained 
Large  grapes,  seeded  and  skinned 


126  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

DIET  FOR  OLDER  CHILDREN 

Children  old  enough  to  go  to  school  should  have 
special  attention  paid  to  their  diet,  as  diet,  education  and 
health  bear  very  close  relations  one  to  the  other.  In  the 
kindergartens,  or  the  schools  intermediate  between  the 
kindergartens  and  the  first  primary  division,  children 
usually  carry  their  luncheon,  and  as  they  must  put  it  out 
on  tables  before  the  teacher,  she  has  supervision  and  care 
over  what  they  eat — in  fact  she  frequently  suggests  the 
luncheons ;  but  where  these  matters  are  left  to  ignorant 
parents,  children  suffer  and  frequently  break  down  before 
they  have  finished  their  school  period.  During  these  days 
the  child  is  growing  rapidly,  and  at  the  same  time  exer- 
cising both  mind  and  body.  These  conditions  call  for  a 
liberal  and  correct  diet.  Correct  diets  are  not  always  those 
that  are  easily  digested.  We  do  not  mean  by  this  that 
indigestible  foods  should  be  given,  but  that  it  is  not  neces- 
sary always  to  give  easily-digested  foods.  The  stomach 
needs  exercise  as  well  as  every  other  part  of  the  body. 

The  diet  for  school  children  should  contain  a  goodly 
quantity  of  protein  in  order  to  repair  and  build  new  tissues, 
and  suf^cient  fats  and  carbohydrates  to  yield  heat  and 
energy.  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  the  bones  and  teeth 
must  also  be  nourished ;  they  have  not  yet  reached  their 
full  development.  Children  underfed  are  usually  nervous, 
and  frequently  have  to  be  forced  to  go  to  school,  they  have 
not  the  vigor  to  keep  up  with  the  class.  Nine  out  of  ten 
times  this  is  due  to  underfeeding  or  incorrect  feeding — one 
is  as  bad  as  the  other. 

All  children  are  not  born  alike.  Many  come  from 
scrofulous,  gouty,  rheumatic  or  tubercular  parents,  and 
must  be  fed  on  different  food  from  those  born  of  perfectly 
healthy  parents.  School  children  should  be  under  the  careful 
observation  of  their  Domestic  Science  teachers. 

Children  fed  on  bread,  meat,  potatoes  and  sweets  are 
very  apt  to  become  constipated.     Fruits  and  fresh  green 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  127 

vegetables,  simply  cooked,  with  well-cooked  cereals,  milk 
and  eggs,  should  form  the  diet  of  childhood.  If  the  family- 
are  meat  eaters,  mutton,  chicken  and  beef  should  be  de- 
pended upon,  and  the  meals  should  be  divided  and 
arranged  according  to  the  seasons.  In  the  summer  a 
comfortable,,  warm  breakfast  is  as  necessary  as  in  the 
winter,  and  should  be  composed  of  light,  well-cooked 
cereals  and  milk,  with  a  piece  of  whole  wheat  bread,  care- 
fully buttered,  or  a  soft-boiled  egg  or  two,  with  whole 
wheat  bread,  well  buttered,  and  fruit.  In  the  summer  use 
the  lighter  cereals,  as  Cream  of  Wheat,  farina,  whole 
wheat,  rolled  wheat,  rolled  barley  and  shredded  wheat.  In 
the  winter,  oatmeal,  Wheatena,  Wheatlet,  hominy  grits, 
cornmeal  mush  and  rye  mush. 

If  lunches  are  carried  to  school,  they  should  consist  of 
nut  bread,  well  buttered,  plain  whole  wheat  bread  and 
butter  sandwiches,  plain  whole  wheat  bread  with  grated 
yolk  of  egg  between,  and  fruit — apples,  oranges  and  pears, 
not  bananas.  Bananas  should  be  given  for  breakfast,  and 
should  always  be  well  cooked. 

Add  to  the  noonday  luncheon  a  cup  custard,  or  jar  of 
rice  pudding,  or  a  jar  of  good  sweet  milk  or  buttermilk.  Do 
not  give  hard-boiled  eggs,  because  the  complete  digestion  of 
the  whites  takes  too  much  time  and  the  child  does  not  get  the 
full  benefit;  but  two  or  three  yolks  that  have  been  boiled 
a  half  hour  may  be  grated  and  put  between  the  bread  and 
butter. 

Avoid  all  sweets,  cakes,  pies,  pastry  and  cookies.  Do 
not  put  lard  or  sugar  in  the  bread  for  either  children  or 
adults.  If  it  can  be  carried,  there  is  nothing  better  than 
a  half  pint  of  milk  for  the  noonday  luncheon  or  a  half  pint 
of  buttermilk ;  when  these  are  added  to  the  luncheon  do  not 
use  meat.  Chopped  white  meat  of  chicken,  chopped  beef 
or  mutton,  carefully  and  lightly  seasoned,  may  be  used  for 
sandwiches ;   and  fruit  should  be  used  freely  for  desserts. 

A  child  should  not  study  immediately  after  eating,  but 
should  have  sufficient  time  for  digestion  to  begin. 


128  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Among  the  "backward"  at  school  are  found  children 
illy  nourished,  those  who  are  given  incorrect  food,  and 
those  who  are  allowed  to  remain  in  bed  until  the  last  minute 
and  go  to  school  after  a  hurried,  badly-served  breakfast. 
Tea,  coffee  and  chocolate  are  frequently  given  to  such 
children  because  they  can  drink  them  quickly,  or  because 
it  is  a  cold  morning.  If  the  child  is  healthy  he  will  want 
a  substantial  cereal,  and  will  be  able  to  keep  warm  without 
a  hot  drink. 

Growing  children  need  three  good,  nutritious  meals  a 
day,  and  must  not  nibble  between  meals.  Children  "with- 
out appetites"  are  these  who  eat  at  cakes  and  candies 
between  meals.  Constant  nibbling,  like  constant  chewing 
of  gum,  destroys  the  appetite,  increases  the  flow  of  saliva, 
which  interferes  with  stomach  digestion. 

Of  equal  importance  with  diet  is  careful  bathing  and 
plenty  of  fresh  air  and  pure  water.  Children  should  sleep 
in  well-ventilated  rooms,  should  take  a  glass  of  water  the 
last  thing  at  night  and  the  first  thing  in  the  morning,  and 
should  be  carefully  bathed  and  rubbed.  Hours  of  eating 
should  be  regular.  The  digestion  of  a  healthy  child  is 
active,  and  food  passes  from  the  stomach  in  much  less 
time  than  in  adults.  Parents  frequently  forget  this  and 
keep  the  children  waiting  too  long  between  meals. 

Children  who  are  obliged  to  carry  cold  luncheons  for 
the  noonday  meal  must  have  a  warm,  comfortable  supper 
not  later  than  six  o'clock.  If  they  come  home  in  the  middle 
of  the  afternoon  (two  or  three  o'clock)  they  should  have 
a  glass  of  milk,  or  a  cup  of  good,  warm  cream  soup,  or  a 
glass  of  buttermilk,  or  an  egg  and  milk.  Breakfast  was 
early,  luncheon  light  at'  noon,  they  have  not  had  sufficient 
food.  In  fact,  herein  lies  the  danger  of  broken  health  in 
childhood.  They  frequently  come  home  hungry,  and  eat 
candies,  or  cakes,  which  satisfy  the  appetite  without  giving 
sufficient  nourishment.  Supper  should  be  composed  of 
well-baked  potato,  or  boiled  potato  mashed  and  browned, 
or  rice,  or  stewed  macaroni,  with  beef,  mutton  or  chicken. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  129 

or  white-fleshed  fish  and  either  a  saucer  of  whipped  cream, 
or  fruit  tapioca,  or  fruit  gelose,  with  bread  and  butter.  Puree 
of  beans,  lentils  and  dried  peas  may  take  the  place  of  meat. 
If  children  are  fond  of  cereals,  it  is  well  to  start  the  night  meal 
with  cereal  instead  of  soup.  Children  do  not  require  soup  at 
the  beginning  of  dinner.  Milk,  hot  or  cold,  not  iced,  may  be 
given  with  all  non-meat  meals.  Children  should  be  taught  to 
masticate  thoroughly  and  eat  slowly,  and  after  dinner  they 
should  have  at  least  one  hour  of  quiet  recreation  before  be- 
ginning study. 

The  food  value  of  almost  every  article  depends  upon 
the  method  of  cooking.  Children  should  not  be  given 
fried  foods,  or  such  complicated  dishes  as  pies  and  pud- 
dings. Incorrect  combinations  interfere  with  digestion. 
Do  not  give  potatoes  and  rice,  or  w^hite  and  sweet  potatoes 
at  the  same  meal ;  give  one  or  the  other,  and  select  a  green 
succulent  vegetable,  suited  to  the  combination.  Green 
string  beans  are  palatable,  sightly  and  valuable  as  a  green 
vegetable  when  cooked  in  salt  water;  when  cooked  with 
meat  they  are  rendered  indigestible.  Potatoes  well  baked, 
or  boiled,  mashed  and  browned,  are  easily  digested,  an 
excellent  food,  but  when  fried  are  worse  than  useless. 
Rice  carefully  boiled  until  each  grain  is  swollen  to  twice 
its  former  size,  and  no  two  grains  sticking  together, 
requires  only  one  hour  for  perfect  digestion;  but  when 
heavy  and  soggy  and  cooked  with  milk  it  is  the  worst 
form  of  starchy  food;  it  will  produce  sour  stomach  and 
flatulency   at   once. 

Every  mouthful  of  starchy  food  is,  during  the  process 
of  digestion,  converted  into  sugar,  and  with  such  natural 
sugars  as  we  find  in  fruits,  a  child  will  have  quite  enough 
sugar  without  adding  sweet  foods  or  putting  sugar  on 
cereals,  or  eating  candies.  In  cold  weather  a  lump  of  cut 
sugar  may  now  and  then  be  given  in  the  place  of  candy, 
but  such  things  are  more  or  less  temptations  and  the  child 
is  quite  as  well  off  without  them.  Mock  candy,  figs  and 
prunes    make    nice    desserts.      Cereals    should    be    cooked 

9 


130  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

the  night  before,  allowed  to  stand  in  a  double  boiler  and 
reheated  in  the  morning. 

Bread  should  be  made  from  whole  wheat  flour,  free 
from  lard  and  sugar  and  be  well  baked.  Whole  wheat 
bread  does  not  contain  more  muscle-making  food  than  white 
bread,  but  it  does  contain  mineral  matter,  and  this  is  an 
important  element  in  child  nutrition. 

Teach  your  children  to  eat  a  green  vegetable  every 
day.  At  first  select  those  easy  of  digestion — boiled 
cucumbers,  young  carrots,  spinach,  young  green  peas, 
tender  lima  beans,  tips  of  cauliflower,  stewed  tender  celery, 
hearts  of  lettuce,  tender  endive,  and,  if  allowable,  asparagus 
tips. 

Children  enjoy  pleasant  combinations.  \\'ith  broiled 
or  boiled  fish  serve  crisp  lettuce  and  little  potato  balls; 
with  stewed  chicken,  boiled  rice,  stewed  celery  or  peas; 
with  steak,  cauliflower  and  baked  potato ;  with  mutton 
chops,  creamed  potato  and  peas ;  with  a  chopped  broiled 
meat  cake,  mashed  and  browned  potatoes  and  stewed 
cucumber.  Desserts  must  be  arranged  according  to  the 
meat  portion  of  the  dinner.  Without  meat,  serve  cup 
custards,  soft  custards  or  bread  puddings  made  from  egg 
and  milk ;  with  meat  dinners,  fruit  tapiocas,  vegetable  gela- 
tin with  fruit  juice,  whipped  cream,  slightly  flavored,  or 
fruit  carefully  stewed  without  sugar.  W^ater  should  be 
the  only  beverage.  Milk  takes  the  place  of  meat;  it  is  a 
food  containing  a  considerable  amount  of  solid  material. 
Chocolate  is  an  admirable  food  and  may  be  taken  in  the 
morning  with  bread  and  butter  for  breakfast,  but  it  must 
not  be  given  with  a  heavy  meal.  Tea  and  coflfee  have  no 
place  in  a  child's  dietary. 

Fat  ranks  first  as  heat-producing  material.  In  winter 
add  cream  to  the  milk  and  see  that  the  bread  is  well 
buttered.  Use  olive  oil,  with  a  little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar, 
over  uncooked  green  vegetables. 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


131 


FOODS   THAT   ARE   GENERALLY   ADMISSIBLE 


Well-cooked  cereals 

Fruits,   fresh   and   stewed   without 

sugar 
Cooked  bananas,  except  fried  and 

fritters 
Cream  soups 

Vegetable   soups  without  meat 
Puree  of  beans,  lentils,  peas 
Carefully-cooked      beef,      mutton, 

chicken,  white-fleshed  fish 
Eggs 

Fruit   tapioca 

Vegetable  gelatin  with  fruits 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Corn  bread 

An  occasional  piece  of  white  bread 
Occasionally  rye  bread 
Baked  potatoes 
Boiled  potatoes 

Mashed  and  browned  potatoes 
Potato  timbale 
Potato  souffle 
Potatoes  a  la   creme 
Stuffed  potatoes 

Baked  sweet  potatoes  occasionally 
Boiled  rice 

Stew^ed  macaroni,  not  baked 
Hominy   and   hominy   grits 
Mush  bread 
String  beans 
Stewed  cucumbers 
Summer  squash 


Milk 

Buttermilk 

Leban 

Zoolak 

Matzoon 

Schmierkase 

Junket 

Blancmange 

Rice  puddings 

Cup  custards 

Soft  custards 

Spinach 

Tender  cauliflower 

Very  young  carrots 

Young  turnips  carefully  stewed, 
with  cream  sauce 

Young  celery 

Lettuce,  imported  endive,  Romaine 

Stewed    okra 

A  little  tender  corn 

Carefully-boiled  onions  once  in 
awhile 

Dandelions  carefully  cooked 

Such  nut  foods  as  almond  butter, 
a  very  little  peanut  butter, 
almond  cakes,  almond  pudding, 
pifion  nut  butter,  ground  pinon 
nuts  for  sandwiches,  ground 
Brazilian  nuts 

Cocoanut  milk  and  cocoanut  cream 
desserts 


GENERAL  FOODS  TO  AVOID 


Strong  meat  soups 

All   clear   soups  made  from   meat 

Sea  foods,   with  the  exception  of 

white-fleshed  fish 
Pork 
Veal 

All  fatty  meats 
Sweetbreads,    liver,    tripe,    brains 

and  kidneys 


Complicated  made  dishes 

Rich  sauces 

Dense  meat,  as  rabbit 

All  stimulating  foods 

Foods     seasoned     with     wine     or 

highly  spiced 
Fried    foods    of   every   description 
Tea 
Coffee 


132                    MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

GENERAL  FOODS  TO   AVOID— Continued 

Potatoes  baked  with  meat  Cookies 
Macaroni  baked  with  cheese  Hot  breads 
Cabbage  Preserves 
Kale  Jellies,  except  occasionally- 
Old  carrots,  turnips,  beets  Raw  bananas 
Fried  onions  Unripe  fruits 
Peppers,  raw  or  cooked  Imperfect  fruits 
Pies  Unsterilized  dry  dates  and  figs 
Cakes  Cantaloupes 


MARASMUS 

This  disease  comes,  as  a  rtile,  from  malnutrition;  it 
is  really  slow  starvation.  Such  infants  frequently  have  a 
sufiicient  amount  of  food,  but  the  food  is  not  suited  to  their 
natural  condition  ;  they  are  starving  on  plenty.  Many  of  the 
artificial  ''infant  foods"  contain  starch  and  other  materials 
absolutely  unfitted  to  the  digestion  of  a  newly-born  babe. 
The  infant  will  grow  thinner  and  thinner  as  the  days  go 
by,  until  it  finally  presents  that  wasted,  worn,  shriveled, 
old  appearance  which  follows  starvation.  Milk  of  poor 
quality  will  bring  about  the  same  conditions. 

Do  not  undertake  to  treat  a  marasmus  baby  unless 
you  have  the  advice  of  a  physician.  Modified  milk  will 
frequently  bring  a  child  back  to  normal  condition  in  a  few 
weeks.  "Skin  Feeding"  sometimes  becomes  necessary : — 
when  the  child  is  being  prepared  for  bed,  give  it  a  warm 
sponge  bath,  dry  the  skin  carefully  and  rub  all  over  Avith 
cod  liver  oil ;  do  it  gently  btit  thoroughly,  using  at  least  two 
teaspoonfuls  for  the  inunction. 

As  the  child  grows  older,  if  it  has  teeth  and  increases 
in  weight,  give  barley  water  and  top  milk,  using  sugar  of 
milk  in  the  same  proportions  as  in  modified  milk.  If  the 
child  is  very  young  and  very  ill,  feed  every  hour  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cream  and  water,  for  two  or  three  days,  then 
give  modified  milk  and  keep  up  the  oil  inunctions. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  133 


MEASLES 

During  the  height  of  the  fever  give  hot  water,  or  hot 
water  and  milk.  A  fast  is  to  be  recommended.  When  the 
appetite  appears  give  milk,  milk  and  barley  water  prefer- 
able, hot  or  warm  milk  soups,  with  hard  toast;  the  top  of 
a  shredded  wheat  biscuit  with  hot  milk,  farina  and  Cream 
of  Wheat,  which  are  quite  enough  until  the  fever  subsides. 
Milk  foods  should  be  given  about  three  hours  apart.  Thirst 
may  be  allayed  by  warm  tea,  clover  tea,  or  just  simply  a 
pinch  of  green  tea  and  a  pint  of  water. 

When  convalescence  appears,  cereals  and  milk,  with 
the  exception  of  oatmeal,  should  form  the  bulk  of  the  diet. 
Then  add  cream  soups,  cup  custards,  blancmange,  junket, 
coddled,  poached,  fluffed  and  snow  eggs,  fruit  and  fruit 
juices  ;  vegetable  gelatin  with  fruits  ;  baked  potatoes  ;  plain 
boiled  rice ;  potato  souffle ;  potato  timbale ;  ground  almonds 
mixed  with  the  breakfast  cereal;  rice  dumplings;  rice 
cream ;  rice  pudding,  and  such  milk  foods  as  plum  porridge 
and  milk  jelly. 

Avoid — All  foods  difficult  of  digestion,  as  coarse  vege- 
tables, highly-seasoned  soups  and  sauces,  cakes,  pies,  pre- 
serves, ice  creams,  other  cold  foods  and  meats.  The  return 
to  a  solid  diet  must  be  made  very  gradually. 


CHOREA 

In  this  disease  diet  is  of  primary  importance.  When 
it  occurs  in  children,  the  diet  should  consist  exclusively 
of  fruits,  tender  green  vegetables,  well-cooked  cereals  and 
cream,  eggs  and  milk.  Fatty  matter  is  called  for  in  an 
easily-digested  form,  as  whole  wheat  bread,  well  buttered, 
a  little  olive  oil  on  hearts  of  lettuce,  or  on  tart  apples  cut 
into  blocks,  or  over  well-cooked  spinach,  or  cream  on 
boiled  rice,  or  on  a  well-cooked  cereal. 


134 


MRS.   RORERS   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


MAY    EAT 


Eggs  and  egg  preparations 
Milk   and    milk   preparations, 

cepting  koumys 
Cream 
Broths 
Cream  soups 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Cup   custards 
Soft  custards 
Fruit  juices 


Vegetable    gelatin,    flavored    with 

fresh  fruit 
Carefully-made  nut  foods 
Now  and   then   a   piece   of   white 

meat  of  stewed  chicken 
An     occasional     lamb    chop,     but 

never    at    the    same    meal    with 

eggs  or  milk 
All     carefully-cooked     topground 

vegetables 


AVOID 


All   sweets 

Highly-seasoned  made-over  dishes 

Coarse  vegetables 

Pickles 

Red  meats 

Bulk  foods 

Tea 


Coffee 

Chocolate 

Puddings 

Pies,  cakes 

Such  raw  vegetables  as  cucumbers, 

cabbage,  or  the  outside  stalks  of 

celery 


DIPHTHERIA 

The  rapid  loss  of  vitality  and  weight  in  this  disease 
must  be  met  and  retarded  by  correct  dietetic  treatment. 
The  difficulty  in  swallowing  makes  liquid  foods  a  necessity, 
and  the  kidney  conditions  indicate  a  diet  not  too  rich 
in  the  proteids  of  meat. 


MAY    EAT 


Modified  milk 

Eskay's  food 

Albuminized  milk 

Cream  and  whey 

Arrowroot  gruel 

Meiggs'  food 

German  flour  gruel 

Pineapple    juice    alone    and    with 

white  of  egg 
Orange  juice 
Mutton  tea 


Vegetable  bouillon 
"  Ye  perfect  food  " 
Cream,  eggs  and  beef 
Cornmeal   gruel 
Eggs  and  whey 
Plum   porridge 
Beef  meal 

Cream  of  celery  soup 
Cream  of  potato  soup 
Nut  soups 


MRS.   RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  135 

MUMPS 

Mumps  do  not  require  special  feeding,  except  that  the 
food  must  be  liquid  in  order  to  be  easily  swallowed.  Food 
must  also  be  free  from  salt,  pepper  and  acid. 


MAY    EAT 

Milk  Egg  and  milk 

Milk  soups  Cream  soups,  and  such  milk  foods 

Mutton  broth  as"    kefir,     buttermilk,     almond 

"Ye  perfect   food"  milk,     albuminized    milk,    plum 

Semi-solid  beef  porridge,    arrowroot    milk    and 

Beef  gruel  milk  gruels 

As  soon  as  the  swelling  subsides,  the  patient  may  take 
semi-solid  foods  of  a  non-stimulating  character. 


WHOOPING  COUGH 

In  cases  of  either  mild  or  severe  whooping  cough  the 
stomach  and  bowels  require  very  close  attention.  Mucous 
membranes  in  general  are  affected,  and  incorrect  food 
induces  indigestion,  and  this  increases  the  number  and 
severity  of  the  paroxysms.  As  there  is  always  a  tendency 
to  vomit,  a  small  amount  of  food  given  at  regular  and 
frequent  intervals  is  best.  Three  meals  a  day  will  hardly 
answer  in  this  disease.  Liquids  and  semi-solid  foods  only 
should  be  given  during  the  first,  severe,  part  of  the  dis- 
ease. Osier  says,  ''Give  no  solid  foods,  noj  fruits,  except 
orange  and  lemon  juice,  and  do  not  give  these  with  other 
foods." 

Those  who  adhere  most  rigidly  to  given  rules  can 
reduce  the  number  and  severity  of  the  paroxysms  very 
quickly. 


136  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


MAY    EAT 

Milk  Milk  toast 

Milk  and  barley  water  Milk  toast,  with  hard  yolk  grated 

Milk  and  white  of  egg  over 

Eggnog  Egg  flip,  plain 

Cup  custards  Egg  flip,  with  a  little  sherry 

Soft  custards  Chicken  broth,  with  rice 

Floating  island  Plain  chicken  broth 

Well-cooked  cereals  Cream  chicken  broth 

Junket  Strained  mutton  broth 

Buttermilk  Lemon  gelose  once  a  day 


ENURESIS 

A  simple  nutritious  diet  helps  greatly  in  correcting 
this  trouble.  Liquid  foods  and  large  quantities  of  water 
should  not  be  taken  after  five  o'clock  in  the  evening. 
Breakfasts  should  be  nutritious  and  composed  largely  of 
eggs,  simply  cooked ;  dry  or  milk  toast,  stewed  prunes,  figs 
or  baked  bananas,  and  a  glass  of  milk.  The  heavy  meal 
should  be  at  noon  and  consist  of  chicken,  eggs,  white- 
fleshed  fish,  baked  potatoes  or  boiled  rice;  a  little  spinach, 
carefully-cooked  peas,  sweet  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  care- 
fully-stewed young  turnips  or  celery,  and  a  simple  dessert, 
fruit  gelose,  fruit  tapioca,  or  a  little  whipped  cream. 

Suppers  should  be  much  like  breakfasts,  bread  and 
milk,  cornmeal  mush  and  milk,  milk  toast,  stewed  figs  and 
cream,  with  toast.  After  the  child  is  prepared  for  bed,  see 
that  the  bladder  is  emptied,  and  that  he  is  in  a  comfortable 
position,  with  his  head  almost  level  with  the  rest  of  the 
body. 

Such  children  mustavoid  at  all  times  tea,  coflFee.  spiced 
foods,  red  meats,  sour  foods,  candies,  cakes,  rich  puddings, 
pies,  pork,  veal,  fried  foods,  beef  tea.  bouillon,  consomme, 
hot  breads,  bran  breads,  coarse  vegetables,  and  they  must 
not  eat  between  meals. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE    SICK  137 


DIET  IN  RELATION  TO  AGE 

When  a  man  has  passed  his  fiftieth  year,  he  certainly 
has  less  call  for  food  than  during  the  early  and  more 
active  part  of  his  life.  His  structure  is  complete;  he  needs 
only  a  sufficient  quantity  of  easily-digested  foods  to  repair 
his  tissues  and  keep  up  his  bodily  heat  and  energy.  If  the 
young  overeat,  they  can  rectify  it  now  and  then  by  a 
"bilious"  attack,  but  such  dissip:\tion  reduces  the  aged  to 
a  condition  of  invalidism. 

The  character  as  well  as  the  cjuantity  of  food  must  be 
changed  to  suit  the  age.  \'iolation  of  nature's  laws,  false 
ideas  of  the  amount  of  nourishment  required,  have  much 
to  do  with  early  feebleness.  More  than  one-half  of  the 
diseases  that  embitter  the  middle  and  latter  portion  of  our 
lives,  are  due  to  errors  in  diet.  A  perfect  old  age,  how- 
ever, has  its  foundations  laid  in  youth.  One  cannot  dissi- 
pate iot  a  quarter  of  a  century,  and  expect  nature  to  for- 
give and  forget. 

If  persons  have  been  accustomed  to  a  mixed  diet,  it  is 
better  perhaps  to  keep  on  in  moderation.  More  foods  are 
required  by  the  active  aged  than  by  those  who  are  simply 
waiting. 

Meats  should  not  be  eaten  more  than  four  times  a  week 
and  then  at  the  noonday  meal ;  substitute  eggs,  milk  and 
milk  preparations,  puree  of  lentils,  old  peas,  beans  and 
pean\its.  Boiled  meats  are  more  easily-digested  than 
baked  or  fried.  Breakfasts  should  be  light,  composed  of 
fruits,  cereals  and  whole  wheat  bread,  or  eggs,  toast  and 
cafe  au  lait.  Soups  should  not  precede  the  noonday  meal, 
too  much  liquid  reduces  the  strength  of  the  gastric  secre- 
tions. A  puree  of  lentils  is  really  the  meat  dish  and  need 
only  be  accompanied  with  a  baked  potato  or  boiled  rice. 
A  liquid  or  semi-solid  food,  as  cornmeal  mush,  cocoa,  milk 
toast,  eggs  and  milk,  gruels  with  toast,  form  admirable 
suppers.     Buttermilk,  cottage   cheese,  koumys,  leban,  are 


138  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

easily  digested,  and  with  a  piece  of  toast  contain  sufficient 
nourishment  for  the  night  meal. 

Do  not  neglect  the  output,  nor  the  relations  between  it 
and  the  intake;  the  motto  must  be,  light  easily-digested 
meals,  with  not  one  ounce  more  than  is  necessary.  The 
machinery  of  the  aged  is  easily  upset. 

As  sleep  bears  a  close  relation  to  food,  take  the  lightest 
meal  of  the  day  at  night. 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE   SICK 


139 


COMBINATIONS    SUITED   TO   THE   AGED 


BREAKFASTS 

Stewed   Prunes  Wheatena 


Cream 


Stewed  Fig- 


Cream  of  Wheat 


Cream 


Stewed   Apples 


Eggs 


Toast 


One  Egg 


Orange    Juice 
Broiled   Bacon 


Toast 


Grape  Fruit 
Poached   Egg  Corn   Muffin 


Strawberries 

Boiled  Rice  Cream 

Toast 


Broiled   tomato 


Whole   Wheat   Gem 


DINNERS 

Cream  of  Celery   Soup 

Boiled    Mutton  Boiled    Rice 

Tender   Lettuce   Salad 


Puree  of  Lentils  Pilot  Bread 

Baked    Potato  Spinach 

Orange   Gelose 


Peas 


Pudding 


Boiled    Rice 


Tomato  Sauce 
Apple    Snow 


140  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


COMBINATIONS  SUITED  TO  THE  AGED— Continued 

Cream  of  Potato   Soup 
Chop  Hominy  Cold  Slaw 

Fruit   Tapioca 


Vegetable   Soup   without   Meat 
Salisbury  Meat  Cake  Peas 

Blancmange  Cream 


SUPPERS 

Mush   Bread   and   Butter 
Apple  Sauce 


Milk  Toast  with  Hard-boiled  Yolk  of  Eggs 
Prune  Jelly  Cream 


Junket   with   Cream    and   Unleavened   Gems 


Cocoa    wiih    Rusks 


Rice  Gems  with  CoddKd  Apples 


Apple  Omelet  with  Pulled  Bread 
Cocoa 


Buttermilk    with    Whole    Wheat    Bread 


Oyster    Soup    with    Pilot    Bread 


Warm  Caramel  Custards  with  Crackers 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet    FOR    THE    SICK  141 

FEEDING  IN  FEVER 

Graves,  in  1848,  commenced  to  feed  fevers.  Prior  to 
that  time  most  fever  patients  had  been  starved,  and  v^e 
might  add,  most  fever  patients  died,  for  in  addition  to 
starving  they  were  bled.  In  all  fevers  the  proteins  are 
lost  in  greater  proportion  than  the  fats.  The  appetite  is 
weak,  sometimes  entirely  lost,  the  digestive  organs  lack  the 
natural  activity,  and  thirst  is  intensified.  To  keep  up  the 
supply  of  protein  during  this  rapid  loss,  give  milk  in  as 
large  quantities  as  can  be  readily  ^digested  by  the  patient. 
Add  the  white  of  egg  once  a  day,  if  it  is  agreeable  to  the 
patient  and  the  physician. 

Avoid  solid  foods ;  they  arc  slow  of  digestion,  fre- 
quently decompose  in  the  intestines  and  provoke  serious 
new  diseases. 

The  nurse  must  be  perfectly  familiar  with  the  food 
requirements,  for  in  fevers,  diet  is  of  first  importance.  Do 
not  be  guided  by  the  patient's  appetite.  The  gnawing  of 
a  sick  stomach  does  not  always  mean  hunger. 

Milk  is  almost  universally  used  as  diet  in  fevers.  Two 
quarts  a  day,  alx)ut  1300  calories,  will  be  borne  quite 
easily  if  modified  with  barley  water  in  proportion  of  one- 
third   to   two-thirds   milk. 

Do  not  insist  upon  milk  and  barley  water  at  every 
feeding  if  the  patient  objects.  Give  at  one  time  modified 
milk,  at  another,  milk  shaken  with  white  of  (tgg,  orange 
juice  with  white  of  egg,  or  milk  and  Vichy,  milk  and  lime 
water,  or  koumys,  leban,  junket,  pancreatized  milk,  zoolak 
or  kefir.  If  the  taste  of  milk  is  objectionable,  you  will  find 
in  another  portion  of  the  book  recipes  for  changing  its 
flavor.  Eggnog,  egg  and  milk,  sometimes  the  yolk  of  the 
egg  beaten  with  the  milk,  at  another  time  the  white  of  egg 
and  sherry,  if  admissible,  plum  porridge,  rice  water  and 
inilk,  arrowroot  milk  gruel,  are  all  to  be  recommended. 

Personally,  I  object  to  beef  tea  or  any  form  of  meat 
soups    in   fevers.      I    have    passed    through    typhoid    fever 


142  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

twice,  and  had  good  recoveries  both  times  from  milk  and 
milk  preparations.  Meat  and  meat  preparations  were 
tried,  with  unsatisfactory  results ;  they  lack  nutrition. 
Without  having  any  personal  idiosyncrasies  for  meat,  I 
feel  that  milk  m'akes  a  far  better  fever  food.  My  opinion 
comes  from  experience  rather  than  prejudice. 

Gelatin  preparations  and  gelatin  drinks  are  often  val- 
uable in  cases  of  intestinal  hemorrhage. 

Never  overfeed  the  patient ;  there  is  a  diminution  in 
the  power  of  the  digestive  organs  and  they  must  never  be 
overtaxed.    A  little  food  and  often  is  the  motto. 


TYPHOID  FEVER 

In  typhoid  fever  there  is  a  close  relation  between 
right  feeding,  good  nursing  and  recovery.  At  no  time  dur- 
ing the  prevalence  of  the  fever  must  there  be  the  slightest 
departure  from  the  food  ordered  by  the  physician.  As  the 
intestines  are  involved  in  this  disease,  it  seems  wise  to  give 
stomach-digested  foods,  but  in  all  fevers  gastric  digestion 
is  weak,  hence  stomach-digested  foods  must  be  carefully 
selected  and  easy  of  digestion. 

Milk  and  milk  foods  are  usually  most  acceptable.  If 
the  taste  of  milk  is  objectionable,  change  the  flavor  as 
directed  in  another  part  of  this  book. 

Do  not  give  solid  food  unless  you  have  the  consent  of 
the  physician.  A  tiny  bit  of  orange  pulp,  or  even  a  portion 
of  soft-boiled  white  of  Qgg,  may  escape  digestion,  pass  into 
the  small  intestines,  form  an  irritant  and  in  turn  endanger 
life.  On  the  other  hand,  it  must  be  remembered  that  full 
feeding  is  necessary.  The  milk  you  give  must  be  whole 
milk,  containing  its  full  amount  of  fatty  matter,  and  if 
barley  or  rice  water  be  added,  the  tissues  of  the  body  are 
spared.  In  some  cases  the  stomach  is  particularly  sensitive 
to  the  curd  of  milk;  this  Avill  be  known  quickly  by  the 
appearance  of  tympanites,  or  indigestion  and  flatulency. 
Stop  milk  feeding  at  once,  and  substitute  modified  milk. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  143 

peptonized  milk,  koumys,  white  of  egg  and  water,  barley 
water  and  cream,  beef  tea,  beef  essence,  carefully-strained 
broths  in  which  you  have  boiled  either  rice  or  barley.  These 
foods  contain  the  necessary  elements  of  nutrition,  presented 
in  easily-digested  form. 

Where  m^lk  cannot  be  borne,  feeding  becomes  more 
complicated,  and  where  a  patient  has  prejudices  in  health 
little  can  be  expected  in  sickness.  If  your  patient  is  com- 
fortable and  seems  well  nourished,  is  not  losing  fat  too 
rapidly,  has  no  distressing  abdominal  symptoms  and  no 
undigested  food  in  the  stools,  take  for  granted  the  feeding 
is  correct,  and  continue  it.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  patient 
is  losing  weight  rapidly  and  there  are  abdominal  complica- 
tions, take  for  granted  the  feeding  is  incorrect,  or  it  may 
be  insufficient  in  quantity  ;  then  change  the  diet,  or  increase 
slightly  the  quantity. 

Many  cases  under  my  observation  have  been  able  to 
take  eight  ounces  of  milk  and  barley  water  at  a  feeding. 
Again,  I  have  seen  robust  people  who  could  not  digest  four 
ounces  in  three  hours.  One  quart  and  a  pint  of  milk,  with 
one  pint  of  barley  water,  per  diem,  is  a  fair  allowance. 

If  diarrhoea  is  prevalent,  use  ground  rice  gruel  and  milk 
that  has  been  pasteurized  and  cooled.  If  vomiting  occurs 
give  orange  juice,  or  other  fruit  juices  in  small  quantities, 
and  a  little  lime  water,  with  milk. 

Toast  water,  carefully  strained,  will  sometimes  allay 
thirst  more  quickly  than  plain  water.  Irish  moss  gruel  or 
gelose  water  are  exceedingly  nice  swabbing  materials  for 
the  mouth ;  they  prevent  the  mouth  from  becoming  so  dry. 
A  typhoid  patient,  whose  mouth  and  lips  become  parched, 
cracked  and  sore,  will  frequently  refuse  nourishment  when 
hungry.  In  fact  the  mouth  should  be  rinsed  or  swabbed 
with  some  mucilaginous  water  each  time  before  feeding. 
A  few  drops  of  Listerine  or  Glycothymoline  in  water  is 
frequently  very  pleasant.  After  each  feeding  the  mouth 
should  be  cleansed. 


144  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


CONVALESCING  TYPHOID 

After  the  patient  has  had  a  normal  temperature  for  ten 
or  twelve  days,  if  agreeable  to  the  physician,  add  a  little 
semi-solid  food  to  the  general  feeding:  a  frothed  egg, 
omelet  souffle,  cup  custard,  bonnyclabber  with  cream  and 
nutmeg,  banana  gruel  made  from  banana  meal,  served  with 
cream,  a  scraped  beef  cake,  a  very  tender  broiled  chop,  a 
piece  of  broiled  sweetbread,  a  piece  of  juicy  steak,  the  yolk 
of  a  hard-boiled  egg  grated  over  milk  toast,  a  poached  egg, 
a  coddled  egg,  rice  gruel  made  by  boiling  rice  carefully  and 
pressing  it  through  a  sieve,  diluted  with  milk  or  cream, 
broiled  bird,  free  from  fat  and  lightly  seasoned ,  carefully- 
made  soups  and  cream  soups.  These  dishes  should  at  first 
be  used  only  once  a  day,  and  that  at  noontime. 

Avoid  all  vegetable  foods  for  at  least  six  weeks,  with 
the  exception  of  now  and  then  a  carefully-baked  potato  and 
a  little  carefully-boiled  rice.  When  desserts  are  added  they 
must  follovv'  the  noonday  meal.  Wine  jelly,  Irish  moss 
jelly,  floating  island,  cup  custards,  cocoa,  a  cup  of  racahout ; 
now  and  then  farina  custard,  are  admissible.  Avoid  all 
flavoring  extracts  in  desserts ;  use  in  their  place  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  caramel  or  a  tiny  bit  of  the  grated  rind  of 
orange  or  lemon,  strained  out. 

Do  not  allow  the  patient  to  eat  too  much.  Remember 
that  after  typhoid  a  person  is  very  hungry  and  inconsistent 
as  to  what  they  want  and  the  amount  needed.  No  matter 
what  the  patient  wants,  give  a  small  quantity  of  easily- 
digested  foods. 

If  there  is  a  rise  in  temperature  after  the  first  or  second 
meal  of  solid  foods,  return  again  to  liquid  diet  and  con- 
tinue it  until  the  temperature  falls  to  normal.  At  the  end 
of  a  month,  if  the  temperature  is  normal,  the  bowels  regu- 
lar, and  there  is  no  diarrhoea,  the  patient  may  select  one 
or  two  favorite  articles,  for  the  noonday  meal.  This  does 
not  include  such  indigestible  foods  as  lobsters,  crabs  or 
shrimps,  or  coarse  vegetables,  dried  fruits,  pies,  puddings, 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR   THE    SICK  145 

or  fried  foods.  Chopped  meat  cake,  broiled  sweetbreads, 
birds,  venison,  baked  potato,  young  chicken,  and  light 
strained  soups,  are  allowable. 

DENGUE  FEVER 

In  this  fever  use  precisely  the  same  diet  as  in  typhoid, 
and  if  the  person  is  robust,  a  fast  of  three  or  four  days,  with 
plenty  of  water,  is  to  be  recommended. 

MALARIAL  FEVER 

A  fast  of  one  or  two  days,  followed  by  w^hite  of  egg 
and  water  for  one  day.  Xut  milk  is  excellent  in  the  first 
stages  of  malaria.  Fruit  juices,  especially  orange  juice,  is 
always  to  be  recommended,  and  may  be  used  from  the  very 
first  day.  If  orange  juice  is  out  of  the  question,  use  apple 
or  grape  juice.  Then  the  wdiite  of  tgg  in  a  half  pint  of 
water  every  alternate  feeding,  with  milk  and  lime  water 
for  a  week.  Then  add  milk  soups,  gruels,  and  such  milk 
preparations  as  koumys,  leban.  zoolak,  matzoon  and  butter- 
niilk.  As  soon  as  the  patient  can  take  solid  food,  add 
peas;  spinach;  dandelions,  finely  chopped;  cauliflower; 
boiled  cucumbers,  with  a  little  butter  and  salt ;  summer 
squash;  a  broiled  chop;  broiled  chopped  meat;  chickens; 
white  fish ;  baked  potato ;  boiled  rice,  and  macaroni. 

SCARLET  FEVER 

The  writer  has  had  considerable  experience  in  the 
feeding  of  scarlet  fever,  and  has  found  that  the  best  results 
come  from  a  non-meat  diet,  and  she  fully  believes  that  a 
strict  milk  and  barley  w-ater  diet  is  best  until  the  fever  sub- 
sides. During  convalescence  give  alternate  feedings  of 
farinaceous  gruels,  arrowroot,  rice  flour,  farina,  Cream 
of  Wheat.  ]\ieiggs'  food,  lentil  milk  gruel,  and  "ye  perfect 
food."  If  the  appetite  increases  and  the  patient  seems  to 
w^ant  solid  food,  give  Creamx  of  Wheat  and  farina,  served 

10 


146  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

with  milk.  If  milk  becomes  tiresome,  give  buttermilk, 
koumys,  leban  or  matzoon,  or  any  of  the  milk  preparations. 
If  it  becomes  distasteful,  change  its  flavor  according  to 
directions  given  in  the  Second  Part  of  this  book.  Orangeade, 
orange  juice  and  lemonade  may  be  used  to  allay  thirst.  In 
an  ordinary  case,  the  patient  may  be  given  the  juice  of 
four  oranges  a  day. 


MAY   EAT,   DURING   CONVALESCENCE 

Milk  and  milk  preparations  Orange  juice 

Milk  toast  White  of  egg  and  orange  juice 

Cup  custard  White  of  egg  and  apple  juice 

Farina  Fresh-made  grape  juice 

Cream  of  Wheat  Lemonade 

Old-fashioned  rice  pudding  Carbonated  waters  alone,  or  with 

Stale  bread  and  milk  milk  or  orange  juice 

Tapioca  pudding  Lime  squash 

Blancmange  Orange  water  ice,  unsweetened 

Junket  Frozen  grape  juice,  unsweetened 

LATER,  ADD 

Poached  eggs  Whole  wheat  bread 

Soft-boiled  eggs  Fruits  stewed  without   sugar 

Hard  toast  Soy  bean  or  lentil  soup 

The  return  to  a  meat  diet  must  be  postponed  as  long 
as  possible,  the  writer  believes  forever,  but  if  the  patient 
belongs  to  a  meat-eating  family,  meats  will  be  added.  Begin 
with  the  white  meat  of  chicken,  and  a  small  quantity  of 
boiled  lamb  or  mutton.  Do  not  add  beef  for  some  time 
to  come,  and  avoid  all  sea  foods. 

Ayoid  during  the  height  of  the  disease  and  throughout 
convalescence : 

All  meats,  meat   soups  and  meat  Sour  foods 

extracts  Vegetables 

Highly-seasoned  foods  of  all  kinds  Hot  breads 

Sweets  Desserts 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SrCK  147 


YELLOW  FEVER 

Physicians  in  the  tropics  recommend  in  all  cases  of 
yellow  fever,  an  absolute  fast,  no  matter  whether  the 
patient  is  robust,  or  slender  and  frail. 

If  vomiting  occurs,  and  continues  for  any  length  of 
time,  rectal  feeding  must  be  resorted  to,  but  this  is  fre- 
quently quite  as  irritating  as  food  administered  by  mouth. 
Solid  foods  must  be  forbidden  until  the  patient  is  far  on  the 
road  to  convalescence.  The  physician  alone  knows  when 
and  how  to  arrange  suitable  convalescing  diet.  If  the 
patient  is  in  any  civilized  country,  where  predigested  foods 
can  be  obtained,  these  should  be  the  first  to  follow  the  fast. 
Avoid,  however,  all  meat  preparations  in  hot  climates,  no 
matter  whether  they  are  predigested  or  not,  and  sugar. 

MAY  TRY 

Albuminized  water  Whey 

Lime  water  and  milk  Whey  and  white  of  egg 

Bicarbonate  of  soda  and  water 


PURPURA  HEMORRHAGICA 

Feed  the  same  as  in  fever,  but  substitute  four  ounces 
of  fresh  grape  juice,  for  three  regular  feedings,  one  in  the 
morning,  another  at  noon,  and  one  at  six  o'clock.  It  is  most 
important  that  the  grape  juice  be  freshly  made,  according 
to  the  recipe  found  in  another  part  of  this  book. 

If  milk  and  barley  water  have  been  the  main  diet,  a 
change  to  almond  milk,  gelatin  water  with  lemon  or 
orange,  limeade,  orange  juice  and  white  of  egg,  dry  albumin 
in  milk,  is  frequently  beneficial. 

It  is  extremely  necessary  that  the  diet  be  nutritious 
and  liquid. 


148  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


SMALLPOX 

During  the  early  stages  of  the  disease  there  is  little 
or  no  desire  for  food.  Plain  milk,  or  milk  one-third  barley 
water,  milk  with  dry  albumin,  peptonized  milk,  or  milk  and 
carbonated  waters,  give  quite  enough  variety.  Do  not  urge 
the  patient  to  eat  until  appetite  appears.  Then  add  milk 
soups,  nut  soups,  eggs  and  milk,  eggnog,  egg  flip,  Cream 
of  Wheat  and  farina.  Later,  when  the  fever  subsides,  add 
a  baked  potato,  or  a  South  American  yam,  milk  toast,  egg 
and  Ggg  dishes,  and  milk  preparations.  Lemon  and 
orangeade  may  be  used  freely  between  feedings,  to  allay 
thirst.  If  the  fever  again  appears,  go  back  immediately 
to  the  diet  recommended  at  first.  The  hours  of  feeding 
will  be  about  the  same  as  in  typhoid  fever.  Avoid  meat 
and  meat  dishes,  and  use  as  little  salt  as  possible.  Mutton 
broth  is  now  and  then  ordered  by  physicians,  but  as  it 
contains  little  or  no  nourishment,  milk  is  to  be  preferred. 
Raw  egg,  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  if  the  patient 
can  take  it,  is  far  better  than  meat. 

During  convalescence,  or  as  soon  as  the  fever  subsides, 
increase  the  diet.  Add  broiled  sweetbreads,  broiled  chops 
and  a  little  white  meat  of  chicken,  but  depend  for  the  bulk 
of  the  food  upon  well-cooked  Cream  of  Wheat,  farina, 
shredded  wheat  biscuit,  with  milk  and  cream,  eggs,  rice 
pudding,  cup  custards,  junket,  milk  toast,  tapioca  pudding, 
and  carefully-cooked  fruits.  Whole  wheat  bread  should  be 
used  in  place  of  white  bread,  and  all  bread  given  should  be 
made  without  sugar  or  lard. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  149 


DISEASES   OF   THE   SKIN 


URTICARIA  OR  NETTLE  RASH 

The  skin,  being  a  delicate  and  sensitive  secretory  organ, 
is  easily  affected  by  habits,  diet  and  exercise. 

Nettle  rash  is  perhaps  the  best  example  of  a  cutaneous 
disorder  resulting  from  the  toxic  influences  of  food. 

Persons  who  eat  indigestible  compounds,  as  pie,  cake, 
preserves,  fried  meats,  fried  starchy  foods,  as  potatoes, 
and  such  made  dishes  as  croquettes,  and  those  who  wash 
down  each  mouthful  of  bread  and  butter  with  weak  tea 
or  coffee  containing  sugar  and  cream,  are  frequently 
troubled  in  the  cold  months  with  various  eruptions  of  the 
skin,  especially  on  the  hands.  The  clammy  moist  hand 
of  the  dyspeptic  is  one  of  the  first  symptoms  of  an 
unhealthy  skin.  In  cold  weather  the  skin  of  the  face  is 
rather  red  and  coarse ;  in  warm  weather  it  becomes  greasy. 
To  correct  these  conditions,  add  to  the  daily  diet  tender 
green  vegetables  that  can  be  eaten  raw  with  a  little  French 
dressing.  Give  an  abundance  of  ripe  fruits,  fruit  juices, 
whole  wheat  bread,  rye  bread,  and  now  and  then  brown 
bread.  Orange  juice,  grape  juice,  apple  juice,  early  in  the 
morning,  or  between  the  morning  and  noon  meal,  are  to  be 
recommended.  If  the  patient  is  thin  and  anaemic,  follow 
diet  in  leanness ;   if  robust,  the  diet  for  the  obese. 

Give  plenty  of  water  between  meals. 


150 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR    THE    SICK 


MAY    EAT 


Lean  beef,  a  little 

Mutton 

Chicken 

Cream  soups 

Fruits 

Fruit  juices 

Fruit    desserts,    with    tapioca    or 

arrowroot 
An  occasional  baked  potato 
Boiled  rice 

Topground  green  vegetables 
Green  salads,  with  French  dressing 
Orange  salad 
Grape  fruit  salad 
Cantaloupe  salad 


Whole  wheat  bread,  well  buttered 
Pilot  bread 
Swedish  bread 
Toast 

Brown  bread 
Graham  bread 
Gluten  bread,  occasionally 
Puree  of  lentils 
Puree  of  peas 
Nut  foods 

Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 
Milk  toast 

Light  egg  dishes,  especially  those 
made  from  hard-boiled  yolks 


AVOID 


All  coarse  vegetables 

Mashed  and  fried  potatoes 

Boiled  cabbage 

Kale 

Pork 

Veal 

Lobsters 

Crabs 

Fish 

Oysters  and  clams 

Pickles  and  foods  in  vinegar 

Rich  sauces 

Mayonnaise 


All  meat  soups 

Fried  foods  in  general 

Pies 

Puddings 

Cakes 

Candies 

Sugar 

Tea 

Coffee 

Chocolate 

Cocoa  and 

Entrees 


cocoa  preparations 


ACNE 

It  is  said  by  many  dietitians  that  acne  may  be  entirely 
overcome  by  correct  and  special  diet.  It  is  true  that  acne 
is  worse  among  people  who  live  largely  on  hot  breads,  fried 
food,  rich  starchy  dishes  and  sweets.  Avoid  fat  meats  and 
sea  foods.  Use  eggs,  milk,  and  sour  milk  foods,  green  vege- 
tables— spinach,  lettuce,   salads  with   olive  oil   and  lemon 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE    SICK 


151 


juice ;  peas,  sweet  corn,  lima  beans,  string  beans,  stewed 
cucumbers,  squash,  stewed  celery.  A  grated  raw  carrot 
eaten  with  a  little  salt  just  before  retiring,  or  a  saucer  of 
popcorn  will  keep  the  bowels  in  good  condition. 


MAY    EAT 


Broiled  lamb 

Carefully-cooked  chicken 

Beef  occasionally 

Eggs 

Skimmed  milk 

Buttermilk 

Leban 

Koumys 

Matzoon 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Brown  bread 

Unleavened  bread 

Boiled  rice 

Cream  of  Wheat 

Farina,  with  milk 

Stewed  macaroni 

A  little  cheese 


Eggs,  except  fried 

Fruits  and  fruit  juices 

Gelose   with    fruits   and    skimmed 

milk 
Lemon,  orange  and  grape  gelatin, 

.with  very  little  sugar 
Game,  carefully  cooked 
Mutton  broth 
Chicken  broth 
Noodle  soup 
Occasionally  nut  loaf 
Zweiback 
Virginia  wafers 
Maryland    biscuit 
All  fruits,  except  strawberries  and 

currants 
Prune  dishes 


AVOID 


Sea   foods 

Fried  foods 

Pies,  cakes  and  puddings 

Hot  breakfast  breads 

Syrup 

Pork 

Veal 

Smoked  and  salted  meats 

Tea,  cofifee  and  chocolate 

Fish,  Crustacea,  mollusks 

Fresh  American  cheese 


Gravies 

Rich  soups 

White  bread 

Coarse     vegetables,     as     turnips, 

beets,  sweet  potatoes,  pumpkin 
White  potatoes,  except  occasionally 
Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 
Jellies  and  preserves 
Cream 
Bacon 
All  alcoholic  and  malt  beverages 


152 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK 


ECZEMA 

In  eczema,  as  in  all  skin  diseases,  a  correct  diet  plays 
the  most  important  part  in  the  cure.  The  stomach  must  be 
kept  in  good  condition,  the  bowels  regular.  If  the  patient 
is  anaemic,  give  white  of  egg  shaken  with  milk,  between 
meals,  every  other  day ;  buttermilk  or  koumys  the  alternate 
days.  Meat  should  be  avoided,  but  eggs  and  milk  used 
freely.     Thorough  mastication  is  of  utmost  importance. 

If  the  patient  is  obese,  treatment  for  the  obese  must 
be  followed.  Give  plenty  of  pure  soft  water  between  meals, 
and  keep  the  skin  in  good  active  condition  by  careful  bath- 
ing with  soft  water  and  neutral  soap. 


MAY    EAT 


Soups  made  from  milk  and  green 

vegetables 
Ladies'  cabbage 
Spinach 

Carefully-cooked  peas 
Stewed  cucumbers 
Summer  squash 
Carrots,  carefully  cooked 
Whole  wheat  bread,  without  lard 
Unleavened  bread 
Zweiback 
Crackers 

Occasionally  brown  bread 
Modified  milk 
Cream  of  Wheat 
Farina 

Shredded  wheat 
Chicken,  mutton 


Toasted  corn  flakes,  fruit  juices 

Butter,  in  moderation 

Baked  apples 

Stewed    apples,    with    very    little 

sugar 
Grapes 
Fruit  juices 
Skimmed  milk 
Buttermilk 
Koumys 
Leban 
Clabber 
Schmierkase 
Eggs,  occasionally 
Lettuce,    cress,    and    light    green 

vegetables,  with  a  little  olive  oil 

and  lemon  juice 


MRS.    RORER's  diet   FOR   THE    SICK                           153 

AVOID 

Tea,  coffee,  chocolate  and  cocoa  All  highly-seasoned  foods 

Fats  in  excess  Underground    and    coarse   vegeta- 

Sweets  bles 

Pastries,  cakes  and  puddings  All  fish,  the  crustacea,  oysters  and 

Starchy  foods  clams 

Pickles  Pork 

Fried  foods  Veal 

Food  containing  lard  Small  fruits,  with  the  exception  of 

Salt  foods  blackberries 

Liquors,   both   malt   and   alcoholic       Pears 

Cambric  tea  Cantaloupes 


Eczema  in  Children — A  large  number  of  cases  of  eczema 
occurring  among  children  of  the  middle  classes  is  due  to  de- 
fective nutrition ;  unsuitability  of  foods,  bad  cooking  and  hur- 
ried breakfast.  Children  who  are  allowed  to  remain  in  bed  to 
the  very  last  minute,  and  then  rush  through  breakfast  and 
off  to  school,  ruin  their  digestion  at  an  early  age.  Such 
children  frequently  have  boils ;  if  not,  their  skin  becomes 
rough,  the  face  covered  with  pimples,  and  the  kidneys  are 
more  or  less  involved. 

Fruits  should  be  used  freely  in  the  morning,  stewed 
without  sugar,  or  raw.  If  the  luncheon  is  carried  to  school, 
give  nut  butters  with  bread,  and  a  bottle  of  milk,  or  give 
whole  wheat  or  brown  bread  sandwiches,  and  fruit,  or  nut 
bread  sandwiches  and  fruit.  The  yolk  of  hard-boiled  Qgg 
may  now  and  then  be  grated  over  the  bread  and  butter. 
They  should  drink  plenty  of  water  between  meals.  Such 
children  should  avoid  at  all  times  candies,  sweets,  meats, 
especially  pork  and  veal,  all  rich  dishes  and  meat  soups, 
tea,  coffee  and  chocolate.  The  bulk  of  their  diet  should 
be  composed  of  milk  and  milk  soups,  puree  of  nuts,  puree 
of  green  peas  and  spinach,  tender  green  vegetables,  fruits, 
eggs  and  whole  wheat  bread,  well  buttered. 


lott  MRS.    RORER's  diet  FOR   THE   SICK 


ALCOHOLISM 

In  this  disease,  whether  chronic  or  acute,  the  whole 
system  is  more  or  less  poisoned,  the  mucous  lining  of  the 
stomach  is  inert  and  inactive,  gastric  catarrh  is  frequently 
established,  and  the  mucous  membranes  of  the  stomach  are 
thickened  and  hardened.  Such  lesions  as  cirrhosis  of  the 
liver,  kidney  complications,  thickening  of  the  arterial  walls, 
and  a  form  of  bronchitis,  may  be  expected.  A  bronchial 
and  stomach  cough,  especially  in  the  early  morning,  is  fre- 
quently present,  and  morning  vomitings  are  to  be  expected. 
The  intestines  may  be  more  or  less  affected,  but  as  a  rule 
do  not  share  the  marked  conditions  of  the  stomach. 

Acute  alcoholism  is  more  easily  remedied  by  diet  than 
is  the  disease  when  it  has  reached  the  chronic  stage. 

In  mild  cases,  easily-digested  foods  are  called  for,  and 
while  it  is  true  highly-seasoned  foods  increase  and  keep 
up  the  appetite,  they  are  in  the  end  injurious.  Of  what 
value  is  an  appetite  if  the  stomach  itself  has  no  power  to 
digest  the  food  eaten?  Water,  water,  and  plenty  of  it,  is 
the  quickest  and  safest  remedy.  Pure  water  will  answer 
every  purpose,  but  if  the  patient  objects,  give  him  Vichy, 
Seltzer  or  Apollinaris  at  any  time  during  the  day  or  night. 
Fruit  juices,  especially  orange  and  apple  juice,  may  be  used 
freely ;  they  allay  thirst  and  the  craving  for  liquor,  and 
give  a  foundation  on  which  to  build  a  rational  diet.  Diet 
must  be  non-stimulating.  A  cup  of  black  coffee  in  the  early 
morning  may  be  followed  in  an  hour  by  a  soft  egg,  or  a 
glass  of  buttermilk,  or  koumys,  and  in  the  middle  of  the 
morning,  fruit  juice.  If  solid  foods  are  admissible,  give 
for  dinner  a  broiled  chop  or  scraped  beef  cake  with  a  piece 
of  hard,  dry  toast,  well  buttered,  all  to  be  eaten  slowly 
and  thoroughly  masticated.  Give  no  liquids  with  the 
meal.  In  two  and  a  half  or  three  hours  give  more  fruit 
juice  and  Vichy,  or  an  effervescing  water.  If  there  is  un- 
easiness and  a  desire  for  alcohol,  give  liquid  foods  every  two 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE    SICK  155 

hours  ;  this  will  prevent  the  craving.  Oysters,  tripe,  sweet- 
bread, carefully-boiled  rice,  pulled  bread,  milk  and  soda, 
milk  and  Vichy,  are  all  to  be  recommended.  In  the  middle 
of  the  afternoon,  say  four  o'clock,  give  a  cup  of  carefully- 
made  tea,  without  sugar  or  cream,  or  a  cup  of  mate;  I  find 
the  latter  most  beneficial  in  cases  of  alcoholism ;  it  is  not 
wise,  however,  to  use  it  more  than  once  a  day,  and  never 
with  meals.  The  last  meal  at  night  should  be  varied ;  give 
leban,  buttermilk,  eggnog  without  liquor,  albumin  and  milk, 
koumys,  junket,  junket  whey.  Keep  up  the  variety,  it  will 
induce  the  patient  to  eat  and  forget  alcohol. 

In  severe  cases,  feed  every  three  hours  during  the 
day,  starting  at  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning.  In  place  of 
coffee  in  the  early  morning,  substitute  the  juice  of  two 
oranges,  or  a  grape  fruit,  or  pomegranate.  In  the  middle  of 
the  morning  substitute  for  Vichy  now  and  then  a  lime  or 
lemonade.  As  soon  as  possible  get  rid  of  condiments,  and 
never  begin  with  rich  sauces,  or  soups,  or  overseasoned 
dishes.  As  the  patient  progresses,  increase  the  vegetable 
diet  and  cut  down  the  animal  foods,  giving  meat  but  once 
a  day.  Well-cooked  cereals,  with  subacid  fruits,  as  baked 
bananas,  stewed  prunes,  peaches,  served  with  cream;  baked 
potatoes,  boiled  rice,  eggs  and  milk  toast,  should  form  the 
supper  dishes.  \M'iere  stimulants  are  called  for,  tea  is  fre- 
quently borne  in  the  early  morning  better  than  coffee.  If 
vomiting  occurs,  give  a  cup  of  very  weak  tea,  or  clam  broth, 
or  oyster  bouillon ;  later  give  an  egg  flip ;  in  two  hours  a 
cup  of  beef  tea ;  the  next  two  hours  a  cup  of  peptonized  or 
predigested  milk,  or  a  cup  of  leban  or  buttermilk;  the  next 
two  hours,  beef  juice  on  a  piece  of  toast;  next  a  cup  cus- 
tard or  a  cup  of  Meiggs'  food. 

Avoid  excessive  eating  at  meals,  and  do  not  give  solid 
foods  between  meals. 


156  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


CHRONIC  ALCOHOLISM 

When  the  disease  reaches  the  chronic  stage,  the  crav- 
ing and  longing  for  alcohol  overpowers  the  better  mental 
conditions  and  interferes  with  the  selection  of  food  and  the 
appetite.  Highly-seasoned  beef  teas,  strong  coffee,  with 
■lemonade,  may  be  resor.ted  to  now  and  then,  but  such  foods 
are  a  mistake;  they  increase  rather  than  allay  the  demand 
for  liquor.  The  writer  has  found  a  never-failing  ren\edy 
in  pure  fruit  juices,  especially  strained  orange  juice.  The 
hours  of  feeding  will  be  governed  by  the  doctor  and  nurse. 
Give  at  seven  o'clock  a  cup  of  black  coffee,  or  a  grape  fruit, 
or  pomegranate,  or  orange  juice,  milk  and  Vichy,  milk  and 
lime  water,  or  a  glass  of  lemonade.  For  the  two-hour  feed- 
ings use  milk  and  milk  preparations,  broth,  beef  tea  and 
fruit  juice  until  light,  easily-digested  foods  can  be  borne. 
As  the  patient  progresses,  increase  the  vegetable  diet ;  give 
meats  but  once  a  day,  and  that  at  noon.  Well-cooked  cereals, 
with  stewed  prunes  without  skins ;  peach  puree  with  cream ; 
baked  potato;  milk  soups;  boiled  rice;  eggs;  milk  toast. 
Suppers  should  be  exceedingly  light,  without  tea,  coffee  or 
chocolate.  Where  stimulants  are  constantly  on  the  mind 
of  the  patient,  tea  is  frequently  borne  in  the  early  morn- 
ing better  than  coffee,  and  still  better,  a  cup  of  mate. 
If  vomiting  follows  the  morning  cough,  give  immediately 
an  egg  flip ;  if  this  is  not  retained  give  a  cup  of  weak  tea, 
or  a  cup  of  beef  tea,  or  a  cup  of  peptonized  or  predigested 
milk.  A  good  arrangement  is  to  follow  the  cup  of  weak 
tea  in  two  hours  with  a  cup  of  beef  tea ;  the  next  two  hours, 
four  ounces  of  peptonized  or  predigested  milk ;  the  next 
two  hours,  four  ounces'  of  leban  or  buttermilk;  the  next, 
beef  juice  on  a  piece  of  toast,  about  one  ounce  of  beef 
juice,  and  one  ounce  of  toast ;  the  next  two  hours,  egg  and 
milk ;  the  next,  two  ounces  of  Meiggs'  food.  Let  the 
evening  meal  be  six  ounces  of  mutton  broth,  thickened  with 
rice  flour.  At  ten  o'clock,  when  the  patient  is  getting  ready 
for   bed,   give   him   four   ounces   of   warm   milk,    one-third 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


157 


barley  water.     If  feeding  is  necessary  during  the  night,  use 
peptonized  milk. 

If  milk  becomes  objectionable,  substitute  malted  milk, 
junket,  plain  plum  porridge,  milk  gruels,  milk  and  vege- 
table soups.  When  solid  food  can  be  borne,  give  two 
ounces  of  scraped  meat,  made  into  a  cake  and  broiled ; 
broiled  sweetbread  or  broiled  mutton  cake.  After  the  meat 
has  been  thoroughly  masticated  and  swallowed,  give  a 
glass  of  Vichy.  The  whites  of  two  eggs  shaken  with  a  half 
pint  of  milk,  with  a  piece  of  zweiback,  makes  a  good  supper. 
If  the  patient  is  restless  during  the  night  give  hot  milk  at 
intervals  of  two  hours ;  it  will  frequently  induce  comfort 
and  sleep.  If  there  is  a  constant  desire  for  alcohol,  and  the 
loss  is  severely  felt  and  produces  nervousness,  give  a  glass 
of  half  ginger  ale  and  half  Apollinaris. 


MAY    EAT 


All  predigested  foods 

Beef  tea 

Quick  beef  tea 

Nutritive  beef  tea 

Restorative  beef  tea 

Beef  essence 

Beef  juice 

Beef  broth 

Mutton  broth 

Vegetable  broth 

Dried   bean  broth 

Lentil  soup 

Celery  broth 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Broiled  oysters 

Oyster  bouillon 

Oyster  broth 

Clam  broth 

Milk  soups 

Eggnog 

Egg  and  milk 

Albuminized  milk 

Almond  milk 


Lentil  milk  gruel 
"Ye  perfect  food" 
Cornmeal  gruel 
Rennet  and  lemon  whey 
Albuminized  whey 
Solid  foods : 

Boiled  white  fish 

Almond   meat  cake 

Broiled   tenderloin 

Lamb  chops 

Stewed  tripe 

Broiled  and  stewed  sweetbreads 

Boiled  chicken 

Boiled  pigeon 

Boiled  mutton 

Beauregard  eggs 

Coddled  eggs 

Egg  flip 

Eggs  a  la  Martin 

Poached  eggs 

Boiled  rice 

Baked  potato 

Creamed  potato 


158 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR    THE    SICK 


MAY  EAT— Continued 


Carefully-cooked     green    top- 
ground  vegetables 

Arrowroot  desserts 

Fresh  fruits,  without  skin 

Fruits  stewed  without  sugar 

Prunes  and  figs 

Tender  lettuce,  cress  and  im- 
ported endive,  with  French 
dressing 

Boiled  dandelions 

Lamb's   quarters 

Poke  shoots 

Spinach 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Graham  bread 

Pulled  bread 

Zweiback 


Passover  bread 

Pilot  biscuits 

Cocoanut  milk  and  cream,  made 

into  desserts 
Baked  apples 
Guava  jelly 
Orange  marmalade 
Beverages : 
Saline  waters 
Fruit  juices 
Vichy 

Carbonated  waters 
Lemonade 
Lemon  squash 
Limeade 
Lime  squash 


AVOID 


All  rich,  highly-seasoned  soups 
Dark  or  pink-fleshed  fish,  lobster, 

crabs  and  shrimps 
All  highly-seasoned  sauces 
Underground  coarse  vegetables 
Boiled  cabbage 
Brussels  sprouts 
Beets 

All  fried  foods 
Heated  butter 
Puddings 
Pies 


Hot  breads 

Tea  and  coffee,  or  chocolate,  with 

meals 
Sweets 
Cakes 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 
Pickles 

Fruits  with  small  seeds 
Ice  creams  or  sherbets  at  the  end 

of  a  meal 
Rhubarb 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE    SICK  159 


DELIRIUM  TREMENS 

While  this  comes  truly  under  the  head  of  alcoholism, 
it  requires  special  dietetic  treatment.  Make  sure  that  the 
alimentary  canal  is  thoroughly  emptied  of  all  foods  before 
you  begin  the  feeding.  Where  both  the  chemical  and  the 
mechanical  conditions  of  digestion  are  slack,  food  is  fre- 
quently held  until  abnormal  fermentations  take  place,  the 
mass  decomposes  in  the  intestines  and  the  patient  is  pre- 
vented from  rapid  recovery.  The  physician  will  probably 
give  a  brisk  purgative ;  after  this  has  thoroughly  operated, 
give  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good,  strong  clam  broth ;  in  one 
hour  give  two  ounces  of  beef  tea.  the  next  two  hours  two 
ounces  of  clam  broth,  the  next  two  hours  two  ounces  of 
milk ;  these  may  be  alternated  every  two  hours,  for  at  least 
twenty-four  hours.  Water,  of  course,  must  be  given  freely. 
If  all  goes  well,  at  the  end  of  the  first  day,  the  patient  will 
be  able  to  digest  the  yolk  of  an  egg  shaken  with  milk,  a  cup 
of  consomme,  a  cup  of  double-strength  beef  tea,  Bartho- 
low's  perfect  food,  a  glass  of  koumys,  two  ounces  of  mat- 
zoon  or  zoolak,  eggnog  with  or  without  liquor,  according  to 
the  physician's  orders,  egg  flip,  Meiggs'  food,  arrowroot 
milk  gruel  or  plum  porridge.  If  the  stomach  is  irritated  and 
there  is  a  great  desire  for  alcohol,  give  orange  or  apple 
juice.  As  the  patient  convalesces,  give  a  scraped  beef 
cake,  carefully-broiled  chops,  soft-boiled  eggs,  broiled  or 
creamed  sweetbreads,  or  stewed  tripe  and  oysters,  with 
baked  potatoes,  carefully-boiled  rice,  well-cooked  farina 
or  Cream  of  Wheat,  carefully-made  corn  souffle,  pulled 
bread,  toast,  or  whole  wheat  bread.  Orange  juice  early  in 
the  morning  and  in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon — in  fact  the 
patient  can  take  the  juice  of  six  oranges  a  day  to  advantage. 

Cinnamon  or  ginger  tea,  as  well  as  ginger  ale,  fre- 
quently allay  the  desire  for  stimulants;  this  is  also  true 
of  lemon  and  tamarind  whey,  mulled  buttermilk,  and 
koumys. 


160  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

THE  INSANE 

Insane  patients  who  have  been  illy-nourished  must 
be  liberally  fed.  The  first  effort  should  be  to  increase  the 
weight  of  the  body.  Cream,  olive  oil,  broiled  bacon,  plenty 
of  butter  on  the  bread,  are  of  primary  importance.  All 
foods  should  be  concentrated. 

Three  hard-boiled  yolks  grated  over  a  dish  of  milk 
toast,  eggs  and  milk,  puree  of  beans,  peas  and  lentils, 
mutton  broth  and  milk  soups  rather  than  meat,  should  be 
depended  upon.  If  necessary  resort  to  two-hour  feedings 
of  milk  and  barley  water,  milk  and  egg,  giving  two  quarts 
of  milk  and  six  eggs  a  day.  Where  the  patient  refuses  to 
eat  and  must  be  fed  by  forced  feeding,  adhere  to  milk  and 
eggs,  or  milk  and  white  of  eggs,  then  milk  and  yolk  of  egg. 

When  "softening"  or  "hardening"  of  the  brain  occurs 
accompanied  by  an  increase  in  weight,  give  a  simple  non- 
stimulating  vegetable  diet.  Weak  tea,  coffee  or  chocolate 
can  be  given  once  a  day.    Avoid  red  meats. 

MAY    EAT 

Eggs  Cocoanut  cream  on  vegetables 

Milk  Puree    of    old    peas,    beans    and 

Broth  .lentils 

Vegetable  broths  Fresh  fruits  and  fruit  juices 

Nut  broths  Koumys 

Nut  milk,  nut  cream  Buttermilk 

Cream  soups  All  sour  milk  preparations 

Hard-boiled  eggs  on  milk  toast  Peptonized  milks,  if  necessary 

Hard  dry  breads  Cup  custard,  floating  island 

Plenty  of  butter  Fruit  tapioca 

Cream  Mock  charlotte 

Olive  oil  Souffle  puddings 

Broiled  bacon  Lamb,  chicken 

. AVOID 

All  bulk  foods  Highly-seasoned    and    stimulating 

Underground  vegetables  foods 

Cooked  fruits  Heavy  puddings 

Sweets,  pies,  cake  Fried  foods,  pork,  veal 

Soft  white  bread  ^  Pink-fleshed  fish 

Hot  breads  '  Shell  fish  and  crustacea 

Mashed  potatoes  Red  meats 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  161 

CANCER 

I  feel  in  writing  diet  for  this  disease  a  fullness  of 
experience,  as  I  have  had  charge  in  my  own  family  of  sev- 
eral persons  with  this  malady.  One  thing  is  certain — all 
dishes  made  from  cornmeal  or  from  tomatoes  are,  as  a  rule, 
objectionable.  A  purely  vegetable  diet,  with  such  foods  as 
eggs  and  milk,  seems  to  be  indicated.  Light  fatty  foods 
are  good — cream,  butter,  olive  oil  and  cocoanut  fats  are 
to  be  preferred.  Fruit  juices  may  be  used  in  early  morn- 
ing. Strong  tea  and  coffee,  as  well  as  chocolate,  must  be 
avoided.  Weak  tea,  with  cream  and  no  sugar,  is  not  objec- 
tionable in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon.  Hard,  crisp  bread, 
pulled  bread,  crackers,  Virginia  biscuits,  and  Uneedas  are 
preferable  to  soft  bread  made  after  the  ordinary  fashion. 

Breakfasts — Four  tablespoonfuls  of  Cream  of  Wheat 
or  other  cereal,  with  cream.  Baked  potato,  daintily  served 
with  a  little  cream  or  butter.  Bird's  nest  egg,  with  a  piece 
of  whole  wheat  bread  and  butter.  Poached  egg  on  toast. 
Milk  toast.  Toasted  rusk  with  milk.  Do  not  give  eggs 
more  than  twice  a  week. 

Dinners — Puree  of  potato ;  puree  of  lentils ;  soup  a  la 
Reine,  or  two  ounces  of  finely-chopped  white  meat  of 
chicken,  with  a  baked  potato.  Two  ounces  of  finely-minced 
lamb,  with  boiled  rice.  Two  ounces  of  finely-minced  white 
meat  of  chicken,  with  stewed  macaroni.  Two  ounces  of 
creamed  sweetbreads,  with  rice  and  a  few  green  peas. 
Cream  of  peanut,  green  pea  or  celery  soup,  with  bread. 

Suppers — Fruits,  carefully  cooked,  as  baked  apples, 
stewed  prunes,  bread  and  butter.  Tender  green  salad,  with 
French  dressing.  Stewed  prunes,  with  rice.  Baked  peich, 
with  rice.  Arrowroot  gruel,  with  toast.  Milk  toast.  Milk 
toast  with  hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg  grated  over  it,  or  cream 
soups. 

Between  breakfast  and  luncheon  raw  fruit  or  fruit 
juices  may  be  used  freely.  Between  dinner  and  supper,  weak 
tea,  with  bread  and  butter,  or  cooked  fruits  and  fruit 
11 


162 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


juices ;  or  the  top  of  a  shredded  wheat  biscuit,  toasted,  with 
fruit  juices.  This  diet  must,  of  course,  be  continued  as 
long  as  the  patient  Hves.  Keep  up  a  variety  of  simple 
dishes.  At  one  time  let  the  potato  be  mashed  plain,  at 
another  time  made  into  "puff"  and  baked,  plain  or  stuffed; 
or  baked,  mashed  and  made  into  roses,  using  a  pastry  bag 
and  star  tube;  brown  these  in  a  quick  oven  and  serve  on 
a  dainty  plate.  Lentils  may  be  soaked  over  night,  washed 
and  boiled  until  tender,  pressed  through  a  colander,  sea- 
soned with  butter  and  salt,  and  baked  in  an  individual 
casserole.  Old  peas  and  beans  may  be  served  the  same  way. 
In  arranging  the  menus  for  a  person  with  cancer,  give 
white  meat  of  chicken  twice  a  week,  lentils  or  nut  foods 
twice  a  week,  and  the  remaining  days  let  the  patient  live 
strictly  on  fruits  and  cereals,  or  milk  and  toasts,  or  whole 
wheat  bread  and  light  green  salads. 


MAY 

Farina 

Cream  of  Wheat 

An  occasional  shredded  wheat  bis- 
cuit 

Puffed  rice 

Boiled  rice 

Baked  potato 

Stewed  macaroni 

Spinach 

Green    peas,    pressed    through    a 
sieve 

Very  young  string  beans 

Boiled    cucumber,    with    cream 
sauce 

Boiled  squash,  with  sauce  Hollan- 
daise 

CauHflower 

Kohl-rabi,  with  cream  sauce 

Artichokes 

Fruits  cooked  and  raw 

Junket  once  or  twice  a  week 

White  meat  of  chicken 

Eggs 


EAT 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Lentils  in  puree 

Old  or   split  peas  in  pudding  or 

puree 
Very  tender  celery 
Hearts     of     lettuce ;     corn     salad 

(Valerianella     olitoria,     Poll.); 

imported  endive  ;  native  endive ; 

chicory;  all  with  French  dress- 
ing 
Desserts : 

Fruit  tapiocas 

Tapioca  with  fruit  juices 

Sago 

Rice  pudding 

Cup  custard 

Soft  custard 

Mock  charlotte 

Blancmange 
Gelatin  desserts: 

Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 

Any  of  the  various  nut  prepara- 
tions in  small  quantities 


MRS.  RORER's  diet   FOR   THE   SICK                           163 

AVOID 

Pork  and  veal  All    underground    vegetables,    ex- 
All  red  meats  cept  carrots  and  potatoes 
Oatmeal  All  fried  foods 
Cornmeal  All  made  dishes 
Barley  Sweets 

Baked  beans  Strong  tea,  coffee,  chocolate 

All  sea  foods  Tomatoes 


EXOPHTHALMIC  GOITER 

Milk  and  milk  foods  are  to  be  preferred,  if  they  agree 
with  the  patient ;  if  they  do  not,  select  such  easily-digested 
foods  as  cream  soups,  with  dry  bread ;  sweetbreads,  broiled, 
stewed,  and  creamed;  now  and  then  a  piece  of  white  meat 
of  chicken,  broiled  or  roasted;  eggs,  cooked  in  any  light 
way,  or  raw  with  milk;  light  topground  vegetables,  care- 
fully cooked  and  served  without  rich  sauces ;  an  occasional 
baked  potato;  boiled  rice;  unleavened  bread,  whole  wheat 
bread,  crisp  corn  bread ;  fruits,  raw,  and  stewed  without 
sugar;  steamed  figs  and  dates,  all  thoroughly  masticated. 


AVOID 

All  highly-seasoned  foods  Beef 

All    rich    meats    and    stimulating  Pickles 

meat  soups  Dishes  containing  sugar 

Tea  Onions 

Coffee  Garlic 

Pork  Chives 

Veal  All  coarse  vegetables 

Duck  Soft  foods,  as  mushes 

Goose  Cooked  fats  of  every  kind 


164  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

LOCOMOTOR  ATAXIA 

This  disease  calls  for  a  generous,  simple,  nutritious 
diet  rich  in  fatty  matter.  Patients  should  drink  two  and 
a  half  quarts  of  plain  cool,  not  iced,  water  each  day.  If 
ordinary  water  is  objected  to,  buy  some  non-effervescing 
bottled  water;  a  patient  will  frequently  take  a  water  that 
comes  from  a  drug  store,  even  if  it  has  no  special  medicinal 
value,  rather  than  drink  water  from  an  ordinary  spigot. 
Digestion  must  be  kept  in  good  condition.  Sometimes  it 
becomes  necessary  to  give  small  quantities  of  food,  divided 
into  four  or  five  meals  a  day.  The  diet  must  be  especially 
non-stimulating. 

Before  breakfast  give  the  patient  two  or  three  ounces 
of  orange  juice,  or  an  after-dinner  cup  of  black  coffee,  or 
an  after-dinner  cup  of  grape  juice,  or  half  of  a  grape  fruit. 

MAY  EAT 

Breakfasts — Poached  eggs  on  bacon ;  boiled  eggs,  with 
well-buttered  bread ;  broiled  bacon  with  whole  wheat 
bread;  wheat  germ  cereal,  well  cooked,  with  cream;  farina 
and  cream;  Cream  of  Wheat,  with  cream;  two  broiled 
chops,  with  one  corn  gem;  broiled  young  chicken,  with 
pulled  bread. 

Dinners — Puree  of  lentils,  baked  potato  and  well-but- 
tered bread,  followed  by  cup  custard;  boiled,  baked  or 
broiled  mutton  or  lamb ;  stewed  chicken ;  plain  omelets ; 
omelets  garnished  with  oysters,  peas,  or  with  tomato  sauce ; 
nut  roll ;  beef  cakes,  broiled ;  baked  potatoes ;  boiled  rice ; 
spaghetti  stewed  in  stock;  cucumbers  or  squash,  stuffed 
with  meat ;  young  green  peas ;  young  tender  lima  beans ; 
artichokes ;  very  young  carrots,  spinach,  cauliflower,  cress, 
lettuce,  tender  celery ;  fresh  fruits. 

Suppers — Bread  and  milk ;  toasted  rusk  and  milk ;  eggs 
and  milk,  with  pulled  bread;  cream  soups  and  bread;  broth 
with  rice  or  barley ;  cereals ;  milk  toast ;  milk  preparations ; 
buttermilk,  brown  bread ;  leban,  a  little  honey  and  toast. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  165 

EPILEPSY 

It  is  generally  conceded  by  all  physicians  and  dietitians 
that  diet  plays  a  most  important  part  in  the  alleviation 
and  cure  of  this  disease.  It  has  been  observed  that  epileptic 
attacks  in  childhood  almost  invariably  follow  a  heavy  meal 
of  indigestible  or  over-stimulating  highly-seasoned  foods. 
A  purely  vegetable  diet  will  frequently  cure  epilepsy.  Sub- 
stitute milk,  carefully-made  nut  dishes,  old  peas,  beans  and 
lentils,  for  meats.  All  leguminous  seeds  are  rich  in  nitro- 
gen, but  must  be  carefully  cooked  to  be  digestible. 

In  feeding  an  epileptic,  first  consider  the  digestibility 
of  the  food,  next  the  correct  amount  for  the  individual. 
There  must  be  just  enough  to  nourish  the  body,  but  not  an 
ounce  too  much.  Overfeeding  will  nearly  always  produce 
an  attack.  There  must  be  no  eating  between  meals.  If 
light  meat,  as  white  meat  of  chicken  or  lamb,  is  served  at 
a  meal,  that  meal  must  be  free  from  milk;  and  this  diet 
must  be  continued  or  kept  up  perhaps  during  the  indi- 
vidual's life. 

MAY    EAT 

Broiled,  baked  or  roasted  lamb  Grated  carrots,   cooked   in  water, 
Chicken  cream  and  salt  added,  as  a  puree 

Broiled  white-fleshed  fish  Lettuce 

Hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg  on  milk  Cress 

toast  Endive 

Milk  and  milk  preparations  Fresh  fruits,  with  the  exception  of 
Dishes  made  from  old  peas,  beans  pears  and  cantaloupes 

and  lentils  Prunes,  prune  dishes 

Baked  and  boiled  potatoes  Well-cooked  cereals 

Boiled  rice  Tapioca  and  fruit 

Macaroni    or   spaghetti  Tapioca  custards 

Boiled  chestnuts  in  season  Whole  wheat  bread 

New  green  peas  Stale  bread 

New  green  corn,  pressed  from  cob  Crackers 

Stewed  squash  Wafers 

Stewed  pumpkin  Toast,  milk  toast 

Spinach  Toasted  rusks  and  milk 

Cauliflower  Mush  bread 

Celery  Corn  bread  occasionally 


166  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

These  dishes  may  be  arranged  after  this  fashion :  oat- 
meal mush  and  milk  for  breakfast ;  a  piece  of  whole  wheat 
bread,  well  buttered.  Dinner:  a  little  roasted  or  boiled 
lamb  or  mutton,  carefully-cooked  spinach,  a  baked  potato, 
followed  by  fruit  tapioca,  rice  pudding,  or  some  dessert 
without  milk  or  eggs.  Supper:  milk  toast,  fresh  fruits, 
with  bread  and  butter,  or  mush  and  milk,  or  bread  and 
milk,  and  now  and  then  a  broiled  or  panned  tomato  with 
cream  sauce  and  a  bit  of  corn  bread.  Meat  must  never 
be  given  more  than  two  or  three  times  a  week.  As  fish 
comes  in  fresh  on  Thursday  for  Friday,  a  piece  of  broiled 
fish  on  Friday  gives  variety. 


ERYSIPELAS 

The  intense  inflammation  of  the  skin  in  this  disease 
indicates  a  diet  free  from  the  proteids  of  meat. 

The  writer  has  had  success  with  a  simple  diet  of  milk 
gruels,  infants'  foods,  with  eggs,  milk,  nut  milks,  milk  and 
vichy  water.  This  diet  changes,  when  the  patient  is  con- 
valescing, to  carefully-cooked  farina,  Cream  of  Wheat, 
well-baked  whole  wheat  bread,  milk  toast,  egg  toast, 
coddled  eggs,  cup  custards,  junket,  koumys,  leban,  matzoon ; 
followed  later  by  a  broiled  chop,  a  broiled  chicken,  baked 
potato,  carefully-boiled  rice,  whole  wheat  bread,  fruits, 
spinach,  cress  or  lettuce.  Do  not  allow  the  patient  to 
return  too  quickly  to  a  meat  diet;  he  must  also  avoid  all 
fried  foods,  coarse  vegetables,  pies,  puddings,  rich  sauces, 
liquors,  both  malt  and  alcoholic,  strong  cofifee,  tea  and 
chocolate,  and  meat  soups,  in  fact  all  soups  at  the  beginning 
of  meals ;  fruits  stewed  with  sugar,  cookies,  cakes,  candies, 
and  pickles. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  167 


INSOMNIA 

A  heavy  meal  at  night,  a  cup  of  strong  tea  or  chocolate, 
are  frequently  responsible  for  a  sleepless  night. 

If  sleeplessness  has  become  a  habit,  put  the  patient 
on  a  regular,  easily-digested  diet,  and  give  rest  until  the 
conditions  are  relieved.  Give  a  glass  of  hot  water  the  first 
thing  in  the  morning;  breakfast  in  bed,  composed  of  cereal 
with  cream  or  milk,  and  rest  for  an  hour  if  possible.  After 
the  bath,  give  a  glass  of  buttermilk,  or  zoolak,  or  plain  milk. 
For  dinner  at  noon,  give  boiled,  baked  or  broiled  beef, 
mutton  or  chicken,  a  baked  potato  or  rice,  one  green  vege- 
table, simply  cooked,  as  spinach,  cauliflower,  asparagus  or 
tender  celery ;  a  lettuce  or  endive  salad  with  French  dress- 
ing; no  dessert.  Supper  at  six;  milk  toast.  Cream  of 
Wheat,  gluten  mush  and  milk,  well-made  cornmeal  mush, 
egg  dishes  and  a  little  bread  only.  If  the  patient  is  anaemic, 
or  what  people  call  "run  down,"  give  two  raw  eggs  between 
breakfast  and  dinner,  or  one  egg  beaten  with  a  half  pint 
of  milk,  and  another  between  dinner  and  supper.  If  eggs 
and  milk  become  tiresome,  give  buttermilk,  koumys,  zoolak, 
junket  or  any  of  the  milk  gruels.  Give  a  cup  of  hot  milk  at 
bedtime. 


168  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


ADDISON'S  DISEASE 

In  the  early  stages  of  the  disease  there  is  always  a 
decided  weakness  of  the  entire  digestive  system.  As  the 
disease  advances,  vomiting  frequently  becomes  rather 
dangerous,  and  requires  first  attention.  Clam  broth,  made 
from  fresh  clams,  given  in  teaspoonful  doses,  will  almost 
always  allay  the  vomiting;  it  seems  to  be  able  to  draw  the 
digestive  secretions  into  the  stomach  more  readily  than 
other  foods.  If  the  vomiting  stops,  give  the  patient  a 
small  amount  of  predigested  milk,  or  milk  and  barley 
water.  It  is  wise  to  use  a  straw  or  glass  tube  for  feeding 
or  give  it  by  teaspoonfuls.  Well-flavored  mutton  tea  and 
mutton  broth,  egg  soups,  egg  flip,  are  frequently  easily 
borne.  The  patient  should  be  fed  every  two  hours,  but 
should  not  be  urged  to  take  more  than  is  agreeable.  Over- 
feeding in  this  disease  is  always  productive  of  bad  results. 

The  following  list  may  be  arranged  in  two-hour  feedings 

Milk   and   rice   water,    in   proper-      Beef  broth  strained  into  a  table- 

tions    of    two-thirds    milk  and          spoonful   of   mashed   baked  po- 

one-third  rice  water  tato 

Milk  and  arrowroot  water  gruel        Rennet  milk 

Milk  and  barley  water  Junket 

Almond  milk  Leban 

Egg  flip  Matzoon 

Milk  shake  Koumys 

Yolk  of  egg  and  milk  Modified  milk 

Milk  flavored  with  cinnamon  "Ye  perfect  food" 

Oatmeal  gruel  added  to  milk  Soup  a  la  Royal 

Tiger's  milk  Bartholow's    restorative    soup 

Wine  whey  '            Eggnog 

Strained  mutton  broth  Peptonized  milk 


Then  follow  with  cream  soups,  with  croutons,  or  a  scraped 
beef  cake,  or  a  tender  broiled  chop ;  and  go  gradually  on 
to  an  easily-digested,  normal  diet,  free  from  sweets,  sours, 
or  grease. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK  169 

DIET  AFTER  AN  ANESTHETIC 

If  vomiting  occurs  after  administration  of  ether  or 
chloroform,  do  not  give  food  for  several  hours.  A  table- 
spoonful  of  clam  broth,  given  in  teaspoonful  doses,  will 
probably  be  retained  and  give  a  foundation  for  a  little  food 
later  on.  A  few  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee,  in  teaspoonful 
doses,  is  frequently  beneficial.  Then  give  a  cup  of  chicken 
broth;  almond  milk;  milk  and"  barley  water;  alternating 
with  Meiggs'  food  or  modified  milk,  for  the  next  two  or 
three  days.  Then,  under  ordinary  circumstances,  the 
patient  may  have  milk  toast,  a  poached  egg,  a  beef  cake, 
or  broiled  chop.  If  vomiting  continues,  however,  stop  all 
foods  except  small  quantities  of  albumin  water,  modified 
milk  and  clam  broth.  The  patient  usually  has  enough 
irregularities  to  contend  with  without  added  indigestion. 


PART  II 

RECIPES 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR    THE   SICK  173 


PROPRIETARY  FOODS 

Under  this  heading  the  writer  has  placed  prepared 
foods  that  are  manufactured,  the  secret  of  which  is  sup- 
posed to  be  patented.  Some  of  them  contain  a  large 
amount  of  nourishment  in  small  bulk.  Some  are  prepara- 
tions of  beef,  others  the  casein  of  milk,  gluten,  and  easily- 
digested  forms  of  starch.  Whether  or  not  these  foods  are 
beneficial  will  be  decided  by  your  physician  or  nurse. 

All  the  foods  mentioned  under  this  heading,  or  in  the 
book,  have  been  used  by  the  writer,  and  can  be  depended 
upon  as  correct. 

The  Kellogg  Food  Company,  of  Battle  Creek,  Mich- 
igan, make  an  eighty  percent  gluten  biscuit  and  gluten 
flour,  both  of  which  have  but  a  trace  of  starch  and  are 
perfectly  safe  to  use  in  diabetic  feeding. 

Their  sterilized  wheat  bran  is  clean  and  ready  to  use 
for  the  diabetic  bran  loaf,  or  to  add  to  ordinary  whole  wheat 
or  white  flour  for  laxative  bread.  This  same  company  also 
makes  Granola,  Granose  Flakes,  Whole  Wheat,  Toasted 
Corn  and  Rye  Flakes.  Gelose,  a  vegetable  gelatin,  Nut 
Mixtures,  Almond  Meal,  Cocoanut  Sticks  and  some  pure 
starch  preparations.  The  writer  has  used  these  prepara- 
tions for  a  number  of  years,  and  found  them  satisfactory, 
well  prepared  and  clean. 

Maltose,  a  predigested  food,  represents  thoroughly- 
digested  starch  of  cereals.  It  may  be  used  in  the  place  of 
cornstarch  or  rice  flour.  The  flavor  is  agreeable,  and  it  is 
considered  a  fat-forming  food  par  excellence,  and  in  gastric 
or  other  stomach  trouble,  with  milk,  it  gives  a  well-pre- 
pared and  palatable  diet. 

Gluten  Flour — Gluten  flour  and  similar  products  sold 
under  the  name  of  "diabetic  foods,"  are  frequently  rich  in 
starch,  the  very  substance  we  are  trying  to  get  rid  of  in 
diabetic  feeding.     Some  gluten  flours  sold  in  the  markets 


174  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

of  the  United  States,  advertised  as  "pure  gluten,"  contain 
as  much  as  forty  percent,  starch,  and  not  more  than  thirty- 
five  percent,  protein.  They  are  really  poor  ordinary  bread 
flours. 

Quoting  from  an  article  in  the  Journal  of  the  American 
Medical  Association,  March  22,  1913,  will  show  how  the 
medical  profession  feel  towards  these  preparations: 

"Gluten  flours  are,  as  a  rule,  prescribed  only  for 
diabetics  to  whom  the  starch  content  is  of  the  utmost  im- 
portance. A  physician  tells  his  patient  to  use  a  gluten 
flour  not  because  that  product  is  rich  in  protein  but  because 
it  is  (supposedly)  poor  in  carbohydrates.  The  great 
majority  of  so-called  gluten  flours  and  gluten  foods  sold  in 
this  country  contain  dangerously  high  percentages  of  carbo- 
hydrates, and  the  manufacturers  do  their  best  to  keep  both 
physician  and  patient  in  ignorance  of  this  fact.  In  the  case 
of  gluten  flours  of  legal  standard,  the  protein  content  is 
emphasized  and  made  the  main  selling  point.  The  subject 
of  starch  content  is  studiously  avoided,  and  it  becomes 
necessary  to  write  letters  to  the  manufacturers  specifically 
asking  for  the  carbohydrate  content  of  their  products, 
which  may  then  be  grudgingly,  and  not  always  truthfully, 
given." 

Again,  Doctor  Janeway  writes :  "From  my  experience, 
I  say  without  hesitation,  that  'gluten  bread'  is  the  diabetic's 
worst  enemy.  Taught  by  the  dealer,  or  worse  yet,  by  the 
physician,  not  only  that  it  is  safe  for  him  to  eat,  but  some- 
times even  that  it  is  actually  a  cure  for  the  disease,  he  eats 
it  in  large  quantities     *  .  *     *." 

Henry  Heide,  New  York,  makes  an  almond  paste,  12.7 
percent,  protein,  47.7  percent,  nitrogen  free  extract  and 
ahre,  20.0  fat,  ether  extract,  and  only  a  trace  of  starch.  It 
can  be  purchased  in  one  and  five  pound  tins  at  any  first- 
class  grocery.  Recipes  for  the  use  of  almond  paste  will  be 
found  in  Part  Second  of  this  book. 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  175 

Aleuronat — Aleuronat  is  the  gluten  flour  made  from 
the  aleuron  layer  of  the  wheat  kernel.  According  to  recent 
analysis,  it  is  starch  free,  and  contains  eighty  percent,  of 
digestible  proteids.  It  is  made  in  Germany,  sold  by  Lehn 
&  Fink,  wholesale  druggists.  New  York.  Recipes  for  the 
use  of  aleuronat  will  be  found  in  Part  Second. 

Aleuronat  zweiback,  R.  Hundhausen  and  Hamm, 
contains  sixty-six  percent,  protein  matter,  and  not  a  trace 
of  starch.  Even  their  *'low  gluten  zweiback"  does  not  con- 
tain starch. 

The  American  Dehydrating  Company,  Waukesha, 
Wisconsin,  dehydrates  certain  fruits  and  vegetables,  which 
makes  them  entirely  different  from  ordinary  dried  fruits. 
In  out-of-town  places,  and  the  far  West,  these  are  most 
valuable  in  diet  for  the  sick.  The  fruits  and  vegetables 
are  dried  so  rapidly  that  the  cell  structures  are  not 
destroyed.  When  soaked  in  water  and  carefully  cooked, 
they  have  the  flavor  of  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables,  which 
makes  them  far  more  appetizing  than  the  ordinary  dried 
fruits  purchased  in  the  market.  An  excellent  point  is  that 
these  goods  are  put  into  small  tin  cans  in  the  room  in  which 
they  are  dehydrated.  Dirt  and  air  cannot  penetrate,  and 
they  are  absolutely  clean. 

Akoll  Biscuits,  Huntley  &  Palmer,  London,  contain, 
according  to  recent  analysis,  fifty-four  percent,  protein 
and  not  a  trace  of  starch.  It  seems  to  me,  with  these 
various  preparations  that  are  easily  obtained  in  our  market, 
the  question  of  bread  for  the  diabetic  patient  is  settled. 

Roman  Meal — Made  by  the  Roman  Meal  Company, 
Duluth,  Minnesota,  is  an  excellent  cure  for  chronic  consti- 
pation. Use  ordinary  recipes  for  muflins,  gems,  bannocks, 
substituting  Roman  meal  for  one-half  the  quantity  of  flour. 

Saccharin — I  mention  saccharin  simply  to  condemn  it. 
If  diabetic  patients  cannot  give  up  sugar  and  starch,  they 
alone  are  responsible  for  the  consequences.  The  nurse 
and  physician  should  fix  in  the  mind  of  the  patient  that  his 


176  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

life  depends  on  a  restricted  diet,  and  that  a  cure  needs  his 
cooperation.  Saccharin,  even  in  small  quantities,  has  in 
my  hands,  sooner  or  later,  provoked  digestive  troubles,  and 
these  troubles  have  caused  as  much  anxiety  as  the  first 
disease.  Sugar  has  a  high  food  value;  saccharin  has  no 
food  value.  It  in  no  way  takes  the  place  of  sugar,  nor  is 
it  condensed  sugar.  , 

Roborat — A  vegetable  protein  manufactured  from  hard 
corn,  hard  vv^heat  and  unpolished  rice.  It  makes  a  fine 
tasteless  flour  that  is  easily  soluble  in  cold  water.  This 
is  used  in  cases  of  rheumatism,  gout  and  Bright's  disease. 
It  does  not,  in  the  process  of  digestion,  increase  the  excre- 
tion of  uric  acids. 

Somatose  is  a  predigested  meat ;  it  is  highly  nutritious 
and  is  usually  well  borne  in  gastric  disturbances. 

Beef  Meal  is  meat  partly  digested  by  a  ferment  ob- 
tained from  the  pineapple  {hromelin).  According  to  the 
analysis  of  Chittenden,  it  contains  seventy-seven  percent, 
of  protein,  thirteen  of  fat.  The  proteins  are  chiefly  in  the 
form  of  albumoses  and  peptones.  The  preparation  is  usually 
added  to  hot  milk,  or  beef  tea,  or  water,  or  in  some  cases, 
to  cocoa.  I  find  it  acceptable  to  most  patients  when  added 
to  broth.    To  milk  and  cocoa  it  is  frequently  objectionable. 

Dried  Nuttrose — A  prepared  casein  of  milk,  sold  in  the 
ordinary  drug  shops. 

Soy  Flour — The  Health  Food  Company,  of  New  York, 
n  ke  a  soy  flour  that  contains  but  a  trace  of  starch.  I"  may 
De  mide  into  mush  or  gems  for  diabetic  patients.  Recipes 
for  its  use  will  be  found  in  Part  Second  of  this  book. 

Dried  Egg  Albumin  may  be  purchased  at  any  drug 
store,  but  it  is  easily  made  at  home.  Put  the  whites  of 
three  or  four  eggs  on  a  meat  plate,  in  front  of  an  open  oven 
door.  Watch  carefully,  and  as  soon  as  the  water  evap- 
orates, take  the  crisp  albumin  from  the  plate,  make  sure 
it  is  perfectly  dry,  and  put  it  into  jars  or  bottles  to  keep. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK  177 

This  has  high  food  value,  and  may  be  added,  just  as  it  is, 
to  beef  tea,  or  chicken  broth,  or  to  milk  or  whey,  about  a 
level  tablespoonful  to  a  pint. 

Fairchild  Brothers  arid  Foster,  of  New  York,  make 
several  excellent  predigested  foods,  and  material  for  the 
peptonizing  process.  Recipes  and  directions  for  their  use 
will  be  found  in  Part  Second  of  this  book. 

Eskay's  Food,  made  by  the  Smith,  Kline  and  French 
Company,  of  Philadelphia,  is  an  admirable  food  for  young 
children  and  invalids. 

We  have  a  large  number  of  other  proprietary  foods 
intended  as  substitutes  for  milk  for  infants  and  invalids, 
which  are  out  of  the  province  of  this  book.  Under  Infant 
Feeding  we  have  given  foods  with  which  we  have  been 
successful.  If  other  foods  are  used,  the  responsibility  must 
be  taken  by  a  physician.  Many  of  the  so-called  infant  foods 
are  very  unlike  mothers'  milk ;  they  contain  too  little  fat 
and  a  large  percentage  of  carbohydrates;  and  I  am  suffi- 
ciently old-fashioned  to  believe  that  the  test  tube  analysis 
is  not  always  a  perfect  and  final  guide  to  either  a  correct 
diet  or  the  quantity  to  be  given  at  a  feeding.  The  digestive 
tract  in  different  individuals  varies  so  greatly  that  the 
digestibility  and  adaptability  of  food  for  each  infant  is  an 
all-important  question. 


12 


178  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

MEASUREMENTS 

A  measuring  cup  holds  a  half  pint,  and  can  be  pur- 
chased at  any  housefurnishing  store  for  ten  cents.  It  is  the 
standard  measure  for  all  recipes  in  this  and  other  United 
States  cook  books. 

All  measurements  in  this  book  are  level. 

One  cupful==:a  half  pint 

One  gill  (half  a  cupful)r=a  quarter  of  a  pint 

One  level  tablespoonful  of  flour=:a  quarter  of  an   ounce 

One  level  tablespoonful  of  sugar=a  half  ounce 

One  level  tablespoonful  of  butter=ra  half  ounce 

One  tablespoonful  of  ordinary  liquids=a  half  ounce 

One  saltspoonful=a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 

One  teaspoonful=:a  quarter  of  a  tablespoonful 

Two  teaspoonfuls=one    dessertspoonful 

One  dessertspoonful=a   half   tablespoonful 

One  teaspoonful=a  fluid  dram 

Sixteen  ounces  avoirdupois  or  commercial  weight=one  pound 


DIGESTIBILITY  OF  FOODS 

Time  of 
Articles  of  Diet  How  Cooked  Chymification 

H.M. 

Pigs'  Feet  (soused)    Boiled    i     oo 

Sweetbreads    Stewed  or  Broiled  i     oo 

Tripe    Boiled  i     oo 

Rice    Boiled— plain    i    oo 

Eggs,  whole Raw   2    00 

Eggs  (whipped)  Raw   i     30 

Eggs   Coddled   i     30 

Rice    ; Boiled  with  milk  i     30 

Salmon  Trout Boiled    i     30 

Venison   Steak    Broiled i     30 

Brains    Boiled    i     45 

Ox  Liver   Broiled    2    00 

Cod  fish  (cured  dry)    Boiled    2     15 

Turkey   Boiled    2    25 

Gelatin    Boiled    ?     30 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK  179 

DIGESTIBILITY  OF  FOODS— Continued 

Time  of 
Articles  of  Diet  How  Cooked  Chymification 

H.AI. 

Goose    Roasted  2  30 

Pig    (sucking)    Roasted  2  30 

Lamb   Broiled    2  30 

Cabbage    Raw    2  30 

Chicken   Fricasseed    2  45 

Beef    Boiled    2  45 

Beef    Roasted     3  00 

Bacon Broiled    3  00 

Mutton   Boiled    3  00 

Corn  Bread   Baked    3  15 

Mutton   Roasted  3  15 

Sausage    Broiled    3  20 

Oysters    Stewed    3  20 

Irish  Potatoes  Boiled    3  30 

Cheese   Raw   3  30 

Turnips   Boiled    3  30 

Eggs    Hard  Boiled 3  30 

Eggs    Fried    3  30 

Beets    Boiled    3  45 

Fowls  Boiled    3  45 

Salmon   (salted)    Broiled    4  00 

Beef    pried    4  00 

Fowls Roasted    4  00 

Ducks    Roasted    4  00 

Veal    Boiled    4  00 

Veal    Roasted    4  30 

Cabbage    Boiled    4  30 

Pork    Roasted  5  15 

Tendon    Boiled 5  30 


180 


METHODS  OF  COOKERY 

ROASTING — Roasting  means  to  expose  one  side  of  an 
article  to  an  intense  heat,  and  the  other  to  the  air.  Our 
grandmothers  roasted  beef  on  a  spit,  which  turned  con- 
stantly before  a  hot  fire.  In  these  days  we  call  baking 
"roasting;"  the  two,  however,  are  widely  different. 

BROILING — Broiling  is  precisely  the  same  as  roast- 
ing. One  side  is  exposed  to  the  fire,  the  other  to  the  air. 
This  produces  a  sweet  flavor  not  attainable  in  an  oven. 

BAKING — This  is  a  common  method  of  cooking  in 
the  oven.  Meat,  potatoes,  apples,  pies,  breads,  cakes,  are 
all  baked. 

For  meats,  the  oven  must  at  first  be  very  hot,  to  coag- 
ulate the  juices  on  the  outside,  and  to  prevent  the  escape 
of  those  within.  The  first  half  hour  the  heat  must  be  ex- 
treme, then  cool  and  cook  at  a  lower  temperature,  fifteen 
minutes  to  each  pound,  basting  every  ten  minutes  with  the 
fat  in  the  pan.    Do  not  add  water. 

BOILING — To  boil  an  article,  it  must  be  immersed 
in  boiling  water. 

Green  vegetables  should  be  put  over  the  fire  in  boiling 
salted  water. 

Underground  vegetables  and  rice  should  be  boiled  in 
unsalted  water,  and  salted  after  they  are  cooked. 

To  boil  meat,  plunge  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  boil 
twenty  minutes,  until  the  juices  are  coagulated  on  the  out- 
side, cool  the  water  to  i8o°  Fahr.  and  continue  the  cooking, 
fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound  of  meat ;  ten  minutes,  if  the 
piece  is  small.  Add  salt  when  the  meat  is  partly  done. 
Boiled  meats  are  more  easily  digested  than  meats  baked  or 
roasted,  but  are  not  so  tasty,  as  they  lack  the  scorched  taste 
created  by  the  intense  heat.  Meat,  if  properly  boiled,  will 
be  rare  and  juicy. 

STEWING — This  name  is  given  to  dishes  composed 
of  small  pieces  of  meat  cooked  or  steeped  in  a  rich  sauce 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  181 

until  tender.  The  pieces  are  usually  browned  in  fat,  which 
makes  them  less  digestible  than  broiled  or  boiled  meats. 
Stews  really  have  very  little  place  in  diet  for  the  sick. 

WARMING  OVER— The  second  cooking  of  meats 
toughens  the  fibre  and  hardens  the  albumin,  which  makes 
them  rather  difficult  of  digestion. 

Hash,  as  usually  made  and  served,  is  an  abomination. 
Even  a  healthy  person,  with  good  digestion,  will  carry  his 
breakfast  hash,  undigested,  until  nearly  noonday.  Some 
meats,  however,  must  be  cooked  before  they  are  finally 
dressed.  Sweetbreads  and  tripe  must  be  well  cooked  and 
put  aside,  and  dressed  at  serving  time.  They  are  not 
classed  with  warmed-over  meats.  Boudins,  cooked  over 
hot  water,  can  be  taken,  as  a  rule,  by  invalids,  children  or 
the  aged. 

FRYING — Immersing  in  hot  fat — has  no  place  in  diet 
for  the  sick. 

SAUTEING— This,  like  frying,  is  one  of  the  most  ob- 
jectionable ways  of  preparing  food,  and  has  no  place  in  diet 
for  the  sick. 

PLANKING— This  is  broiling  on  a  plank.  Fish, 
steak,  chickens,  may  be  planked  to  give  variety,  and  if  the 
plank  is  nicely  garnished,  they  are  the  most  sightly  of  the 
meat  dishes. 

STEAMING — To  steam  an  article,  put  it  in  a  steamer, 
stand  it  over  hot  water  and  keep  the  water  boiling  continu- 
ously until  the  article  is  cooked.  Potatoes,  rice,  cabbage, 
may  all  be  steamed,  and  are  frequently  better  than  when 
boiled. 

PAPER  BAG  COOKERY— This  is  simply  baking  in 
a  sealed  bag;  in  this  way  all  the  juices  and  flavorings  are 
retained,  and  the  articles  cooked  are  more  tasty.  Fish, 
chickens,  sweetbreads,  steak,  are  excellent  when  cooked  in 
a  bag.  Prunes  and  fresh  fruits  cooked  in  a  bag  retain 
their  flavor  and  color. 


182  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

BRAIZING — This  is  cooking  in  a  double  pan.  Tough 
meats  are  put  in  the  under  pan,  hot  water  added,  then  cov- 
ered with  the  upper  pan  or  lid,  and  cooked  in  the  oven  until 
tender.    A  sort  of  cross  between  a  boil  and  a  bake. 

CODDLING — Coddling  means  to  cook  in  boiling 
water  until  the  food  is  partly  done.  Coddled  eggs  are 
eggs  cooked  in  water  below  the  boiling  point;  the  white 
is  congealed,  but  not  hard.  Coddled  apples  are  soft,  but 
not  soft  enough  to  fall  apart. 

SOUPS 

The  first  and  most  important  point  in  making  good  soup 
is  to  use  the  best  of  materials. 

To  give  meat  soup  the  slightest  food  value,  we  must 
change  the  solid  meat  into  liquid  form.  To  do  this,  the  -fibre 
must  be  softened,  the  juices  and  blood  drawn  out,  and 
the  gelatin  which  exists  in  the  bone,  cartilage,  membranes 
and  skin,  and  the  mineral  matter,  dissolved.  Cold,  soft  water 
should  be  used.  Soft  water  is  best  because  it  softens  the 
fibre,  which  allows  the  juice  to  escape  more  easily.  The 
albumin  coagulates  at  a  low  temperature,  which  makes  it 
necessary  to  cook  the  soup  far  below  the  boiling  point. 

The  second  point,  the  utensils,  is  also  of  importance. 
The  juices  of  meat  are  acid,  and  if  soup  is  made  in  a  tin  or 
iron  kettle,  it  will  have  a  peculiar,  unpleasant  flavor,  which 
is  sure  to  be  detected  by  the  sick,  as  their  taste  is  always 
acute.  Use  an  ordinary  porcelain  lined  or  granite  kettle, 
with  a  close-fitting  lid,  and  for  straining,  a  granite  colander 
or  a  French  puree  sieve.  For  the  last  straining,  use  two 
thicknesses  of  cheese  cloth. 

To  prevent  too  great  evaporation,  and  to  keep  out  the 
odors  of  other  cooking  in  the  kitchen,  keep  the  kettle  covered 
from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  the  cooking. 

As  the  water  reaches  200°  Fahr.  you  will  notice  a 
fine,  fibrous  net  throughout  the  liquid ;  in  a  moment  it  comes 
to  the  surface.    This  is  the  albumin,  drawn  out  by  the  cold 


MRS.   RORER^S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK  183 

water  now  coagulating  under  the  influence  of  the  heat.  As 
it  comes  to  the  surface,  it  brings  with  it  any  floating  par- 
ticles that  may  be  in  the  water,  which  clarifies  or  clearsi 
the  soup.  Skim  this  off,  and  reduce  the  heat  of  the  water 
to  i8o°  Fahr. 

Rapid  boiling  clouds  soup. 

Cooking  at  too  low  a  temperature  spoils  the  flavor. 

Meat  soups  contain  a  very  small  amount  of  nourishment. 

A  perfectly  clear  soup  is  hot  nutritious;  it  contains 
only  the  soluble  mineral  matter  of  the  meat  and  the  flavor- 
ing. The  albumin  you  have  strained  out,  and  the  Hhre  has 
not  been  dissolved.  Beef  tea,  beef  essence  and  beef  soups 
are,  however,  valuable  adjuncts  to  diet  for  the  sick;  they 
give  flavor  to  other  materials,  and  are  stimulating. 

Soups  are  divided  into  three  classes :  perfectly  clear, 
stimulating  soups,  with  but  a  trace  of  nourishment;  clear 
soups  that  have  farinaceous  substances  added,  moderately 
nourishing;  and  nutritious  soups,  made  from  milk,  meat 
stock  and  vegetables,  or  from  milk  and  vegetable  substances 
alone. 

For  clear  beef  soup  and  broth,  a  portion  of  the  shin  is 
to  be  preferred ;  for  beef  tea,  beef  extract,  the  sticking  piece 
is  first  choice ;  the  lean  round  or  rump  second.  Meat  for 
soup  or  beef  tea  should  be  as  free  from  fat  as  possible ;  for 
broth,  beef  may  be  used  alone  or  in  combination  with  mut- 
ton, veal  or  chicken. 

A  true  consomme,  the  most  expensive  of  clear  soups, 
should  be  made  from  veal  and  beef,  and  to  give  it  an  especial 
flavor  for  the  sick,  add  the  carcase  of  a  roasted  chicken. 

Prolonged  soaking  in  cold  water  will  draw  out  the  juices 
and  flavoring  quite  equal  to  long  cooking. 

STOCK 

Purchase  a  shin  of  beef,  have  it  sawed  into  four  lengths, 
remove  the  meat  from  the  bone,  put  the  bones  into  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle,  the  meat  on  top,   cover  with   four 


184  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

quarts  of  cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point  and 
skim.  Push  the  kettle  to  the  back  of  the  stove,  or  put  it 
over  the  simmering  burner,  to  cook  for  three  hours.  Add 
one  onion  with  six  cloves  stuck  in  it,  one  bay  leaf,  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  crushed  celery  seed  or  a  few  celery  tops,  a 
carrot  cut  into  pieces,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash 
of  Tabasco  sauce.  Cook  slowly  one  hour  longer,  and  strain 
through  a  colander;  stand  aside  in  a  cold  place.  In  the 
morning  remove  every  particle  of  fat  from  the  surface.  The 
stock  should  now  form  a  perfectly  clear,  solid  jelly;  reheat 
the  jelly,  add  two  whites  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  boil 
rapidly  five  minutes  and  strain  through  two  thicknesses  of 
cheesecloth  wrung  from  cold  water.  Stand  aside  in  a  cold 
place,  and  use  as  wanted. 

This  may  be  served  perfectly  clear,  as  it  is,  cold  or  hot; 
or  nutritious  materials  may  be  added. 

SOUP  a  la  ROYAL 

One  Serving 

Beat  one  egg,  without  separating,  until  well  mixed ;  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  clear  stock,  pour  into  a  cup,  stand  the  cup 
in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  cook  until  the  custard  is  "set." 
Turn  it  out  of  the  cup,  cut  it  into  dice,  put  them  in  the  soup 
plate  or  bouillon  cup,  fill  the  cup  or  plate  with  hot  clear  soup, 
and  serve  at  once. 


CLEAR  SOUP  WITH  BREAD  BLOCKS 

One  Serving 

Cut  a  slice  of  bread  into  dice,  put  them  in  the  oven  to 
dry,  without  browning.  Beat  an  egg,  without  separating, 
add  the  bread  dice,  and  stir  until  each  piece  is  thoroughly 
covered  with  egg.  ,  Heat  one  cupful  of  clear  stock,  add  the 
bread  blocks,  boil  a  half  minute  and  serve. 


MRS.    RORER's  diet   FOR   THE   SICK  185 

PORTUGUESE  SOUP 
One  Serving 

Soak  six  prunes  in  a  half  cupful  of  cold  water  over 
night;  in  the  morning  add  half  a  pint  of  stock,  salt  and 
pepper;  bring  to  boiling  point  and  push  to  the  back  of  the 
stove  where  the  soup  will  be  hot,  but  not  boil,  for  at  least 
a  half  hour.  Press  through  a  sieve  and  serve  with  long 
fingers  of  toasted  bread. 

BEEF  TEA 

I  pound  of  chopped   lean  beef         i  whole   clove 

I  pint  of  water  Vi  teaspoonful  of  salt 

I  bay  leaf 

Put  the  meat  through  a  meat  grinder,  add  all  the  other 
ingredients,  and  stand  in  a  cold  place  for  at  least  two  hours, 
stirring  now  and  then.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  simmer 
gently  thirty  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Press  the  beef  well.  When  cold,  remove  every  particle  of 
fat. 

QUICK  BEEF  TEA 

Chop  or  grind  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  sticking  piece 
preferred;  add  one  pint  of  water  and  stir  constantly  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Stand  it  over  a  very  quick  fire,  bring  to 
boiling  point  and  simmer  gently  a  half  hour.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  pressing  the  meat  quite  dry.  Add 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Draw  a  piece  of  blotting  paper 
over  the  top  of  the  tea,  and  reheat  the  quantity  to  be  served. 

This  may  be  flavored  with  port  wine. 

SAVORY    BEEF    TEA 

Two  Servings 

H  pound  of  round  steak  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt 

A  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed  i  pint  of  water 

Broil  the  meat  quickly  over  a  very  hot  fire,  scorching, 
as  it  were,  the  outside;  do  this  quickly  so  as  to  have  the 


186  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

meat  very  rare.  Cut  it  into  tiny  pieces,  saving  all  the 
juice;  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  the  cold  water,  bring  to 
a  boil  and  skim;  add  the  celery  seed  and  salt,  and  simmer 
gently  one  hour.  Strain,  remove  the  fat,  and  it  is  ready 
to  use. 

NUTRITIVE    BEEF    TEA 

Grind  or  chop  fine  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  either  the 
round  or  the  sticking  piece ;  add  one  pint  of  water  and  stir 
continually  for  five  minutes ;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  crushed 
celery  seed  and  one  bay  leaf;  cover  and  stand  it  in  the 
refrigerator  or  in  a  very  cold  place,  over  night  if  possible ; 
if  not,  two  or  three  hours.  Stand  it  on  the  fire,  put  in  a 
thermometer  and  stir  the  mixture  until  it  reaches  140° 
Fahr.  Strain  through  a  coarse  sieve,  pressing  the  meat 
until  it  is  dry.  Return  the  **tea"  to  the  saucepan,  add  the 
white  of  an  egg,  slightly  beaten  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
water;  heat  to  130°  Fahr.  (just  an  instant),  until  the  white 
of  the  egg  comes  to  the  surface,  and  strain  through  two 
thicknesses  of  cheese  cloth  wrung  from  cold  water. 

If  properly  made,  this  will  be  a  brilliant  claret  color, 
and  will  contain  quite  a  considerable  amount  of  nourish- 
ment. Great  care  must  be  taken  after  adding  the  white  of 
egg  not  to  heat  the  mixture  over  130°  Fahr.  or  it  will  be 
muddy  and  unsightly. 

STIMULATING    BEEF    TEA 
Four  Servings 

Cover  two  pounds  of  chopped  lean  meat  with  a  pint  of 
cold  water,  stirring  constantly  for  five  minutes;  soak  for 
a  half  hour;  bring  to  boiling  point,  boil  rapidly  five  min- 
utes and  strain.  Add  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  boil 
again  and  strain  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth, 
put  at  once  into  a  glass  jar  and  stand  in  a  cold  place.  One 
or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  this  will  frequently  allay  vomiting; 
it  is  quite  stimulating,  and  may  be  used  in  place  of  either 
coffee  or  spirits.    A  little  celery  seed,  a  bay  leaf,  a  clove  or  a 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK  187 

blade  of  mace  may  be  added  at  different  times  to  change  the 
general  beef  flavor,  which  is  frequently  unpleasant  to  the 
sick.  By  alternating  these  four  flavors,  you  may  surprise 
the  patient  with  a  new  flavor  each  day;  for  instance,  one 
day,  add  a  clove  alone;  another,  the  bay  leaf;  another,  the 
blade  of  mace;  another,  the  celery  seed;  then  add  two 
flavorings,  at  another  time  three,  each  time  changing  the 
combination. 

RESTORATIVE    BEEF    TEA 

Three  Servings 

J^  pound  of  lean  beef,  chopped      3  drops  of  muriatic  acid 

fine  A  saltspoonful  of  salt 

6  ounces  of  water 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  and  stir  them  continuously 
for  five  minutes ;  stand  in  the  refrigerator  for  one  hour  and 
strain  through  a  very  fine  sieve,  pressing  all  the  juice  from 
the  meat.     Put  this  at  once  in  a  cold  place. 

If  it  is  to  be  given  warm,  heat  over  hot  water  to  130° 
Fahr.  If  the  raw  odor  and  taste  of  the  "tea"  is  objection- 
able add  a  saltspoonful  of  crushed  celery  seed  before  strain- 
ing.    The  odor  of  celery  is  usually  agreeable. 

BAKED    BEEF    TEA 

Three  Servings 

Put  one  pound  of  ground  lean  beef,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  cold  water,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  washed  rice,  into  a  covered  dish;  stand  the 
dish  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  and  bake  for  an  hour. 
Reduce  the  heat  and  continue  the  baking  for  three  hours; 
strain  and  press.  There  should  be  one  pint  of  beef  tea 
after  it  is  strained. 

This  is  valuable  where  a  restricted  diet  is  long  con- 
tinued, and  the  flavor  of  ordinary  beef  tea  or  soup  grows 
distasteful. 


188  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

BEEF   ESSENCE 

Put  a  half  pound  of  finely-chopped  lean  beef  in  an 
ordinary,  clean  fruit  jar;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
stand  the  jar  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water  or  in  a  steamer, 
bring  the  water  to  boiling  point  and  boil  continuously  for 
one  hour.  Strain  through  cheesecloth  and  add  a  grain  of 
salt. 

At  feeding  time,  put  a  tablespoonful  or  more,  as 
directed,  in  a  cup,  stand  the  cup  in  boiling  water  until  it 
is  palatably  hot.     Serve  cold  in  typhoid  fever. 

HOMEMADE    BEEF    EXTRACT 

Cut  one  pound  of  lean  beef  (sticking  piece  preferred) 
into  very  small  pieces,  throw  them  into  a  shallow  hot  pan 
and  shake  over  the  fire  until  they  are  thoroughly  seared; 
then  put  them  through  the  meat  grinder.  Put  this  in  a 
fruit  jar,  add  a  half  pint  of  cold  water,  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  crushed  celery  seed  and  a  dash  of 
black  pepper;  add  two  drops  of  dilute  muriatic  acid.  Cover 
the  jar,  stand  it  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  cover  the 
saucepan,  bring  to  a  boil  and  boil  continuously  for  two 
hours.  Strain,  pressing  the  meat  very  dry.  Put  the  extract 
aside  in  a  bottle  or  jar  in  a  cold  place.  Use  one  or  two 
tablespoonfuls  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water. 

BARTHOLOW'S   RESTORATIVE   SOUP 
FOR    INVALIDS 

"Grind  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  add  eight  fluid  ounces  of 
soft  or  distilled  water,  five  drops  of  pure  hydrochloric  acid 
and  thirty  grains  of  common  salt;  stir  constantly  for  five 
minutes  and  stand  aside  for  three  hours.  Then  throw  this 
on  a  sieve  and  let  it  run  through  with  slight  pressure;  on 
the  flesh  residue  in  the  sieve  pour  two  ounces  of  distilled 
water  and  let  it  run  through,  pressing  the  meat.  There 
should  be  obtained  from  this  operation  ten  fluid  ounces  of 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE    SICK  189 

cold  juice  of  a  red  color.  A  wineglassful,  or  one  gill,  should 
be  used  at  a  feeding. 

It  must  not  be  warmed,  at  least  not  to  a  greater  degree 
than  120°  Fahr.  Since  this  liquid  contains  a  considerable 
amount  of  albumin,  it  is  rendered  muddy  by  heat  or  alcohol. 

This  is  valuable  in  cases  of  continued  fever  or  dysen- 
tery, and  in  all  diseases  attended  with  great  prostration 
and  weakness  of  the  digestive  organs. 

Do  not  give  it  to  persons  who  have  too  free  secretion 
of  gastric  juice." 

BARTHOLOW'S  FOOD 

One   Serving 

"2  ounces   of  beef  tea  i    level    tablespoonful    of    gran- 

The  yolk  of  one  egg  ulated   tapioca 

2  ounces  of  milk 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  milk  in  a  cold  place  over  night, 
or  for  several  hours;  next  morning  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  the  tapioca  is  transparent  and  add  the  beef  tea.  Pour 
while-  hot  over  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  add  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  and  if  you  like,  a  little  celery  seed  or  celery  salt. 

This  is  exceedingly  nutritious  and  very  palatable.  It 
should  be  about  the  consistency  of  well-cooked  farina." 

BEEF   JUICE 

Broil  a  half  pound  of  round  steak,  searing  it  quickly 
on  both  sides.  The  steak  should  be  one  inch  thick,  and  the 
broiling  about  five  minutes.  Put  it  on  a  hot  plate,  cut  it 
into  bits,  and  with  a  lemon  squeezer,  squeeze  out  all  the 
juice  into  a  cup  that  has  been  heated  over  hot  water;  add 
a  grain  of  salt  and  serve  at  once. 

If  this  is  to  be  kept  warm,  stand  the  cup  in  a  pan  of 
warm  water;  be  careful,  however,  not  to  coagulate  the  juice. 


190  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

BEEF    PANADA 

Three    Servings 
I  pound  of  lean  beef  chopped         A  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed 
fine  I  slice  of  onion 

12  ounces  of  water  i  bay    leaf 

Yi  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Mix  the  water  and  beef,  and  soak  for  two  hours  in  a 
cold  place ;  then  add  all  the  seasoning,  stand  the  saucepan 
in  another  of  boiling  water  and  boil  continuously  for  two 
hours.  Strain  in  coarse  sieve,  rubbing  through  as  much 
of  the  meat  as  possible.  Serve  hot  with  toasted  bread.  Six 
ounces  of  this  furnish  a  full  meat  meal. 

BEEF  BROTH 
Four  Servings 
Purchase  a  half  pound  of  well-cracked  bones  and  a 
pound  of  lean  beef.  Chop  the  beef,  or  cut  it  fine,  sear  it 
well  in  a  hot  kettle,  add  the  bones  and  one  and  a  half 
quarts  of  cold  water;  bring  to  boiling  point  and  skim;  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  and  simmer  gently  two  hours ; 
add  one  bay  leaf  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt; 
simmer  gently  a  half  hour  longer,  and  strain. 

BEEF    BROTH    WITH    BARLEY 

Four  Servings 
Proceed  as  directed  for  beef  broth.     As  soon  as  the 
mixture  reaches  the  boiling  point  and  you  have  thoroughly 
skimmed  it,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pearled  barley ;  strain 
this  out  at  serving  time. 

BEEF    BROTH    WITH    SAGO 

Make  the  beef  broth  as  directed  in  the  first  recipe; 
strain  it ;  when  it  is  cold,  remove  every  particle  of  fat.  If 
the  quantity  for  a  single  feeding  is  to  be  four  ounces,  allow 
a  level  teaspoonful  of  sago.  Soak  the  sago  in  the  cold 
soup  for  a  half  hour,  bring  it  slowly  to  boiling  point,  and 
cook  until  the  sago  is  transparent ;  add  salt  and  serve. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  191 

It  must  be  remembered  that  all  finely-divided  starchy 
foods  are  not  easily  masticated  and  are  more  or  less  objec- 
tionable. Thoroughly  cook  the  sago,  and  instruct  the 
patient  to  masticate  it.  In  fever  cases,  it  is  wise  to  strain 
all  the  particles  of  starchy  foods  from  both  milk  and  broth. 

BOUILLON 

I  pound  of  lean  meat  Yi  teaspoonful  of  salt 
I  pint  of  water  I- bay  leaf 

The  white  of  one  ^%%  i  whole  clove 

I  teaspoonful  of  sugar  A  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed 

Put  the  sugar  into  a  saucepan  and  stand  it  over  a  strong 
fire  until  it  burns,  then  add  the  water  and  the  meat;  stir 
until  they  are  well  mixed,  add  the  seasonings,  simmer 
gently  for  one  hour,  and  strain.  Beat  the  white  of  the  ^^^ 
slightly,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  add  this  to  the 
bouillon,  boil  rapidly  five  minutes  and  strain  through  two 
thicknesses  of  cheesecloth. 

This  is  appetizing,  clear,  brilliant  and  slightly  stimu- 
lating, but  is  not  nutritious. 

DOUBLE    BOUILLON 

In  cases  of  fever  where  stimulants  of  other  kinds  can- 
not be  given,  double  bouillon  is  exceedingly  valuable. 

Cover  two  pounds  of  lean  meat,  finely  chopped,  with 
one  pint  of  cold  water,  stir  it  constantly  for  five  minutes 
and  stand  it  aside  to  soak  for  two  hours.  Put  it  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  allow  the  water  surrounding  the  boiler  to  boil 
continuously  for  three  hours ;  then  strain,  pressing  the 
meat.  Use  in  small  quantities,  from  one  to  two  ounces 
at  a  feeding. 

BOUILLON  JELLY 

Make  bouillon  according  to  the  preceding  recipe.  After 
it  has  been  clarified  and  is  slightly  cool,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  granulated  gelatin ;  soak  for  fifteen  minutes ;  stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved  and  stand  it  aside  for 
use.      Serve  cold  as  beef  jelly. 


192  MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK 

BOUILLON  a  la  COLBERT 

Put  one  poached  egg  in  the  bottom  of  a  bouillon  cup, 
pour  over  nicely-seasoned  hot  bouillon  and  serve. 

SEMI-SOLID    BEEF 

J4  pound  of  lean  beef  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt 

2  ounces  of  grated  fresh  pine-       A  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed 
apple 

Put  the  meat  twice  through  a  meat  chopper;  add  the 
grated  pineapple  and  stir  constantly  for  five  or  ten  min- 
utes; this  should  be  done  in  an  earthen  or  china  vessel. 
Stand  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  stir  until  the 
thermometer  registers  103°  Fahr.  Keep  it  at  this  tempera- 
ture for  at  least  two  hours,  agitating  every  fifteen  minutes. 
Add  the  salt  and  the  celery  seed,  crushed,  and  press  the 
contents  through  a  fine  sieve  and  heat  to  200°  Fahr.  Chill 
quickly  and  keep  in  a  cold  place.  To  serve,  put  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  this  mixture  in  a  cup,  and  fill  the  cup  with 
hot  water. 

BEEF    GRUEL 

Soak  two  tablespoonfuls  of  farina  in  one  pint  of  beef 
tea  in  a  cold  place  over  night.  Next  morning  bring  to  a 
boil,  simmer  gently  thirty  minutes,  strain,  season  with  salt, 
and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

BEEF    AND    OATS 

Three  Servings 

Moisten  one  level  tablespoonful  of  finely-ground  oats 
(groats)  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  add  one 
pint  of  freshly-made  beef  tea,  stir  and  boil  ten  minutes, 
strain  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth  and  stand 
aside  to  cool. 

DOUBLE    SOUP 

Cover  one  pound  of  chopped  beef  with  one  pint  of  cold 
water,  stir  until  the  meat  is  reduced  to  pulp,  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  granulated  tapioca  and  stand  the  mixture  in 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  193 

a  cold  place  for  one  hour.  Then  bring  slowly  to  a  boil, 
stirring  every  now  and  then ;  strain  through  cheesecloth. 
Reheat  the  soup  and  stir  into  it  a  half  pound  of  freshly- 
ground  raw  beef;  stir  constantly  until  it  reaches  boiling 
point,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  strain  through 
cheesecloth.  In  low  fever  cases  one  ounce  of  this  soup  is 
considered  a  feeding. 

CONSOMME 

Put  through  a  meat  chopper  one  pound  of  veal  and  one 
pound  of  beef.  Sprinkle  over  the  bottom  of  a  soup  kettle 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  when  this  burns  and  the  bottom 
of  the  kettle  is  quite  brown,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
chopped  onion,  shake  for  a  moment,  then  add  the  meat  and 
stir  over  a  very  hot  fire  until  the  meat  is  slightly  browned. 
Cover  the  kettle  and  push  it  to  the  back  of  the  fire  to  steep 
for  a  half  hour;  then  add  a  quart  of  cold  water,  bring  to  a 
boil  and  skim.  Simmer  gently  two  hours,  add  a  bay  leaf, 
a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and,  if  you  have  it,  a  little  celery ; 
simmer  one  hour  longer,  and  strain.  Beat  the  white  of 
an  egg  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  add  it  to 
the  consomme,  boil  five  minutes  and  strain  through  two 
thicknesses  of  cheesecloth  that  has  been  wrung  from 
cold  water,  and  stand  the  soup  aside  to  cool.  When  cold, 
remove  every  particle  of  fat.  This  should  be  a  brilliant 
amber  in  color,  and  of  an  exceedingly  good  flavor. 

ITALIAN  CONSOMME 

Chop  fine  two  ounces  of  raw  beef,  two  ounces  of  raw 
mutton,  and  the  dark  meat  of  one  chicken ;  take  the  meat 
from  the  chicken  bones,  cut  it  with  a  knife  until  it  is  fine, 
then  crack  the  bones,  put  all  these  in  a  small  granite  or 
porcelain  saucepan,  add  a  quart  of  cold  water,  bring  to  a 
boil  and  skim;  simmer  gently  one  and  a  half  hours;  then 
add  one  clove,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  little  celery  or  celery  seed ; 
simmer  a  half  hour  longer,  and  strain ;  when  cold,  remove 
the  fat. 

13 


194  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

This  soup  may  be  served  as  a  clear  soup ;  or  for  con- 
valescing patients  add  carefully-boiled  rice,  a  few  croiitons, 
or  a  little  well-cooked  spaghetti. 

MUTTON    BROTH 

Purchase  a  neck  of  mutton,  wash  it  and  cut  it  into 
small  bits,  put  it  in  a  granite  saucepan  with  a  quart  and 
a  pint  of  cold  water  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  washed  rice ; 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  skim ;  simmer  gently  for  three 
hours  and  strain ;  when  cold,  remove  the  fat. 

MUTTON  BROTH  WITH  ZWEIBACK 

Procure  a  neck  of  mutton,  cut  it  into  bits,  put  it  in  a 
kettle  with  two  quarts  of  cold  water;  bring  to  boiling  point 
and  skim;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful 
of  finely-chopped  mint ;  simmer  carefully  for  two  and  a 
half  hours;  then  add  one  slice  of  zweiback,  rolled;  simmer 
gently  thirty  minutes  longer,  strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

If  one  must  use  the  soup  as  soon  as  it  is  made,  remove 
the  grease  with  blotting  paper. 

MUTTON    TEA 

Purchase  a  pound  of  lean  mutton,  from  the  leg,  put  it 
twice  through  the  meat  chopper,  then  put  it  in  a  porcelain 
or  granite  kettle,  add  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  celery  seed ;  stir  rapidly  a  few  minutes  and  soak  in  a 
cool  place  for  two  hours.  Then  heat  quickly  to  i8o°  Fahr. 
Strain  and  press ;  add  the  white  of  an  egg  slightly  beaten, 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  strain  through  two  thicknesses 
of  cheesecloth.     When  cold,  remove  every  particle  of  fat. 

MUTTON    AND    OATMEAL    BROTH 

Put  a  half  pint  of  mutton  broth  in  a  saucepan  and  stir 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  rolled  oats ;  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
for  thirty  minutes ;  strain,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt, 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  195 

MUTTON    AND    CORNMEAL    BROTH 

Wash  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yellow  cornmeal  through 
several  cold  waters ;  at  the  last  washing  allow  the  corn- 
meal  to  settle  to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl  and  pour  off  the 
water.  Add  the  cornmeal  to  a  half  pint  of  mutton  broth, 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  thirty  minutes,  add  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  serve. 

This  is  exceedingly  good  for  chronic  constipation. 

VEAL  BROTH   I 

One  small  knuckle  of  veal,  covered  with  a  quart  and 
a  pint  of  cold  water ;  bring  to  boiling  point  and  skim,  then 
cover  and  simmer  gently  two  hours.  Strain  and  stand 
aside  until  perfectly  cold.  Remove  the  fat.  Heat  the 
desired  quantity  and  season  with  salt. 

VEAL   BROTH    II 

A  small  knuckle  of  veal,  about         2  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream 

i^   pounds  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt 

A  quart  and  a  pint  of  cold  water       A  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed 
A  slice  of  bread,  well  toasted 

Crush  the  celery  seed  with  the  salt.  Cover  the  knuckle 
with  the  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil  and  skim;  add  the 
salt  mixture  and  the  bread,  and  simmer  gently  for  two 
hours.  This  should  now  be  reduced  one  half.  Strain  and 
stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cold  this  will  form  a  perfectly 
clear  jelly.  At  serving  time  reheat  the  required  amount, 
add  the  cream  and  serve.     This  is  nutritious  and  palatable. 

VEAL    BROTH    WITH    EGG 

Make  the  veal  broth  according  to  preceding  recipe.  At 
serving  time  reheat  the  required  amount  and  pour  it,  while 
hot,  into  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  ^%%  and  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  cream. 

Where  bread  is  allowed,  serve  with  it  pulled  bread  or 
toasted  bread  fingers. 


196  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

BRAN    BROTH 

Wash  a  half  cupful  of  good  wheat  bran  through  sev- 
eral waters,  add  it  to  one  pint  of  veal  broth,  boil  for  twenty 
minutes,  strain,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt.     This  makes  two  portions. 

Chicken  or  mutton  broth  may  be  substituted  for  veal 
broth. 

CHICKEN    BROTH 

For  this  purchase  a  fowl  weighing  three  and  a 
half  pounds,  not  too  fat;  singe,  draw  it  carefully,  without 
breaking  the  intestines.  Remember  the  appetite  of  a  sick 
person  is  very  capricious,  and  the  slightest  disagreeable 
odor  or  flavor  will  not  only  spoil  the  appetite  for  chicken 
broth,  but  will  spoil  the  appetite  for  other  dishes.  After 
the  chicken  is  carefully  drawn,  wash  it  quickly  and  wipe  it. 
Be  careful  the  oil  bag  is  removed,  as  it  also  gives  a  dis- 
agreeable flavor.  Remove  the  legs  from  the  body  of  the 
chicken,  and  with  a  cleaver  or  large  knife  begin  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  leg  and  chop  it  quickly  all  the  way  up,  cracking 
the  bones  thoroughly.  Slash  the  meat  on  both  sides,  and 
put  it  with  the  back  in  the  bottom  of  the  soup  kettle ;  add 
two  quarts  of  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil  and  skim.  Put  the 
white  meat — the  two  breasts,  with  the  wings — on  top,  cover 
the  kettle  and  continue  simmering  until  the  white  meat  is 
tender,  then  remove  it  and  put  it  aside  for  soup  a  la  Reine, 
chicken  souffle,  or  German  chicken  puff.  Put  into  the 
kettle  with  the  dark  meat  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  crushed  celery  seed  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Cover  and  simmer  one  hour  longer,  then  strain  and 
stand  away  to  cool.  Remove  every  particle  of  fat  from  the 
surface,  and  the  broth  is  ready  to  use.  This  should  make 
one  quart,  enough  to  last  for  two  days.  Keep  covered  in 
a  cold  place. 

This  may  be  served  as  chicken  broth,  plain,  or  some 
of  the  broth  may  be  used  with  the  white  meat  for  soup 
a  la  Reine,  or  for  chicken  soup  with  rice. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK  197 

SOUP    a    la    REINE 

Yz  pint  of  chicken  broth  i  gill   of  milk 

2  ounces  of  the  white  meat  ^4  teaspoonful  of  salt 

I  tablespoonful  of  rice 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  cover  it  with 
boiling  water,  bring  to  boiling  point,  drain,  and  add 
the  chicken  broth.  Grind  the  cooked  white  meat  of 
chicken.  When  the  rice  is  perfectly  tender  add  the  chicken 
and  all  the  seasoning;  when  fhis  has  reached  the  boiling 
point  add  the  milk,  press  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  it  is 
ready  for  use. 

This  is  sufificient  for  two  feedings. 

COMBINATION    BROTH 

Mix  a  half  pint  of  beef  tea  with  a  half  pint  of  chicken 
broth,  and  stand  them  aside  in  a  cold  place.  At  feeding 
time  reheat  sufficient  quantity,  two  or  four  ounces,  add  a 
palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  serve.  If  allowable,  put 
a  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top. 

A   SOUP   CRECY 

Grate  two  young  carrots,  cook  them  in  a  half  pint  of 
chicken  broth  in  a  double  boiler  for  three  quarters  of  an 
hour;  add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream,  and  serve. 

Excellent  in  cases  of  chronic  constipation. 


CHICKEN  BROTH  WITH  GREEN  PEAS 

Press  a  half  pint  of  cooked  fresh  green  peas  through 
a  sieve;  add  to  them  a  half  pint  of  boiling  chicken  broth,  a 
tablespoonful  of  finely-chopped  mint  and  a  palatable  sea- 
soning of  salt ;  boil  five  minutes,  strain  through  a  sieve 
and  it  is  ready  for  serving. 

This  will  make  two  feedings. 


198  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

OKRA    SOUP 

Cut  three  young  okras  into  thin  slices,  put  them  in  a 
pint  of  chicken  broth,  cover  and  cook  thirty  minutes;  strain 
through  a  sieve,  add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt,  and  six 
good,  fat  oysters.  Boil  until  the  gills  of  the  oysters  are 
curled,  and  serve  with  toasted  crackers. 

This  will  make  two  feedings.  The  recipe  is  easily 
divided  for  one  feeding. 

CHICKEN    EGG    SOUP 

Separate  one  egg,  beat  the  yolk  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
cream,  pour  into  it  two  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  boiling  chicken 
broth,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  white  of  the  egg,  add  a  pal- 
atable seasoning  of  celery  salt  and  serve  at  once. 

CHESTNUT   SOUP 

Shell  a  half  dozen  small  or  three  large  chestnuts,  re- 
move the  brown  skin,  put  them  into  a  half  pint  of  chicken 
broth  and  simmer  gently  until  they  are  tender.  Press 
through  a  sieve,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  bring  to 
a  boil,  add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  serve  at  once. 

CARDINAL    SOUP 

Grate  one  small  boiled  beet  into  a  half  pint  of  chicken 
broth,  bring  to  a  boil,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  if  admissible  a  dash  of  pepper. 

This  may  be  used  in  mild  cases  of  diabetes. 

PUREE    OF    LENTILS 

1  teaspoonful   of  lentil   flour  4  ounces  of  chicken  broth 

2  ounces  of  milk  A  saltspoonful  of  salt 

Moisten  the  lentil  flour  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  it 
to  the  chicken  broth,  cook  slowly  in  a  double  boiler  until 
the  mixture  is  thick  and  smooth — in  about  a  half  hour; 
add  the  milk  and  the  seasoning,  and  serve. 

Bean  and  pea  flour  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK  199 

PUREE    OF    RICE 

2  tablespoOnfuls  of  rice  H  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Yz  pint  of  chicken  broth  H   saltspoonful  of  celery  seed 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  scald  it,  bring  to  boiling 
point  and  drain.  Put  this  into  the  chicken  broth  and 
simmer  gently  until  the  rice  is  tender;  press  through  a 
fine  sieve  and  add  all  the  other  ingredients. 

RABBIT    SOUP 

I  young  rabbit  i  bay  leaf 

I  quart  of  cold  water  2  tablespoonfuls  of  rice 

10  drops  of  onion  juice  Y^  teaspoonful   of  salt 

Singe  and  cut  the  rabbit  into  small  pieces,  cover  with 
the  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  skim.  Simmer 
one  hour,  add  the  seasonings,  simmer  another  hour  and 
strain. 


200  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

SOUPS  MAIGRE 

VEGETABLE    BROTH 

Chop  sufficient  carrot  to  make  a  half  cupful,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
chopped  turnip  and  a  half  cupful  of  chopped  celery.  Put  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar  in  the  bottom  of  a  soup  kettle ;  when  it 
browns,  add  the  onion,  shake  it  until  the  onion  is  thoroughly 
browned,  then  add  all  the  other  vegetables  and  a  quart  and 
a  pint  of  cold  water;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  washed  rice, 
one  tablespoonful  of  pearled  barley  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  peanut  butter;  cover  the  saucepan  and  simmer  gently 
one  and  a  half  hours.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  season 
with  salt  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

This  makes  an  exceedingly  agreeable  soup  for  persons 
suffering  from  uric  acid  conditions  or  rheumatism. 

Almost  any  vegetables  in  season  may  be  used  in  place 
of  those  mentioned. 

TOMATO    BROTH 

Two    Servings 

Cut  three  solid  tomatoes  into  bits,  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  blade  of  mace,  a  pint  of  cold  water,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  if  admissible  a  dash  of  pepper.  Cover 
the  saucepan  and  stew  gently  twenty  minutes ;  strain 
through  a  sieve,  reheat,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 
to  each  feeding  and  serve  at  once  w^th  croiitons. 

The  French  have  a  fashion  of  whipping  the  cream  and 
putting  it  on  top  of  the  soup,  which  gives  it  a  dainty 
appearance. 

DRIED    BEAN    SOUP 

Dried  beans,  peas  and  lentils  have  more  than  meat 
value.  These  soups  may  be  used  for  the  rheumatic,  gouty 
and  uric  acid  patients  in  the  place  of  meat  at  dinner.  They 
are  exceedingly  good  also  for  persons  suffering  from 
nervous   breakdown.     They  give   the   necessary   nitrogen, 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  201 

without  the  stimulating  principles  of  beef.  It  is  wise  to 
cook  enough  beans  one  day  to  last  for  two  or  three  days. 

Wash  a  cupful  of  dried  beans,  soak  them  in  cold  water 
over  night ;  next  morning  drain,  cover  with  cold  water, 
bring  to  boiling  point,  drain  again  and  throw  the  water 
away.  Return  the  beans  to  the  saucepan,  cover  with  one 
quart  of  cold  water,  cover  the  saucepan  and  cook  slowly 
until  the  beans  are  perfectly  tender,  about  one  and  a  half 
to  two  hours.  Press  them  through  a  sieve,  using  the  water 
as  well  as  the  pulp ;  reheat  this  pulp,  and  add  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice.     Stand  it  at  once  in  a  cold  place. 

At  serving  time  reheat  the  desired  quantity,  add  boil- 
ing water  or  milk  to  make  it  the  proper  consistency,  and 
serve  in  a  bouillon  cup  with  toasted  strips  of  white  bread. 

BEAN    FLOUR    SOUP 
One  Serving 

You  can  purchase  from  any  druggist  a  bean  flour,  or 
rolled  beans,  which  can  be  quickly  made  into  soup.  The 
best  of  these  preparations  are  made  by  the  Battle  Creek 
Food  Company. 

Moisten  a  teaspoonful  of  the  flour  in  a  little  cold  water, 
add  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  simmer  half  an  hour, 
season,  add  a  little  butter  or  cream,  and  serve. 

Rolled  beans  may  be  made  into  a  soup  almost  as 
quickly  as  the  bean  flour. 

DRIED    PEA    SOUP 
One  Serving 
Proceed  precisely   the   same   as   you   would   for   dried 
bean  soup,  using  either  the  split  or  green  dried  peas.    The 
split  p^as,  however,  are  best. 

LENTIL    SOUP 

Substitute  lentils  for  beans,  and  proceed  precisely  the 
same  as  for  soup  of  dried  beans.  Lentils  are  more  easy  of 
digestion  than  either  beans  or  peas. 


202  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Revalenta  Arabica  is  the  name  given  to  red  lentil  flour 
sold  in  the  markets  of  the  United  States. 

It  contains  more  than  meat  value,  and  is  quickly  made 
into  a  soup  the  same  as  bean  flour.  All  these  soups  are 
exceedingly  good  for  nursing  mothers. 

CELERY    BROTH 

One  Serving 

Take  six  or  eight  outside  stalks  of  celery,  pare  the  root 
and  cut  it  into  slices.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  in  the 
bottom  of  the  saucepan,  let  it  brown  thoroughly,  then  add 
one  pint  of  cold  water  and  a  half  pint  of  finely-chopped 
celery,  using  a  few  of  the  green  tops.  Cover  the  saucepan, 
simmer  gently  for  a  half  hour,  then  strain,  pressing  the 
celery.  Reheat,  add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt,  turn  the 
broth  into  a  bouillon  cup,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped 
cream  on  top  and  serve. 

This  is  exceedingly  good  for  nervous  patients,  and  if 
well  made  is  appetizing. 

OATMEAL    BROTH 
One  Serving 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  in  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan, 
let  it  burn,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  shake 
until  the  onion  is  quite  brown,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  olive 
oil  and  a  half  pint  of  water.  Sprinkle  into  this  as  soon  as 
it  boils  one  tablespoonful  of  rolled  oats,  cover  and  simmer 
gently  thirty  minutes,  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt 
and  a  dash  of  pepper;  strain,  serve  in  a  cup  with  a  table- 
spoonful of  whipped  cream  on  top. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  203 

MILK  SOUPS 

These  are  known  as  cream  soups  in  ordinary  cooking 
nomenclature,  and  are  usually  made  from  some  appetizing 
green  vegetable  and  thickened  milk.  They  are  to  be  recom- 
mended because  they  are  palatable,  easily  made  and  nutri- 
tious. 

CREAM    OF   ASPARAGUS 
One  Serving 

Peel  carefully  four  shoots  of  asparagus.  Cut  them 
into  small  pieces,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half 
pint  of  cold  water,  cover,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  cook 
gently  thirty  minutes.  Press  the  whole  through  a  sieve; 
the  water  will  have  almost  evaporated.  Return  the  pulp 
to  the  saucepan,  add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  milk  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened  in  it.  Boil  an  instant, 
add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  strain 
again,  and  serve  with  tiny  croiatons. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY 
One  Serving 
Chop  sufficient  green  tops  of  celery  to  make  a  half 
cupful,  and  cut  two  stalks  of  celery;  add  to  a  pint  of  cold 
water,  cover  and  simmer  gently  thirty  minutes.  Strain 
and  squeeze  from  the  celery  all  the  liquid;  add  a  half  cupful 
of  good  milk  with  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened 
in  it;  stir  until  boiling,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter.  The  food  value  may  be  increased  by 
adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  carefully-boiled  rice. 

CRESCENT    SOUP 
One  Serving 

The  heart  of  one  head  of  celery       Yz  pint  of  water 
Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt  4  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 

Yolk  of  one  ^%^ 
Cut  the  heart  of  the  celery  into  thin  slices  crosswise, 
add  the  water  and  stew  carefully  for  a  half  hour,  then  add 
the  salt,  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  cream  and  the  yolk 
of  an  ^%^.    Reheat  over  water  and  serve. 


204  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

CREAM  OF  CARROT 
One  Serving 
Grate  sufficient  carrot  to  make  two  tablespoonfuls ;  add 
half  a  cupful  of  chicken  stock ;  cook  thirty  minutes,  then  add 
half  a  cupful  of  milk  with  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  moist- 
ened in  it ;  when  this  reaches  boiling  point,  add  a  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Good  in  cases  of  chronic  constipation.  Omit  corn- 
starch for  diabetic  persons. 

CREAM    OF    CORN 

One  Serving 

Score  down  the  center  of  each  row  of  grains  on  two 
perfect  ears  of  corn;  and,  with  a  dull  knife,  press  out  all  the 
pulp,  leaving  the  hulls  on  the  cob.  Put  two-thirds  of  a 
cupful  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  corn,  cover  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes ;  then  add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch moistened  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk;  stir 
until  the  thickness  of  cream,  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  carefully  a  teaspoonful 
of  butter  or  a  tablespoonful  of  cream. 

A  slice  of  onion  may  be  cooked  in  the  milk  and  re- 
moved before  serving  the  soup.  This  soup  is  nutritious 
and  palatable,  and  is  an  exceedingly  good  supper  dish  in 
cases  of  chronic  constipation. 

VELVET    SOUP 

One  Serving 
Make  a  cream  of  corn  soup  according  to  the  preced- 
ing recipe,  and  at  serving  time,  instead  of  adding  butter, 
stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 

CREAM    OF    GREEN    PEAS 
One  Serving 
Press  a  half  cupful  of  cooked  green  peas  through  a 
sieve ;  put   the   pulp   in   a   saucepan   with   two-thirds   of   a 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE   SICK  205 

cupful  of  milk ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened 
in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt;  bring  to 
boiling  point ;  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  a  teaspoonful 
of  butter.     Serve  with  tiny  croutons. 

CREAM   OF  SPLIT   PEAS 

Wash  a  half  pint  of  split  yellow  peas ;  soak  them  over 
night.  Next  morning  drain,  wash,  cover  with  a  quart  of 
fresh  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil,  drain  and  throw  this  water 
away.  Cover  the  peas  again  with  a  quart  of  freshl3^-boiled 
water,  add  a  slice  of  onion,  cover  the  kettle  and  cook  slowly 
for  about  one  and  a  half  hours ;  drain,  and  throw  the  water 
away.  Press  the  peas  through  a  sieve  and  stand  them  aside 
to  use  as  wanted.  At  serving  time,  to  make  a  single  por- 
tion, put  a  cupful  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened  in  a  little  cold  milk, 
stir  until  the  milk  thickens,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
pulp  of  the  peas,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  butter;  when  hot,  serve.  It  should  be  as  thick  as  good 
cream. 

Lentils  and  dried  beans  may  be  used  in  same  way. 

This  is  exceedingly  valuable  food  for  children  and  is 
good  for  nursing  mothers.     It  has  meat  value. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO 
One  Serving 
Pare  a  medium-sized  potato,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
boil  five  minutes,  drain  and  cover  again  with  a  half  pint  of 
boiling  water;  add  a  bay  leaf,  a  saltspoonful  of  celery 
seed ;  cover  and  cook  until  the  potato  is  thoroughly  done. 
Press  the  whole  through  a  fine  sieve ;  the  water  will  have 
nearly  evaporated ;  add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  stir 
for  a  moment,  reheat,  add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch 
or  arrowroot,  moistened  in  a  little  cold  milk;  bring  to  the 
boiling  point;  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Strain  again  through  a 
very  fine  sieve,  reheat  over  hot  v/ater  and  ser\^e  at  once. 


206  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

SPINACH    SOUP 
One  Serving 

This  soup  is  exceedingly  good  in  cases  of  constipation. 
Wash  carefully  sufficient  spinach  leaves  to  make  one  pint. 
Put  the  spinach  in  a  hot,  dry  kettle,  add  quickly  a  half 
cupful  of  water  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cover  the 
kettle,  cook  over  a  moderate  fire  for  twenty  minutes,  drain 
and  chop  the  spinach  very  fine.  Put  a  half  pint  of  milk 
in  a  double  boiler,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch,  moist- 
ened, stir  until  smooth  and  creamlike,  and  add  the  spinach. 
When  hot,  press  through  a  fine  sieve,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter;  or  serve  it  in  a  cup  with  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped 
cream  on  top. 

Tender  lettuce  or  cress  may  be  substituted  for  spinach. 

CREAM  OF  TURNIP 
One  Serving 
Grate  one  young  turnip,  about  two  tablespoonfuls ;  add 
a  half  cupful  of  cold  water,  cook  in  a  double  boiler  fifteen 
minutes,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  cupful  of  milk, 
and  if  admissible,  a  dash  of  pepper.  When  hot,  add  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch,  moistened  in  a  little  cold  milk; 
stir  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter 
and  serve.    Omit  cornstarch  for  diabetic  persons. 

CREAM    OF    OYSTER 
One  Serving 

Wash  six  fat  oysters  by  pouring  over  them  cold  water; 
throw  them  into  a  hot  granite  saucepan,  shake  quickly  until 
the  gills  of  the  oysters  curl,  then  drain,  saving  the  liquor. 
Put  a  half  cupful  of  milk  into  the  saucepan,  add  the  oyster 
liquor,  and  then  the  oysters ;  when  scalding  hot  take  from 
the  fire,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  if  admissible,  a  crushed  whole  pepper- 
corn. This,  however,  may  be  added  to  the  milk  when  it  is 
first  put  over  the  fire,  and  strained  out  before  adding  the 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  207 

oysters;   the  patient  then  gets  the  flavor  of  pepper  without 
the  irritating  effect. 

Serve  in  a  dainty  bowl,  with  long  crisp  oyster  crackers. 

BISQUE    OF    OYSTER 

Chop  sufficient  celery  to  make  a  half  cupful ;  cover  it 
with  a  pint  of  cold  water,  stew  for  a  half  hour;  by  this  time 
the  water  will  be  reduced  one-half;  strain,  pressing  all  the 
juice  from  the  celery ;  bring  again  to  boiling  point,  add  six 
oysters  that  have  been  drained  and  washed;  stir  until  the 
mixture  reaches  the  boiling  point,  then  add  six  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream  and  serve. 

CREAM  EGGS  AND  BEEF 
Three  Servings 

Wash  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pearled  sago  until  the 
water  is  clear;  drain,  cover  it  with  a  pint  of  cold  milk  and 
let  it  soak  over  night  in  a  cold  place,  or  for  at  least  two 
hours.  Put  it  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  the  sago 
is  clear,  about  a  half  hour.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  a 
pint  of  clarified  beef  tea,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  or  celery 
salt  if  you  have  it.  Return  the  mixture  to  the  fire,  and 
when  scalding  hot  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs ; 
take  quickly  from  the  fire  and  stand  it  aside  to  cool.  At 
serving  time  heat  the  desired  quantity  over  hot  water, 
stirring  constantly.  Excellent  for  nursing  mothers  and 
invalids. 

MILK  SOUP 
Two  Servings 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely-chopped  onion,  a  half 
cupful  of  chopped  celery  tops,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  carrot  over  the 
fire  in  a  half  pint  of  water;  boil  five  minutes,  watching  care- 
fully. Turn  into  a  double  boiler,  add  a  pint  of  milk,  cover 
the  boiler  and  let  the  contents  cook  slowly  for  thirty  min- 
utes ;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  strain.  Serve  alone 
or  with  croutons,  as  the  case  requires. 


208  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

ANIMAL  FOODS 

These  are  derived  from  the  flesh  of  animals,  and  con- 
sist of  meats  and  the  internal  organs  of  animals  and  fowls 
used  as  food  —  sweetbreads,  tripe,  liver,  kidneys,  brains, 
tongues  and  "frys,"  and  the  roe,  milts  and  sounds  of  fish, 
gelatin  and  isinglass ;  poultry  and  game ;  sea  foods — fish, 
shell  fish,  as  oysters,  clams,  scallops  ;  the  Crustacea — lobsters, 
crabs,  prawns,  shrimps  and  cray  fish ;  and  reptiles,  as  green 
turtles  and  terrapin ;   and  eggs  and  milk. 

In  feeding  the  sick,  the  most  important  of  these,  per- 
haps, are  eggs  and  milk. 

MEATS 

In  this  group  we  include  the  flesh  of  animals  used  as 
food — beef,  veal,  mutton,  lamb,  poultry,  game  and  rabbit. 

All  meats  are  highly  nitrogenous,  and  most  of  them  are 
easy  of  digestion  and  assimilation,  because  they  contain  the 
same  chemical  elements  as  our  own  bodies. 

The  digestibility,  however,  is  largely  governed  by  the 
method  of  cooking.  For  instance,  a  broiled  steak  is  more 
easily  digested  than  a  fried  steak.  The  outside  cut  of  baked 
meat  is  not  as  easily  digested  as  a  center  cut. 

Raw  beef  and  mutton,  scraped,  are  more  easily  digested 
than  cooked  meat,  but  cooking  is  necessary  to  destroy  the 
parasitic,  living  organisms  that  may  be  accidentally  present 
in  it.  Cooking  also  develops  the  flavor  and  appearance  of 
meat,  and  makes  it  more  palatable. 

Mature,  well-killed  and  ''hung"  lean  beef  and  mutton 
are  more  easily  digested  than  the  flesh  of  young  animals,  as 
veal  and  lamb. 

The  flesh  of  veal  and  rabbit  is  especially  dense,  and  quite 
unfit  for  food  for  the  sick,  although  veal  and  rabbit  broth 
are  frequently  recommended  in  certain  cases  of  chronic  gas- 
tritis. 

Meats  for  the  sick  must  be  perfectly  fresh  and  carefully 
selected.  Lean  meat  from  a  fat  animal  is  more  tender  than 
lean  meat  from  a  lean  animal. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  209 

Next  to  the  mammals,  barnyard  poultry  is  the  most 
important  from  a  dietary  standpoint,  excepting  birds  and 
deer.  The  flesh  of  these  wild  animals  is  generally  quite  free 
from  fat,  which  makes  them  more  easy  of  digestion  and 
better  adapted  for  diet  for  the  sick. 

Next  in  order  comes  the  white-fleshed  fish — an  impor- 
tant article  of  nourishment,  providing  they  are  perfectly 
fresh.  There  is  nothing  more  dangerous,  however,  than 
stale  sea  food.  The  flesh  of  salmon  and  sturgeon  approaches 
the  composition  of  lean  beef  more  nearly  than  the  flesh  of 
white  fish.  Mackerel,  eels,  catfish,  herring  and  shad  are  all 
characterized  by  the  presence  of  fatty  matter  mingled 
throughout  the  flesh,  which  makes  them  more  difficult  of 
digestion. 

Of  the  white-fleshed  fish,  the  ordinary  white  fish  of  the 
lakes,  cod,  rock  bass,  halibut,  haddock,  sole  and  flounder 
are  to  be  preferred. 

Shell  fish  dififer  widely  in  digestibility.  The  oyster  has 
a  decided  advantage  over  the  clam  and  scallop.  Oysters 
have  a  place  in  diet  for  the  sick;  the  clam  itself  has  not,  but 
clam  bouillon  is  highly  recommended  in  many  diseases.  The 
oyster  is  no  doubt  a  nutritious,  easily  digested  food ;  opin- 
ions differ,  however,  regarding  this  fact.  They  are  more 
easily  digested  raw  than  cooked,  but,  like  meat,  they  should 
be  cooked  to  remove  the  danger  of  micro-organisms  that 
may  be  present.  Unless  one  knows  that  their  oysters  have 
been  fattened  in  perfectly  clean  water,  they  had  better  eat 
them  thoroughly  cooked. 

THE  CRUSTACEA 

The  Crustacea  are  regarded  in  this  country  as  choice  and 
attractive  foods,  but  the  flesh  is  dense,  firm  and  unfit  for 
diet  for  the  sick;  in  fact,  they  frequently  cause  digestive 
troubles  in  persons  who  are  quite  well,  and  if  not  perfectly 
fresh  are  dangerous. 

14 


210  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

FISH 

From  a  dietetic  standpoint,  fish  is  classed  with  the  flesh 
of  animals — a  nitrogenous  food.  The  protein  in  white  fish, 
as  cod,  haddock  and  halibut,  is  in  about  the  same  proportion 
as  in  beef  and  mutton.  The  ratio  of  water  in  fish,  flesh  and 
fowl  is  quite  uniform;  fish  contains,  however,  more  phos- 
phorus, and  the  active  fish,  as  trout  and  pickerel,  contain  a 
greater  percentage.  The  amount  of  fat  in  fish  is  much 
smaller  than  in  the  flesh  of  animals.  In  the  white-fleshed 
fish  it  is  largely  secreted  in  the  liver,  which  makes  the  flesh 
more  easy  of  digestion — a  better  food  for  the  sick  than  the 
pink  or  dark-fleshed  fish,  in  which  the  fat  is  distributed  or 
mingled  throughout  the  flesh. 

The  flesh  of  the  male  or  milt  fish  is  generally  considered 
superior  in  flavor  to  that  of  the  roe  or  female  fish.  At  the 
period  of  the  ripening  of  the  roe  and  milt,  fish  are  said  to  be 
in  season,  because  the  flesh  at  that  time  possesses  the  high- 
est degree  of  flavor. 

All  fish  should  be  eaten  soon  after  they  are  taken  from 
the  water.    Stale  fish  is  not  only  unpleasant,  but  dangerous. 

In  cases  of  prolonged  feeding,  where  nitrogenous  foods 
are  allowable  or  called  for,  a  piece  of  white-fleshed  fish, 
broiled  or  boiled,  gives  variety. 

If  small  fish,  like  smelts  or  trout,  are  to  be  used  as  diet 
for  the  sick,  they  must  be  broiled  or  boiled,  never  fried. 
Planking,  which  is  broiling  on  a  plank,  may  be  used  in  the 
place  of  broiling;   it  gives  an  appetizing  and  sightly  dish. 

To  Purchase  Fish — Examine  the  flesh,  which  should  be 
firm ;  the  scales  should  be  closely  adhering  and  of  brilliant 
color,  the  eyes  and  gills  bright,  and  the  flesh  free  from  any 
unpleasant  odor. 

TO    BOIL    FISH 

Cut  a  thick  piece  from  the  center  of  a  fine  white-fleshed 
fish,  wash  it  quickly  in  cold  water,  wipe  it  carefully  and 
dust  it  with  salt.  Wrap  it  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth,  put 
it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  add  a  slice  of  onion,  a  bay 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  211 

leaf  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cover  and  push  the 
saucepan  to  the  back  of  the  stove,  to  simmer,  for  fifteen  min- 
utes. Lift  the  cheesecloth,  drain,  turn  the  fish  on  a  small 
serving  platter  and  garnish  it  with  crisp  parsley  and  a  quar- 
ter of  a  lemon.  Serve  with  cream  sauce,  sauce  Hollandaise, 
or  just  a  little  melted  butter  and  lemon  juice. 

BROILED  FISH 

Purchase  a  center  steak  from  any  white-fleshed  fish, 
cut  off  enough  for  one  feeding  and  give  the  rest  to  the  fam- 
ily; fish  must  not  be  used  the  second  day.  Wash  it 
quickly,  wipe  it  dry,  put  it  in  a  wire  broiler  and  over  a  clear 
fire  until  slightly  browned  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown 
the  other;  then  hold  it  at  least  six  inches  above  the  fire;  turn 
it  once  or  twice,  broiling  it  in  all  ten  minutes.  Transfer 
it  to  a  heated  platter,  spread  over  with  a  little  butter,  put 
over  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  serve  at  once. 

PLANKED    FISH 

Secure  for  individual  service  a  small  oblong  plank, 
not  over  four  inches  in  width  and  six  inches  long. 

Boil  a  good-sized  potato ;  when  done  mash  it  thor- 
oughly, add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  a  palatable 
seasoning  of  salt,  and  beat  it  until  light  and  white.  Put  a 
small  star  tube  in  the  end  of  a  pastry  bag,  and  turn  in  the 
mashed  potato.  Select  a  slice  of  fish  sufficiently  large  for 
the  patient,  wash  it  in  cold  water,  dry  with  a  soft  cloth  and 
dust  it  with  salt.  Put  the  plank  in  the  oven  until  very 
hot;  if  you  have  a  gas  stove  put  it  underneath  the  gas 
burners,  down  as  near  the  floor  of  the  stove  as  possible; 
when  hot,  put  on  the  fish,  skin  side  down,  dust  it  with  salt, 
return  it  to  the  oven  and  cook  quickly  for  twenty  minutes ; 
by  this  time  the  fish  should  be  brown.  Take  the  plank 
from  the  oven,  press  the  potatoes  through  the  star  tube 
around  the  edge  of  the  plank,  put  the  plank  back  until  the 
potatoes  are  a  golden  brown ;  garnish  it  with  parsley  and 
lemon,  and  serve  at  once.  This  makes  a  very  sightly  and 
palatable  dish. 


312  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

FISH    IN    A    PAPER    BAG 

Select  the  necessary  piece  of  fish,  dust  it  lightly  with 
salt,  put  it  in  an  oiled  paper  bag,  fold  over  the  end  of  the 
bag,  fasten  it,  lay  it  on  a  grate  in  a  baking  pan,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Transfer  the  fish  to  a 
heated  plate,  garnish  with  potato  roses,  or  serve  with  it 
plain  boiled  potatoes. 

This  is  one  of  the  nicest  ways  of  cooking  fish. 

OYSTER  BOUILLON   I 

Purchase  twelve  salt  oysters  in  the  shell ;  wash  and 
scrub  the  shells  thoroughly ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover  and  bring  quickly  to  a  boil. 
Lift  one  oyster  at  a  time  and  puncture  the  flesh  in  several 
places  with  a  silver  fork,  put  it  back  in  the  saucepan, 
cook  for  ten  minutes  and  strain  through  two  thicknesses 
of  cheesecloth. 

OYSTER   BOUILLON   II 

Drain,  and  wash,  by  pouring  over  them  cold  water, 
twelve  large  oysters;  throw  them  into  a  dry,  hot  granite 
kettle  and  shake  over  the  fire  until  the  gills  are  thorougly 
curled  and  the  liquor  boiling.  Pick  the  oysters  with  a 
silver  fork,  strain  the  bouillon  through  cheesecloth,  press- 
ing lightly;  reheat  and  serve.     Season  with  salt  only. 

DRY    PANNED    OYSTERS 

Wash  the  desired  quantity  of  oysters  by  pouring  over 
them,  in  a  sieve,  a  quart  of  cold  water.  Put  a  granite  pan 
over  the  fire;  when  very  hot  throw  in  the  oysters,  shake 
quickly  and  cook  until  the  gills  are  curled,  add  a  palatable 
seasoning  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream.  Transfer  to  a  heated  dish  and  serve  at 
once. 

PLAIN    BROILED    OYSTERS 

Select  four  large,  fat  oysters,  put  them  on  a  board,  dry 
on  both  sides  with  a  piece  of  soft  cheesecloth,  dust  lightly 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  213 

with  salt,  dip  in  fine,  dry  bread  crumbs.  Put  the  oysters  in 
the  center  of  a  wire  broiler,  hold  over  a  clear  fire  or  under- 
neath the  oven  burners  of  a  gas  stove,  until  they  are 
browned  on  one  side ;  turn  and  brown  the  other.  Transfer 
them  to  a  small  heated  platter,  put  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  on  each,  and  serve  at  once. 

GRIDDLED    OYSTERS 

Place  an  ordinary  cake  griddle  over  the  fire;  when  hot 
rub  quickly  with  a  tiny  bit  of  suet.  Dry  four  or  six  good 
fat  oysters  with  a  piece  of  cheesecloth,  throw  them  on  the 
hot  griddle;  when  brown  on  one  side  turn,  with  a  cake 
turner,  and  brown  the  other.    Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

These  are  frequently  served  in  the  oyster  liquor.  Boil 
the  liquor  and  skim  it,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  or  a 
tablespoonful  of  cream,  add  a  half  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
throw  the  hot  broiled  oysters  into  this,  and  serve  with  toast. 

BOILED    OYSTERS 

Select  four  or  six  medium-sixed  oysters,  drain  them, 
throw  them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  boil  two  minutes, 
drain  again  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  dish  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaves,  baste  with  French  dressing  and  serve. 

CLAM  BOUILLON 

If  clam  broth  is  to  be  used  for  any  length  of  time,  it 
is  wise  to  buy  fifty  medium-sized  hard  shell  clams ;  put 
them  in  a  cold  place  and  sprinkle  them  every  day  with 
cold  salt  water. 

To  Make  an  Individual  Portion — Wash  and  scrub  six 
clams ;  put  them  in  a  small  kettle  or  saucepan  with  a  half 
pint  of  cold  water,  cover  the  kettle,  bring  it  quickly  to  a  boil. 
Lift  the  lid  and  you  will  find  that  the  clams  have  opened. 
Take  out  one  at  a  time,  puncture  it  in  several  places  with  a 
silver  fork,  drop  it  back  into  the  kettle,  cover  and  cook  for 
a  few  minutes  longer.    Take  out  the  clams  and  strain  the 


214 

broth  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth,  and  it  is  ready 
to  serve. 

To  Allay  Pernicious  Vomiting — Two  tablespoonfuls  fed 
to  the  patient  by  teaspoonfuls,  will  be  quite  sufficient  for 
one  feeding.  This  may  be  repeated  every  thirty  minutes  if 
necessary. 

CLAM   BROTH 

Make  precisely  the  same  as  clam  bouillon,  using  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cream  to  each  half  cupful  (one  gill)  of  broth. 

CLAM  BROTH  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM 

Heat  four  tablespoonfuls  of  clam  bouillon  in  a  tiny 
saucepan,  add  a  little  celery  salt,  turn  into  a  heated  cup, 
put  on  top  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  and  serve 
at  once. 

BELLEVUE    BOUILLON 

Heat  four  tablespoonfuls  of  clam  bouillon  and  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  chicken  broth,  mix  and  pour  into  a  bouillon 
cup,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top  and  serve. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  215 

MEATS 

BEEF 

Beef  should  be  fine  grained;  that  portion  exposed  to 
the  air  a  light  red,  showing  a  shade  of  purple  when  the  first 
slice  is  cut  off.  For  the  sick,  purchase  the  best  quality  of 
lean  beef;  be  sure  the  fat  is  solid  and  whitish,  not  yellow. 

For  broiling,  the  tenderloin  or  sirloin  is  best. 

For  beef  tea,  the  sticking  piece  is  first  choice ;  second, 
the  round  or  rump. 

For  Hamburg  steaks  or  dishes  made  from  chopped 
meat,  purchase  the  round. 

The  choice  methods  of  cooking  beef  for  the  sick  are 
broiling,  boiling,  roasting  or  baking.  If  tender  meat  is  not 
accessible,  purchase  the  round  and  put  it  twice  through  the 
meat  chopper,  form  it  into  cakes  and  broil  them.  If  there 
are  no  conveniences  for  broiling,  cook  them  in  a  dry  pan, 
without  fat,  turning  them  almost  constantly  while  cooking. 

TO    BROIL    A    STEAK 

Cut  off  just  sufficient  for  the  meal ;  if  tenderloin,  a  slice 
from  the  entire  tenderloin ;  if  sirloin,  cut  near  the  middle 
a  piece  sufiiciently  large  for  a  serving.  Trim  off  every 
particle  of  suet. 

If  you  are  to  broil  it  over  a  coal  fire,  see  that  the  coals 
are  bright  and  red,  and  free  from  gas.  Put  the  steak  in  a 
wire  broiler,  and  near  the  fire,  sear  quickly  on  one  side,  turn 
and  sear  the  other;  turn  it  each  twenty  seconds,  for  three 
minutes ;  then  lift  the  steak  about  six  inches  from  the  fire 
and  broil  it  slowly  on  one  side  for  three  minutes,  then  turn 
it  and  cook  it  three  minutes  longer;  this  is  allowing  for  a 
steak  an  inch  and  a  half  in  thickness.  Transfer  it  at  once 
to  a  small  heated  platter,  dust  it  lightly  with  salt,  spread  it 
with  a  little  butter  and  serve  at  once. 

If  the  steak  is  one  inch  thick,  it  will  require  eight  min- 
utes for  broiling;  if  one  and  a  half  inches  thick,  ten  min- 
utes; two  inches,  fifteen  minutes.     It  should  be  rare,  but 


216  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

not  raw.     Be  very  careful  that  it  is  sufficiently  cooked  to 
remove  the  "purple"  coloring  from  the  center  of  the  steak. 
Charcoal  broiling  is  the  same. 

TO    PAN    BROIL    A    STEAK 

Cut  the  steak  one  inch  thick.  Put  an  iron  shallow 
frying  pan  over  the  fire ;  when  very  hot  throw  in  the  steak ; 
it  will  fasten  itself  to  the  pan  immediately.  Loosen  it  with 
a  cake  turner  and  turn  it  as  you  would  a  griddle  cake.  As 
soon  as  it  sears  on  this  side,  turn  it  again,  and  keep  turning 
it  every  half  minute  for  five  minutes.  Transfer  it  to  a 
small  heated  platter,  dust  it  with  salt,  spread  over  a  little 
butter  and  serve  it  at  once. 

This  is  by  no  means  an  inferior  way  of  cooking  a  steak, 
providing  you  stand  over  it  during  the  entire  cooking. 

TO    BROIL    ON    A    GAS    STOVE 

Light  the  oven  burners  three  minutes  before  placing 
the  steak;  have  everything  else  for  the  meal  ready.  See 
that  the  broiling  pan  and  rack  underneath  the  gas  burners 
are  in  their  proper  places.  Have  the  steak  cut  one  inch 
thick.  When  the  broiler  is  hot  draw  it  out,  place  the  steak 
in  the  middle,  put  it  as  near  the  gas  flame  as  possible 
without  touching  it.  As  soon  as  the  steak  is  seared  on 
this  side,  draw  out  the  pan,  and  with  a  fork  (sticking  it 
as  near  the  edge  of  the  steak  as  possible)  turn,  and  sear 
the  other  side.  Turn  the  steak  again,  lower  the  pan  about 
six  or  seven  inches,  turn  the  burners  half  way  down  and 
broil  slowly  three  minutes  on  one  side,  turn  and  broil  three 
minutes  on  the  other.    Season  and  serve. 

BEEF    COOKED    IN    TOMATO 

In  certain  cases  of  obesity  where  tomatoes  are  allow- 
able, this  gives  variety  and  is  exceedingly  palatable. 

Chop  fine  or  grind  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  round  of 
beef,  season  it  with  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dash 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  217 

of  pepper,  if  admissible.  Cut  the  stem  end  from  a  large 
solid  tomato,  scoop  out  the  seeds  and  core,  leaving  the  skin 
with  a  comfortably  thick  wall.  Put  the  meat  lightly  into 
the  tomato,  and  bake  it  in  the  oven  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.  Transfer  it  to  a  heated  plate,  put  a  little  butter 
in  the  center  and  send  it  at  once  to  the  table.  The  meat 
should  be  smoking  hot  to  the  very  bottom,  a  little  rare,  and 
the  tomato  soft. 

BEEFSTEAK  IN  A  PAPER  BAG 

Purchase  a  slice  of  tenderloin  not  over  three-quarters 
of  an  inch  thick.  Open  a  small  paper  bag  and  grease  it 
slightly  with  olive  oil.  Dust  the  steak  lightly  with  salt, 
put  it  in  the  bag,  fold  over  the  ends  and  fasten  them ;  put 
it  on  a  small  grate  in  a  pan,  and  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Open  the  bag  and  put  the  steak,  with  all  the  juice, 
on  a  small  heated  plate,  and  serve  at  once. 

Meat  cooked  in  a  paper  bag  is  very  much  better  than 
v^hen  pan  broiled. 

SALISBURY    STEAK 

Put  a  half  pound  of  the  round  of  beef  twice  through 
the  meat  chopper;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  form 
it  into  a  round  cake,  making  it  of  equal  thickness  through- 
out— that  is,  have  the  sides  as  thick  as  the  center.  Put  this 
into  a  perfectly  dry,  hot  iron  pan ;  turn  it  with  a  cake  turner 
several  times,  cooking  it  at  least  ten  minutes.  Dish  it  on 
a  heated  plate,  squeeze  over  a  little  lemon  juice  and  serve 
at  once.  If,  for  any  reason,  the  meat  is  needed  very  well 
done,  make  the  half  pound  into  two  cakes.  The  stringy  por- 
tion, about  one-half  the  weight  of  the  meat,  should  be  held 
in  the  chopper.  A  little  butter  over  the  cooked  steaks  is 
frequently  admissible.  The  salt  should  be  added  to  the 
meat,  use  no  pepper. 


218  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

THE    RORER    MEAT    CAKE 

Purchase  a  half  pound  of  tenderloin  of  beef;  take  a 
blunt  silver  knife  and  scrape  the  pulp  of  the  meat  from  the 
ahre;  put  that  which  you  have  scraped  on  to  a  porcelain, 
or  ordinary  china  plate  ;  it  must  not  touch  iron  or  tin.  When 
you  have  sufficient  scraped,  make  it  into  two  small  cakes, 
about  a  half  inch  thick.  Put  these  in  a  paper  bag  or  in  a  piece 
of  oiled  paper  and  cook  on  a  rack  in  a  pan  in  a  very  hot 
oven  ten  minutes ;  when  done,  place  them  on  a  heated  dish, 
dust  lightly  with  salt,  put  in  the  center  of  each  a  tiny  bit 
of  butter  and  serve  immediately. 

ALMOND    MEAT    CAKE 

Add  to  the  Rorer  meat  cake  six  almonds  that  have 
been  blanched  and  ground ;  after  the  cakes  are  dished  on 
the  heated  plate  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  with  the 
butter. 

PANNED    CHOPPED    MEAT 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  tenderloin  through  a  meat 
chopper.  Put  it  in  a  hot  porcelain  saucepan,  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  cover  the  pan,  bring  it  quickly  to  a  boil, 
add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
stir  and  serve  quickly  in  a  tiny,  heated  vegetable  dish. 
Excellent  when  well  made. 

HOMEMADE    PEMMICAN 

54  pound  of  lean  beef  put  twice      %  pound  of  marrow  from  the  leg 
through   a   meat  chopper  or  shin  bone  of  an  ox 

Chop  the  marrow  with  a  silver  knife  and  remove  the 
Hhre.  Mix  the  beef  and  marrow  thoroughly,  a  half  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  stand  at  once  in  a  cold  place. 

In  cases  of  pernicious  anaemia,  induce  the  patient,  if 
possible,  to  eat  this  whole  amount  in  two  or  three  feedings. 

Serve  with  it  whole  wheat  bread  or  some  easily- 
digested,  simply-cooked  green  vegetable,  or  a  sliced  orange, 
or  a  few  white  grapes,  or  make  it  into  sandwiches. 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  219 

TO  "ROAST"  OR  BAKE  BEEF 

Select  two  good  standing  ribs,  the  first  or  second  cut, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  family;  the  first  cut  will  make 
a  small  compact  roast.  Have  the  ribs  trimmed  and  cracked. 
Put  the  roast  in  the  pan,  rib  side  down,  put  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  in  the  pan,  and  a  half  cupful  of  water;  place  at  once 
in  a  very  hot  oven  and  bake  until  the  outside  of  the  meat 
is  thoroughly  seared,  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Cool  the 
oven,  and  begin  to  baste  the  meat  with  the  fat  that  is  now 
dripping  in  the  pan,  and  roast  a  large  joint  fifteen  minutes 
to  each  pound.  A  small  two-rib  roast  weighing  six  pounds 
will  bake  in  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Do  not  add  any  more 
water  to  the  pan ;  baste  with  the  fat  that  is  dripping  from 
the  meat. 

This  recipe  will  answer  for  mutton  and  lamb. 

BOILED    BEEF 

Purchase  the  bolar  piece — the  fleshy  part  of  the  shoul- 
der— or  a  piece  from  the  upper  round.  Select  a  kettle  that 
will  hold  sufficient  water  to  entirely  cover  the  piece  of 
meat  to  be  boiled.  When  the  water  is  boiling,  put  in  the 
meat,  boil  rapidly  five  minutes,  then  push  the  kettle  to  the 
back  of  the  stove  and  keep  at  a  temperature  of  170°  Fahr., 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound  of  meat.  When 
the  meat  is  partly  done,  add  salt,  either  plain  or  celery 
salt,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  clove  to  the  w^ater.  The  water 
in  which  this  meat  is  boiled  may  be  saved  for  ordinary 
soup.  If  the  meat  has  been  carefully  cooked  the  water 
will  contain  but  very  little  nourishment. 

Carefully-boiled  meat  will  be  juicy,  slightly  rare  and 
perfectly  tender. 

Boiled  meat  is  considered  more  digestible  than  baked 
or  roasted  meats. 


220 

THE    SECOND    COOKING    OF    MEATS 

Even  to  a  healthy  person  who  has  good  digestion,  the 
ordinary  hash  is  an  abomination.  There  are  only  a  very 
few  ways  in  which  meat  can  be  warmed  over  for  the  sick. 
Boudins  or  dishes  where  the  meat  is  heated  in  the  oven 
in  hot  water  are  preferable.  Croquettes  contain  nutritious 
material,  but  the  combination  and  frying  renders  them  unfit 
for  the  sick.  Avoid  all  warmed-over  dishes,  like  hash, 
ragouts,  or  brown  stews. 

BOUDINS 

Chop  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  tender,  rare  roasted  beef. 
For  the  sick,  I  think  it  is  wise  to  put  this  twice  through 
a  meat  chopper.  Put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  dry  bread  crumbs  in  a  saucepan,  cook  a 
moment,  and  add  the  meat.  Take  from  the  fire,  drop  in 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  then  fold 
in  the  well-beaten  white  of  the  egg.  Turn  this  into  a  little 
boudin  mold  or  custard  cup,  stand  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  and  cook  over  the  fire  or  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  min- 
utes.   Serve  at  once. 

This  is  very  nutritious  and  easily  digested.  An  excel- 
lent dish  for  the  aged. 

BEEF  PUDDING 

Line  an  individual  dish  or  a  ramekin  with  a  thin  layer 
of  mashed  potatoes;  put  in  the  center  about  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  nicely-seasoned  cold  roasted  beef,  chopped 
fine.  Cover  the  top  with  more  mashed  potatoes,  stand  the 
dish  in  a  pie  plate  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  the  oven  until 
a  golden  brown,  about  twenty  minutes. 

TURKISH    BEEF 

Chop  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  roasted  beef  very  fine, 
season  it  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of 
pounded  celery  seed ;  put  this  into  a  ramekin  or  a  small 
individual   baking  dish,   pour  over  four  tablespoonfuls   of 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  221 

leban ;  stand  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  cook  in  the 
oven  fifteen  minutes,  and  serv^e. 

This  is  excellent  in  cases  of  indigestion.  The  leban 
renders  the  beef  more  digestible  and  gives  a  greater  food 
value.    Matzoon  or  zoolak  may  be  used  in  the  place  of  leban. 

SALT    MEATS 

Salt  meats  take  no  part  whatever  in  diet  for  the  sick; 
we  simply  mention  them  to  condemn  them. 

Broiled  bacon  is  the  exception.  It  is  more  digestible 
and  nutritious  than  fresh  fat  pork,  and  may  now  and  then 
be  used  sparingly.  In  salt  lean  meats  the  iihre  is  rendered 
hard  and  difficult  of  digestion.  The  meat  is  deficient  in 
natural  mineral  matter,  and  contains  an  excess  of  chloride 
of  sodium.  Persons  who  are  perfectly  well,  after  a  meal  of 
salt  meat  have  an  uncontrollable  desire  for  water,  which 
comes  from  an  overheated,  irritated  condition  of  the  stom- 
ach ;  it  is  not  true  thirst,  and  must  be  looked  on  as  an 
unnatural  rather  than  a  natural  condition. 

TRIPE 

Tripe,  being  a  portion  of  the  digestive  viscera  of  the  ox, 
is  one  of  the  most  easily-digested  of  animal  foods,  requiring 
only  one  hour  for  perfect  digestion.  It  is  generally  cleaned 
by  the  butcher.  When  it  comes  home,  wash  it  through 
several  cold  waters,  put  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and 
simmer  gently  eight  hours  or  until  it  is  perfectly  tender. 
Take  it  out,  stand  it  aside  to  cool,  and  it  is  ready  to  dress  in 
many  ways.  It  may  be  heated  in  a  little  cream  sauce,  or 
broiled,  or  stewed.  If  carefully  prepared,  it  is  a  good  food 
for  the  aged,  for  children  over  six  years  old,  for  the  obese  as 
well  as  the  very  thin,  and  for  convalescing  patients  who  are 
allowed  solid  foods. 

STEWED    TRIPE 

Cut  sufficient  cold  boiled  tripe  into  narrow  strips.  Put 
a  half  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  tripe,  add  a 


222  .  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

half  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  two  drops  of  onion  juice. 
Stir  constantly  until  it  thickens,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter  and  serve  on  toast. 

BROILED    TRIPE 

Cut  the  necessary  sized  piece  from  cold  boiled  tripe, 
dust  it  with  salt,  put  it  in  a  broiler  and  broil  on  both  sides 
until  slightly  brown.  Transfer  it  to  a  heated  dish,  put 
over  a  little  butter  and  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

TRIPE    AND    OYSTERS 

Throw  six  oysters  into  a  heated  granite  saucepan,  shake 
until  the  gills  are  turned,  then  drain  the  oysters,  saving 
the  liquor.  Beard  the  oysters,  put  the  soft  portion  back 
in  the  liquor,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely-chopped, 
well-cooked  tripe,  a  crushed  whole  peppercorn  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  bring  to  a  boil,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  and  serve  on  toast.  Or  omit  the  pepper  and  add  a 
half  drop  of  Tabasco,  or  strain  the  pepper  out  before  adding 
the  oysters. 

MUTTON 

The  flesh  of  good  mutton  should  be  a  bright  red  color, 
the  fat  firm  and  white.  The  fatter  the  mutton,  the  better 
and  more  tender  the  lean  parts,  but  as  the  fat  of  mutton 
is  very  rich  in  stearic  acid,  it  is  necessary  that  every 
particle  be  trimmed  from  the  lean  meat  before  it  is  cooked. 
The  lean  flesh  of  mutton  is  more  loosely  held  together  than 
that  of  beef,  which  makes  it  slightly  more  digestible. 

Purchase  the  shoulder  for  mutton  tea,  the  neck  for 
mutton  broth,  Frenched  rib  chops  for  broiling,  and  a  leg 
for  boiling. 

BROILED    CHOPS 

Select  one  or  two  nicely-trimmed  Frenched  chops.  Put 
the  serving  plate  and  a  plate  from  which  they  are  to  be 


MRS.    RORER's    diet   FOR    THE    SICK  223 

eaten  to  heat;  mutton  must  be  served  on  hot  plates. 
Arrange  the  chops  on  a  wire  broiler,  broil  them  quickly, 
searing  first  one  side,  then  the  other,  and  turning  them 
every  half  minute  for  five  minutes.  Dish  the  chops,  dust 
them  lightly  with  salt,  slip  a  quill  of  paper  over  the  bones 
and  serve  at  once. 

For  convalescing  patients,  or  for  the  aged  or  for  chil- 
dren, the  plate  may  be  garnished  with  boiled  rice,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  puree  of  peas,  or  potato  roses. 

CHOPS    IN    A    PAPER    BAG 

This  is  the  very  nicest  way  of  cooking  chops.  Season 
the  chops  with  a  little  salt,  rub  each  with  a  little  butter, 
slip  them  into  a  paper  bag,  fasten  the  bag,  put  it  on  a  wire 
rack  in  a  pan,  and  cook  them  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 
Open  the  bag,  slip  out  the  chops,  and  pour  the  juices  from 
the  bag  over  them ;  put  little  quills  of  paper  over  the  bones 
and  serve  at  once. 

MUTTON  CAKES 

Cut  the  lean  portion  from  two  Frenched  chops,  season 
it  with  a  little  salt,  put  them  in  a  paper  bag  and  cook  them 
as  you  would  ordinary  chops. 

MUTTON   PATS 

-  Purchase  two  slices  of  lean  mutton  from  the  leg.  With 
a  silver  knife  scrape  first  one  side,  then  the  other;  as  fast 
as  meat  pulp  accumulates  on  the  knife  put  it  on  a  china 
or  porcelain  saucer.  When  you  have  scraped  both  pieces 
free  from  pulp,  form  it  into  little  pats,  making  three  or  four, 
each  one  holding  not  more  than  three  tablespoonfuls.  Drop 
them  into  a  hot,  dry  pan,  cook  a  minute,  turn  with  a  cake 
turner,  dish  on  a  heated  plate,  dust  lightly  with  salt,  put 
over  a  little  butter  and  serve  at  once. 

These  may  also  be  cooked  in  a  paper  bag. 


224  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

MUTTON  CAKE  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

This  dish  will  give  variety  to  a  diet  in  obesity.  Take 
the  lean  portions  from  two  Frenched  chops,  season  with 
salt  and  a  little  pepper,  put  them  in  a  paper  bag,  put  on 
top  of  each  a  single  mushroom,  fasten  the  bag  and  cook 
in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes.  When  done,  slip  the  chops 
and  mushrooms  on  a  heated  plate,  pour  over  the  sauce, 
and  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.    Do  not  add  butter. 

KLOPPS 

Chop  four  ounces  of  cold  boiled  mutton  rather  fine, 
add  to  it  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  dry 
bread  crumbs  and  the  unbeaten  white  of  one  egg;  mix 
thoroughly,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  finely-chopped 
mint.  Form  into  balls  the  size  of  English  walnuts,  drop 
these  balls  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  stock,  either  beef  or 
mutton ;  draw  the  pan  to  one  side  of  the  fire  where  it  can- 
not possibly  boil  again,  until  the  balls  come  to  the  surface; 
this  will  take  about  five  minutes.  Take  them  out  with  a 
skimmer,  dish  them  neatly  on  a  tiny  hot  platter. 

For  the  aged  one  may  use  a  tablespoonful  of  cream 
sauce  or  sauce  Hollandaise ;  for  the  obese,  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  reduced  tomato  or  horseradish  sauce. 

MUTTON    CASSEROLE 

Wash  and  boil  six  tablespoonfuls  of  rice;  when  this  is 
dry  put  it  into  an  ordinary  custard  cup,  pressing  it  to  the 
sides  and  bottom,  leaving  a  well  in  the  center.  Cut  suffi- 
cient cold  cooked  mutton  into  dice  to  fill  the  well,  season 
with  a  little  salt,  put  over  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  rice,  stand  the  cup  in  a  baking 
pan  of  water,  cover  with  greased  paper  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  twenty  minutes.  While  this  is  baking,  rub 
together  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour,  add  a 
half  cupful  of  milk,  boil,  add  a  half  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
Turn  the  casserole  out  on  the  serving  dish,  pour  around 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  225 

the  cream,  sauce,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 
This  is  a  dainty,  easily-digested  dish ;  nice  for  tubercu- 
losis patients,  or  children,  or  for  the  aged. 

VEAL 

Veal  is  an  unfit  food  for  the  sick,  because  the  flesh 
is  dense  and  difficult  of  digestion — the  juices  are  rich  in 
albumin,  which  hardens  under-  the  influence  of  heat.  In 
gastric  troubles,  however,  veal  broth  is  to  be  recommended. 
In  purchasing  veal,  see  that  it  is  not  too  young,  the  flesh 
is  pink  and  the  bones  hard.  Avoid  veal  where  the  flesh 
has  a  bluish  tinge  and  is  soft  and  flabby. 

The  knuckle,  which  is  the  lower  part  of  the  leg  after 
the  cutlets  are  taken  off,  and  the  neck  are  the  best  pieces 
for  soup  and  broth. 

The  sweetbreads  are  a  part  of  the  digestive  viscera 
of  the  calf,  hence  are  easily  digested;  when  simply  cooketf 
and  not  covered  with  rich  sauces  or  mixed  with  mush- 
rooms, they  require  only  one  hour  for  perfect  digestion. 
They  are  rich  in  protein,  but  not  as  stimulating  as  lean 
flesh.  They  are  sold  in  the  market  in  pairs ;  the  short, 
chubby  one  is  called  by  the  butchers  the  "heart"  sweet- 
bread; the  long  one,  the  thymus  gland,  is  called  by  the 
butchers  the  "throat"  sweetbread ;  this  is  not  as  tender  as 
the  "heart"  sweetbread.  The  thymus  gland,  however,  is 
just  as  good  for  creamed  sweetbreads,  so  in  purchasing 
a  pair,  save  the  "heart"  sweetbread,  the  pancreas,  for  broil- 
ing or  baking,  and  the  thymus  gland  for  picking  apart. 
They  hold  digestive  secretions,  which  naturally  causes  them 
to  spoil  quickly ;  in  fact,  they  will  digest  themselves  unless 
they  are  cooked  or  chilled  as  soon  as  they  are  taken  from 
the  calf. 

To  prepare,  put  them  first  into  cold  water,  wash  them, 

cover  them  with  boiling  water,  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of 

salt  and  simmer  gently  three-quarters  of  an  hour;   then  put 

them  in  a  cloth  or  bag  and  on  the  ice.    They  will  keep  for  one 

15 


226  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

or  two  days.    They  are  now  ready  for  dressing  or  reheating 
according  to  the  following  recipes : 

BROILED  SWEETBREADS 

Split  a  prepared  ''heart"  sweetbread  into  three  slices,  put 
it  on  a  broiler  over  a  clear  fire,  browning  first  one  side,  then 
the  other.  Serve  it  at  once  with  a  little  butter  and  salt. 
For  a  convalescing  patient,  serve  with  it  a  spoonful  of 
green  peas,  or  it  may  be  served  on  a  piece  of  crisp  toast. 

BAKED    SWEETBREADS 

Remove  the  membrane  from  the  outside  of  a  prepared 
"*heart"  sweetbread,  brush  it  with  melted  butter,  dust  it  with 
salt,  wrap  it  in  a  piece  of  oiled  letter  paper  or  put  it  in  a  paper 
bag,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  thirty  minutes. 
Transfer  it  to  a  small  heated  dish,  and  pour  over  it  the 
sauce  from  the  bag. 

This  may  be  served  to  an  invalid  with  very  young, 
tiny,  fresh  peas,  or  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  puree  of 
green  peas. 

TO    CREAM    SWEETBREADS 

Pick  apart  one  prepared  sweetbread,  rejecting  all  the 
membrane.  One  gland  will  make  two  meals.  Moisten  two 
level  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk,  add  a  half 
cupful  of  hot  milk,  and  when  boiling  add  half  a  sweetbread. 
Stand  the  saucepan  in  another  of  hot  water,  cover  and  cook 
slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter.  Serve  on  toast  or  in  a  border  of  carefully-boiled 
rice. 

SWEETBREADS    IN    JELLY 

Boil  a  pair  of  sweetbreads  as  directed ;  put  them  aside 
to  cool.  When  cool,  pick  the  sweetbreads  apart,  rejecting 
all  the  membrane.    Cover  a  half  box  of  gelatin  with  a  half 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  227 

cupful  of  cold  water,  let  it  soak  for  a  half  hour,  then  add 
one  cupful  of  boiling  stock,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  beef  ex- 
tract, a  half  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt  and  ten  drops  of  onion 
juice ;  strain,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Put  the 
sweetbreads  in  a  round  or  square  mold,  pour  over  the  liquid 
jelly,  just  enough  to  cover,  and  stand  aside  in  a  cold  place. 
This  may  be  served  with  fresh  celery  or  cress,  or  tender 
lettuce  salad.     A  nice  dish  for  the  obese. 

LIVER 

The  liver,  heart  and  kidneys  of  both  veal,  mutton,  lamb 
and  beef  are  unfit  food  for  the  sick. 


228  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

POULTRY  AND  GAME 

Poultry  for  the  well  and  the  sick  should  be  in  perfectly- 
fresh  condition,  not  cold  storage.  Chickens  and  turkeys 
should  be  dry  picked,  not  scalded;  this  is  especially  impor- 
tant for  young-  chickens,  as  they  are  so  small  that  dipping 
them  in  a  bucket  of  hot  water  blanches  and  partly  cooks 
the  flesh  next  to  the  skin,  which  causes  them  to  spoil 
quickly,  and  destroys  the  flavor. 

TO   SELECT  CHICKENS 

For  Broiling — Purchase  a  young  chicken  with  firm  flesh, 
yellow  skin  and  legs,  and  with  a  soft  point  to  the  breastbone. 
It  should  not  weigh  over  one  and  a  half  pounds. 

A  Squab  Chicken  is  simply  a  young  chicken  not  weigh- 
ing over  one  pound. 

For  Boiling,  Baking,  Stewing  and  Soup  Making — Pur- 
chase a  chicken  at  least  one  year  old.  The  breastbone  will 
be  a  little  hard  at  the  end,  but  easily  broken ;  if  it  is  pointed 
and  resists  pressure,  it  is  a  fowl,  not  a  chicken. 

TO  DRAW  A  CHICKEN 

Draw  the  chickens  as  soon  as  they  come  from  the  mar- 
ket, and  put  them  at  once  in  a  cold  place.  Cut  off  the  feet 
and  head,  split  the  skin  down  the  back  of  the  neck,  detach 
it  from  the  neck,  draw  it  down  over  the  breast,  take  out  the 
crop  without  breaking  it,  and  cut  the  neck  off  close  to  the 
body.  Turn  the  chicken  over,  make  a  vent  under  the  rump 
large  enough  to  easily  draw  out  the  intestines ;  put  in  your 
finger  and  loosen  the  internal  organs — liver,  heart,  gizzard, 
lungs  and  entrails ;  grasp  the  gizzard  and  pull  carefully, 
bringing  them  all  out  together,  unbroken.  With  a  sharp 
knife  cut  around  the  vent  of  the  large  intestine,  and  your 
chicken  is  clean.  Be  very  careful  not  to  break  the  gall  bag 
or  intestines,  as  the  contents  of  either  would  render  the 
fowl  uneatable  to  the  sick.  The  contents  of  the  intestines 
are  offensive,  and  no  amount  of  soaking  or  washing  will 
remove  the  odor  and  flavor  from  the  meat. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  229 

Do  not  soak  chickens  in  water.  I  cannot  speak  too 
strongly  against  this  abominable  practice.  As  soon  as  the 
chicken  is  carefully  drawn,  get  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  a 
piece  of  cheesecloth,  wash  the  skin  thoroughly,  wring  out 
the  cloth  and  wipe  the  chicken  inside  and  out ;  put  it  on  a 
dry  plate  and  stand  in  a  cold  place.  The  soaking  of  meats 
in  cold  water  draws  out  the  nourishment  and  flavor. 

Do  not  use  the  giblets  for  the  sick. 

These  directions  for  drawing  will  answer  for  turkeys, 
chickens,  ducks  and  all  kinds  of  birds. 

TO    BROIL    A    CHICKEN 

Select  a  very  young  chicken,  draw  it  carefully;  wash 
quickly  and  wipe  it  dry ;  put  it  in  a  broiler  and  then  over 
a  clear  fire,  bone  side  down ;  broil  slowly  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, then  turn  it  and  broil  on  the  other  side  for  ten 
minutes.  If  you  use  a  gas  stove,  put  it  under  the  gas  jets 
bone  side  up,  then  turn  it  and  broil  on  the  other  side.  As 
soon  as  it  is  done,  dish  it  on  a  heated  plate;  spread  it 
lightly  with  very  sweet  butter  and  use  at  once. 

The  half  of  a  "squab"  chicken  will  be  quite  enough  for 
a  single  feeding. 

TO    BROIL    BIRDS 

Split  the  birds  down  the  back,  remove  the  intestines ; 
with  a  damp  cloth  wash  and  wipe  the  birds  quickly,  sprinkle 
the  bone  side  with  salt,  brush  the  skin  with  a  little  melted 
butter,  and  broil  precisely  the  same  as  you  would  broil  a 
chicken.  Serve  plain  on  a  heated  platter,  or  serve  on  a  slice 
of  nicely-toasted  bread. 

TO  BROIL  CHICKEN  IN  AN  OVEN 

Conveniences  for  broiling  are  sometimes  lacking  even 
in  well-regulated  households.  One  can  always  broil  over 
coal  or  wood,  but  in  the  summer  where  oil  or  gasoline  is 
used  it  is  necessary  to  "oven  broil."    Wash  the  grate  in  the 


230  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

oven.  Light  the  oven  burners  and  see  that  the  oven  is  very 
hot  before  putting  in  the  chicken  or  birds.  Sprinkle  the 
bone  side  with  salt,  brush  the  skin  side  with  butter  and 
dust  it  lightly  with  dry  bread  crumbs.  Put  them  on  the 
rack,  bone  side  down,  put  a  pan  underneath,  close  the  door 
and  cook  for  a  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  if  care- 
fully done  the  chicken  will  be  juicy  and  tender. 

This  is  not  an  inferior  way  of  cooking  a  chicken,  pro- 
vided the  oven  is  hot  at  first. 

TO    COOK    CHICKEN    IN    A    PAPER    BAG 

This  perhaps  is  one  of  the  best  ways  of  cooking  chicken 
for  the  sick.  There  are  very  good,  logical,  scientific  reasons 
for  using  a  bag  or  oiled  paper  for  oven  cooking  of  meats. 

This  method  of  cooking  retains  all  the  nutritious  quali- 
ties, and  the  meat  does  not  shrink  or  become  dry,  and  is 
never  greasy. 

Heat  the  oven  at  least  ten  minutes  before  putting  in 
the  chicken  or  bird ;  300°  Fahr.  is  just  about  right.  Dust 
the  chicken  with  salt,  brush  it  with  a  little  melted  butter, 
put  it  in  a  paper  bag,  fold  over  the  end  of  the  bag  and 
fasten  it ;  place  the  bag  on  a  grate  in  a  pan,  and  at  once  in 
the  oven ;  cook  thirty-five  minutes.  Slide  the  chicken  from 
the  bag  to  a  serving  dish,  and  pour  over  the  sauce. 

TO    PAN    A    CHICKEN 

Draw  and  split  the  chicken  down  the  back ;  it  must  not 
weigh  over  one  and  a  half  pounds.  Put  half  of  it  in  a 
granite  roasting  pan,  bone  side  down,  put  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  water  in  the  pan,  run  it  in  a  quick  oven 
and  bake  for  thirty-five  minutes.  If  the  water  evaporates 
quickly,  add  a  little  more.  When  the  chicken  is  half  done 
dust  it  with  salt,  and  if  admissible  a  suspicion  of  pepper. 
When  it  is  nicely  browned  dish  it  on  a  dainty  platter,  put  a 
little  quill  of  paper  over  the  leg  bone,  spread  over  a  little 
sweet  butter  and  serve. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  231 

Chickens  may  stand  a  moment  after  they  are  cooked, 
before  serving;  they  do  not  become  heavy  or  sodden  like 
beef  or  mutton. 

CHICKEN    FRICASSEE 

Select  a  fowl  one  year  old  and  not  too  fat.  For  the 
sick,  use  only  the  white  meat.  Draw  the  chicken,  take  off 
the  second  joints  and  with  a  cleaver  or  heavy  knife  chop 
and  slash  the  leg,  beginning  at  the  lower  bone.  Put  the 
back  and  the  dark  meat  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  quart  of  cold 
water,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  skim.  Cut  the  breast 
into  halves,  put  these  halves  on  top  of  the  dark  meat  in 
the  saucepan,  cover  and  simmer  it  gently  for  two  hours,  or 
until  the  white  meat  is  perfectly  tender.  Remove  the  white 
meat,  put  one  half  aside  for  other  dishes — souffle,  boudins 
or  a  mince.  For  the  fricassee,  rub  together  two  kvel  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  of  flour,  add  a  half  cupful  of 
the  liquor  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled,  stir  until  boil- 
ing and  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  the  breast  to 
the  sauce,  cover  and  stand  the  saucepan  over  hot  water  for 
ten  minutes.  Have  ready  boiled,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rice, 
dish  the  chicken  on  a  dainty  little  platter,  heap  the  rice  at 
one  end  of  the  platter  and  serve.    Use  the  water  for  broth. 

CHICKEN    SOUFFLE 

Chop  sufficient  cooked  white  meat  of  chicken  to  make 
four  tablespoonfuls ;  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick 
cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  dry  bread  crumbs,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  then  mix  in  the  well-beaten  white  of 
one  tgg.  Heap  this  in  a  tiny  baking  or  ramekin  dish,  or 
on  a  shell ;  dust  with  bread  crumbs,  brown  quickly  in  a  hot 
oven  and  serve  at  once. 

It  will  fall  if  it  stands. 

GERMAN    CHICKEN    PUFF 

Bake  one  good-sized  potato;  when  done,  cut  off  the 
end,  scoop  out  the  flesh   and   put   it  through   a   sieve  or 


232  MRS.    RORER^S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 

vegetable  press ;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  finely-chopped  cooked  white  meat  of  chicken,  mix 
thoroughly,  and  fold  in  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg. 
Put  this  back  into  the  potato  "shell,"  brush  the  top  with 
milk  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

CHICKEN    IN    POTATO    CASES 

Chop  sufficient  cold  cooked  chicken  to  make  four  table- 
spoonfuls  ;  put  it  in  a  small  saucepan  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  if  admissible 
a  suspicion  of  pepper;  cover  the  saucepan  and  stand  it  over 
a  teakettle  of  hot  water  for  ten  minutes  to  heat.  Have 
ready  baked  a  good-sized  perfect  potato,  cut  a  slice  from  the 
side,  or  the  end,  whichever  seems  best ;  scoop  out  the  flesh 
of  the  potato,  leaving  a  wall  a  half  inch  thick.  Fill  the 
potato  with  the  hot  chicken,  dish  it  on  a  napkin  and  serve 
at  once. 

The  portion  of  the  potato  scooped  out  may  be  used  for 
another  dish. 

MINCED    CHICKEN    ON    TOAST 

Cut  half  the  white  meat  of  a  young  chicken  into  dice. 
Put  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  in  a  saucepan, 
mix,  and  add  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  stir  over  the  fire  until 
it  reaches  boiling  point,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  celery  salt 
and  the  chicken ;  cover  the  saucepan  and  stand  it  over  hot 
water  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Trim  the  crust  from  a 
square  of  bread  and  toast  it  until  a  golden  brown;  put  it 
on  a  tiny  platter  and  heap  the  chicken  on  top.  If  admis- 
sible, garnish  the  top  with  a  teaspoonful  of  nicely-cooked 
green  peas,  or  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

GOLDEN    CHICKEN 

Make  precisely  the  same  as  minced  chicken  on  toast, 
and  when  ready  to  serve,  grate  over  the  top  the  hard-boiled 
yolk  of  one  egg. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  233 

CEYLON  CHICKEN 

In  cases  of  long-continued  feeding  for  invalids,  the 
aged,  or  tuberculosis  patients,  variety  is  the  spice  of  life. 
Ceylon  chicken  may  be  made  from  any  left-over  chicken 
that  has  been  carefully  cooked,  and  gives  a  palatable,  easily- 
digested,  attractive  dish.  Cut  sufficient  cooked  white  meat 
of  chicken  to  make  a  half  cupful.  Grate  a  cocoanut,  pour 
over  it  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  let  it  stand  a  minute,  stir 
until  the  cocoanut  is  thoroughly  saturated  with  the  water, 
then  put  it  into  a  cheesecloth  or  a  bag  and  squeeze  it  dry. 
Put  the  chicken  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  half  cupful  of  the 
cocoanut  "milk"  thus  made,  bring  it  slowly  to  boiling 
point,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch that  has  been  moistened  in  a  little  of  the  cold  cocoa- 
nut  ''cream."  Serve  in  a  border  of  rice.  If  the  cocoanut 
milk  stands  but  a  few  minutes  the  cream  Avill  come  to  the 
surface.  The  remaining  cocoanut  "milk"  and  "cream"  may 
be  saved  for  cooking  other  meats  or  vegetables. 

CHICKEN  TIMBALE 

Cut  half  the  white  meat,  four  ounces,  from  a  young,  un- 
cooked chicken ;  put  this  raw  meat  twice  through  a  meat 
chopper,  put  it  into  a  bowl,  rub  it  with  the  back  of  a  spoon 
until  it  forms  a  paste;  add  slowly  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  and  the  unbeaten  white  of  one  egg;  when  thoroughly 
mixed  add  a  tablespoonful  of  soft  bread  crumbs  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Press  this  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  fold 
in  the  well-beaten  white  of  another  egg.  Grease  two  cus- 
tard cups  or  timbale  molds  with  a  little  olive  oil  or  melted 
butter,  line  the  bottom  with  a  piece  of  white  paper,  fill  in 
the  mixture,  stand  them  in  a  baking  pan  of  boiling  water, 
cover  the  tops  with  oiled  paper,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  twenty  minutes.  While  these  are  cooking,  rub  to- 
gether a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour,  add  a  half 
cupful  of  milk,  stir  until  boiling,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
and  pour  on  a  tiny  serving  platter;    turn  out  one  timbale 


234  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

into  the  sauce,  garnish  the  dish  with  a  sprig  of  parsley  and 
serve.  This  is  one  of  the  most  dehcate,  easily-digested  and 
attractive  of  the  chicken  dishes.  It  is  admirable  for  conva- 
lescing typhoid  patients  who  are  allowed  solid  or  semi-solid 
food. 

To  Give  Variety — For  another  meal  heat  the  mold  left 
over  by  standing  it  in  boiling  water  over  the  fire  or  in  the 
oven.  If  admissible  cook  a  cupful  of  green  peas  and  press 
them  through  a  sieve;  they  should  be  as  dry  as  mashed 
potato.  Season  nicely  with  a  little  salt  and  butter,  put  them 
on  a  serving  dish,  dish  the  timbale  at  one  side,  or  in  the 
center,  and  send  to  the  table. 

JUGGED  CHICKEN 

In  making  chicken  broth,  save  the  white  meat  for 
other  dishes.  After  the  chicken  has  been  boiled  tender  in 
the  broth,  remove  the  breasts  and  put  them  aside  for  any 
of  the  preceding  recipes.  For  jugging:  Put  half  the 
breast  while  hot  in  a  small  baking  dish  or  casserole  mold, 
dust  it  lightly  with  celery  salt,  add  sufficient  stock  to  just 
cover,  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  cover  the 
dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour.  Serve  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  cooked. 

LARDED  QUAIL 

Clean  and  truss  the  bird,  wrap  around  the  thinnest  pos- 
sible slice  of  bacon,  put  it  in  a  small  baking  dish  and  run 
it  in  a  quick  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  the  bacon 
and  serve  on  toast.  Any  other  small  birds  may  be  dressed 
and  cooked  after  this  recipe. 

BROILED  CANVASBACK  DUCK 

Remove  half  the  breast  from  a  canvasback  duck,  put 
it  in  a  broiler,  broil  over  a  hot  fire  ten  minutes,  turning  once, 
then  dust  it  lightly  with  salt,  brush  it  with  a  little  melted 
butter,  broil  two  minutes  longer  and  serve. 


MRS.    RORER's  diet   FOR   THE   SICK  235 

The  flavor  of  the  duck  is  best  preserved  by  cooking  it 
quickly  and  serv^ing  it  at  once  on  a  hot  plate.  Serve  v^ith 
the  duck  a  little  boiled  rice,  currant  jelly  and  very  tender 
young  celery  or  lettuce. 

VENISON  WITH  ORANGE  SAUCE 

Grate  the  yellow  rind  of  half  an  orange  into  a  sauce- 
pan, add  a  dash  of  Tabasco,  a  half  cupful  of  chicken  stock 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt;  simmer  gently  about  ten  min- 
utes, then  add  the  juice  of  the  orange  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  port  wine;  stand  this  to  keep  hot  while  you  quickly  broil 
a  portion  of  venison  steak.  Dish  it  quickly  on  a  hot  plate, 
pour  over  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  hot  sauce  and  serve. 
Serve  venison  rare. 

BONED    SQUABS 

After  the  squabs  have  been  carefully  picked,  cut  off 
the  legs  near  the  body,  and  the  head  and  wings.  Cut  the 
skin  down  the  back,  and  then  with  a  small,  sharp  knife 
remove  the  moat  from  the  carcass,  keeping  the  knife  pressed 
flat  against  the  bones.  When  the  leg  and  wing  joints  are 
reached,  unjoint  them  quickly  without  cutting  the  breast. 
When  the  flesh  has  been  freed  from  the  bones,  put  it  into 
shape,  dust  it  lightly  with  salt,  and  broil  quickly  as  you 
would  a  chicken.  Dish  on  a  heated  plate,  put  over  a  little 
butter  and  serve. 

Squabs  may  be  baked  whole,  without  stufifing,  and 
served  with  green  peas,  to  patients  who  can  take  solid  foods 
of  this  kind.  Convalescing  patients,  who  can  eat  solid  food, 
usually  prefer  broiled  or  baked  squab  on  toast, 

BOILED    PIGEON 

Draw  and  truss  the  bird,  put  it  at  once  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water.  Boil  rapidly  five  minutes,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  a  bay  leaf,  cover  and  cook  at  170°  Fahr.  for  an 
hour.    Serve  hot. 


236  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

SAUCES 
INDIVIDUAL    RECIPES 

All  sauces  are  quite  easily  made.  The  points  to  be 
remembered  are  that  the  fat  and  flour  must  be  rubbed 
together  and  not  heated;  the  liquid  material  as  a  rule 
must  be  added  cold,  and  the  sauce  stirred  over  hot  water 
until  it  thickens.  For  the  sick,  however,  it  is  wise  to  add 
the  butter  last,  as  in  almost  all  cases  heated  butter  dis- 
agrees. Sauce  made  according  to  the  following  recipes 
may  be  eaten,  by  persons  who  have  weak  digestion,  with- 
out any  serious  results.  Avoid  in  all  cases  of  sickness  heated 
butter.  If  butter  must  be  added  to  vegetables  or  meats,  put 
it  on  after  they  are  dished,  which  will  allow  it  to  melt  at 
low  temperature. 

SAUCE  a  la  POULETTE 

Beat  the  yolk  of  one  tgg  until  creamy,  add  slowly  one 
gill  (a  half  cupful)  of  hot  chicken  stock  or  bouillon,  and  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt ;  stir  it  over  hot  water  for  a  minute  until 
smooth  like  mayonnaise ;  be  careful  not  to  curdle. 

BROWN    SAUCE 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  stock  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  flour  moistened  in  a  little  cold  stock,  stir 
and  boil  five  minutes,  take  from  the  fire,  add  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  browning  or  kitchen  bouquet,  a  level  teaspoonful  of 
butter  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Strain  and  it  is  ready 
for  use. 

CREAM  SAUCE  I 

Put  a  half  cupful  (one  gill)  of  milk  in  a  saucepan,  over 
a  moderate  fire,  add  half  a  level  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch 
moistened  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  milk.  When  this 
thickens,  take  it  from  the  fire,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

A  teaspoonful  of  flour  may  be  substituted  for  the  corn- 
starch. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  237 

CREAM   SAUCE  II 

Put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  in  a  china  cup,  stand 
it  in  a  little  pan  of  hot  water  and  stir  it  until  it  is  palatably 
hot,  and  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.     Use  at  once. 

This  sauce  can  be  used  in  diabetic  cases. 

EGG    SAUCE 

Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg  until  creamy,  add  slowly  a 
half  cupful  (one  gill)  of  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  while. 
Stand  the  cup  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water,  and  when  the 
sauce  is  the  consistency  of  mayonnaise  take  it  from  the  fire, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
dash  of  lemon  juice. 

Serve  on  green  vegetables  for  diabetic,  rheumatic  a,nd 
gouty  patients. 

MAITRE    d'HOTEL 

Beat  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  a  cream,  adding 
gradually  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  When  thoroughly 
mixed,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  finely-chopped  parsley, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt,  not  more  than  ten  grains.  Heap  in  a 
tiny  dish  and  stand  aside  until  cold. 

Serve  on  broiled,  boiled  or  baked  fish. 

MELTED    BUTTER    SAUCE 

Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  china  cup,  stand 
the  cup  in  a  little  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  let  the 
butter  quietly  melt.  Pour  off  the  top,  leaving  the  sediment 
in  the  bottom.     Stand  the  *butter  aside  to  harden. 

This  may  be  used  over  vegetables  or  meat  dishes,  as 
directed. 

Where  a  restricted  diet  must  be  continued  for  a  long 
time,  and  melted  butter  is  admissible,  it  is  wise  to  melt  a 
half  pound  at  a  time  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler. 
Butter  melted  in  this  way  is  called,  in  cooking  terms, 
"clarified"  butter. 


238  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

Peel  two  solid,  good-sized,  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  them  into 
halves  and  squeeze  out  the  seeds.  Cut  the  tomato  into  bits, 
put  it  in  a  granite  or  porcelain  saucepan,  cover  and  stew 
fifteen  minutes ;  press  through  a  sieve.  Boil  this  to  the 
proper  consistency,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  five  grains  of  powdered  mace,  and  stir  in  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  butter. 

This  may  be  used  in  diabetic  or  other  cases  where 
tomatoes  are  allowable. 


APPLE    SAUCE 

Wash  one  large  tart  apple,  cut  it  into  quarters,  remove 
the  seeds,  slice  the  apple,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  suffi- 
cient water  to  cover;  cover  the  saucepan,  bring  quickly  to 
a  boil,  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  and  turn  it  at  once  into  a  sauce  boat. 

Serve  with  roasted  duck  or  goose. 


CRANBERRY    SAUCE 

Wash  a  half  pint  of  cranberries,  put  them  into  a  porce- 
lain or  granite  saucepan  with  one  gill  (a  half  cupful)  of 
water.  Cover  the  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling  point,  and 
press  through  a  sieve.  Return  the  pulp  to  the  saucepan, 
add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  boil  five  minutes  and  cool. 


GOOSEBERRY    SAUCE 

Top  and  tail  a  half  pint  of  ripe  gooseberries,  put  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  cupful  of  water.  Cover,  bring 
to  a  boil,  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar  and  cool. 

Serve  with  meats. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE    SICK  239 

CELERY  SAUCE 

Chop  fine  two  of  the  outside  stalks  of  celery,  with 
the  green  tops.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half 
pint  of  cold  water,  cover,  boil  slowly  for  thirty  minutes, 
and  drain.  Thicken  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  or  one 
of  cornstarch  moistened  with  a  little  water.  Add  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  take  from  the  fire  and  add  a  level  teaspoon ful 
of  butter  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 

For  diabetic  patients  thicken  this  with  the  yolk  of 
egg,  and  omit  the  cornstarch  and  flour. 


240  MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE   SICK 


CONDIMENTS 

This  group,  salt,  pepper,  vinegar,  such  spices  as  cinna- 
mon, allspice,  cloves,  mustard,  cayenne,  nutmeg,  mace, 
ginger  and  curry  pow^der,  have  not  the  slightest  place  in 
diet  for  the  sick.  As  astringents,  some  of  them  may  be 
used  to  advantage  in  chronic  diarrhoea,  or  just  a  suspicion 
may  be  used  to  liven  up  some  tasteless  dish  that  may  be 
beneficial  to  the  patient. 

Perhaps  white  and  black  pepper,  and  mustard,  are  the 
most  dangerous  of  the  group.  If  pepper  is  to  be  used  for 
the  sick,  and  I  cannot  see  w^hy  it  should  be,  a  half  drop 
of  Tabasco  is  far  less  injurious  and  far  more  palatable  than 
a  saltspoonful  of  black  pepper.  Black  pepper,  no  matter 
hov^  finely  ground,  is  indestructible  and  frequently  very  irri- 
tating, and  if  used  should  alv^ays  be  strained  out. 

When  making  cinnamon  tea  or  spice  tea,  always  use 
the  whole  spices  and  strain  them  out. 

A  dash  of  nutmeg  is  an  improvement  to  an  ordinary 
eggnog. 

Nutmeg  and  ginger  tea  are  used  in  cases  of  chronic 
diarrhoea. 

Avoid  mustard  except  for  outward  applications. 

In  this  group  we  might  also  place  such  flavorings  as 
vanilla,  bitter  almond  and  extracts  of  lemon  and  orange. 
I  can  only  say  avoid  them  all.  Vanilla  is  truly  medicinal, 
and  when  made  into  extract  is  frequently  adulterated  with 
harmful  materials. 

Use  for  flavoring  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  an  orange 
or  lemon,  and  fresh  fruit  juices. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  241 

MILK 

Milk  is  a  typical  or  perfect  food.  By  this  we  mean  it 
contairls  all  the  necessary  elements  to  sustain  life  and  build 
and  repair  the  tissues  of  the  young  mmnmalia  during  the 
period  of  rapid  growth.  It  is  especially  suited  to  the  aged, 
invalids  and  diet  for  the  sick.  Milk  is  a  food,  not  a  beverage, 
and  must  not  be  taken  as  a  beverage  with  heavy  meals  of 
meat  and  vegetables.  It  is  not  a  desirable  food  for  active 
adults,  and  when  swallowed  rapidly  like  water,  produces 
discomfort  and  frequently  indigestion. 

All  foods,  liquid,  semi-solid  and  solid,  should  be  masti- 
cated sufficiently  long  to  be  mingled  with  the  mouth  secre- 
tions. The  carbohydrate  of  milk  is  lactose  or  milk  sugar, 
not  so  sweet  as  cane  sugar,  and  less  liable  to  fermentation. 
Milk  for  the  well  and  for  the  sick  must  be  perfectly  sweet, 
clean,  and  should  be  kept  in  a  cold  place,  in  covered  bottles. 
If  left  open  in  the  refrigerator,  it  absorbs  odors  and  flavors 
of  other  foods.  It  may  be  used  warm,  hot  or  cold,  according 
to  the  physician's  orders,  but  should  not  in  any  case  be  iced. 

THE  DIGESTIBILITY   OF  MILK 

Milk  is  difficult  of  digestion  when  swallowed  rapidly, 
because  the  rennin  in  the  gastric  secretions  coagulates  it 
the  same  as  it  does  when  added  to  milk  for  junket.  This 
curd  remains  hard  and  dense  in  the  stomach  for  some  time, 
causing  discomfort  and  flatulency.  Junket  is  recommended 
because  it  can  be  masticated  and  the  curd  broken  up,  which 
aids  in  its  digestion. 

Many  people  think  they  cannot  take  milk,  that  it  makes 
them  "bilious,"  that  it  disagrees  with  them ;  in  nine  cases 
out  of  ten  it  is  because  they  drink  it  rapidly.  If  too  weak 
to  masticate  it,  the  patient  may  hold  it  in  the  mouth.  Water 
gruels  added  to  the  curd,  make  it  more  acceptable  and  more 
digestible.  If  the  patient  is  on  the  back  and  the  head  can- 
not be  lifted,  give  milk  and  barley  water  through  an 
•adjustable  glass  tube.  The  patient  in  drawing  the  milk 
through  the  tube  excites  and  draws  out  the  secretions  of 

16 


242  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

the   mouth,   which    mingle   with  the   milk   and   aid   in    its 
digestion. 

The  following  table  gives  the  comparative  composition 
of  different  m^ilk : 

Human  Cows'      Goats'     Mares' 

Fat    3.3  4.0            4.3            I.I 

Sugar  (lactose)    ..            6.8  4.8            4.0            6.7 

Proteids   1.8  3.5  •         4.6            1.9 

Ash  0.2  0.7            0.6            0,3 

COMPOSITION    OF    SKIMMED    MILK 

In  100  Parts 

Water   i 90.5 

Casein  and  Albumin   3.5 

Milk  fat  0.4 

Milk  sugar   4.8 

Mineral  matter    0.8 

TO  CHANGE  THE  TASTE  OF  MILK 

In  cases  where  milk  feeding  must  be  prolonged,  and 
the  flavor  of  raw  milk  is  objectionable,  change  it,  and  speak 
of  it  to  the  patient,  for  the  mind  has  great  influence  over 
the  palate.  The  taste  is  not  natural  in  fevers;  even  the  best 
of  foods  are  unattractive. 

CARAMEL    MILK 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  dry  sugar  into  a  saucepan  and 
stand  it  over  the  fire ;  in  a  moment  the  sugar  will  melt  and 
begin  tO)  smoke;  add  a  half  cupful  of  water,  boil  a  minute, 
cool  and  bottle.  A  few  drops  added  to  milk  will  entirely 
change  its  flavor  and  will  not  only  make  it  agreeable  but 
attractive  to  the  patient.     Caramel  will  keep  for  months. 

RAISIN    MILK 

Boil  twelve  raisins  in  a  cup  of  water  for  ten  minutes; 
drain,  pressing  the  raisins,  and  stand  this  liquid  aside  to 
cool.     When  cold  add  it  to  a  quart  of  milk. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  243 

CINNAMON    MILK 

A  stick  of  cinnamon  put  into  cold  milk  when  it  is  put 
away  in  the  morning,  or  a  clove,  or  a  bay  leaf,  will  fre- 
quently make  it  agreeable  to  people  who  dislike  milk. 

TO    STERILIZE    MILK 

Sterilized  milk  is  dead  milk.  In  boiling  all  the  natural 
micro-organisms  are  killed.  Boiled  milk  is  more  difficult  of 
digestion  than  raw  milk,  and  should  never  be  given  to 
infants  except  under  the  responsibility  of  a  physician. 
When  milk  is  heated  to  212°  Fahr.,  the  boiling  point  of 
water  at  sea  level,  it  does  not  necessarily  imply  that  it  is 
sterile  after  it  has  been  cooled,  unless  it  has  been  boiled  in 
bottles  stopped  with  cotton  plugs  or  corks  before  the  boiling. 

Milk  boiled  in  an  open  vessel,  allowed  to  cool  in  it, 
and  kept  in  it,  is  frequently  far  more  dangerous  than  raw 
milk. 

To  sterilize  milk  put  the  milk  into  perfectly  clean 
bottles  or  jars;  if  bottles,  stop  with  cotton  plugs  or  clean 
corks — cotton  plugs  are  preferable;  if  jars,  put  on  the 
tops,  give  a  single  turn,  stand  thiem  in  a  kettle  of  cold 
water,  cover,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  boil  continuously 
for  thirty  minutes.  Take  the  kettle  from  the  fire,  lift  the 
lid,  allow  the  milk  to  cool  in  the  water  and  put  it  at  once 
in  the  refrigerator. 

TO    PASTEURIZE    MILK 

Louis  Pasteur,  a  French  chemist  of  the  latter  part  of 
the  last  century,  found  that  milk  heated  to  165°  Fahr.  was 
practically  free  from  dangerous  bacteria  and  still  retained  a 
considerable  amount  of  its  own  life.  As  pasteurization  kills 
the  enzymes  in  the  milk  and  the  lactic  acid  ferment,  it  must 
be  as  carefully  cared  for  as  fresh  sweet  milk. 

Put  the  milk  into  scalded  bottles,  stop  the  necks  with 
cotton  plugs  that  have  been  thoroughly  baked,  stand  the 
bottles  in  a  large  kettle,  pour  around  enough  water  at  155° 


244  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Fahr.  to  come  to  the  necks  of  the  bottles  or  jars ;  be  careful 
that  they  do  not  float.  Take  the  kettle  from  the  fire,  or 
push  it  to  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  where  it  will  remain 
at  this  temperature  for  thirty  minutes.  Lift  the  bottles,  put 
them  into  a  pan  of  lukewarm  water,  stand  under  a  cold-water 
spigot  and  allow  a  small  stream  to  run  in  the  pan  until  the 
water  becomes  cold.  Put  them  in  the  refrigerator,  and  do 
not  remove  the  cotton  plugs  until  you  are  ready  to  use  them. 
Pasteurization  may  be  done  in  a  big  soup  kettle  or  a 
small  boiler.  If,  however,  it  is  necessary  to  pasteurize  for 
any  length  of  time,  better  buy  a  pasteurizing  outfit,  which 
can  be  purchased  at  any  drug  store  at  little  cost.  Cotton 
plugs  can  also  be  purchased,  and  are  far  better  than  corks. 
Before  using  them,  put  them  on  a  piece  of  paper  in  the 
bottom  of  a  pan,  to  bake  in  the  oven  until  slightly  colored ; 
put  them  at  once  into  a  scalded  dry  fruit  jar,  screw  on  the 
top  and  they  are  then  ready  for  use. 

MODIFIED   MILK   (Meiggs') 

Mix  two  ounces  of  sugar  of  milk  in  one  pint  of  pure 
water;  stand  it  on  the  ice  ready  for  use.  At  each  feeding, 
put  one  ounce  of  cream  in  the  feeding  bottle,  one  ounce 
of  fresh  cows'  milk,  half  an  ounce  of  lime  water  and  one  and 
a  half  ounces  of  solution  of  milk  sugar. 

ARTIFICIAL    MILK 

In  cases  where  the  infant  cannot  take  even  the  above 
amount  of  cows'  milk,  make  two  quarts  of  skimmed  milk 
into  junket.  Break  up  the  curd  with  a  fork,  and  strain 
carefully ;  bring  the  whey  to  a  boil,  and  while  hot  add  a 
level  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  of  milk.  When  cold, 
add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  one  pint  of  the  whey,  shake 
until  the  whites  are  thoroughly  blended,  add  them  to  the 
remaining  whey  and  add  a  half  pint  of  cream.     Keep  cold. 

The  writer  has  used  these  recipes  for  a  number  of  years 
with  excellent  results. 


245 

KOUMYS 

Heat  two  quarts  of  milk  to  ioo°  Fahr.,  boil  together 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  two  of  water;  add  this  to 
the  milk;  dissolve  a  third  of  a  compressed  yeast  cake  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  add  it  to  the  milk  and  fill  at 
once  into  bottles.  Cork  and  tie  down  the  corks  the  same 
as  for  champagne ;  stand  the  bottles  upright  in  a  tempera- 
ture of  65°  Fahr.  over  night ;"  next  morning  place  them 
carefully  on  their  sides  in  a  cold  place,  and  in  twenty-four 
hours  it  is  ready  for  use.  Open  the  bottles  with  a  cham- 
pagne tap. 

LEBAN 

To  make  good  Leban  and  Matzoon,  directions  must  be 
carefully  followed.  Put  two  quarts  of  milk  in  a  pan  over 
the  fire;  bring  it  to  almost  the  boiling  point  and  keep  it 
there  for  twenty  minutes.  When  it  is  covered  with  a  thick 
crust  or  skin  take  it  from  the  fire  and  cool  to  blood  heat, 
98°  Fahr.  Then  lift  carefully  one  side  of  the  skin  and  stir  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  Matzoon  or  Zoolak,  and  replace 
the  skin  carefully  without  tearing  it.  Cover  the  pan,  keep 
it  in  a  warm  place,  about  75°  Fahr.  for  six  or  seven  hours. 
You  should  have  by  this  time  a  perfectly  thick  milk  jelly. 
Serve  as  a  milk  jelly  or  remove  the  skin  and  stir  a  moment 
until  it  is  thin  enough  to  bottle.    Bottle  and  keep  on  the  ice. 

Matzoon  or  Zoolak  can  be  purchased  at  any  first-class 
drug  shop. 

This  is  exceedingly  useful  in  cases  of  stomach  troubles 
and  in  fevers  where  sweet  milk  disagrees. 

KEFIR 

Put  one  quart  of  fresh  new  milk  in  a  perfectly  clean 
two-quart  fruit  jar,  stand  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water, 
cover  the  kettle,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  boil  ten  minutes. 
Remove  the  jar  and  allow  the  milk  to  cool  to  100°  Fahr. 
Crush  two  Kefilac  tablets,  add  them  to  the  milk  in  the 
jar,  screw  on  the  top,  shake  thoroughly,  loosen  the  top,  then 


246  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

stand  it  aside  at  a  temperature  of  75°  for  twenty-four  hours ; 
shake  four  or  five  times  during  the  day  as  the  fermentation 
advances  and  thick  curds  form.  Stand  this  aside  in  a  cold 
place  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  It 
will  keep  from  forty-eight  to  fifty  hours. 

In  cases  of  constipation  it  should  be  used  at  the  end 
of  the  second  day.  If  kefir  is  to  be  used  any  length  of 
time,  two  pints  should  be  made  every  day,  so  the  patient 
will  never  be  without  it. 

KEFIR    WITH    EGG 

Add,  to  each  feeding  of  kefir,  a  tablespoonful  of  thick 
cream  and  the  white  of  one  egg,  beaten.  Put  the  cream  and 
white  of  egg  in  a  glass  and  fill  the  glass  with  kefir,  stir,  and 
it  is  ready  for  use.  Excellent  in  cases  of  ansemia  and  tuber- 
culosis. 

MILK,  EGGS    AND    BRANDY 

Scald  a  half  pint  of  new  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and 
stand  it  away  to  cool.  Separate  one  fresh  egg,  beat  the 
white  and  yolk  separately,  then  mix  them  together,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  again.  Stir  into 
this  mixture  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy,  pour  the  mixture 
into  a  tumbler  and  fill  the  tumbler  with  the  cold  scalded 
milk. 

Cold,  pasteurized  milk  or  pure  raw  may  be  used 
instead  of  scalded  milk. 

MILK,   RUM  AND   ISINGLASS 

Purchase  a  half  ounce  of  the  best  isinglass ;  take  one 
little  strip  which  would  make  a  tablespoonful  if  it  were 
powdered,  and  pour  over  it  a  half  cupful  of  warm  water; 
let  it  soak  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and  stir  it  over 
hot  water  until  the  isinglass  is  dissolved.  Take  from  the 
fire,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  rum.  Pour  this  into  a  tumbler,  and  fill  the  tumbler 
with  cold  milk. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  247 

ALMOND   MILK  WITH   ISINGLASS 

Put  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  isinglass  into  a  half 
pint  of  fresh  milk,  soak  ten  minutes,  and  when  the  isinglass 
is  dissolved  add  six  almonds  that  have  been  blanched  and 
pounded  or  ground  very  fine,  and  two  lumps  of  loaf  sugar. 
Stir  over  the  fire  and  cool. 

This  is  sufficient  for  one  feeding. 

Almond  milk  with  isinglass  is  very  grateful,  if  taken 
warm,  in  cases  of  tonsilitis ;  it  is  also  an  excellent  food 
in  certain  cases  of  stomach  trouble.  Strained,  with  sugar 
omitted,  it  may  be  given  in  typhoid  once  or  twice  a  day 
in  place  of  plain  milk. 

ASSES'    MILK 

Cover  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  gelatin 
with  a  half  cupful  of  cold  water,  soak  ten  minutes,  then  add 
a  half  pint  of  boiling  rice  or  barley  water,  take  from  the  fire 
and  strain.    When  cold  add  one  pint  of  cows'  milk. 

This  will  be  given  the  same  as  milk  and  barley  water 
in  fever  cases. 

TIGER'S  MILK 

This  is  a  very  desirable  hot  weather  food  for  old  per- 
sons who  are  inclined  to  diarrhoea.  Add  to  one  quart  of 
milk,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  the  quarter 
of  a  nutmeg,  grated,  two  drops  of  oil  of  orange,  and  just  a 
suspicion  of  ground  cloves.  Add  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Mix, 
strain  and  keep  in  the  cold.  Add  to  each  tumblerful,  at 
serving  time,  a  tablespoonful  of  blackberry  brandy.  Give 
it  slowly  through  a  straw. 

ORGEAT 

Blanch  and  pound  twenty-four  almonds.  Put  them  in 
a  quart  of  milk,  stir  Well  and  strain.  A  very  easily-digested 
and  nutritive  food.  A  bland  demulcent  for  an  irritated 
stomach. 


248  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

MILK    AND    LIME    WATER 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  lime  water  into  a  half  pint  of 
milk;  shake  it  in  a  fruit  jar,  turn  it  into  a  glass  and  use 
at  once. 

MILK    PUNCH 

Shake  a  half  pint  of  cold  milk  until  it  has  a  slight  froth 
on  the  surface;  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  syrup 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy  or  whisky,  dust  with  a  little 
nutmeg  and  serve. 

If  admissible,  put  on  top  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped 
cream. 

ALBUMINIZED    MILK 

Put  the  white  of  one  egg  and  a  half  pint  of  milk  into 
a  quart  fruit  jar,  screw  on  the  top  and  shake  it  well  for  a 
half  minute,  strain  and  serve  at  once.  Make  sure  the  jar 
and  top  are  perfectly  clean. 

GELATINIZED    MILK 

Wash  a  quarter  of  a  box  of  vegetable  gelatin  in  cold 
water,  drain  and  add  one  pint  of  cold  milk,  soak  in  a  cold 
place  for  one  hour.  Put  this  in  a  double  boiler,  stir  care- 
fully until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved,  take  from  the  fire,  and 
when  cold,  add  one  quart  of  fresh  sweet  milk  and  stand 
aside  in  a  cold  place. 

This  is  very  beneficial  in  cases  of  inflammatory  affec- 
tions of  the  alimentary  canal,  is  also  useful  in  whooping 
cough  and  for  any  disease  where  the  mucous  membranes 
are  inflamed. 

Plain  water  may  be  used  if  desired,  but  milk  gives  a 
greater  amount  of  nourishment. 

PLUM    PORRIDGE 

Stone  twenty-four  large  raisins,  cover  them  with  a 
half  pint  of  boiling  water,  boil  ten  minutes  and  strain.  Heat 
a  half  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler.     Moisten  a  level 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  249 

teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  milk,  add  it  to  the 
hot  milk,  stir  until  it  thickens,  and  add  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt;  add  the  raisin  water  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  is 
sufficient  for  two  feedings. 

ARROWROOT    MILK 

Put  a  half  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  one  level 
teaspoonful  of  arrowroot  moistened  in  a  little  cold  water, 
stir  until  the  mixture  thickens,  cover  the  vessel  and  cook 
ten  minutes.  One  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sherry  may  be  added  if  admissible. 

ARROWROOT    JELLY 
Two  Servings 

Put  a  half  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  arrowroot  moistened  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cold  milk ;  stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  cover 
the  boiler  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  into  a  small  in- 
dividual mold  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  This  should  be 
shaky  and  jelly-like,  but  not  too  stiff.  Serve  with  powdered 
sugar  and  cream. 

MILK   JELLY 
Two  Servings 

Cover  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  granulated  gelatin  with 
a  half  pint  of  cold  milk,  soak  for  thirty  minutes,  then  heat 
rt  in  a  double  boiler,  or  stand  the  bowl  over  hot  water  and 
stir  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved.  Strain  into  two  fancy 
individual  molds,  and  stand  at  once  on  the  ice.  In  case  of 
fever,  this  must  be  served  perfectly  plain,  without  sugar 
or  cream.  Convalescing  patients  may  dust  it  with  powdered 
sugar  and  serve  it  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

BLANCMANGE 

Two  Servings 
Put  a  half  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  moisten  a 
level  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch   in   three  tablespoonfuls 


250  MRS.    RORER*S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 

of  cold  milk,  add  it  to  the  hot  milk  and  cook  until  thick; 
turn  at  once  into  individual  molds.  At  serving  tim^e,  turn 
these  on  a  dainty  dish,  dust  it  thickly  with  grated  macaroon, 
or  sprinkle  over  some  blanched  almonds  that  have  been 
chopped  very,  very  fine,  or  serve  it  with  plain  cream  and 
sugar. 

ARROWROOT    MILK    GRUEL 
One  Serving 

Heat  a  half  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  add  a  half 
dozen  raisins  split  into  halves,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  arrow- 
root moistened  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk ;  cook  until 
thick,  and  strain.  This  may  be  served  hot  or  cold,  or,  if 
preferable,  without  sugar;  but  in  certain  cases,  as  phthisis, 
for  instance,  cream  may  be  added;  at  another  time,  sugar; 
never  both  at  the  same  time,  as  they  are  apt  to  cause  flatu- 
lency. 

FARINA    MILK    GRUEL 
One  Serving 

Put  a  half  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  or  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  heat  it  over  hot  water;  sprinkle  in  a  tablespoonful 
of  dry  farina,  stir  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Add  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  strain,  and  use  hot  or  cold. 

FARINA  BLANCMANGE 
Two  Servings 
Wash  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  farina,  drain, 
add  a  half  pint  of  milk,  soak  an  hour;  then  cook  it  in 
a  double  boiler,  until  thick,  about  fifteen  minutes ;  turn  into 
individual  molds  and  serve  cold  with  soft  custard  sauce, 
plain  cream,  or  with  a  little  sugar. 

GERMAN    FLOUR    GRUEL 

Put  one  pint  of  flour  into  a  small  strong  muslin  bag, 
tie,  leaving  very  little  room  for  swelling.  Put  this  into  a 
saucepan  of  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  boil  five 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  ^51 

hours.  When  done,  strip  off  the  bag,  take  off  the  damp 
outside  *'skin"  of  the  ball  and  let  it  stand  in  a  dry  place 
over  night. 

To  use :  Grate  enough  to  make  two  tablespoonfuls, 
moisten  it  with  a  little  cold  water,  then  add  a  half  pint 
of  boiling  water  and  stir  until  it  reaches  boiling  point; 
boil  about  two  minutes,  take  from  the  fire  and  when  cold 
add  a  half  pint  of  fresh  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

This  makes  an  exceedingly  nice  ''bottle  food"  for  in- 
fants when  starchy  foods  are  admissible. 

MEIGGS'  FOOD 

Soak  one  level  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  in 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  for  a  half  hour.  Moisten 
a  level  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cold  water,  then  add  hastily  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water, 
boil  until  clear,  then  add  the  gelatin,  stir  until  it  is  dis- 
solved, add  two  lumps  of  cut  loaf  sugar,  and  when  cool 
add  one  gill  of  good  cream. 

Use  warm  in  cases  of  diarrhoea. 

This  also  makes  a  very  nice  change  to  the  diet  of  a 
"bottle  baby"  who  is  inclined  to  constipation.  Use  sugar 
of  milk  in  place  of  cut  sugar. 

BARLEY    GRUEL 

One  Serving 

Put  a  half  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  one  level 

teaspoonful  of  barley  meal  moistened  in  a  little  cold  milk; 

soak  an  hour,  and  cook  for  at  least  twenty  minutes.     Take 

from  the  fire,  add  a  grain  of  salt,  and  cool. 

With  cream,  this  makes  a  nice  supper  soup  for  children 
or  the  aged. 

BARLEY  JELLY 

Wash  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pearled  barley  through 
several  cold  waters,  cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  and 
drain,  throwing  the  water  away.     Put  it  in  a  granite  or 


252  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

porcelain  kettle  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  boil  slowly 
for  two  hours,  until  the  quantity  is  reduced  to  one  pint ; 
strain  and  stand  aside  until  cold.  When  cold,  this  will  be 
a  clear,  white  jelly.  Serve  it  in  a  small  cereal  plate,  with 
two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  This  is  a  nice 
"cereal"  for  children  two  or  three  years  of  age. 

One  ounce  of  barley  jelly  dissolved  in  six  ounces  of 
sweet  milk,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  added,  is  rec- 
ommended for  a  child,  a  year  old,  who  is  troubled  with 
constipation ;  it  may  be  used  twice  a  day,  as  long  as  neces- 
sary. 

BLACK   CURRANT   GRUEL 

Stir  two  tablespoonfuls  of  black  currant  jelly  into  one 
quart  of  boiling  water,  boil  rapidly  fifteen  minutes,  strain 
and  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  arrowroot  moistened  in  a 
little  cold  water;  bring  again  to  boiling  point  and  stand 
it  near  the  ice  to  use  as  wanted. 

Useful  in  cases  of  diarrhoea. 

BLACKBERRY    GRUEL 

Wash  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ordinary  rice  through  sev- 
eral cold  waters ;  add  one  quart  of  water,  bring  to  boiling 
point  and  keep  it  just  below  boiling  point,  for  one  hour. 
Strain,  add  one  whole  clove,  a  bit  of  cinnamon  one  inch 
long,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  dry  Jamaica  ginger  and  a  half 
tumblerful  of  blackberry  jelly  or  jam,  bring  to  boiling  point 
and  cover  in  a  warm  place  for  a  half  hour.  Strain  through 
two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth  and  stand  near  the  ice. 

This  is  very  useful  in  cases  of  acute  or  chronic 
diarrhoea  and  in  dysentery.    It  is  nutritious  and  astringent. 

RICE    GRUEL 

Follow  the  directions  given  for  Barley  Gruel,  using  a 
tablespoonful  of  rice  flour  in  the  place  of  a  tablespoonful 
of  barley  meal. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  253 

LENTIL    MILK    GRUEL 

This  is  used  considerably  in  the  German  hospitals  for 
nursing  mothers. 

1  pint  of  milk  A  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed 

2  level    tablespoonfuls    of    lentil      A  saltspoonful  of  salt 

powder 

Put  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  meal  moistened 
in  a  little  cold  water,  soak  an  hour,  add  the  celery  seed 
and  salt,  cover  the  saucepan  and  cook  thirty  minutes ;  and 
it  is  ready  for  use.  This  will  make  two  meals.  Divide  it 
and  put  one  part  aside  to  cool ;  reheat  at  serving  time. 

YE    PERFECT    FOOD 

Yz  pint  of  milk  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  pearled 

Yz  pint  of  chicken  broth  sago 

Yolks  of  two  eggs 

Put  the  sago  into  the  broth  and  stand  it  aside  over 
night;  next  morning  bring  it  to  boiling  point  and  cook 
until  the  sago  is  transparent;  add  the  milk,  take  from  the 
fire,  add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt,  and  stir  in  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  that  have  been  carefully  beaten  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  milk  or  cream. 

This  is  an  exceedingly  concentrated,  nutritive  and  pal- 
atable food.    The  quantity  given  will  make  three  feedings. 

SCORCHED    RICE    GRUEL 

Six  Servings 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  2  quarts  of  water 

A  piece  of  cinnamon  two  inches         i  tablespoonful    of   orange    mar- 
long  malade 
A  pint  of  milk 

Put  the  rice  in  a  pan,  stir  in  the  oven  until  well 
browned,  then  grind  it  in  the  coffee  mill.  Add  to  it  the 
water  and  cinnamon  and  cook  slowly  for  two  hours;  add 
the  orange  marmalade  and  strain.  Add  the  milk  and  stand 
aside  at  once  to  cool.  There  should  be  one  and  a  half  quarts 
of  gruel  when  finished. 


254  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Use  cold  in  cases  of  diarrhoea.  It  may  be  served  hot  or 
cold. 

BROWNED    RICE    FLOUR    GRUEL 

Put  a  half  pound  of  rice  flour  into  a  granite  baking 
pan  in  the  oven ;  shake  and  stir  it,  now  and  then,  until 
every  little  grain  of  the  flour  is  lightly  browned.  Take  it 
from  the  oven  and  when  it  is  cold  put  it  in  a  glass  jar,  and 
cover  it. 

To  Make  the  Gruel :  Moisten  two  tablespoonf uls  of  the 
browned  flour  in  six  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  add  a 
half  pint  of  freshly-boiled  water,  stir  until  boiling  and 
cook  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  half  hour. 

Serve  plain,  or  with  milk,  or  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream.  With  an  addition  of  an  equal  quantity  of  milk 
this  makes  an  admirable  summer  bottle  food  for  infants 
with  teeth,  especially  where  there  is  an  inclination  to 
diarrhoea.  It  is  also  an  excellent  food  for  the  aged  and 
those  who  have  weak  digestion. 

GUM    AND    MILK    GRUEL 

Put  one  ounce  of  finely-powdered  white  gum  Arabic 
in  a  half  pint  of  cold  water,  soak  for  two  hours,  add  a  pint 
of  new  milk,  three  lumps  of  loaf  sugar  or  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  honey,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  gum  is 
dissolved.  Strain,  and  when  cool  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
port  wine,  if  admissible. 

This  is  exceedingly  good  in  cases  of  throat  trouble,  and 
with  an  additional  pint  of  milk  is  frequently  used  in  cases 
of  tuberculosis. 

CORNMEAL    GRUEL 

Wash  six  tablespoonfuls  of  yellow  or  white  granu- 
lated cornmeal  through  several  cold  waters;  after  the  last 
washing  let  it  settle  and  pour  off  the  water;  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  this  washed  meal  to  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
boil  carefully  two  hours,  strain  and  stand  aside  until  wanted. 
At  serving  time,  heat  sufficient  for  one  feeding — about  two- 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE    SICK  255 

thirds  of  a  cupful — pour  it  into  a  bowl  over  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  whipped  cream,  stirring  all  the  while,  and  add 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

ARROWROOT    GRUEL 

Moisten  a  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cold  water;  add  slowly  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water, 
and  boil  ten  minutes.  Pour,  while  hot,  into  the  well-beaten 
white  of  one  egg,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  serve.  Cream 
may  be  substituted  for  egg  if  so  desired. 

MEIGGS'  GRUEL 

Put  a  level  tablespoonful  of  gelose  into  a  bowl,  add  a 
pint  of  milk  and  stand  it  in  a  cold  place  for  one  hour. 
Then  add  six  almonds  that  have  been  blanched  and  chopped 
very  fine;  put  it  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  the  gelose 
is  dissolved,  strain,  add  three  lumps  of  loaf  sugar  and  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream. 

This  may  be  used  in  hyperacidity,  omitting  the  sugar; 
for  children,  hot  or  cold  in  place  of  milk.  In  typhoid  omit 
sugar  and  use  it  cold. 

WINE    WHEY 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  into  a  saucepan ;  heat  gently  to 
i6o°  Fahr.,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry,  strain 
through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth  and  it  is  ready  for 
use. 

A  quart  of  this  may  be  made  early  in  the  day  and  kept 
in  a  cold  place,  and  used  as  needed.  The  recipe  is  for  a 
single  feeding. 

RENNET    WHEY 

Heat  a  quart  of  milk  to  blood  heat ;  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  rennet  essence  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
water;  allow  the  milk  to  stand  until  it  solidifies;  then  break 
the  curd  with  a  fork  or  egg  beater,  turn  it  into  a  cheese- 
cloth and  allow  it  to  drain ;  put  at  once  into  a  cold  place 
and  use  as  needed. 


256  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

LEMON    WHEY 

Heat  a  pint  of  milk  to  i6o°  Fahr.,  add  hastily  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  strain  and  use.  This  may  be  sweetened  if 
sugar  is  allowed. 

TAMARIND    WHEY 

Heat  a  pint  of  milk  to  i6o°  Fahr.  Stir  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  tamarind  pulp  that  has  been  moistened  in  a  little 
water;  as  soon  as  the  curd  separates,  strain  and  stand  aside 
to  cool. 

This  is  exceedingly  good  in  cases  of  fever  or  chronic 
constipation. 

ALBUMINIZED    WHEY 

Heat  one  quart  of  milk  to  98°  Fahr.,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rennin  essence  or  two  junket  tablets.  Stand 
this  aside  until  the  milk  solidifies,  then  break  it  with  a  fork, 
and  strain  it  through  cheesecloth,  saving  the  whey.  When 
the  whey  is  perfectly  cold,  put  half  of  it  into  a  quart  jar  and 
add  the  unbeaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Screw  on  the  top 
of  the  jar,  shake  until  the  eggs  and  whey  are  thoroughly 
blended,  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into  the  remaining  por- 
tion of  whey,  and  stand  aside  in  a  cold  place. 

Use  in  cases  of  acute  gastritis. 

POSSET 

Put  a  half  pint  of  milk  in  a  saucepan;  heat  to 
160°  Fahr.,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  good  sherry  and 
three  lumps  of  loaf  sugar;  stir  for  a  moment,  bring  to  a 
boil  and  strain. 

MULLED  PORT  WINE 

Put  one  clove,  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  a  bit  of  stick  cin- 
namon, a  little  piece  of  mace  and  a  bay  leaf  in  a  saucepan, 
with  a  half  cupful  of  milk;  bring  to  a  boil,  add  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  good  port  wine  and  two  lumps  of  loaf  sugar 
and  strain. 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE   SICK  257 

This  is  usually  served  warm  with  tiny  bits  of  toasted 
bread. 

Claret  may  be  used  in  cases  where  port  does  not  agree 
and  water  may  be  substituted  for  milk. 

CLOTTED  CREAM 

Strain  new  milk  into  shallow  round  granite  or  new  tin 
pans  and  stand  it  in  a  cold  place  over  night.  In  the  morning 
lift  the  pans  carefully,  place  them  over  a  mild  fire  and  heat 
slowly  until  the  milk  reaches  200°  Fahr.  Watch  carefully  and 
you  will  notice  a  ring  appearing  on  the  top  of  the  cream ;  if 
the  sides  of  the  pan  slant,  the  ring  will  be  the  size  of  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan.  Take  from  the  fire  and  stand  away  in  a  cold 
place  for  twenty-four  hours.  The  cream  will  now  be  a  com- 
pact, thick  mass;  lift  it  carefully  with  a  skimmer,  put  it  into 
glass  tumblers  and  keep  on  or  near  the  ice. 

VELVET  CREAM 
One  Serving 
Cover  one  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  soak  thirty  minutes,  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  stir  it  carefully  over  hot  water  until  the 
gelatin  dissolves ;  then  add  a  half  cupful  of  cream,  mix  and 
turn  at  once  into  an  individual  mold  or  a  glass  punch  cup ; 
stand  aside  until  it  solidifies.  This  may  be  served  plain  or 
with  extra  cream.  Where  sugar  is  allowable,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  to  the  heating  gelatin. 

TO    WHIP    CREAM 

Cream,  to  whip  well,  must  be  at  least  thirty-six  hours 
old  and  very  cold;  put  it  in  a  bowl,  stand  the  bowl  in 
another  of  cracked  ice  and,  with  an  ordinary  egg  beater, 
or  a  wire  spo9n,  whip  quickly,  until  it  is  solid  to  the  bot- 
tom. Stop  whipping,  or  it  will  be  greasy.  Serve  heaped 
on  a  dainty  glass  dish  or  in  a  punch  cup.  It  may  be  flavored 
with  sherry  or  a  little  grated  yellow  orange  rind,  or  it  may 
be  dusted  with  the  powdered  sugar. 

17     ' 


258  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

RENNET    PUFFS 

Heat  a  quart  of  milk  until  lukewarm,  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  rennet  essence  or  a  junket  tablet,  mix  and  stand 
aside  thirty  minutes.  Stir  the  mixture,  which  should  now 
be  solid,  until  the  curd  is  separated  from  the  whey;  drain 
through  a  sieve.  Put  the  curd  in  a  bowl,  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  if  admis- 
sible a  dash  of  pepper;  beat,  with  an  egg  beater,  until  very 
light,  fill  it  into  little  custard  cups  and  stand  them  on  the  ice. 
At  serving  time  turn  the  ''puff"  from  the  cup,  pour  over 
plain  cream  and  serve.  A  few  blanched,  unroasted  almonds 
are  a  nice  accompaniment. 

SCHMIERKASE 

Few  persons  realize  the  difference  between  genuine 
schmierkase  and  ordinary  cottage  cheese.  To  make  the 
*'kase"  turn  two  quarts  of  milk  in  a  pan  and  stand  it  in  a 
warm  place  until  it  forms  a  thick  curd.  Cut  the  curd 
with  a  knife  so  it  will  separate  nicely  from  the  whey.  Pour 
over  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  turn  it  in  a  muslin  bag, 
and  hang  it  to  drain,  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  the 
portion  to  be  served  into  a  bowl  and  beat  with  an  egg 
beater  at  least  two  minutes ;  season  lightly  with  salt,  and 
add  sufficient  sweet  cream  to  make  it  the  desired  consist- 
ency, beat  again,  put  it  into  the  serving  dish,  put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  thick  cream  over  the  top  and  stand  aside  to 
cool. 

MULLED    BUTTERMILK 

Put  one  quart  of  buttermilk  in  a  double  boiler  over  the 
fire  until  the  water  in  the  underneath  boiler  boils  rapidly ; 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened  in  a  little 
cold  water,  stir  this  for  a  minute,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  stir,  over  the  fire,  a  minute  longer.  Take  from 
the  fire,  add  a  pint  of  cold  buttermilk  and  stand  aside  to 
cool.     Serve  warm  or  cold. 

Good  in  cases  of  alcoholism. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  259 


RECIPES  FOR  THE  PREPARATION  OF 
PEPTONIZED  MILK 

QUICK    PROCESS 

Put  one  ounce  of  pure  cold  water  into  a  tumbler,  dis- 
solve it  in  quarter  of  the  contents. of  a  Fairchild's  peptonizing 
tube ;  stir  this  for  a  minute,  add  four  ounces  of  milk  that  has 
been  heated  to  98°  Fahr.,  stir  and  use  immediately,  sipping 
slowly. 

COLD    PROCESS 

When  warm  peptonized  milks  are  objectionable,  use  the 
cold  process.  Select  a  clean  quart  fruit  jar,  put  in  the  con- 
tents of  a  Fairchild's  peptonizing  tube,  add  one  gill  of  cold 
water,  stir  carefully  for  at  least  two  minutes,  then  add  one 
pint  of  sweet  milk;  screw  the  top  on  the  jar  and  shake  thor- 
oughly. Stand  the  jar  in  the  top  of  the  refrigerator,  next  to 
the  ice.  Do  this  about  one  hour  before  feeding  time.  When 
needed,  shake  the  jar  again,  pour  out  the  required  portion 
and  use  the  same  as  ordinary  milk.  Keep  the  remaining 
quantity  next  to  the  ice. 

PARTIALLY  PEPTONIZED  MILK 

Put  into  a  glass  jar  the  contents  of  one  of  Fairchild's 
peptonizing  tubes,  add  one  gill  of  cold  water,  stir  a  min- 
ute and  add  a  pint  of  sweet,  fresh  milk;  stand  the  jar  in  a 
saucepan  of  cold  water,  stir  constantly  until  the  water  sur- 
rounding the  jar  boils,  then  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cold 
pour  this  carefully  into  a  clean  receptacle  and  put  it  in  the 
ice  chamber.  Shake  the  bottle  each  time  before  pouring 
out  the  required  portion. 

This  may  be  served  cold  or  hot,  as  the  case  may  re- 
quire, and  according  to  the  physician's  orders.  If  this  is 
carefully  prepared  it  is  much  more  palatable  than  ordinary 
peptonized  milk. 


260  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

PEPTONIZED    MILK 

Put  the  contents  of  one  of  Fairchild's  peptonizing  tubes 
in  a  clean  quart  jar.  add  one  gill  of  cold  water,  stir  one 
minute,  add  a  pint  of  fresh,  sweet  milk,  screw  the  top  on 
the  jar  and  shake  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Place  the  bottle 
in  a  saucepan  of  warm  water,  about  150°  Fahr.,  keep  it 
there  for  ten  minutes,  then  remove  the  bottle  and  place  it 
near  the  ice.  The  degree  of  digestion  required  may  be 
regulated  by  the  length  of  time  that  the  jar  is  kept  in 
the  warm  water.  Sometimes  five  minutes  will  answer; 
where  more  thoroughly  digested  milk  is  required  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes  is  sufficient. 

PEPTONIZED    GRUEL 

Milk  gruels  may  be  peptonized  according  to  the  pre- 
ceding recipe.  Arrowroot,  German  flour  gruel  are  perhaps 
the  best  of  the  farinaceous  materials  to  be  chosen. 

PEPTONIZED  MILK  WITH  CARBONATED  OR 
EFFERVESCING  WATERS 

Fill  the  glass  half  full  of  the  peptonized  milk,  add  two 
or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  shaved  ice  (if  the  ice  is  pure), 
and  fill  the  glass  from  a  siphon  of  the  effervescing  waters. 

The  following  recipes  for  digested  and  partly-digested 
foods  are  printed  by  permission  of  Fairchild  Brothers  and 
Foster,  and  are  intended  for  Fairchild's  Peptonizing  Tubes, 
their  Essence  of  Pepsin  and  other  digestive  ferments. 

LAIBOSE 

This  preparation  is  made  from  the  solids  of  milk,  mixed 
with  entire  whole  wheat,  well  cooked.  The  average 
approximate  composition  of  laibose  is  as  follows :  Total 
dry  solids,  94%  ;  protein  18%  ;  fat  17%  ;  carbohydrate  55%  ; 
ash  potassium  and  lime  phosphates,  etc.)  4^ — a  nutritive 
balance  of  one  part  of  protein  to  three  of  carbohydrate ;  and 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE    SICK  261 

a  heat  and  energy    (caloric)    coefficient  of  five   to   one   of 
protein. 

LAIBOSE   FORMULAS 

Fat         Protein    Carbohy-       Ash      Total  Solids, 
drate 


I     2.83%       3-00%       9.2  %       0.65% 


'o      i^-'joyo 


1.  Laibose    i    ounce 

Water  5  ounces 

2.  Laboise    i    ounce  |     ^^^^^      ^  .g^^      ^  gg^^      „^g  ^ 

Water  6  ounces  J 

3.  Laibose    .    ounce  ,      ^^^^^      ^^^.^^      gg^^^      ^. 

Water  7  ounces  J 

"■  ^A?°r « °™''  [  ^""^^  ^■<~7"  6.00%  0.5  %  10.50% 

Water  8  ounces  J 
5.    Laibose    i    ounce  |     ^^  ^^       ^  g  ^^       ^^  ^^      ^^  ^^^ 

Water  9  ounces  j 

A  heaping  tablespoonful  of  Laibose  is  approximately 
I  ounce,  avoirdupois. 

Laibose  "^  Protein 18%        22.50    calories 

I  Oz.     Ipat    17%        46.07 

Calories    Carbohydrates    55%        62.63  " 


131.20 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  THE  USE  OF  LAIBOSE 

Two  level  tablespoonfuls  or  one  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful (one  ounce  by  weight)  is  a  convenient  and  usual  pro- 
portion. Put  the  Laibose  into  a  dry  porcelain  bowl,  moisten 
with  a  little  cold  water,  stirring  until  smooth ;  then  add 
boiling  water  to  suit.  Laibose  may,  however,  be  mixed 
simply  with  cold  water  and  taken  without  cooking. 

SPECIALLY    PEPTONIZED    MILK 

For  Making  Milk  Jelly,  Milk  Punch,  Milk  Lemonade,  and  for  use  with 
Fruit  Juices  or  Acids 

Peptonize  a  pint  of  milk  by  the  "Warm  Process," 
keeping  the  bottle  in  the  water  bath  for  one  hour ;  pour 
the  peptonized  milk  into  a  saucepan  and  heat  to  boiling, 


262  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

when  it  is  ready  for  use  if  it  is  required  hot;  or  it  may  be 
put  on  ice,  in  a  bottle  or  any  suitable  container,  to  be  used 
for  punches,  lemonade,  etc. 

It  is  necessary  to  peptonize  the  milk  quite  completely 
— for  one  hour — so  that  it  will  not  curdle  when  mixed  with 
lemon  juice  or  acid.  The  bitter  taste  of  this  ''specially 
peptonized  milk"  is  not  evident  in  the  jellies,  punches,  etc., 
and  these  foods  are  very  agreeable  and  exceedingly  assim- 
ilable. 

PEPTONIZED    MILK   JELLY 

1  pint   "specially  peptonized   milk,"   hot 
■^  box  best  gelatin 

Sugar  to  taste 

Rinds  and  juice  of  one  fresh  lemon  and  orange 

2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  best  St.  Croix  rum,  or  brandy,  etc. 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water,  pour 
the  hot  milk  over  it  and  add  the  sugar;  stir  until  dis- 
solved, then  throw  in  the  lemon  and  orange  rinds. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  orange  into  a  glass 
and  strain ;  stir  in  the  rum  or  brandy,  etc.,  then  mix  with 
the  milk  and  gelatin ;  strain. 

When  the  mixture  has  cooled  to  a  syrup  so  as  to  be 
almost  ready  to  set,  pour  into  molds  or  glasses  wet  in  cold 
water  and  put  on  ice  or  in  cold  water  or  in  a  cold  place 
to  harden ;  if  it  is  too  warm  when  poured  into  the  molds, 
it  is  apt  to  separate  in  setting. 

PEPTONIZED   MILK   PUNCH 

Take  a  goblet  about  one-third  full  of  finely-crushed 
ice,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  St.  Croix  rum,  a  dash  of  curacao, 
or  any  liquor  that  is  agreeable  to  the  taste;  fill  the  glass 
with  ''specially  peptonized  milk,"  stir  well  and  grate  a  little 
nutmeg  on  top. 

"Specially  peptonized  milk"  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way  as  fresh  milk  in  making  punches — with  St.  Croix  rum 
or  Jamaica,  or  any  spirits  that  may  be  preferred. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  263 

PEPTONIZED    MILK    LEMONADE 

Take  a  goblet  one-third  full  of  finely-crushed  ice ;  add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  sugar  to  taste;  fill  the  glass  with 
"specially  peptonized  milk"  and  stir  well. 

If  preferred,  equal  parts  of  the  peptonized  milk  and 
mineral  water  may  be  used  instead  of  milk  alone,  the  min- 
eral water  being  first  poured  on  the  ice  and  then  the  milk 
added;  this  makes  a  very  agreeable  effervescing  punch. 

HOT   PEPTONIZED    MILK   AS   A   BEVERAGE 

Hot  peptonized  milk  is  a  grateful  and  nourishing  bev- 
erage for  invalids,  dyspeptics,  diabetics  and  consumptives. 
In  many  cases,  it  is  most  helpful  in  the  morning,  taken 
upon  rising,  or  with  breakfast,  and  it  is  excellent  at  any 
time  when  one  suffers  from  exhaustion  with  intolerance  of 
solid  food.  There  is  nothing  better  in  the  way  of  nourish- 
ment to  take  before  retiring  than  hot  peptonized  milk,  and 
at  the  table  it  is  a  good  substitute  for  tea  or  coffee. 

PEPTONIZED    MILK    WITH    CEREALS 

Oatmeal,  rice,  hominy,  etc.,  are  more  readily  digestible 
when  taken  with  peptonized  milk,  and  its  use  with  the 
various  cereals  is  especially  recommended  for  young  chil- 
dren and  children  with  defective  digestion. 

PEPTONIZED    MILK   GRUEL 

Mix  a  half  pint  of  well-boiled  hot  gruel  with  a  half 
pint  of  cold  fresh  milk  and  strain  into  a  pitcher  or  jar;  add 
immediately  the  powder  contained  in  one  of  the  Peptoniz- 
ing Tubes  (Fairchild)  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved.  Put 
the  pitcher  or  jar  in  a  hot  water  bath  or  warm  place  for 
five  minutes ;  then  pour  the  mixture  into  a  clean  bottle  and 
place  on  ice ;  serve  hot  or  cold. 

The  gruel  may  be  made  from  arrowroot,  wheat  flour, 
barley,  or  oatmeal,  etc. ;  but  in  each  instance  the  farinaceous 


264  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

material    should    be    boiled    with    water    until    the    starch 
granules  are  thoroughly  swollen  and  broken  up. 

PARTIAL  DIGESTION   OF  FARINACEOUS  FOODS 
AT   THE   TABLE 

To  a  dish  of  well-cooked  porridge  of  oatmeal,  wheaten 
grits,  or  rice,  etc.,  as  warm  as  agreeable,  add  one  or  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  Diazyme  Essence  and  stir  for  a  few  min- 
utes, until  thoroughly  mixed. 

The  food  must  not  be  hotter  than  can  be  agreeably 
borne  by  the  mouth,  or  the  digestive  principle  will  be 
destroyed. 

Extractum  Pancreatis  may  be  used  in  the  same  man- 
ner, a  measureful  of  the  dry  powder  instead  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  Diazyme  Essence.  This  powder  imparts  no  taste 
or  odor  to  the  food  and  is  handy  to  use.  It  contains  also 
the  other  digestive  principles — those  capable  of  digesting 
milk,  fat,  etc.,  and  thus  aids  in  the  digestion  of  the  foods 
taken  with  the  cereal. 

PEPTONIZED    BEEF 

To  a  quarter  pound  of  finely-minced,  raw  lean  beef 
add  a  half-pint  of  cold  water;  cook  over  a  slow  fire  to 
boiling  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  stirring  constantly  from 
the  beginning.  Pour  off  the  liquor  and  set  it  aside;  rub 
the  meat  to  a  paste  and  put  it  into  a  clean  glass  jar  or 
bottle  with  the  liquor  and  a  half  pint  of  cold  water;  add 

Extractum  Pancreatis   4  measures*  (20  grs.) 

Soda  Bicarbonate   ..% i  measure       (15  grs.) 

mixed  thoroughly  into  one  powder ; 

shake  all  well  together  and  stand  in  a  warm  place,  about 
no  to  115°  Fahr.,  for  three  hours,  stirring  or  shaking  occa- 

*Extractum  Pancreatis  can  be  obtained  of  any  druggist,  in  i  oz. 
bottles.  With  each  oz.  package  are  two  measures — one  for  5  grs.  Ex- 
tractum Pancreatis  and  one  for  15  grs.  Soda  Bicarbonate. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  265 

sionally,  then  boil  quickly,  strain,  or  clarify  with  white  of 
egg  in  the  usual  manner;  season  to  taste. 

This  final  boiling  is  essential ;  if  omitted,  digestion 
will  progress  until  the  food  is  spoiled. 

For  the  great  majority  of  cases,  it  is  not  necessary  to 
strain  the  peptonized  beef,  for  the  portions  remaining  un- 
dissolved are  so  softened  under  the  action  of  the  Extractum 
Pancreatis  that  they  are  diffused  in  an  almost  impalpable 
condition — in  a  form  readily  susceptible  to  digestion  in  the 
body. 

Chicken  meat,  alone,  or  mixed  with  an  equal  portion 
of  beef,  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

A  cereal  gruel,  of  wheat,  arrowroot,  etc.,  may  be  in- 
corporated with  the  beef,  thus  giving  a  food  combination 
that  is  often  highly  desirable. 

The  gruel  is  prepared  in  the  usual  manner,  the  dry 
cereal  mixed  perfectly  smooth  with  cold  water  and  cooked 
slowly  in  a  double  boiler  until  gelatinized.  Four  ounces 
of  this  gruel  may  be  added  to  the  meat  paste,  liquor,  water 
and  peptonizing  powder  as  directed  above,  and  the  further 
details  of  the  process  carried  out  just  as  with  the  beef 
alone. 

The  Extractum  Pancreatis  will  at  the  same  time  digest 
both  the  meat  and  starch  (of  the  gruel).  The  broth  with 
the  cereal  is  more  agreeable  than  when  made  of  meat  alone. 

The  peptonized  beef  or  peptonized  beef  and  cereal  may 
also  be  made  into  a  jelly. 


PEPTONIZED    OYSTERS 

(Originally  Suggested  by  Dr.  M.  A.  Randolph) 

To  a  half  dozen  large  oysters  with  their  juice  add  a 
half  pint  of  cold  water;  heat  in  a  saucepan  to  boiling  and 
boil  briskly  for  a  few  n;inutes;  pour  off  the  broth  and  set 
it  aside. 


266  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Mince  the  oysters  finely  and  reduce  to  a  paste  with  a 
potato  masher,  in  a  wooden  bowl;  put  in  a  glass  jar  with 
the  broth  and  add 

Extractum  Pancreatis   3  measures*   (15  grs.) 

Soda  Bicarbonate    i  measure       (15  grs.) 

mixed  thoroughly  into  one  powder. 

Let  the  jar  stand  in  hot  water  or  in  a  warm  place, 
where  the  temperature  is  not  above  115°  Fahr.,  for  an  hour 
and  a  half.  Then  pour  into  a  saucepan,  stir  in  a  half  pint 
of  milk  and  heat  slowly  to  boiling  point.  Season  to  taste 
and  serve  hot. 

The  boiling  is  essential — to  prevent  further  digestion 
and  keep  the  broth  from  spoiling. 

If  heated  gradually,  the  milk  will  be  sufficiently 
digested  before  the  mixture  boils. 

The  very  small  bits  of  oyster  that  remain  undissolved 
may  be  strained  out,  or  rejected  in  eating  the  soup,  but 
are  rarely  unacceptable  to  the  stomach. 


*Extractum  Pancreatis  can  be  obtained  of  any  druggist,  in  i  oz. 
bottles.  With  each  oz.  package  are  two  measures — one  for  5  grs.  Ex- 
tractum Pancreatis  and  one  for  15  grs.  Soda  Bicarbonate. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  267 


FOODS 

PANOPEPTON— FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 

The  entire  soluble  digestible  substance  of  beef  and 
wheat  is  sterile  solution,  perfectly  assimilable;  designed 
especially  for  patients  under  conditions  where  the  ordinary 
foods  are  unsuitable  or  intolerable.     Analysis  on  label. 

LAIBOSE— A    FOOD 

The  solids  of  pure  whole  milk  and  the  entire  digestible 
substance  of  whole  wheat  in  a  dry  granular  form ;  highly 
concentrated,  standardized,  definitely  "balanced" — no  cel- 
lulose, no  cane  sugar.  Made  ready  by  dilution  with  water. 
Analysis  on  label. 

ENEMOSE— FOR    COLONIC    ALIMENTATION 

Entire  substance  of  beef  and  wheat  in  highly  dififusible 
solution,  concentrated,  non-coagulable,  proteins  mostly  in 
state  of  ultimate  cleavage,  fitted  for  absorption.  To  make 
ready  dissolve  in  warm  water.     Analysis  on  label. 

PANOPEPTON    IN    VARIOUS    WAYS 

In  cases  where  the  prolonged  use  of  Panopepton  is 
necessary,  there  is,  in  addition  to  the  usual  manner  of  giv- 
ing it,  quite  a  variety  of  ways  of  making  it  pleasing  and 
grateful  to  the  invalid;  the  following  are  suggested: 

ICED    PANOPEPTON 

To  a  small  glass  half  full  of  clean  crushed  ice  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  Panopepton;  let  it  stand  a  moment  and 
then  sip  slowly. 


268  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

PANOPEPTON    JELLY 

One  ounce    fresh   Celery    (cut   in   small   pieces) 
One-half  (^)  of  a  small  box  best  Gelatin 

One-quarter  teaspoonful    Salt 

Two  dashes  Pepper 

Six  tablespoon fuls  Panopepton 

Two  cupfuls Cold  Water 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water  for  one 
hour;  put  the  water  and  celery  in  a  double  boiler  on  the 
fire  and  simmer  one-half  hour;  add  the  salt,  pepper,  and 
soaked  gelatin  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved ;  remove  from 
fire,  add  Panopepton,  stir,  and  strain  through  linen  into  a 
jelly  jar,  and  set  near  ice.     Serve  in  small  quantities. 


PANOPEPTON    JELLY    WITH    ORANGE 

One-half  (^)  of  a  small  box  best  Gelatin 

One  tablespoonful Sugar 

Six  tablespoonfuls   Panopepton 

The  juice  and  peel  of  one Orange 

One  pint    Cold  Water 

Put  the  gelatin,  orange  peel  (cut  in  small  pieces),  orange 
juice,  and  cold  water  in  a  dish  and  let  it  stand  for  one 
hour,  then  put  in  a  double  boiler  on  the  fire,  add  the  sugar 
and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved ;  now  strain  through  linen,  add 
the  Panopepton  and  stir  well.  Pour  into  a  jelly  jar  and 
set  near  ice.     Serve  in  small  quantities. 


PANOPEPTON— HOT 

To  a  small  teacup  two-thirds  full  of  boiling  water,  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  Panopepton,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
fresh  lemon  juice — a  little  sugar,  if  desired — stir.  Drink 
immediately,  sipping  slowly. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE    SICK  269 

PANOPEPTON    BOUILLON— HOT 

Put  one  tablespoonful  of  Panopepton  into  a  small  tea- 
cup ;  fill  the  cup  nearly  full  of  boiling  water,  and  flavor  to 
taste  with  celery  salt,  or  plain  salt  and  pepper;  stir,  and 
sip  slowly. 

PANOPEPTON    CORDIAL 

Put  into  a  cordial  glass — or  any  small  glass — two 
teaspoonfuls  of  clean  crushed  ice ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
Fairchild's  Essence  of  Pepsin  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
Panopepton.     Sip  slowly. 

PANOPEPTON    WITH    WHEY 

Put  into  a  small  teacup  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
clean  crushed  ice ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  Panopepton, 
stir,  then  fill  the  cup  with  whey.     Drink  slowly. 


270  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


JUNKET  AND  WHEY 

The  milk  foods  familiarly  known  as  junket  and  whey 
are  now  included  in  the  modern  "diet  list"  for  the  sick, 
convalescent,  invalid  and  dyspeptic.  The  prestige  of  these 
foods  is  directly  due  to  the  certainty  and  satisfaction  with 
which  they  have  been  long  prepared  by  means  of  Essence 
of  Pepsin. 


THE  JUNKET,   SOFT,   SEMI-SOLID   MILK 

so  prepared  presents  the  entire  milk  in  a  semi-solid,  jelly- 
like form,  especially  agreeable  to  patients  who  are  obliged 
to  refrain  for  the  most  part  from  solid  food,  and  who  do 
not  well  tolerate  plain  milk.  The  junket  gives  a  sense  of 
substance,  yet  is  extremely  diffusible  and  digestible.  It 
may  be  made  extra  nutritious  by  the  addition  of  an  G^gg 
(or  yolk)  ;  may  be  flavored  if  desired — with  coffee,  cocoa, 
vanilla,  etc.  The  plain  junket  is  often  used  to  great 
advantage  in  the  dietary  of  children  after  weaning. 

THE    WHEY 

ITS   ANALYSIS 

Proteins  (soluble)    0.79% 

Lactose 473% 

Ash  0.44% 

Fat a  trace 

contains  the  soluble  albuminoids,  sugar  and  saline  con- 
stituents of  the  milk  and  (in  suspension)  the  particles  of 
casein  and  fat  which  may  pass  through  the  strainer.  Whey 
is  excellent  as  a  means  of  varying  the  diet  of  the  sick, 
often  of  special  service  in  fevers — allaying  thirst,  refresh- 
ing, nourishing;  proves  a  valuable  resource  as  a  food  for 
infants  in  cases  of  difficult  feeding  and  under  conditions 
where  "rest  feeding"  is  indicated. 


MRS,    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  271 

TO  MAKE  JUNKET  AND  WHEY 

JUNKET 

Into  a  small  clean  bowl  put  one  teaspoonful  of  Pep- 
sencia  (Essence  of  Pepsin,  Fairchild)  and  add  one-half 
pint  of  fresh  cool  milk;  stir  gently  to  mix  thoroughly. 
Place  the  bowl  containing  the  milk  and  Pepsencia  in  a  dish 
or  pan  of  larger  size  and  pour  into  the  larger  dish  or  pan 
boiling  water  sufficient  to  come  to  the  level  of  the  mixture. 
Let  the  bowl  stand  in  the  hot  water  for  two  minutes,  then 
remove  and  let  it  stand  until  the  milk  is  firmly  jellied,  when 
the  junket  is  ready  for  use,  just  as  it  is,  or  with  sugar, 
grated  nutmeg,  etc.  To  keep  the  junket,  put  it  on  ice  or  in 
a  very  cold  place. 

If  preferred,  the  milk  and  Pepsencia  as  soon  as  thor- 
ougly  mixed  in  the  bowl  may  be  divided  into  small  cups, 
these  placed  in  a  dish  or  pan,  boiling  water  poured  around 
them  and  the  rest  of  the  directions  followed  as  above.  The 
junket  in  small  cups  is  more  attractive  to  the  patient. 

WHEY 

Prepare  junket  by  the  formula  above  (using  a  pint  of 
milk  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Pepsencia  if  a  larger  quan- 
tity of  whey  is  desired).  When  the  milk  is  firmly  jellied, 
beat  with  a  fork  until  it  is  finely  divided,  then  strain,  and 
the  whey  (liquid  part)  is  ready  for  use.  The  whey  must 
be  kept  cold — on  ice  or  in  a  very  cold  place. 

WHEY   AND    MILK   MODIFICATIONS 

If  the  whey  is  to  be  used  with  milk,  in  a  milk-and- 
whey  modification,  it  should  be  heated  to  at  least  150°  Fahr. 
as  soon  as  strained ;  if  not  thus  heated,  it  will  curdle  the 
milk.  The  whey  may  be  strained  quite  clear  if  this  seems 
desirable. 


272  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

WHEY   WITH   GRAPE  JUICE 

Prepare  whey  with  Pepsencia  as  directed,  using  one 
pint  of  milk ;  strain  through  cheesecloth  to  remove  curds ; 
add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  pint  of  grape  juice,  and 
sugar  to  sweeten ;  strain  again  through  cheesecloth  and 
place  in  ice  chest;  serve  on  finely-cracked  ice,  or  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  carbonic  water ;  or  freeze  and  serve  as  an 
ice.  The  lemon  juice  may  be  omitted,  in  which  case  the 
sugar  is  unnecessary. 

EGG   JUNKET 

Beat  to  a  froth  one  strictly  fresh  egg;  sweeten  with  one 
or  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar;  stir  in  thoroughly  one-half 
pint  of  fresh  cool  milk ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  Pepsencia ; 
stir  again  to  mix  thoroughly ;  divide  into  small  cups  if  pre- 
ferred ;  prepare  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  the  plain 
junket.  A  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  may  be  grated  over 
the  junket.  To  keep  the  egg  junket,  put  it  on  ice  or  in  a 
very  cold  place. 

COCOA    JUNKET 

Mix  an  even  tablespoonful  of  any  good  cocoa  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar;  scald  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water ;  rub  this  paste  smooth ;  stir  in  thoroughly 
one-half  pint  of  fresh  cool  milk ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
Pepsencia;  stir  again  to  mix  thoroughly;  divide  into  small 
cups  if  preferred ;  prepare  in  precisely  the  same  manner 
as  the  plain  junket.  This  cocoa  junket  may  be  placed  on 
ice  and  taken  cold ;  as  a  dessert,  may  be  served  with 
whipped  cream. 

COFFEE  JUNKET 

Dissolve  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  clear  strong  coffee ;  stir  in  thoroughly  one-half  pint 
of  fresh  cool  milk;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  Pepsencia;  stir 
again  to  mix  thoroughly;   divide   into   small  cups   if  pre- 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  273 

ferred;  prepare  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  the  plain 
junket.  This  coffee  junket  may  be  placed  on  ice  and  taken 
cold;  as  a  dessert,  may  be  served  with  whipped  cream. 

VANILLA,    BITTER   ALMOND    OR    STRAWBERRY 

JUNKET 

Add  the  flavoring — a  half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  or 
bitter  almond  extract,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  pure  concen- 
trated strawberry  syrup,  to  a  half  pint  of  fresh  cool  milk; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  Pepsencia  and  prepare  as  usual. 

FROZEN   JUNKET 

Prepare  junket  with  Pepsencia  as  directed ;  add  one- 
half  the  quantity  of  pure  cream ;  pour  at  once  into  the 
freezer  and  freeze  the  same  as  ice  cream. 


18 


374  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

EGGS 

Eggs  are  next  in  importance  to  milk  in  diet  for  the  sick, 
and  for  invalids,  children  and  the  aged.  They  are  nitroge- 
nous, taking  the  place  of  meat,  fish  or  milk. 

The  digestibility  of  an  egg  is  governed  largely  by  the 
method  of  cooking.  Coddled,  poached  or  soft  boiled,  they 
are  easily  digested.  A  raw  egg  eaten  unseasoned  is  not  so 
quickly  digested  as  one  lightly  cooked.  An  ordinary  hard- 
boiled  tgg  is  very  difficult  of  digestion,  both  yolk  and  white. 
When  properly  hard  boiled,  however,  the  yolk  is  quite  as 
easy  of  digestion  as  a  soft-cooked  egg. 

The  yolk  of  an  egg  is  frequently  added  to  liquid  foods 
to  increase  their  nutritive  value.  In  cases  of  chronic  or 
acute  gastritis  and  flatulent  dyspepsia,  the  white  of  an  egg 
is  more  easily  digested  than  the  yolk.  It  may  be  beaten 
with  fruit  juice,  or  thoroughly  shaken  with  milk  or  any  of 
the  water  gruels. 

Eggs  may  be  used  freely  in  tuberculosis,  asthma,  ton- 
silitis,  quinsy  and  chronic  diarrhoea,  the  white  should  be 
avoided  by  those  who  are  subject  to  flatulency,  gastritis 
with  dilatation,  chronic  gastritis,  intestinal  catarrh  and 
Bright's  disease. 

Wash  the  shells  of  all  eggs  thoroughly  before  cooking 
them. 

To  ascertain  the  freshness  of  an  egg  without  breaking 
it,  drop  it  in  a  bucket  of  cold  water;  if  it  topples  around 
in  the  w'ater  or  stands  on  its  ends,  it  is  fairly  fresh,  but 
should  be  rejected  as  food  for  invalids ;  if  it  floats  do  not 
use  it  at  all ;  but  if  it  sinks  quickly  to  the  bottom  and  falls 
on  its  side  it  is  perfectly  safe. 

CODDLED    EGGS 

This  is  one  of  the  best  methods  of  cooking  eggs  for 
the  sick. 

Drop  one  or  two  eggs  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water;  the 
water  may  be  either  in  a  kettle,  or  a  saucepan  with  a  lid; 


MRS.    borer's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  275 

cover  and  stand  on  a  table  away  from  the  fire,  six  minutes, 
or  if  the  eggs  are  to  be  served  very  soft,  five  minutes.  Serve 
in  a  hot  cup.  If  cooked  correctly  the  white  will  be  con- 
gealed but  soft,  while  the  yolks  will  be  quite  well  cooked. 

SHIRRED   EGGS 

Select  a  small  individual  Ggg  dish  or  ramekin,  cover  the 
bottom  with  a  few  fresh  bread  crumbs,  drop  in  one  fresh 
egg,  stand  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  the  egg  is  ''set"  and  looks  like  a  poached  egg; 
dust  it  with  salt,  put  on  a  bit  of  butter  and  serve  at  once. 

POACHED    EGGS 

Drop  a  perfectly  fresh  egg  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water;  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt,  and  pull  the  pan  to  the 
side  of  the  stove  where  the  water  cannot  possibly  boil. 
Have  ready  a  piece  of  toast  the  shape  of  the  egg  but  a 
little  larger;  butter  it  quickly,  lift  the  egg  on  an  egg-slice 
or  skimmer,  with  a  spoon  cut  off  the  ragged  edges,  and  slide 
it  carefully  on  the  toast. 

EGGS,  HUNGARY     * 

Boil  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  in  plenty  of  water; 
when  very  tender,  drain,  and  arrange  neatly  in  the  center 
of  an  individual  platter;  put  on  top  a  nicely  poached  egg, 
and,  on  top  of  this,  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  sauce. 

EGGS,  VIRGINIA 

Score  the  center  of  each  row  of  grains  on  one  ear 
of  corn ;  with  a  dull  knife  scrape  out  the  pulp,  being  very 
careful  not  to  get  one  particle  of  the  hull.  Put  the  pulp 
in  a  saucepan  or  cup,  stand  it  over  hot  water  for  twenty 
minutes,  until  thoroughly  cooked.  When  ready  to  serve, 
put  a  round  of  toast  in  the  middle  of  the  platter,  season 
the  corn  with  a  little  salt,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cream, 


276  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

and  pour  it  over  the  toast.     Place  in  the  center  one  well- 
poached  egg.     Dust  with  salt  and  serve. 

An  excellent  luncheon  for  a  child  or  the  aged. 

FRENCH  PpACHED  EGGS 

Fill  a  deep  saucepan  two-thirds  full  of  boiling  water, 
put  it  over  a  quick  fire  where  it  will  boil  rapidly.  Take  a 
wooden  paddle  or  spoon,  stir  rapidly  around  the  edge  until 
the  water  forms  a  whirlpool,  with  a  hole  in  the  center. 
Break  two  fresh  eggs  into  two  saucers,  drop  one  in  the 
center  of  the  water,  keep  up  the  whirling,  drop  in  the  sec- 
ond, keep  the  spoon  going  around  the  edge  until  the  eggs 
are  coagulated  on  the  outside.  Lift  them  carefully  with  a 
skimmer  and  put  at  once  into  an  egg  cup. 

The  French  fry  their  eggs  in  the  same  manner,  keeping 
the  fat  whirling.  Fried  eggs  cannot  be  recommended,  how- 
ever, for  the  sick. 

EGGS  a  la  MARTIN 
One  Serving 

Rub  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
together  and  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk ;  stir  over  the 
fire  until  the  milk  reaches  boiling  point,  add  a  quarter  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  black  pepper.  Put  half 
of  this  sauce  in  a  ramekin  dish,  break  in  one  whole  egg, 
put  the  remaining  sauce  over  the  top,  dust  over  a  few 
bread  crumbs,  stand  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  water  and  bake 
until  the  white  of  the  egg  is  "set."     Serve  at  once. 

FLUFFED  EGGS 

Separate  one  egg,  being  very  careful  not  to  break  the 
yolk.  Stand  the  yolk  in  the  shell  in  a  dish  of  salt  or  flour, 
anything  that  will  keep  it  straight ;  beat  the  white  until  it  is 
very  light,  put  it  in  a  saucer  or  an  individual  dish,  make  a 
little  well  in  the  center,  drop  in  the  yolk,  stand  the  dish  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water,  cover  and  steam  for  about  a  minute  and 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  277 

a  half;  take  from  the  fire,  put  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a 
large  pea,  on  the  yolk,  dust  it  with  a  little  salt  and  serve  it  at 
once.  This  is  one  of  the  most  easily-digested  of  all  the  egg 
dishes;   it  is  not  only  palatable,  but  sightly. 

EGG    FLIP 

Sepairate  an  egg;  beat  the  white  until  it  is  very,  very 
stiff;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  beat  again,  drop 
into  it  the  yolk  and  beat  until  mixed ;  if  admissible,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  brandy;  heap  this  into  a  glass  saucer,  dust 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve. 

In  incurable  troubles,  where  all  food  seems  to  disagree, 
the  stomach  will  frequently  bear  an  egg  flip  with  ease.  Of 
course  the  brandy  may  be  omitted ;  sherry  may  be  added  or 
it  may  be  served  plain;  do  not  add  flavoring  extracts  of 
any  kind. 

SNOW  EGGS 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  a  half 
pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  drop  the  white  by  spoonfuls 
on  the  top  of  the  hot  milk,  let  them  stand  a  moment,  lift  them 
with  a  skimmer  and  put  them  on  a  breakfast  plate.  Repeat 
until  all  the  white  has  been  cooked.  Moisten  a  teaspoonful 
of  arrowroot  in  cold  milk,  add  it  to  the  hot  milk,  cook  until 
smooth,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the  yolk  of  the 
egg,  stir  until  hot,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
sherry  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cold  dish  the  white 
of  the  egg  in  a  pyramid,  pour  around  the  custard,  and  they 
are  ready  to  serve. 

EGG    CORDIAL 

Separate  an  egg,  beat  the  white  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  again  until  fine  and 
dry,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  cream  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy.  Turn  into  a  glass 
and  serve  at  once. 


278  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

GOLDEN    NOG 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  until  it  is  very,  very  stiff. 
Half  fill  a  lemonade  or  punch  glass  with  strained  orange 
juice,  float  the  beaten  white  on  top,  heaping  it  up  daintily. 

Other  fruit  juices  may  be  used  in  the  same  fashion, 
but  orange,  grape  and  apple  are  the  most  palatable. 

Excellent  in  cases  of  typhoid. 

EGGNOG 

Separate  an  egg;  beat  the  white  until  light,  add  the 
yolk,  beat  again,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar, 
beat  for  a  moment  and  add  three  ounces  of  milk.  Pour  the 
mixture  backward  and  forward  from  one  tumbler  to  another 
and  finally  pour  it  into  a  perfectly  clean  tumbler,  dust  over 
a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  use  at  once. 

FRENCH  EGGNOG 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  until  stiff,  add  the  yolk  and 
beat  again.  Pour  over  it  hastily  three  ounces  of  scalding 
hot -milk,  pour  from  one  tumbler  to-  another  for  a  moment, 
and,  if  admissible,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  whiskey  or 
brandy ;  turn  into  a  clean  tumbler,  dust  lightly  with  nut- 
meg, and  serve. 

EGG   AND   WHEY 

Separate  an  egg,  beat  the  white  until  it  is  stiff,  add  the 
yolk  and  beat  again ;  add  to  this  three  ounces  of  rennet 
whey  and  a  tablespoonful  of  good  cream.  Pour  backward 
and  forward  from  one  tumbler  to  another  for  a  moment, 
turn  it  into  a  clean  tumbler,  dust  with  a  little  nutmeg  and 
serve. 

EGG   PUNCH 

Separate  an  egg  and  beat  the  white  until  it  is  very  stiff. 
Beat  the  yolk,  pour  into  it  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water,  beating  all  the  while,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  granu- 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  279 

lated  sugar  and  the  white,  and  pour  at  once  into  a  clean  tum- 
bler. Serye  plain  or  flavored  with  brandy,  sherry,  port  or 
whiskey,  according  to  orders. 

EGG   AND    SHERRY 

Put  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  into  a  small  tumbler, 
and  drop  into  it  a  small  fresh  egg.  The  egg  must  be  swal- 
lowed whole. 

EGG    AND    MULLED    WINE 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  sherry  or  port  into  a  saucepan; 
add  a  small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  and  a  clove,  heat  over 
hot  water,  and  pour,  while  hot,  into  one  well-beaten  egg, 
strain,  turn  into  a  tumbler  and  serve  at  once. 

EGG    LEMONADE 

Separate  one  egg,  beat  the  white,  then  add  the  yolk 
and  beat  again ;  dissolve  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  in  a  little 
cold  water,  add  a  half  cupful  of  water  and  the  juice  of  one 
lemon ;  add  this  gradually  to  the  beaten  egg,  strain  into  a 
tumbler  and  serve.  Or  put  all  the  ingredients  into  a 
"shaker,"  shake  well  and  strain. 

CAUDLE 

Make  a  cornmeal  gruel  from  water  and  pour  while  hot 
over  one  egg  well  beaten ;  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry, 
turn  it  into  a  clean  tumbler  and  dust  with  grated  nutmeg. 

This  may  be  served  either  hot  or  cold.  With  a  piece 
of  zweiback  it  makes  an  exceedingly  good  luncheon  for 
a  convalescing  patient. 

HARD-BOILED  EGG 

Put  an  egg  into  cold  water,  bring  the  water  quickly  to 
boiling  point,  remove  the  saucepan  at  once  from  the  fire  and 
allow  it  to  stand  covered  on  the  table  for  thirty  minutes. 


280  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

This  will  make  the  yolk  mealy  and  dry,  and  will  also  soften 
the  white;   the  white,  however,  is  unfit  for  sick  diet. 

When  eggs  are  expensive,  break  the  tgg,  reserve  the 
white,  raw,  for  another  dish,  drop  the  yolk  in  the  shell  down 
into  boiling  water,  cover  the  kettle  and  stand  it  away  from 
the  fire  for  forty  minutes.  The  yolk  will  be  just  as  palatable, 
just  as  dry  and  mealy,  and  you  will  have  the  white  for  an- 
other dish. 

GOLDEN  TOAST 

Cut  the  crust  from  a  half-inch  slice  of  bread,  dry  the 
bread  in  the  oven,  then  toast  it  quickly  until  a  golden  brown, 
put  it  in  a  small  vegetable  dish  or  platter,  pour  over  a  half 
cupful  of  scalded  milk  to  which  you  have  added  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Garnish  the  top  of  this  with  the  hard-boiled 
yolk  of  one  egg  pressed  through  a  sieve.    Serve  immediately. 

If  fatty  matter  is  called  for,  spread  the  bread  with  butter 
before  pouring  over  the  milk,  or  add  to  the  milk  after  you 
take  it  from  the  fire  a  tablespoonful  of  thick  cream. 

BEAUREGARD  EGGS 

Hard  boil  one  egg.  Separate  the  white  and  the  yolk, 
after  it  has  been  boiled,  chop  the  white  very  fine  or  press 
it  through  a  fine  sieve,  or  put  it  through  a  vegetable  press. 
Do  the  yolk  the  same.  Keep  them  separate.  Toast  a 
square  of  bread.  Put  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  butter  and 
two  of  flour  into  a  saucepan,  mix,  add  eight  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk,  stir  over  hot  water  until  the  sauce  thickens,  add  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Stir  again, 
until  hot ;  heap  this  on  toast,  cover  it  all  over  with  the  yolk 
of  the  egg,  dust  very  lightly  with  salt,  and  serve  at  once. 

A  good  supper  for  children,  the  aged  or  consumptives. 

EGYPTIAN    EGGS 

Beat  one  egg  just  enough  to  mix  the  white  and  yolk; 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
plain  cream  or  cocoanut  cream,  the  latter  to  be  preferred; 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  281 

Stand  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  beat  rapidly 
until  the  egg  is  slightly  congealed ;  turn  this  into  a  pretty 
little  dish;  put  at  the  ends  two  triangular  pieces  of  well- 
made  toast;  dust  lightly  with  salt,  and  serve. 

EGGS,  JEFFERSON 

Select  a  smooth,  round  tomato;  cut  a  slice  from  the 
stem  end  and  carefully  cut  out  the  seeds  and  core ;  put  the 
tomato  in  a  small  granite  or  earthen  dish,  and  then  in  the 
oven  for  about  ten  minutes,  until  thoroughly  heated.  Take 
from  the  oven,  put  in  a  half  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  dusting 
of  salt,  and  then  break  in  one  fresh  tgg.  Put  this  back  in 
the  oven  until  the  egg  is  "set."  Dust  lightly  with  salt, 
dish  neatly,  and  serve. 

EGGS,   CARDOZE 

Bake  a  medium-size,  shapely  potato  until  thoroughly 
done.  Cut  a  slice  from  the  side,  scoop  out  the  flesh,  leaving 
a  wall  a  half  inch  thick.  Mash  the  potato ;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  and  beat  until  light.  Break  into  the 
potato  a  fresh  egg,  and  put  it  back  into  the  oven  until  the 
egg  is  set.  Then  cover  the  entire  top  with  the  mashed 
potato,  brush  with  cream,  and  brown  quickly  in  the  oven. 
Dish  on  a  paper  mat,  stick  a  pretty  sprig  of  parsley  at  the 
side,  and  serve. 


282  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

VEGETABLES 

Vegetables  are  divided  into  four  classes :  those  rich  in 
nitrogen — muscle  and  tissue-building  foods ;  those  con- 
taining carbohydrates — sugars  asd  starch;  fatty  vegetables 
— nuts  and  olives ;  and  succulent  vegetables,  containing 
little  but  water  and  mineral  matter. 

In  the  first  class  we  have  old  peas,  beans  and  lentils, 
soy  beans  and  the  chick  pea  of  the  East.  Starch  is  also 
found  in  goodly  quantities  in  these  vegetables.  Cereals  and 
cereal  foods,  as  bread  and  Italian  pastes,  contain  both 
nitrogen  and  starch. 

In  the  second  class,  carbohydrates,  we  have  rice,  pota- 
toes, yams,  taro,  cush-cush,  cassava,  tapioca  and  sago. 

In  the  third  class,  vegetables  containing  mineral  mat- 
ter and  water,  are  cabbage,  carrots,  turnips,  spinach,  cress, 
cymlins,  cucumbers,  lettuce,  tomatoes,  very  young  green 
peas,  string  beans,  onions  and  christophines. 

Vegetables  as  a  rule  should  be  cooked  in  water,  in  an 
uncovered  vessel.  Rapid  boiling  frequently  toughens  the 
fibre  of  underground  vegetables.  Cooked  at  210°  Fahr. 
they  become  tender  quickly,  and  retain  their  flavor  and 
color.  Rice  and  macaroni,  however,  should  be  boiled 
rapidly,  not  that  the  water  is  hotter,  but  the  motion  of 
rapidly-boiling  water  washes  apart  and  separates  the  par- 
ticles. All  starchy  vegetables  must  be  cooked  at  the  boiling 
point. 

All  vegetables  must  go  over  the  fire  in  boiling  water. 
To  green  vegetables  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  each  half 
gallon  of  water  in  which  they  are  to  be  boiled.  Under- 
ground vegetables,  the  roots  and  tubers  of  plants,  are  bet- 
ter cooked  in  unsalted  water.  For  instance,  turnips  are 
white,  sweet,  palatable  and  easily  digested  if  cut  into 
blocks  and  cooked  carefully  in  unsalted  water.  If  boiled 
rapidly  in  salted  water,  they  lose  their  color,  flavor  and 
digestibility,  and  are  coarse  and  unpalatable.  Raw  cabbage 
with  French  dressing  is  digested  by  a  person  in  health  in 
two  and  a  half  hours ;  boiled  it  takes  five  hours. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  283 

Dried  vegetables,  as  peas,  beans  and  lentils,  must  be 
cooked  in  soft  water,  if  possible.  The  salts  of  lime  in  hard- 
water  coagulate  the  casein  and  render  it  dense  and  difficult 
of  digestion. 

For  the  sick,  all  vegetables  must  be  freshly  gathered, 
otherwise  do  not  use  them.  They  should  be  thrown  in  cold 
water  the  moment  they  come  from  the  market.  Do  not 
add  salt  to  the  water  as  it  draws  out  the  juices  and  hardens 
the  fibre. 

For  the  convenience  of  persons  who  are  on  restricted 
diet,  the  vegetables  in  this  book  have  been  arranged  in 
groups,  so  that  their  chemical  constitutents  may  be  seen  at 
a  glance. 

BOTANICAL    CLASSIFICATION    OF    OUR 
COMMON    VEGETABLES 

Dicotyledons 

Crucifer^,   Mustard  Family. 

Water-cress;  Horseradish;  Cabbage  tribe;  Turnip;  Rutabaga; 
Mustard,  black  and  white;   Peppergrass;  Radish. 

Capparidace/E,  Caper  Family. 
Capers. 

Malvace^,  Mallow  Family. 
Okra. 

Geraniace^,  Geranium  Family. 
Wood  Sorrel,  Nasturtium. 

Leguminos^,   Pulse  Family. 

Soy  Bean;  Peanut;  Kidney  Bean;  String  Bean;  Lima  Bean; 
Black  Bean;  Pea;  Chick  Pea;  Lentil;  St.  John's  Bread. 

CucurbitacEuS:,  Gourd  Family. 

Pumpkin;  Squash,  summer  and  winter;  Cucumber;  Vegetable 
Marrow ;  Christophines. 

Umbellifer^,  Parsley  Family. 

This  family  contains  many  of  the  aromatic  seeds.  Carrot; 
Coriander  ;  Sweet  Cicely ;  Fennel ;  Celery ;  Celeriac ;  Caraway ; 
Parsley;  Angelica;  Parsnip. 


284  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Valerianace^,  Valerian  Family. 
Corn  Salad. 

Composite,  Composite  Family. 

Jerusalem  Artichoke;  Globe  Artichoke;  Cardoon ;  Chicory;  En- 
dive; Salsify;  Dandelion;  Lettuce;  Romaine. 

CoNVOLVULACE^,  Convolvulus  Family. 
Sweet  Potato. 

SoLANACE^,  Nightshade  Family. 

Tomato;   White   Potato;   Egg   Plant;   Chili   Peppers,   in  all  its 
varieties. 

Labiate,  Mint  Family. 

The   leaves   of  the  plants   of  this   family   are   aromatic.     Sweet 
Basil;   Mint;   Savory;   Marjoram;   Thyme;   Sage;   Stachys. 

Chenopodiace^,   Goosefoot   Family. 
Spinach;  Beet. 

Phytolaccace^,    Poke-weed   Family. 
Poke  or  Scoke. 

PoLYGONACE^,  Buckwheat  Family. 
Dock  ;   Sorrel ;  Buckwheat. 

Laurace^,  Laurel  Family.       (This  is  not  the  family  to  which  the 
mountain  and  sheep  laurel  belong.) 
Sassafras;   Bay-leaves. 

Monocotyledons 

Scitamine^,  Banana  Family. 

Ginger ;  Arrowroot ;  Tous-les-mois  ;  Banana. 

DioscoREACE^,  Yam  Family. 
Yam. 

LiLiACE^,  Lily  Family. 

Asparagus;  Onion;  Leek;  Garlic;  Scullion;  Chives;  Shallots. 

PALMACE.E,  Palm  Family. 

Sago   (Dates  and  Cocoanuts). 

Gramine^,  Grass  Family. 

Rice;  Oats;  Wheat;  Rye;  Barley;  Maize;  Sorghum;  Durra  or 
Kaffir  Corn ;  Millet. 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK  285 

Some  of  the  seaweeds  have  proved  valuable  in  periods 
of  scarcity,  while  the  Irish  moss  and  gelose  are  used  at 
all  times. 

Many  lichens  have  been  used  as  dyes,  but  very  few  as 
food.  Arctic  explorers  have  sometimes  been  forced  to  eat 
various  plants  of  this  group.  The  best  known  lichen,  how- 
ever, is  the  Iceland  moss. 


PLANTS  USED  AS  FLAVORINGS  TO  OTHER 
PLANTS 

Under  this  heading  we  have 

Parsley   (Carum   f>ctrosclinum,  Bentham^ 

Chervil    (Myrrhis   odorata,    Linn.^ 

Tarragon   (Artemisia  Dracunculus) 

Angelica  (Archangelica   officinalis,  Linn.^ 

Capers   (CappaHs  spinosa) 

Nasturtium   (Tropaeolum  majus,  Linn.^ 

Garlic   (Allium   sativum) 

Shallots   (Allium   Ascalonicum,  Linn.^ 

Chives   (Allium   Schaenoprasum,  Linn.^ 

Bay   Leaves  (Laurus   nohilis,  Linn  J 

Gumbo  File  Powder  (Sassafras  ofHicinale,  Nees^^ 

Sweet    Marjoram   (Origanum   majorana,   Linn.^ 

Summer  Savory  (Satiireia   hortensis,  LinnJ 

Sage  (Salvia   officinalis,  Linn.^ 

Sweet  Basil  (Ocimum  Basilicum) 

Thyme  (Thymus  vulgaris,  or   Thymus  Serpyllum) 

Mint;  Spearmint  (Mentha  viridis,  Linn.^ 

Dill  (Peucedanum  graveolens) 

Anise  (Pimpinella  anisum) 

Caraway  (Carum   Carui,  Linn.j 

Cardamom    (Elettaria  cardamomum) 

Coriander  (Coriandrum  sativum,  LinnJ 

Cumin-seeds  (Cuminum  cyminum) 

Fennel  (Faeniculum  officinale,  Allioni) 

While  these  plants  are  never  used  alone,  and  have  little 
or  no   food  value,   they   contain   pungent   or  volatile   oils 


286  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

valuable  in  intensifying  the  flavor  of  other  vegetables. 
They  must  be  used  in  small  quantities,  and  never  for  the 
sick  without  a  physician's  orders. 

Tarragon,  steeped  in  a  small  quantity  of  vinegar,  fil- 
tered or  strained,  is  used  as  a  flavoring  for  salad  dressings. 

Capers  are  used  as  a  flavoring  and  garnish  to  chicken 
salad,  and  in  a  sauce  for  boiled  mutton. 

There  is  but  one  of  these  materials  that  needs  a  special 
mention,  and  that  is  the  gumbo  file  powder.  This  is  made 
from  the  very  young  leaves  of  the  sassafras  tree  (Sassafras 
officinale,  Nees),  picked  during  the  middle  of  the  day, 
dried  quickly  in  the  sun,  rubbed  in  the  hands  until  they  are 
rather  fine,  and  sifted  through  a  fine  sieve.  Use  as  thick- 
ening to  chicken  or  vegetable  broth,  or  in  gumbo  soup. 
Allow  a  half  teaspoonful  to  each  pint  of  soup.  The  Creoles 
add  gumbo  file  powder  to  chicken,  oyster  and  crab  soup. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR    THE   SICK  287 


A  GROUP  OF  STARCHY  VEGETABLES 


Potatoes 

Yams 

Rice 

Tapico 

Hominy 

Sago 

Hominy  grits 

Cassava 

Italian  pastes  in   general,  as  ver- 

Arrowroot 

micelli,  macaroni,  spaghetti 

Tous-les-mois 

Chestnuts 

Taro 

Sweet  potatoes 

Starchy  vegetables  belong  to  the  carbohydrates,  are 
fat  formers  and  heat  and  energy  producers.  The  primary 
digestion  of  all  starchy  foods  is  in  the  mouth ;  thorough 
mastication  aids  the  final  digestion  in  the  small  intestines. 

POTATOES     (Solanum    Tuberosum,    Linnaeus) 

COMPOSITION   OF   POTATOES    (Church) 

Water    75.0 

Albuminoids    1.2 

Extractives,  as  solanin  and  organic  acids    1.5 

Starch  18.0 

Dextrin  and  pectose    2.0 

Fat 0.3 

Cellulose   i.o 

Mineral  matter  i.o 

The  portion  of  the  potato  plant  used  as  food  consti- 
tutes an  enlarged  or  gorged  underground  stem,  and  is  the 
storehouse  for  the  nourishment  of  the  young  plant.  Many 
varieties  are  grov^n  in  this  country,  which  are  all  cooked 
more  or  less  alike.  Fop  the  sick,  invalids  and  children,  use 
only  full-grovv^n  ripe  potatoes;  those  very  young  or  very 
old  are  apt  to  provoke  indigestion. 

The  water  in  which  potatoes  are  boiled  must  be  thrown 
away ;  it  is  usually  unsafe  for  food. 

Pare  the  potatoes  very  sparingly,  as  both  nourishment 
and  mineral  matter  are  in  greater  proportion  near  the  skin. 


288  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

As  the  flavor  of  potatoes  is  due  to  the  mineral  matter, 
they  are  more  tasty  when  boiled  in  their  "jackets."  Care- 
fully-cooked potatoes  make  a  good,  easily-digested  starchy 
food.  The  amount  of  nitrogen  is  small,  but  when  served 
with  the  more  nitrogenous  foods,  old  peas,  beans,  nuts, 
meats,  eggs  and  milk,  help  to  make  a  balanced  ration. 
Baked,  boiled,  mashed  and  rebaked,  they  are  more  easily 
digested  than  when  cooked  with  fat.  Fried  foods  are  unfit 
for  the  well,  and  should  never  be  used  for  invalids  or  chil- 
dren. 

TO    BOIL    POTATOES 

Take  a  thin  paring  from  the  potatoes,  remove  the  eyes, 
throw  them  at  once  into  cold  water;  when  ready  to  cook, 
drop  them  into  a  kettle  of  boiling,  unsalted  water,  boil 
rapidly  ten  miutes,  and  cook  at  the  boiling  point  until  the 
potatoes  are  very  nearly  done.  Throw  in  a  cup  of  cold 
water  to  cool  the  surface ;  this  will  allow  the  center  to  cook 
just  a  moment  longer  and  will  make  the  potato  more  mealy. 
As  soon  as  the  water  again  reaches  boiling  point  and  the 
potato  is  tender  to  the  center,  drain  it  perfectly  dry,  dust 
it  with  a  little  salt,  and  shake  it  over  the  fire,  holding  the 
pot  at  least  six  inches  from  the  stove.  When  dry  and 
white  like  a  snowball,  dish  it  on  a  folded  napkin  or  small 
doily  and  serve  it  at  once. 

MASHED    POTATOES 

Mash  a  well-boiled  potato  either  with  a  silver  fork  or 
through  a  sieve ;  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  hot 
milk,  stand  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  with  a 
silver  fork  beat  the  potato  until  it  is  white  and  light.  Dish 
it  in  a  small  heated  dish  and  serve  at  once.  Do  not  cover 
it,  nor  do  not  pat  it  down. 

RICE  POTATO 

Press  a  well-beaten  mashed  potato  through  a  vegetable 
press  on  to  a  heated  dish ;  serve  quickly. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  289 

POTATO  PUFF 

Heap  in  rugged  fashion  a  well-mashed  potato  in  a 
small  baking  dish  or  individual  casserole,  touch  it  here  and 
there  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  then  brush  it  over  with 
the  w'hite  of  egg  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  a  golden 
brown. 

POTATO    ROSES 

Put  a  mashed  potato  into  an  ordinary  pastry  bag,  hold- 
ing a  star  tube;  press  the  potato  into  a  baking  pan,  making 
good-sized  roses;  touch  them  lightly  with  beaten  white  of 
egg  and  run  them  into  a  hot  oven  until  a  golden  brown. 
Arrange  neatly  on  a  small  doily  and  serve.  A  sprig  of 
parsley  between  the  roses  adds  to  the  attractiveness  of 
the  dish. 

CREAMED     POTATOES 

Chop  a  cold  boiled  potato  rather  fine.  Put  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  into  a  saucepan, 
mix,  add  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  stir  until  boiling,  add  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  potato.  Turn  this 
into  an  individual  baking  dish,  dust  lightly  with  fine  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  to  a  golden  brown. 

POTATO    TIMBALE 

Add  a  well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one  drop  of  Tabasco  to  a  mashed  potato.  Line 
the  bottom  of  a  small  timbale  mold  with  greased  paper, 
fill  in  the  potato  mixture,  stand  in  a  baking  pan  of  boiling 
water  and  cook  in  the  oven  twenty  minutes.  When  done, 
loosen  the  sides  with  a  limber  knife,  turn  the  timbale  out 
on  a  small  heated  dish,  and  garnish  with  very  tender  young 
peas. 

This  is  an  exceedingly  nice  accompaniment  to  a  broiled 
lamb  chop,  and  makes  an  easily-digested  meal  for  an  in- 
valid or  child. 

19 


290  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

POTATO    SOUFFLE 

Stir  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg  into  a  mashed 
potato ;  heap  it  into  an  individual  casserole  or  ramekin  dish 
and  bake  in  the  oven  until  a  golden  brown. 


POTATOES    a   la   CREME 

Chop  one  cold  boiled  potato  rather  fine ;  add  a  grating 
of  nutmeg  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Add  a  dash  of 
Tabasco  to  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream;  add  this  to  the 
potato,  turn  into  an  individual  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  fifteen  minutes. 


BAKED   POTATOES 

Select  a  perfectly  sound,  medium  large  potato;  brush 
the  potato  thoroughly  in  cold  water  until  the  skin  is  clean, 
then  rinse,  and  allow  it  to  remain  in  cold  water  for  at  least 
a  half  hour.  Then  place  it  on  the  grate  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven  and  bake  slowly  until  tender;  this  will  take  from 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  an  hour.  When  done,  take 
the  potato  in  a  napkin  in  your  hand  and  press  it  gently  all 
over,  without  breaking  the  skin ;  when  it  has  been  thor- 
oughly mashed  to  the  very  center,  slash  it  one  side  in  the 
form  of  a  cross,  stand  it  on  a  folded  napkin  and  serve  at 
once. 

A  piece  of  butter  may  be  put  in  the  center  of  a  baked 
potato,  and  one  may  add,  if  admissible,  a  drop  of  Tabasco. 
The  potato  is  more  easily  digested,  however,  if  eaten  with 
just  a  little  salt. 

Never  stick  a  fork  into  a  baking  potato  to  see  if  it  is 
done;  this  breaks  the  skin,  allows  the  steam  to  escape  and 
makes  the  potato  soggy. 

Do  not  have  the  oven  too  hot;  the  skin  becomes  hard 
at  once  and  prevents  the  evaporation  of  the  water,  which 
makes  the  potato  wet  and  unpalatable. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  291 

POTATO     PUREE 

Break  a  well-baked  potato  into  halves  and  scoop  out 
all  the  mealy  portion  ;  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  good  cream 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt ;  beat  it  quickly  with  a  silver  fork 
and  serve  on  a  heated  plate. 

STUFFED    POTATOES 

This  is  a  nice  way  to  serve  a  baked  potato,  both  to 
children  and  invalids.  The  second  baking  makes  it  more 
easily  digested. 

Cut  a  baked  potato  into  halves,  scoop  out  the  center, 
mash  it  with  a  silver  fork,  add  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls 
of  hot  milk,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  if  admissible  a  dash 
of  Tabasco ;  otherwise  omit  pepper.  Beat  until  light,  and 
fold  in  carefully  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  Qgg.  Fill  the 
"shells,"  but  do  not  pat  the  mixture  down  to  make  it  heavy. 
Brush  the  top  lightly  with  milk,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  a  golden  brown.  Serve  on  a  dainty  paper  doily 
or  a  folded  linen  napkin. 

POTATO  BALLS 

Put  a  well-baked  potato  through  a  vegetable  press,  add 
the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt.  When 
well  mixed,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream,  form 
into  balls  the  size  of  an  English  walnut,  roll  in  milk,  then 
in  fine  bread  crumbs,  stand  on  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  until  a  golden  brown.  Heap  like  cannon 
balls  on  a  folded  napkin. 

These  make  a  nice  variety  to  an  invalid's  diet,  and  are 
also  nice  for  children. 

RICE 

Rice  is  exceedingly  rich  in  starch,  and  when  unpolished 
contains  also  a  considerable  amount  of  protein.  It  is  said 
that  the  varieties  grown  in  East  India  contain  more  nitrogen 
than  rice  grown  in  the  United  States. 


292  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

In  boiling,  rice  parts  with  a  goodly  quantity  of  both 
starch  and  mineral  matter.  For  children,  it  should  be  thor- 
oughly washed  and  soaked  in  cold  water,  and  steamed. 
The  water  in  which  rice  has  been  boiled  should  be  saved 
for  soups  or  used  as  rice  water. 

Rice  containing  four  times  as  much  nourishment  as 
potatoes  and  when  carefully  cooked  in  water  requires  only 
one  hour  for  perfect  digestion.  If  overcooked  and  soggy,  it 
is  apt  to  cause  fermentation,  the  same  as  a  badly-cooked 
potato.  Well  cooked,  it  furnishes  energy  food  for  nearly 
-three-quarters  of  the  world's  inhabitants. 

The  tables  following  will  give  the  comparative  analysis 
of  cooked  and  uncooked  rice 

COMPOSITION    OF    DRY    RICE    (Church) 

Water    ' 14.6 

Albuminoids,    etc 7.5 

Starch,   etc 76.0 

Fat    0.5 

Cellulose    0.9 

Mineral   matter    0.5 

COMPOSITION    OF    BOILED    RICE    (Hutchinson) 

Water    52.7 

Proteid    5.0 

Fat  0.1 

Carbo-hydrates  41.9 

Mineral  matter  0.3 

The  rice-eating  people  of  the  world,  those  who  use  rice 
as  a  staple  food,  three  times  a  day,  do  not  add  salt,  as  is  the 
fashion  among  people  of  the  United  States ;  they  do  not 
have  the  craving  for  salt  that  is  found  among  potato-eating 
people.  Where  rice  is  the  only  form  of  starchy  food,  learn 
to  eat  it  without  salt. 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  293 

TO    BOIL    RICE 
One  Serving 

Wash  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  through  several  cold 
waters.  Put  one  quart  of  water  in  a  saucepan,  when 
boiling  rapidly,  sprinkle  in  the  rice  slowly ;  do  not  stop  the 
boiling,  and  boil  rapidly,  uncovered,  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain  the  rice  in  a  sieve,  pour  over  quickly  a  half  cup  of 
cold  water,  stand  the  sieve  on  a  plate  at  the  oven  door 
where  it  will  dry.  Turn  it  at  once  into  a  small  vegetable 
dish  and  serve  uncovered. 

To  be  well  cooked  and  perfect,  each  grain  must  be 
swollen  four  times  its  original  size,  and  no  two  grains  must 
be  sticking  together. 

STEAMED   RICE 
One  Serving 
Wash  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  through  cold  water, 
let  it  soak  an  hour,  put  it  in  a  small  sieve,  stand  over  boil- 
ing water,  cover  and  steam  for  thirty  minutes.    Turn  into 
a  heated  dish  and  serve. 

RICE    PUDDING 

Two  Servings 

Put  one  tablespoonful  of  unwashed  rice  into  one  pint 
of  milk,  add  a  half  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  when  the  sugar 
is  dissolved  turn  it  into  a  small  baking  dish  and  bake  one 
hour,  stirring  down  the  crust  every  ten  minutes. 

To  be  absolutely  correct,  this  pudding  must  be  like 
thick  cream — not  stiff  enough  to  require  a  sauce.  Serve 
warm  or  cold. 

RICE  a  riMPERATRICE 
One  Serving 

Pare  and  stone  one  peach,  put  it  in  a  baking  dish,  dust 
it  lightly  with  sugar  and  stand  it  in  the  oven  until  perfectly 
soft.  Have  ready  boiled  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  put 
the  peach  on  top,  dust  it  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve 
w4th  plain  cream. 


294  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

RICE  MERINGUE 
One  Serving 
Wash  one  tablespoonful  of  rice  through  several  cold 
waters,  throw  it  into  boiling  water,  boil  rapidly  ten  min- 
utes and  drain.  Add  a  half  cupful  of  cold  milk,  and  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  half  tablespoonful  of  sugar; 
pour  this  into  a  small  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  fifteen  minutes.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  until  stiff, 
add  a  level  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  until 
fine  and  dry;  heap  this  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  dust 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  brown  lightly  in  the  oven. 

RICE    DUMPLING 
One  Serving 

Wash  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  through  several  cold 
waters ;  soak  a  half  hour  or  longer,  drain,  throw  it  into 
boiling  water,  boil  rapidly  ten  minutes  and  drain  again ; 
spread  this  in  the  center  of  a  square  of  cheesecloth.  Pare 
and  stone  one  small  mellow  peach,  put  half  of  the  peach 
in  the  center  of  the  rice,  fill  the  core  space  with  boiled  rice, 
put  on  the  other  half,  and  gather  the  cloth  up  so  there  will 
be  a  thin  layer  of  rice  over  the  peach ;  it  must  be  entirely 
covered.  Tie  the  "dumpling"  tightly,  throw  it  into  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

To  serve,  cut  the  string,  remove  the  cloth  and  turn 
the  dumpling  carefully  into  a  dessert  plate.  Serve  with 
cold  milk  or  cream,  or  a  puree  of  peaches. 

EGYPTIAN  RICE 
Two  Servings 
Cover  a  half  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  with 
a  half  cup  of  cold  milk,  let  it  soak  thirty  minutes;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  stir  it  over  the  fire 
until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
carefully-boiled  rice  and  two  scalded  dates,  chopped  fine ; 
when  this  begins  to  solidify,  fold  in  six  tablespoonfuls  of 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  295 

cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth ;  turn  into  two  individual 
molds  and  stand  aside  until  perfectly  cold.  Serve  plain 
or  with  cream. 

RICE  CREAM 
One  Serving 
Press  two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiled  rice  through  a  fine 
sieve,  add  to  it  the  yolk  of  one  egg  beaten  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar  and  a  half  cup  of  milk.  Stir  over  the  fire  just  a 
minute,  take  from  the  fire  and"  stir  in,  while  hot,  the  well- 
beaten  white  of  the  egg.  Turn  into  a  pretty  dessert  glass, 
dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

HOMINY 

We  have  two  kinds  of  hominy  in  our  markets,  one 
made  from  almost  the  entire  grain  of  white  dry  corn,  with 
the  hull  taken  off,  sold  under  the  name  of  hominy  and  samp  ; 
and  the  other,  hominy  grits.  Hominy  grits,  well  cooked, 
makes  an  excellent  breakfast  food  for  children,  the  aged 
and  invalids ;  it  should  be  soaked  over  night  in  cold  milk 
or  water,  and  cooked  slowly  for  a  long  while. 

The  large  hominy,  when  well  cooked,  gives  variety  to 
a  diet  in  chronic  rheumatism.  It  must  be  thoroughly  cooked 
and  well  masticated. 

TO    COOK    HOMINY    GRITS 

Wash  four  tablespoonfuls  of  hominy  grits  through  sev- 
eral cold  waters ;  add  one  cupful  of  milk  and  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  and  stand  it  in  a  cold  place  over  night.  Next  morn- 
ing turn  it  into  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler,  stir  until 
the  water  reaches  the  boiling  point,  cover  the  boiler  and 
cook  thirty  minutes,  or  better  one  hour.  Serve  with  milk 
or  cream,  as  ordered. 

HOMINY    JELLY 

Wash  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hominy  grits  through 
several  cold  waters,  then  stir  it  into  a  half  pint  of  boiling 


296 

water,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  boil  rapidly,  stirring 
all  the  while,  for  five  minutes.  Then  cook  it  in  a  double 
boiler  until  it  is  thick  and  rather  transparent.  Turn  this 
into  individual  molds  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

This  should  be  transparent  and  not  too  stiff. 

Serve  with  cream. 

YAMS    (Dioscorea   Batatas) 

Yams  are  imported  into  the  United  States  from  the 
West  Indies  and  Central  America.  They  are  exceedingly 
large,  frequently  weighing  from  four  to  ten  pounds.  They 
do  not  grow  in  the  United  States.  The  so-called  yam  of  the 
southern  States  is  simply  a  large  variety  of  a  sweet  potato. 
The  large  yam,  dioscorea  alata,  to  be  thoroughly  digestible, 
must  be  baked  for  a  long  time.  When  well  baked  and  soft 
to  the  center,  they  are  the  most  delicious  of  all  starchy  foods. 

Scrub  the  outside  with  a  brush,  rinse  in  cold  water, 
put  it  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  slowly  until  tender — 
a  yam  weighing  one  pound,  an  hour;  two  pounds,  an  hour 
and  a  half.  ., 

TARO  (Colocasia  antiquorum,  Schott,  Variety  esculenta) 

Root  of  the  Elephant  Ear 

Taro  is  made  by  the  Hawaiians  into  a  dish  called  poi, 
and  in  the  West  Indies  and  Central  America  the  root  is 
boiled  and  served  much  the  same  as  we  serve  potatoes.  It 
constitutes  a  good  starchy  food  easy  of  digestion.  Prepara- 
tions of  ground  dried  taro  can  be  purchased  in  this  country 
under  the  name  of  Taroena.  As  it  contains  a  ferment  that 
is  supposed  to  aid  in  the  digestion  of  albuminoids,  it  forms  an 
important  starchy  food  fpr  the  sick.  With  milk,  or  even 
served  with  broiled  meat,  it  taxes  the  digestive  powers  very 
lightly.  In  porridge  it  can  be  taken  by  people  with  acute 
indigestion  without  the  slightest  distress.  Taroena  is  made 
from  the  toasted  or  cooked  root,  so  that  it  may  be  stirred 
into  hot  milk  without  further  cooking.  It  may  also  be  used 
in  egg  custard  in  the  place  of  cornstarch  or  arrowroot. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  297 

CASSAVA    AND    TAPIOCA 

Both  cassava  and  tapioca  are  very  rich  in  starch,  con- 
taining from  eighty-five  to  ninety  per  cent.  They  are 
made  from  the  fleshy  roots  of  two  species  of  the  tropical 
genus  Manihot;  one  the  "bitter,"  and  the  other  the  "sweet" 
cassava.  The  bitter  cassava,  when  robbed  by  heat  of  its 
poisonous  qualities,  makes  cassava  flour  and  tapioca. 

In  sick  diet  we  are  only  concerned  with  tapioca  in  the 
fine  granular  form.  Larger  pieces  require  long  soaking  and 
careful  cooking  to  be  digestible.  Pearled  tapioca  (tapioca 
made  into  small  round  grains  the  size  of  a  pea)  may  be 
added  to  soup  for  the  well,  but  for  the  sick  fine  granulated 
tapioca  alone  should  be  used. 

Tapioca  may  be  made  into  custard  or  fruit  desserts,  or 
added  to  soups.  Recipes  for  the  uses  of  tapioca  will  be 
found  among  the  desserts  in  another  part  of  the  book. 

SAGO 

First-class  sago  is  almost  a  pure  starch  made  from  the 
central  part  of  several  varieties  of  palms.  East  Indian  sago 
meal,  made  from  the  Cycas,  must  not  be  confounded  with 
our  ordinary  commercial  sago.  Recipes  for  cooking  sago 
will  be  found  among  the  desserts. 

ARROWROOT 

Genuine  arrowroot,  made  from  the  stalk  of  the  Maranta 
Arundinacea,  is  the  most  easily-digested  of  all  starches. 
The  starch  cells  of  arrowroot  are  ruptured  at  a  temperature 
of  i8o°  Fahr.  It  is  the  smallest  of  all  starch  granules. 
Under  the  microscope  it  resembles  closely,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  size,  potato  starch,  which  looks  like  a  tiny  oyster 
shell.  Much  of  the  arrowroot  sold  in  this  market  is  adul- 
terated with  potato  and  cassava  flour  or  other  inferior 
starches.  Adulteration,  however,  can  be  easily  detected  by 
microscopic  observations. 


298  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

TOUS-LES-MOIS 

This  is  a  starch  made  from  the  tuber  of  the  Canna 
edulis,  and  like  arrowroot,  is  very  easy  of  digestion.  These 
are  the  largest  of  the  starch  grains,  are  round  with  con- 
centric markings  and  a  central  hilum.  This  starch  is  not 
used  to  any  extent  in  the  United  States  except  for  the 
making  of  Turkish  Delight,  a  sort  of  jelly-like,  elastic 
candy.  It  is,  however,  a  valuable  starch  in  cases  of  rheu- 
matism or  chronic  constipation.  It  may  be  used  precisely 
the  same  as  arrowroot,  made  into  jelly  or  gruel,  with  milk 
or  water.  I  have  also  used  it  with  good  results  in  gastric 
troubles. 

TOUS-LES-MOIS    PANADA 

Put  a  half  pint  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar  and  twenty-four  almonds 
that  have  been  .blanched  and  ground ;  when  this  is  hot  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  Tous-les-Mois  moistened  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cold  milk.  Stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to 
thicken,  cover  the  boiler  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Serve 
warm,  plain,  or  with  a  little  thin  cream. 

For  dyspeptics,  where  there  is  too  little  hydrochloric 
acid,  serve  without  cream  and  sugar;   add  a  little  salt. 

ITALIAN    PASTES 

Macaroni,  spaghetti,  vermicelli  and  noodles  are  gener- 
ally known  as  Italian  pastes.  Most  of  them  are  quite  un- 
suited  for  diet  for  the  sick,  although  they  make  an  agreeable 
starchy  food  for  children,  invalids  and  the  aged.  They  must 
not  however,  be  served  baked  with  cheese ;  if  cheese  is 
added  it  must  be  freshly-grated  Parmesan,  put  on  after  the 
macaroni  is  taken  from  the  fire. 

No  matter  what  the  final  preparation  is  to  be,  the  first 
cooking  is  always  the  same.  Partly  fill  a  large  kettle  with 
rapidly  boiling  salted  v/ater;  throw  in  the  macaroni  or 
spaghetti,  allow  it  to  boil  rapidly  for  thirty  minutes,  then 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  299 

drain  and  throw  it  into  cold  water,  changing  the  water 
until  it  is  perfectly  cold.  Allow  it  to  stand  for  thirty  min- 
utes more,  drain  and  it  is  ready  to  dress. 

TO    HEAT    IN    CREAM    SAUCE 

Make  an  ordinary  cream  sauce,  add  the  spaghetti  or 
macaroni,  stand  it  over  hot  water  until  thoroughly  heated, 
and  serve,  passing  with  it  grated  Parmesan. 

BREAKFAST    SPAGHETTI 

Boil  the  night  before  the  desired  quantity  of  spaghetti, 
throw  it  into  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cold  place 
over  night.  Next  morning  drain,  cover  it  with  boiling  stock, 
simmer  gently  fifteen  minutes,  add  a  half  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  cut  into 
bits,  and  serve  on  a  heated  dish. 

This  may  be  used  in  the  place  of  a  cereal. 

BAKED    MACARONI 

Boil  the  macaroni  as  directed,  put  it  into  cream  sauce, 
turn  into  an  individual  casserole  or  ramekin  dish  and  bake 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until  slightly  browned. 

SPAGHETTI,    ITALIAN    FASHION 

This  can  hardly  be  called  a  dish  for  the  sick,  but  in 
cases  of  long  invalid  feeding  where  tomatoes  are  admissible, 
this  dish  is  always  palatable  and  appetizing. 

Boil  spaghetti  as  directed.  Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  meat  through  the  meat  grinder,  then  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  half  pint  of  strained  tomato,  a  teaspoonful  of  onion 
juice  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  cook  and  stir 
until  boiling  hot,  push  to  the  back  of  the  stove  and  cook, 
covered,  for  fifteen  minutes.  Strain,  pressing  as  much  of 
the  meat  through  the  sieve  as  possible.  Drain  the  spaghetti, 
add  it  to  this  sauce,  heat  carefully  over  hot  water,  turn 


300  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

into  a  heated  serving  dish,  dust  thickly  with  grated  Par- 
mesan and  send  to  the  table. 
If  onion  disagrees,  omit  it. 

NOODLES 

Put  a  cupful  of  flour  in  a  large  dinner  plate  or  platter, 
make  a  well  in  the  center,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and 
one  Qgg  beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  work  the 
flour  into  the  egg  mixture  a  little  at  a  time ;  the  dough  must 
be  exceedingly  hard.  Knead  and  pound  until  it  is  elastic 
and  then  roll  it  in  two  sheets  as  thin  as  tissue  paper.  Put 
a  clean  towel  or  old  tablecloth  over  a  table,  put  the  sheets 
on  this  and  allow  them  to  dry  for  an  hour  and  ai  half  or  two 
hours;  they  must  not  be  brittle.  Then  roll  them  up  as 
tightly  as  possible,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  shave  the  noodles 
from  the  ends.  Shake  them  out  and  allow  them  to  dry. 
They  may  be  made  one  day  to  use  the  next,  and  if  perfectly 
dried  will  keep  for  several  days. 

Boil  these  in  chicken  stock  or  in  beef  stock;  or  they 
may  be  cooked  in  water  and  served  with  butter  or  cream. 

NOODLES,    WITH    COTTAGE    CHEESE 

This  dish  makes  nice  variety  for  chronic  rheumatic 
patients. 

After  the  noodles  are  boiled  until  tender,  about  twenty 
minutes,  in  stock  or  water,  drain  them  perfectly  dry,  dust 
them  lightly  with  salt,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
mix  carefully  without  breaking,  turn  them  on  a  hot  platter, 
put  over  here  and  there  little  balls  of  homemade  cottage 
cheese  and  send  to  the  table. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  301 


A  GROUP  OF  STARCHY  VEGETABLES, 
ALSO  CONTAINING  SUGAR 

Sweet  Potatoes;   Squash;  Pumpkin. 

SWEET   POTATO    {Ipomaea  Batatas,  Lamarck) 

The  sweet  potato  belongs  to  the  morning  glory  family. 
In  this  country  we  have  three  or  four  varieties,  containing 
more  or  less  starch,  and  more  or  less  sugar.  The  large  so- 
called  "yam"  of  the  South  (which,  by  the  way,  is  no  rela- 
tion to  the  yam)  is  rich  in  sugar,  and  unless  carefully 
cooked  becomes  rather  pasty  and  is  not  a  suitable  diet  for 
the  sick.  The  smaller  red  sweet  potatoes  contain  a  consid- 
erable amount  of  gum  and  dextrin.  According  to  Church, 
the  composition  of  an  ordinary  Central  American  sweet 
potato  is  as  follows : 

Water   75.0 

Albuminoids,  etc 1.5 

'  Starch  15.0 

Sugar    1.7 

Dextrin,  and  gum 2.2 

Pectose  0.9 

Fat  0.4 

Cellulose   1.8 

Mineral  matter 1.5 

BAKED    SWEET    POTATO 

If  sweet  potatoes  are  to  be  served  to  invalids,  or  even 
given  to  children,  they  should  be  carefully  baked  in  the 
skins. 

Wash  them  well,  put  them  into  a  moderate  oven  and 
bake  until  they  are  soft  in  the  center.     Serve  at  once. 

TWICE   BAKED   SWEET  POTATOES 

After  the  potato  has  been  baked  according  to  preceding 
recipe,  break  it  into  halves,  scoop  out  the  flesh,  add  to  it  a 
tablespoonful  of  cream  and  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt. 


302  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Heap  it  into  a  baking  dish,  brush  with  milk  and  bake  in* a 
hot  oven  until  a  golden  brown. 

WINTER  SQUASH    (Cucurbita  maxima,  Duchesne) 

The  following  rules  for  cooking  pumpkin  may  be  used 
for  any  variety  of  winter  squash,  as  the  Cashaw  or  Hubbard. 
While  they  do  not  contain  as  much  nourishment  as  rice  or 
potatoes,  they  give  variety  to  the  daily  diet. 

Saw  from  the  squash  a  piece,  the  required  size,  remove 
the  seeds  and  bake  at  least  one  hour,  or  until  perfectly 
tender.  Serve  in  the  shell,  or  it  may  be  scooped  out  and 
mashed  with  a  little  butter. 

This  is  exceedingly  nice  served  with  stewed  or  panned 
chicken. 

Keep  the  remaining  portion  in  a  cold  place  to  use  as 
wanted. 

COMMON  PUMPKIN   (Cucurbita  Pepo,  Linn.) 

This  makes  an  exceedingly  nice  vegetable  to  take  the 
place  of  sweet  or  white  potatoes. 

BOILED    PUMPKIN 

Cut  a  sufficient  amount  from  the  pumpkin,  pare  it,  re- 
move the  seeds  and  cut  it  into  blocks,  put  them  in  a  sieve, 
stand  the  sieve  in  a  saucepan,  the  bottom  of  which  is  cov- 
ered with  water;  cover  the  saucepan  and  cook  until  the 
pumpkin  is  tender.  Lift  the  sieve,  drain  and  press  the 
pumpkin  through,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter  or  a  tablespoonful  of  cream.  Heap  on  a  heated 
dish  and  ser^^e  at  once. 

PUMPKIN    TIMBALE 
One  Serving 

Steam  sufficient  pumpkin  to  make  half  a  cupful,  add 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  one 
Qgg,  well  beaten ;  put  it  in  a  custard  cup  and  stand  it  in  a 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  303 

pan  of  boiling  water  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty 
minutes,  until  the  timbale  is  "set."  When  done,  carefully 
turn  it  from  the  cup  and  serve  at  once. 

This  is  a  nice  accompaniment  to  roasted  or  panned 
chicken. 

PUMPKIN    CUSTARD 
One  Serving 

Steam  sufficient  pumpkin  to  make  a  half  cupful  of 
mashed  pumpkin ;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  just  a  pinch  of  salt ;  mix.  Moisten 
a  level  tablespoonful  of  flour  gradually  with  a  half  cupful 
of  milk ;  when  perfectly  smooth  add  it  to  the  pumpkin ;  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  brandy  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg.  Turn 
into  a  custard  cup  and  bake  as  you  would  a  cup  custard. 
Serve  in  the  cup  in  which  it  is  baked. 


304  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

A  GROUP  OF  SUCCULENT  VEGETABLES 

CONTAINING  A  LITTLE  STARCH 

AND  SUGAR 

Salsify;  Parsnips;  String  Beans 

I  have  placed  string-  beans  in  this  group  because  at  times 
they  do  contain  a  minimum  amount  of  starch ;  this  amount, 
hov^ever,  depends  on  the  maturity  of  the  bean  and  the  hour 
of  the  day  in  w^hich  they  are  picked.  Just  before  sundow^n 
they  contain  but  little  starch  ;  early  in  the  morning,  how- 
ever, they  would  of  course  contain  more. 

Salsify  and  parsnips  contain  about  an  equal  amount 
of  starch  and  sugar,  not  enough  however  to  take  the  place 
of  either  rice  or  potato,  but  quite  enough  to  make  them 
objectionable  to  diabetic  persons. 

SALSIFY    (Tragopogon  porrifolius,  Linn.) 

This  is  sold  in  the  market  under  the  name  of  oyster 
plant,  and  makes  one  of  the  nicest  of  cream  soups  for  chil- 
dren's luncheon  or  supper.  There  is  no  objection  to  adding 
oyster  plant  to  the  diet  for  the  aged  or  invalids.  A  recipe 
for  the  soup  will  be  found  among  the  cream  soups. 

SALSIFY  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE 

Scrape  one  dozen  salsify  roots  and  throw  them  at  once 
into  cold  water  to  prevent  discoloration.  At  cooking  time 
cut  them  into  very  thin  slices,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  until  tender,  about  forty  minutes ;  drain,  dish  and 
cover  with  cream  sauce. 

PARSNIPS 

Parsnip  is  the  root  of  the  Pastinaca  sativa,  Linn,  It  is 
very  rich  in  woody  fibre,  which  prohibits  its  use  in  diet 
for  the  sick. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  305 

STRING    BEANS     (Haricots    Verts) 

String  beans  are  not  rich  in  nourishment,  but  furnish 
an  exceedingly  good  bulky  food  in  cases  of  chronic  consti- 
pation. Boiled  and  served  cold  as  a  salad  they  are  palat- 
able, attractive,  and  wholesome. 

TO    BOIL    STRING   BEANS 

String  the  beans  and  cut  them  in  three  pieces  length- 
wise; soak  them  in  cold  water  for  one  hour,  put  them  in  a 
quantity  of  boiling  water,  boil  fifteen  minutes  and  drain. 
Cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  add  salt  and  cook  slowly 
until  tender,  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  drain,  and  if  they 
are  to  be  served  hot  add  a  little  salt  and  butter  or  cream; 
if  to  be  used  for  salad,  put  at  once  to  cool. 


20 


306  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


A  GROUP  OF  VEGETABLES  CONTAINING 
SUGAR  AND  NO  STARCH  OR  NITROGEN 

Young  Green  Peas ;  Young  Green  Corn  ;  Beets 

YOUNG    GREEN    PEAS 

These  are  very  rich  in  water,  and  contain  sugar  and 
a  little  mineral  matter.  They  take  no  part  whatever  in 
body  building.  They  are  palatable  and  easy  of  digestion, 
and  for  this  reason  make  a  nice  addition  to  the  food  of  an 
invalid  or  child ;  even  young  children  may  eat  fresh  green 
peas  if  they  are  carefully  boiled  and  pressed  through  a  sieve. 

TO    COOK   GREEN   PEAS 

The  sweetness  and  flavor  of  green  vegetables  depend 
entirely  on  careful  cooking. 

Shell  the  peas,  throw  them  into  cold  water  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  drain.  Put  a  leaf  of  lettuce,  if  you  have  it, 
in  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan,  arid  add  just  enough  water  to 
keep  the  peas  from  scorching.  Add  to  the  water  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  put  in  the  peas,  cover  the  kettle  and  cook 
about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  peas  are  tender.  Very 
young  peas  will  cook  in  ten  minutes.  When  done,  drain ; 
if  properly  cooked,  the  kettle  will  be  almost  dry.  To  each 
half  pint  of  peas  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  or  you  may  add  cream  in  the  place 
of  butter.     Serve  at  once. 

For  people  who  are  inclined  to  indigestion  the  peas 
should  be  pressed  through  a  sieve,  reheated  over  hot  water 
and  served  quickly. 

TO    COOK   CANNED    PEAS 

Turn  the  peas  from  the  can  into  a  sieve,  wash  them 
under  the  cold  water  spigot ;  reheat,  season  and  serve- 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  307 

BOILED    PEAS    IN   TURNIP    CUPS 

To  give  variety  peas  may  be  served  in  bread  patties 
or  turnip  cups. 

Select  a  small  white  turnip,  pare  it  carefully,  cut  off 
the  stem  end,  scoop  out  the  center,  throve  it  into  unsalted 
water  and  cook  slowly  until  white  and  transparent.  Drain, 
stand  it  on  a  paper  doily  in  a  dish  and  fill  it  with  nicely 
cooked  peas ;  put  a  sprig  of  parsley  at  the  bottom  and  it 
is  ready  to  serve. 

YOUNG    SWEET    CORN 

Young  sweet  corn  should  be  freshly  picked,  husked 
and  thrown  into  boiling  water.  It  should  not  boil  over  two 
minutes,  and  should  be  served  at  once.  To  eat,  score  down 
the  center  of  each  row  of  grains  and  press  out  the  pulp.  Corn 
does  not,  however,  play  a  large  part  in  diet  for  the  sick. 

CORN    BOILED    IN    THE    HUSKS 

In  cases  of  continued  feeding  where  one's  brain  is  con- 
stantly racked  for  variety,  this  makes  a  pretty  vegetable. 

Open  carefully  at  the  top,  remove  every  particle  of 
silk,  strip  off  the  heavy  husks  from  the  outside,  leaving  the 
cob  covered  with  about  two  layers  of  the  young  light 
husks;  cut  the  end  of  the  husks  even.  Have  ready  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water,  put  in  the  corn,  and  after  the  water  begins 
to  boil,  boil  five  minutes ;  lift  with  a  skimmer  and  place  it 
on  a  folded  napkin ;    do  not  remove  the  husks. 

To  eat,  pull  down  the  husks,  score  each  row  of  grains 
through  the  center,  spread  the  corn  lightly  with  butter, 
dust  with  salt,  and  with  the  teeth  press  out  the  center  of 
the  grains,  leaving  the  hulls  on  the  cob.  Fresh,  carefully- 
cooked  corn,  eaten  in  this  way  will  rarely  ever  produce 
indigestion. 


308  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

TO    STEW    CORN 

Score  down  the  center  of  the  grains  and  press  out  the 
pulp ;  put  this  in  a  small  bowl,  stand  the  bowl  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water,  cover  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Add  a 
little  salt  and  butter,  and  serve. 


BEETS  (Beta  vulgaris,  Linn.) 

The  ordinary  beet  root  contains  a  considerable  amount 
of  sugar.  When  young  and  tender  it  is  palatable,  but 
rather  indigestible,  hence  it  plays  no  part  in  diet  for  the 
sick. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  309 


THE  LEGUMINOS^ 

A    Group   of   Vegetables    Containing   a   Goodly 
Quantity  of  Nitrogen  and  Starch 

Full-grown  Dried  Peas.     Full-grown  Dried  Beans  of  all  Varieties. 
Lentils.      Chick  Peas.      Soy  Beans.      Peanuts 

As  flesh  formers,  muscle  and  tissue-building  foods, 
these  seeds  far  excel  meats  and  cereals.  The  amount  of 
nitrogen  in  dried  beans  is  almost  double  that  of  mature 
wheat.  The  protein  in  these  foods  is  digested  and  absorbed 
at  a  slower  rate  than  the  protein  of  meats,  eggs  and  milk. 
Flour  made  from  these  vegetables,  when  thoroughly  cooked 
and  served  in  puree,  is  a  most  valuable  food  for  nursing 
mothers,  and  with  eggs  and  milk  these  purees  should  take 
the  place  of  meat  to  a  large  extent  in  the  diet  for  children. 
The  vegetables  themselves,  to  be  easy  of  digestion,  must  be 
thoroughly  cooked.  They  are  rich  in  fatty  matter  and  pro- 
tein as  compared  to  other  vegetables,  which  makes  the  addi- 
tion of  fat  pork  to  beans  quite  necessary. 

PUREE    OF    DRIED    PEAS 

Wash  thoroughly  a  half  pint  of  dried  peas,  and  soak 
them  over  night  in  cold  water.  Next  morning  drain,  cover 
with  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling  point,  throw  this  water 
away,  cover  with  a  quart  of  fresh  boiling  water,  add  ten 
grains  of  bicarbonate  of  soda  and  cook  gently  until  the 
peas  are  tender,  about  one  and  a  half  hours.  Press  through 
a  colander,  this  time  using  the  water  in  which  they  were 
cooked.  Return  the  puree  to  the  kettle,  add  sufficient  milk 
to  make  it  the  proper  consistency,  and  stir  in  one  level 
tablespoonful  of  fl.our  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk;  boil 
gently  thirty  minutes,  add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt. 


310  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

take  from  the  fire  and  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 
or  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Enough  beans  may  be  prepared  and  cooked  one  day 
to  last  for  three  or  four  days  in  cold  weather,  or  the  same 
length  of  time  in  summer  if  kept  in  a  refrigerator. 


IN    PLACE    OF    MEAT    FOR    CHILDREN 

Boil  the  peas  as  directed  in  preceding  recipe.  Press 
them  through  a  colander,  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  one  of  butter;  heap 
into  a  baking  dish  and  bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
about  one  hour. 


PUREE    OF    DRIED    BEANS 

Recipes  given  for  peas  may  always  be  used  for  beans, 
simply  substituting  navy  beans  for  dried  peas. 
These  recipes  will  also  answer  for  split  peas. 

PUREE    OF    LENTILS 

Wash  a  half  pint  of  lentils  through  several  cold  waters, 
cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning 
drain,  cover  with  fresh  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil  and  drain 
again ;  now  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  stock  or  chicken 
broth.  Cook  the  lentils  until  they  are  perfectly  tender,  press 
through  a  sieve,  return  the  puree  to  the  saucepan  and  add 
sufficient  stock  or  milk  to  make  the  consistency  of  thin 
cream.  Moisten  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch  in  a  little 
cold  milk,  add  it  to  the  puree,  boil  five  minutes,  add  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  celery  salt  or  a  little  crushed  celery  seed; 
take  from  the  fire  and  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 
or  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

This  is  a  most  concentrated  nitrogenous  food ;  a  good 
meat  substitute  for  children  and  the  aged ;  and  is  especially 
good  for  nursing  mothers. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  311 

QUICK   LENTIL    SOUP 

Stir  one  teaspoonful  of  lentil  powder  into  a  half  pint  of 
boiling  water,  cook  slowly  thirty  minutes,  add  a  little 
celery  salt,  taken  from  the  fire  and  add  a  tablespoonful  or 
two  of  cream  or  a  little  butter. 

This,  like  the  preceding  soup,  makes  an  excellent  noon- 
day meal  for  a  child. 

BEAN  SOUFFLE 

Wash  and  soak  a  half  pint  of  beans  over  night.  Next 
morning  bring  to  a  boil,  drain,  throw  the  water  away, 
cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  add  a  level  saltspoonful  of 
bicarbonate  of  soda  and  cook  slowly  until  the  beans  are 
very  tender.  Drain,  throw  the  water  away,  and  press  the 
beans  through  a  colander;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  celery 
salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
hot  milk ;  beat  until  light.  Divide  this,  and  put  one-half 
away  to  use  for  another  meal.  Fold  the  well-beaten  white 
of  one  egg  into  the  remaining  half,  put  it  in  an  individual 
casserole  or  ramekin  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
twenty  minutes. 

This  dish  has  meat  value. 

YOUNG  LIMA  BEANS 

Cover  the  beans  with  boiling  water,  boil  ten  minutes 
and  drain.  Throw  them  out  on  a  meat  platter  and  skin 
them  as  you  would  slip  an  almond  out  of  its  skin  after  it  has 
been  scalded;  throw  the  skins  away.  Put  the  beans  into 
a  saucepan,  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover,  and  cook 
slowly  until  tender,  about  twenty  minutes ;  drain,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a  pal- 
atable seasoning  of  salt. 

These  may  be  served  to  invalids,  children  and  the 
aged. 


312  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

LIMA  BEAN   SOUFFLE 

Cook  according  to  the  preceding  recipe  and  press 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Add  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg 
to  each  half  cupful  of  beans,  and  bake  in  a  small  dish,  in  a 
moderate  oven,  twenty  minutes. 

THE    SOY    BEAN    (Glycine    hispida,    Maxine) 

The  soy  bean  has  for  years  formed  the  staple  nitroge- 
nous diet  of  the  people  of  the  Orient;  in  fact,  a  handful  of 
rice  and  a  few  soy  beans  constitute  the  daily  food  of  two- 
thirds  of  the  East  Indians,  Chinese  and  Japanese. 

As  these  beans  contain  less  starch  than  ordinary  beans, 
they  can  be  used  in  mild  diabetic  cases. 

To  cook:  Soak  the  given  quantity  over  night,  throw 
away  the  water,  cover  them  with  fresh  cold  water,  bring 
to  a  boil,  throw  this  water  away,  cook  in  fresh  boiling  water 
until  tender,  and  press  through  a  sieve.    This  is  soy  pulp. 

A  preparation  of  soy  flour  may  be  purchased  in  cartons, 
but  as  I  know  nothing  whatever  about  the  quality  of  the 
flour,  I  prefer  to  use  the  pulp  from  beans  boiled  and  pressed 
through  a  sieve.  The  flour  saves  time  and  trouble,  but  in 
feeding  the  sick  this  is  of  secondary  consideration. 

SOY  BEAN  ROLLS 

After  the  beans  have  been  drained  and  pressed  through 
a  colander,  season  them  with  butter  and  salt,  form  into  rolls 
about  three  inches  long,  twice  the  size  of  your  finger;  stand 
them  on  oiled  paper,  brush  with  milk  and  brown  in  a  quick 
oven.     Serve  with  Cream  Sauce  Number  Two. 

One  roll  is  sufficient  for  the  "meat"  portion  of  a  meal. 

SOY  GEMS 

Separate  two  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  until  light,  add  a 
half  cupful  of  milk,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  half  cupful  of 
the  soy  pulp.    Beat,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICIC  313 

fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs ;  turn  at  once  into 
greased  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  They  should 
be  eaten  like  spoon  bread,  with  a  fork.  If  gems  are  left  over, 
pull  them  into  halves  and  toast  carefully  to  a  golden  brown. 

I  find  these  muffins  or  gems  one  of  the  most  valuable 
bread  substitutes  for  diabetic  patients.  Two  gems,  with 
a  lettuce  salad  with  French  dressing  made  from  lemon 
juice,  make  a  nice  luncheon  or  supper. 

Do  not  add  shortening  in  the  form  of  butter  or  oil  to 
the  gems,  as  it  makes  them  more  difficult  of  digestion. 

SOY    BEAN   WAFERS 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  the  soy  bean  pulp  into  a  bowl,  add 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  twenty-four  blanched  almonds 
ground  fine,  and  one  egg  well  beaten.  Drop  by  tablespoon- 
fuls  on  greased  paper  and  bake  until  crisp  and  brown. 
Masticate  thoroughly. 

SOY    BREAKFAST    CAKES 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  soy  pulp  into  a  bowl,  add  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  fold 
in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Drop  by  tablespoon- 
fuls in  greased  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes. 
To  eat,  split  with  a  fork  and  put  on  a  little  butter. 

Soy  breads  of  various  kinds  may  be  given  to  diabetic 
patients  once  a  day,  unless  they  produce  undesirable  results. 


314  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

A  GROUP  OF  VEGETABLES  CONTAINING 

NITROGENOUS  MATTER  WITHOUT 

STARCH  OR  SUGAR 

Under  this  heading  we  place  all  the  edible  fungi,  mush- 
rooms and  truffles.  While  they  are  rich  in  nitrogenous 
matter  and  are  free  from  starch  and  sugar,  they  contain 
a  large  proportion  of  vegetable  fibre,  which  makes  them 
dense  and  difficult  of  digestion.  They  are  food  adjuncts  or 
flavoring,  rather  than  true  foods. 

They  will  not,  in  any  way,  take  the  place  of  meat.  The 
nitrogen  they  contain  is  not  available  for  tissue  building. 
They  take  no  part  whatever  in  diet  for  the  sick.  Now  and 
then  one  may  be  chopped  fine  and  added  to  a  meat  dish 
for  the  sake  of  variety  in  cases  of  long-continued  restricted 
diet,  and  even  then  I  should  prefer  not  to  use  them. 

The  coprinns  micaceus,  the  early  spring  mushroom,  is 
said  to  be  very  easy  of  digestion. 


MRS.    RORER's  .diet   FOR   THE   SICK  315 

A  GROUP  OF  GREEN  OR  SUCCULENT 
VEGETABLES 

This    large   group   of   vegetables    contains    principally 
water  and  mineral  salts. 


Artichokes /Jf/"'^^^^ 
( Globe 


Gherkin 
Horseradish 
Asparagus  Kale 

Broccoli  Kohl-rabi 

Brussels  sprouts  Martynia 

Cabbage  i^h;^^  ^^'^ 

I  Red  Onions 

Cardoon  Peppers 

Carrots  Radishes 

Cauliflower  Ruta-baga 

Celeriac  Savoy 

Celery  Scullions 

Collards  Spinach 

Cucumbers  and  Christophines         Summer  squash 

Dandelions  Swiss  chard 

Dock  shoots  Tomatoes 

Egg  plant  Vegetable   marrow 

They  include  many  parts  of  plants,  as  shoots,  leaves, 
stalks,  stems  and  roots.  They  are  valuable  articles  of  food, 
not  because  they  contain  nourishment,  but  for  the  mineral 
salts  and  waste  material  they  give  to  the  daily  bill  of  fare. 
They  are  the  most  important  foods  in  cases  of  chronic 
constipation ;  if  well  cooked  and  used  daily,  they  will  cure 
even  obstinate  cases.  They  are  far  more  valuable  than 
fruits,  unless  fruits  are  eaten  alone. 

The  object  of  cooking  non-starchy  vegetables,  is  to 
soften  the  fibre  and  make  them  more  easy  of  digestion. 
Green  vegetables  unless  carefully  cooked,  easily  part  with 
their  salts  in  cooking,  and  become  unsightly,  unpalatable 
and  useless  as  food. 

All  green  vegetables  should  be  soaked  before  cooking 
in  cold  water  without  salt;  salt  wilts  them.     The  common 


316  MRS.    RORER*S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 

turnip,  an  admirable  succulent  vegetable,  sightly,  palatable 
and  appetizing  if  daintily  cooked,  is  nine  out  of  ten  times 
ruined  in  the  cooking.  Raw  cabbage,  finely  shaved  and 
soaked  in  cold  water,  is  digested  in  two  and  a  half  hours ; 
after  it  passes  through  the  hands  of  the  average  cook  it 
requires  five  hours  for  digestion.  When  stewed  carefully 
requires   but   three   hours. 

The  water  in  Which  vegetables  are  cooked  is  rich  in 
salts  and  mineral  matter;  if  thrown  away  the  best  part  of 
the  vegetable  is  lost. 

Green  vegetables  lend  themselves  most  easily  to  the 
combination  of  milk  for  making  cream  soups ;  the  milk 
contains  the  needed  nourishment,  and  is  made  palatable 
by  the  flavoring  of  the  vegetables.  These  soups  form  an 
admirable  luncheon  or  supper  dish  for  children. 

Among  the  best  cream  soups  are  potato,  pea,  celery 
and  cream  of  corn. 

In  cases  of  chronic  constipation,  onions,  carrots,  stewed 
cucumbers,  spinach  and  kale  are  best. 

GLOBE  OR  FRENCH  ARTICHOKES 

(Cynara   Scolymus,   Linn.) 

The  fleshy  part  of  the  scales  and  the  part  known  as  the 
*'choke,"  to  which  the  scales  are  attached,  constitute  the 
edible  portion. 

TO  BOIL  ARTICHOKES 

Strip  ofif  the  outside  leaves  and  trim  the  base.  With  a 
sharp  knife  cut  the  tops  of  the  leaves  within  two  inches  of 
the  base.  With  the  handle  of  a  spoon  scoop  out  the  flowery 
portion  in  the  center.  Tie  the  artichokes  into  compact 
form  with  a  strong  string,  throw  them  into  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  each  quart,  and 
if  you  have  it,  a  bit  of  charcoal,  or  powdered  charcoal  tied  in 
a  piece  of  cheesecloth.  Boil  five  minutes,  reduce  the  heat 
of  the  water  and  cook  slowly  just  below  the  boiling  point 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR   THE    SICK  317 

for  one  hour,  or  until  the  leaves  are  tender.  Lift  the  arti- 
chokes carefully  with  a  skimmer  and  turn  them  upside 
down  to  drain. 

To  serve,  put  a  small  doily  in  a  round  plate,  stand  the 
artichoke  on  the  doily,  and  pass  with  it  a  tiny  boat  of  sauce 
Hollandaise.  To  eat,  strip  off  the  outside  leaves,  dip  them 
in  the  sauce,  and  with  the  teeth  strip  of¥  the  fleshy  part. 
There  is  little  to  eat  on  an  artichoke,  but  they  are  appetiz- 
ing and  attractive. 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES 
(Helianthus  tuberosus,  Linn.) 

These  are  the  tubers  of  the  so-called  Italian  sunflower, 
which  grows  wild  and  abundantly  in  many  parts  of  the 
United  States  and  Canada.  They  do  not  contain  starch, 
and  only  a  trace  of  sugar;  are  fairly  rich  in  gum  and  inulin. 

Simply  cooked,  they  may  be  eaten  by  diabetics. 

JERUSALEM    ARTICHOKES   WITH    CREAM 

Scrape  the  artichokes  and  throw  them  into  cold  water 
to  prevent  discoloration.  When  ready  to  cook,  cut  them 
into  slices  a  half  inch  thick,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  gently  twenty  minutes,  or  until  they  can  be  easily 
pierced  with  a  fork.  Drain,  turn  into  a  heated  dish  and 
cover  with  hot  cream,  or  add  butter  and  salt;  do  not  salt 
them  while  cooking. 

If  properly  cooked  they*  will  be  sightly  and  crisp,  not 
heavy  or  soggy. 

ASPARAGUS   (Asparagus  officinalis,  Linn.) 

Asparagus  belongs  to  the  lily  family.  The  plant  is 
cultivated  for  its  early  shoots,  which  are  in  great  favor  in 
the  United  States,  both  as  a  vegetable,  and  hot  and  cold  in 
salads. . 

Asparagus  contains  an  alkaloid  known  as  asparagin.  Its 
true  merits  or  demerits  are  little  known,  hence  it  has  very 


318  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

little  place  in  diet  for  the  sick.  It  may  however,  be  used 
for  the  obese  and  the  diabetic. 

The  green  asparagus  is  said  to  contain  a  greater  amount 
of  this  active  principle,  asparagin,  than  the  white,  and  should 
not  be  used  in  diet  for  the  sick. 

In  early  spring  the  fresh  young  fronds  of  the  fern 
and  the  shoots  of  the  poke  make  good  imitations  of  aspar- 
agus, and  are  frequently  less  injurious.  Stale  asparagus  is 
as  dangerous  as  stale  meat. 

TO    BOIL   ASPARAGUS 

Peel  the  butt  ends  of  each  stalk  of  asparagus ;  tie  the 
stalks  into  small  bundles,  put  them  in  a  kettle  sufficiently 
large  to  keep  them  straight,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
boil  thirty  minutes.  Lift  the  asparagus,  drain  it  on  a  soft 
cheesecloth  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

To  serve  hot — put  it  on  toast,  with  cream  sauce  or 
serve  without  toast  with  sauce  Hollandaise.  Cold,  serve 
with  French  dressing,  The  tips  of  the  stalks  may  be  cut 
off  and  served  in  an  individual  dish  with  sauce  Hollandaise. 
Or  put  them  in  a  little  bread  patty  and  add  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  carefully-made  cream  sauce. 

CABBAGE 

Under  cabbage  we  will  consider  all  varieties  of  the 
single  species  (Brassica  oleracea,  Linn.),  a  plant  belonging 
to  the  mustard  family.  All  these  plants  contain  a  volatile 
oil,  rich  in  hydrogen  and  sulphur.  It  is  thought  by  many 
that  these  elements  help  in  the  digestion  of  cabbage,  which 
makes  raw  cabbage  more  easily  digested  than  cooked  cab- 
bage. Careless  cooking  drives  off  the  gases,  makes  an  un- 
pleasant and  peculiar  odor  over  the  house  and  robs  the  cab- 
bage of  its  palatibility.  Carefully-stewed  cabbage  is  deli- 
cate, easily  digested,  palatable  and  sightly. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  319 

TO   SERVE   CABBAGE   RAW 

Select  a  perfectly  hard  white  head  of  cabbage,  cut  it 
into  halves  and  shave  off  a  sufficient  quantity;  the  cabbage 
must  be  as  fine  as  thread.  This  can  be  done  with  a  sharp 
knife  or  an  ordinary  *'slaw  cutter."  Throw  the  cabbage 
into  cold  water,  let  it  stand  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then 
press  it  dry;  cover  with  fresh  cold  water,  and  if  possible 
add  a  piece  of  ice;  let  this  soak  at  least  two  hours,  drain 
and  put  it  in  a  towel  to  dry.     Serve  with  French  dressing. 

This  is  exceedingly  good  in  cases  of  chronic  constipa- 
tion, and  can  also  be  eaten  by  diabetic  patients. 

LADIES'  CABBAGE 

Cut  the  cabbage  and  treat  it  as  directed  in  preceding 
recipe.  Drain  it,  throw  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted 
water,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  cook  rapidly,  uncovered, 
for  twenty  minutes.  .  Drain  again,  and  add  salt,  butter 
or  cream. 

GERMAN  CABBAGE 

Cook  according  to  the  preceding  recipe,  and  instead  of 
adding  cream  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  or 
vinegar  and  a  little  butter. 

CABBAGE   ROLLS 

Take  the  loose  leaves  from  a  head  of  cabbage,  or  use 
a  head  of  savoy.  Scald  the  leaves  just  enough  to  make 
them  soft.  Have  ready  sufficient  cold  cooked  chicken  to 
make  a  half  cupful ;  season  it  with  salt,  a  little  chopped 
celery  if  you  have  it,  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Remove  the 
midribs  from  the  leaves,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture 
on  the  tip  of  the  leaf,  fold  in  the  sides  and  roll  up  the  leaf, 
making  a  roll  about  as  thick  and  long  as  your  forefinger. 
Put  them  in  a  saucepan,  placing  them  in  position  to  prevent 
unrolling.  Squeeze  over  the  top  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover.     Stand  over  a  mod- 


320  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

erate  fire  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  Lift  the  rolls  carefully 
on  a  skimmer,  place  them  on  a  small  heated  platter,  add  a 
little  butter  to  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked,  baste 
the  rolls  and  send  at  once  to  the  table.  These  may  be  gar- 
nished with  crisp  broiled  bacon. 

COLD   SLAW 

Shave  the  cabbage  and  soak  it  as  directed  in  first 
recipe.  Beat  one  tgg  without  separating,  add  a  half  cupful 
of  thick  sour  cream,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  if  you  have  it  a  half  saltspoonful  of  crushed  celery 
seed.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens,  and  stand  it 
aside  to  cool.  At  serving  time  drain  and  dry  the  cabbage, 
sprinkle  over  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  or 
vinegar,  and  mix  it  with  the  dressing.  Garnish  with  capers 
or  chopped  olives. 

SAVOY    (Borecole) 

This  is  a  variety  of  cabbage  with  a  loose  head  composed 
of  very  curly  or  wrinkled  leaves.  It  is  rather  more  delicate 
than  ordinary  cabbage,  but  is  essentially  a  fall  and  winter 
vegetable.  It  is  better  made  into  rolls  or  stuffed  than  served 
in  any  other  way. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Cauliflower  and  broccoli  have  all  the  nutritious  mat- 
ter concentrated  in  a  short,  compact  bunch  of  flowers, 
which  forms  a  head.  Cauliflower  is  considered  more  easily 
digested  than  cabbage. 

TO  BOIL  CAULIFLOWER 

Trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  throw  the  head  into  cold 
water  and  soak  for  a  half  hour,  then  tie  it  in  a  square  of 
cheesecloth  and  drop  it,  stem  side  down,  in  a  large  kettle 
of  boiling  salted  water;  boil,  uncovered,  for  about  thirty 
minutes.     Be  careful  not  to  overcook,  or  it  will  become 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  321 

water  soaked  and  lose  its   flavor  and   color.     To  be  well 
cooked  it  must  be  snow  white  and  tender. 

Serve  with  cream  sauce,  sauce  Hollandaise  or  Qgg 
sauce. 

KALE 

Kale,  another  vegetable  of  the  cabbage  tribe,  may  be 
cooked  and  served  according  to  the  directions  given  for 
cooking  spinach. 

BRUSSELS    SPROUTS 

These  are  composed  of  numerous  small  heads  growing 
in  the  axils  of  the  leaves  on  a  long  stem  below  the  top 
leaves,  and  are  considered  the  most  delicate  of  the  cabbage 
tribe,  excepting  cauliflower.  To  be  perfect  they  should 
not  be  larger  than  an  English  walnut. 

TO  BOIL  BRUSSELS   SPROUTS 

Trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  keeping  just  the  hearts  of 
the  sprouts ;  throw  these  into  cold  water,  soak  for  one  hour, 
then  put  them  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted  water  and 
cook  rapidly,  uncovered,  until  tender,  about  thirty  minutes ; 
drain.  Serve  with  salt  and  a  little  melted  butter,  or  with 
cream  sauce. 

COLLARDS 

Collards  are, cabbage  in  which  the  fleshy  leaves  do  not 
form  a  head ;  they  are  held  loosely  on  the  root  and  stem. 
A  well-grown  collard  looks  a  little  like  an  overgrown  head 
of  Romaine.  They  may  be  cooked  and  served  according 
to  the  rules  given  for  spinach. 

KOHL-RABI 

This  is  frequently  called  turnip  cabbage.  The  plant 
stores  its  nourishment  just  above  the  ground  in  a  turnip- 
like swelling,  and  from  this  spring  ordinary  cabbage  leaves. 

21 


323  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

TO  BOIL  KOHL-RABI 

Take  off  a  thick  paring,  cut  the  rabi  in  slices,  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  about  thirty  minutes.  Drain 
and  serve  slightly  salted,  or  with  melted  butter,  or  a  little 
cream,  or  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  sauce. 


CARDOON    (Cynara  Cardunculus,  Linn,) 

This  plant  resembles  a  long  shaggy  bunch  of  celery. 
The  edible  portion  consists  of  thick  fleshy  leaf  stalks,  well 
bleached.  Boil  it  in  salt  water,  and  serve  with  sauce  Hol- 
landaise  or  ^gg  sauce. 

CARROTS    (Daucus    Carota,   Linn.) 

Young  tender  carrots,  when  fresh,  are  very  palatable 
and  wholesome.  They  may  be  boiled  in  plain  water  with- 
out salt,  or  in  stock. 

Full  grown  and  mature  carrots  contain  a  little  sugar, 
and  some  starch,  and  are  unfit  for  diabetic  patients ;  but 
the  young  succulent  roots  contain  but  little  more  than 
water  and  mineral  matter;  they  have  a  trace  of  iron,  and 
are  considered  anti-scorbutic. 

CARROTS   a  la   POULETTE 

Scrape  a  bunch  of  very  young  carrots,  soak  them  a  half 
hour  in  cold  water,  then  cook  in  boiling  unsalted  water 
until  perfectly  tender,  about  thirty  minutes.  Beat  the  yolk 
of  an  Ggg  slightly,  stir  into  it  carefully  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  stock 
and  a  dash  of  salt ;  pour  this  over  the  carrots  and  serve. 

CARROTS  IN   TURNIP   CUPS 

Tiny  carrots  cut  into  dice  and  boiled  may  be  seasoned 
with  salt  and  melted  butter,  and  served  in  ^'turnip  cups." 
See  Turnips. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  'S'2'3 

OLD    CARROTS 

Scrape  and  wash  two  good-sized  carrots,  grate  them 
into  a  pint  of  boiling  stock,  add  one  good-sized  onion, 
grated,  simmer  thirty  minutes  and  add  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  Serve  in  a  soup  dish  and  garnish  the  top  with 
the  powdered  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg. 

Good  in  cases  of  chronic  constipation. 


STEWED   OLD   CARROTS 

Scrape  the  carrots,  cut  them  into  thin  slices  and  soak 
them  in  cold  water  an  hour.  Boil  in  unsalted  water  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  tender;  drain  and  serve  with 
cream  sauce. 

PICKLED  CARROTS 

Wash  and  scrape  six  good-sized  full-grown  carrots ; 
cut  them  into  slices  crosswise  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
and  soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Boil  in  unsalted  water 
until  tender,  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  drain,  put 
the  slices  into  a  jar  with  alternating  layers  of  sliced  onions; 
add  two  bay  leaves,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  crushed  celery 
seed,  and  if  you  have  it,  a  sprig  of  tarragon.  Fill  the  jars 
with  vinegar  and  stand  aside  for  twenty-four  hours. 

Pickled  carrots  make  an  exceedingly  nice  garnish  for 
lettuce  or  potato  salad,  and  may  be  used  as  a  garnish  for 
cold  meat. 

Young  pickled  carrots  may  be  used  now  and  then  in 
mild  cases  of  diabetes  and  for  the  obese. 

CELERY    (Apium  graveolens,  Linn.) 

For  eating  raw,  use  the  tender  bleached  celery  from 
the  center  of  the  root;  it  makes  a  nice  accompaniment  to  a 
broiled  steak  or  Salisbury  steaks  for  diabetics  and  the  obese. 


324  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

TO   PREPARE   CELERY 

Trim  off  the  root  and  throw  the  head  of  celery  into 
cold  water  the  moment  it  comes  from  the  market.  Separate 
it  to  the  center,  and  with  a  small  scrubbing-  brush  scrub 
each  piece  carefully,  rinse  it,  put  it  in  a  bag  and  on  the 
ice  until  wanted.  Save  the  outside  portion  for  stewing-  or 
for  cream  of  celery  soup,  and  the  green  tops  for  soup  flavor- 
ing. 

TO   FRINGE   CELERY 

To  give  variety  in  service  where  there  is  long-continued 
feeding,  fringe  the  celery  instead  of  serving  it  plain. 

Cut  nice  crisp  pieces  of  celery  into  two-inch  lengths, 
then  with  a  sharp  knife  make  six  or  eight  cuts  about  a  half 
inch  in  length  at  both  ends  of  these  pieces ;  then  make 
about  five  parallel  cuts.  Throw  them  at  once  in  cold  water; 
in  about  one  hour  the  cut  portions  will  curl  back,  giving 
the  celery  the  appearance  of  being  fringed. 

STEWED   CELERY 

Cut  the  outside  pieces  of  celery  into  one-inch  lengths, 
cover  them  with  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  slowly  for 
thirty  minutes,  or  until  the  pieces  are  perfectly  tender. 
There  should  now  be  just  water  enough  to  cover  the  celery ; 
add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  butter,  and  a  little  pepper  if 
allowable. 

CREAMED    CELERY 

Cook  according  to  the  above  recipe,  drain  off  the  water, 
saving  it  for  soup.  Cover  the  celery  with  cream  sauce  and 
send  to  the  table. 

CELERY  a  la  POULETTE 

Boil  the  celery  as  directed  in  first  recipe ;  drain,  saving 
the  water.  Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg  until  light,  add  slowly 
a  quarter  cupful  of  the  water  in,  which  the  celery  was 
boiled ;    cook    a    minute    to    the    thickness    of    mayonnaise 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  325 

dressing;   stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a  dash  of  salt. 
Dish  the  celery,  pour  over  the  sauce  and  serve. 

This  makes  a  nice  change  for  diabetic  patients. 

CELERIAC   (Apium  graveolens.  Variety  Rapaceum) 

Celeriac,  which  may  be  the  father  of  celery,  is  a  sort  of 
turnip-rooted  celery,  which  is  usually  peeled,  boiled,  cooled 
and  sliced,  to  serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing  under  the 
name  of  celery  root  salad.  It  also  makes  a  good  cream 
soup. 

Where  restricted  feeding  is  long  continued  and  variety 
necessary  it  may  be  boiled  and  served  with  tgg  sauce. 

CUCUMBERS   (Cucumis  sativus,  Linn.) 

Cucumbers  contain  but  very  little  nourishment;  they 
are  rich  in  water  and  contain  some  mineral  matter.  They 
are  chiefly  prized  for  their  odor  and  flavor.  If  eaten  raw, 
they  must  be  taken  very  young,  and  used  the  same  day  in 
which  they  are  picked.  They  must  always  be  soaked  in 
cold  water,  without  salt.  If  salt  is  added  they  lose  their 
crispness,  become  leathery  and  are  dangerous  to  persons 
of  weak  digestion.  When  carefully  cooked,  they  are  very 
easy  of  digestion. 

TO  SERVE  RAW 

Peel  very  young  cucumbers,  soak  them  in  cold  or  ice 
water  one  hour;  grate,  drain,  and  add  a  little  French  dressing 
and  use  at  once. 

This  makes  a  nice  accompaniment  to  broiled,  boiled 
or  baked  fish. 

CUCUMBERS  a  la  POULETTE 

Pare  large  cucumbers,  cut  them  into  halves,  and  with 
a  spoon  scoop  out  the  seeds ;  cut  each  half  into  three  pieces 
crosswise.  Put  them  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth,  tie  loosely, 
then  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted  w^ater  to  cook  thirty-five 


326  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

minutes.  Lift  the  cheesecloth,  put  it  in  a  colander  until 
the  cucumbers  are  thoroughly  drained.  Beat  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  until  light,  add  a  half  cupful  of  water  in  which  the 
cucumbers  were  boiled ;  when  thick  and  smooth  add  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  lemon  juice  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  butter.  Put  the  cucumbers  in  a  dish,  pour  over  the  sauce 
and  use  at  once. 

VEGETABLE  MARROW   (Cucurbita  Ovifera,  Linn.) 

These  resemble  long  narrow  cucumbers.  When  well 
cooked,  like  cucumbers,  they  form  an  excellent  succulent 
vegetable. 

CHRISTOPHINES 

Christophines  may  be  pared  and  cooked  according  to 
the  recipe  given  for  cucumber.  Serve  with  a  little  salt  and 
butter  or  egg  sauce. 

SUMMER  SQUASH   (Cymlin) 

This  belongs  to  the  pumpkin  tribe ;  in  chemical  com- 
position, however,  it  closely  resembles  the  cucumber  and 
vegetable  marrow.  It  may  be  carefully  boiled  in  very 
little  water,  mashed  through  a  colander  and  seasoned  with 
salt  and  butter.  Or  it  may  be  boiled  carefully  like  cucum- 
bers, in  pieces,  and  served  with  cream  or  egg  sauce. 

EGGPLANT  (AUBERGINES) 

(JSolanum  melongena,  Linn.,  Variety  esculentum) 

Eggplant  may  be  a  food  for  persons  in  health,  but  they 
take  no  part  whatever  in. diet  for  the  sick. 

HORSERADISH   (Nasturtium  Amoracia,  Fries) 

The  edible  portion  of  this  plant  is  the  long  tap  root. 
It  may  be  used  in  cases  of  prolonged  feeding  for  the  obese, 
and  where  continued  meat  diet  is  ordered.     The  aromatic 


MRS.    RORER^'S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK  327 

principles  which  give  flavor  to  horseradish  help  to  make  the 
meat  more  appetizing. 

It  is  usually  grated  and  covered  with  vinegar.  Grated 
and  mixed  with  cream,  however,  it  makes  a  much  better 
condiment. 

Use  it  sparingly;  beware  of  the  condiments  that  "bite." 

OKRA    (Hibiscus  esculentus,  Linn.) 

The  young  pods  of  this  plant  constitute  the  edible 
portion ;  they  are  rich  in  mucilage,  and  are  used  principally, 
in  this  country,  for  thickening  soups.  Among  the  Creoles 
and  in  the  British  West  Indies  okras  are  boiled  in  plain 
salt  water  and  served  as  a  vegetable.  As  they  do  not  con- 
tain either  starch  or  sugar,  they  make  one  more  summer 
vegetable  for  the  diabetic  and  the  rheumatic. 

In  our  northern  markets  okra  is  frequently  incorrectly 
called  "gumbo." 

BOILED    OKRA 

Wash  six  young,  tender  pods,  soak  them  in  cold  water 
for  a  half  hour.  Drain,  put  them  in  a  granite  kettle, 
sprinkle  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  and  cook  slowly  thirty  minutes,  or  until  the  pods 
are  perfectly  tender.  Drain,  arrange  them  in  a  small  heated 
dish,  put  over  a  little  butter  and  a  dash  of  lemon  juice. 

OKRA   AND    TOMATOES 

Put  six  small  okra  into  a  saucepan  with  two  large 
tomatoes  that  have  been  peeled,  cut  into  halves  and  the 
seeds  pressed  out;  cover  the  saucepan  and  stew  for  thirty 
minutes,  then  add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  a  level 
tablespoonful  of  butter.     Serve  at  once  in  a  heated  dish. 

ONIONS    {Allium  Cepa,  Linn.) 

The  common  onion,  a  large  bulb,  contains  a  very  pun- 
gent flavoring  due  to  a  volatile  oil,  rich  in  sulphur.     This 


328  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

odor,  like  the  odor  of  cabbage,  is  dissipated  and  thrown 
off  by  careless  cooking.  Onions  must  be  soaked  in  cold 
water  an  hour  before  cooking;  cook  in  boiling  salted  water, 
in  an  uncovered  vessel.  Serve  plain  or  with  cream,  or  with 
butter.  They  are  wholesome,  rather  easy  of  digestion 
when  carefully  cooked,  and  are  stimulating  to  the  intestines. 
They  are  valuable  in  cases  of  chronic  constipation. 
Made  into  cream  soup,  they  may  be  given  to  invalids  who 
have  no  cardiac  trouble,  the  aged  and  children. 


TO   BOIL  ONIONS 

Peel  off  the  skins,  and  then  remove  another  layer  even 
if  it  seems  to  be  tender.  Soak  them  in  cold  water  for  a 
half  hour,  then  boil  in  salted  water  until  perfectly  tender, 
about  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  drain,  saving  the  water 
in  which  they  were  boiled  as  a  flavoring  for  beef  or  other 
soup.    Add  a  little  salt,  butter,  or  salt  and  cream. 


BAKED   ONIONS   I 

Peel  a  good-sized  Bermuda  onion,  throw  it  into  cold 
water  for  a  half  hour,  then  boil  it  in  salted  water  for  twenty 
minutes ;  drain,  wipe  it  dry  with  a  towel,  brush  it  with 
butter,  dust  lightly  with  salt,  wrap  it  in  a  piece  of  oiled 
paper,  put  it  in  an  individual  baking  dish  or  a  ramekin, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

To  eat,  untwist  the  top  of  the  paper  and  scoop  out  the 
center  of  the  onion  with  a  spoon,  much  as  you  would  eat 
an  Qgg  from  the  shell. 


BAKED   ONIONS   II 

Peel  off  the  outside  of  the  onion  until  you  have  reached 
the  very  tender  layer.  Put  them  into  a  baking  dish ;  cover 
with  water.  Cover  the  baking  dish,  and  cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  one  hour.    Dish,  and  serve  with  a  little  salt  and  butter. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  329 

BOILED   ONIONS  FOR  ASTHMATICS 

Peel  the  onions;  throw  them  into  boiling  water;  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  boil  carefully  for  three  quarters  of 
an  hour.  Drain,  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Reheat;  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  and  serve  in  a  heated  dish. 

STUFFED    SPANISH    ONION 

Procure  a  medium-sized  Spanish  onion,  throw  it,  with- 
out peeling,  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted  water;  keep  it 
near  the  boiling  point,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Take  it  out  with  a  skimmer,  remove  the  out- 
side skin,  open  it  lightly  and  scoop  out  the  center.  Fill 
this  space  with  nicely-seasoned  chopped  meat — beef  or 
chicken  ;  wrap  the  onion  in  waxed  paper,  stand  it  in  an 
individual  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one 
hour. 

To  serve,  remove  the  paper,  lift  the  onion  carefully  to 
a  small  dish,  put  over  a  little  melted  butter  or  cream  sauce, 
and  serve. 

In  cases  of  rheumatism,  where  meat  is  forbidden,  stuff 
it  with  chopped  almonds  mixed  with  bread  crumbs  and  the 
soft  portion  of  the  onion  that  was  scooped  out. 

LEEK   {Allium  Porrum,  Linn.) 

The  bulb  of  the  leek  is  greatly  elongated,  and  the  leaves 
broad  and  linear.  Leeks  are  used  to  give  flavoring  to 
soups  and  sauces. 

SCULLIONS   OR   SPRING   ONIONS 

Those  who  can  digest  them,  may  eat  these  raw  with 
salt,  or  sliced  over  lettuce  salad.  The  center  soft  part  may 
be  boiled  in  salt  water  and  served  the  same  as  asparagus. 

PEPPERS 

There  are  many  varieties  and  forms  of  pepper;  they 
all    belong,    however,    to    the    genus    Capsicum.      Tabasco 


330         ^  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

sauce,  a  liquid  pepper  sauce  made  from  small  Tabasco  pep- 
pers, is  perhaps  one  of  the  best  of  the  pepper  seasonings. 
Liquid  pepper  is  less  irritating  than  ground  pepper. 

The  large  sweet  variety  of  the  common  peppers  is  used 
as  a  garnish  to  salad,  or  stuffed  with  meat  and  baked,  or  is 
made  into  sauce  for  chopped  meat  dishes.  All  these,  how- 
ever, are  indigestible,  and  to  many  persons  quite  poisonous. 

The  large  red  "bell"  pepper  is  used  for  such  highly- 
seasoned  dishes  as  tamales,  chile-con-carne  and  curries. 

STUFFED  PEPPER  I 

Select  one  large  sweet  pepper,  cut  off  the  stem  end, 
and  remove  the  seeds.  Wash  the  pepper,  soak  it  in  cold 
water  for  thirty  minutes.  Fill  it  with  chopped,  nicely- 
seasoned,  beef  or  chicken,  or  mutton ;  stand  it  in  a  baking 
pan,  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  water  and  bake 
slowly  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Just  before  it  is 
done  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  top  and  baste  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  the  water. 

Do  not  allow  the  patient  to  eat  the  skin,  but  the  meat 
cooked  in  the  pepper  will  have  a  very  agreeable  flavor. 

STUFFED   PEPPER   II 

In  cases  where  meat  is  forbidden,  peppers  may  be  stuffed 
with  carefully-boiled  rice,  or  chopped  nuts  and  bread 
crumbs. 

RADISHES    (Raphanus  sativus,  Linn.) 

Radishes  contain  neither  starch  nor  sugar.  When 
young  and  very  tender  they  may  be  eaten  raw,  with  a 
little  salt;  old,  they  are  dense  and  difficult  of  .digestion, 
quite   unfit   for  persons   in   health. 

Carefully  boiled  in  unsalted  water,  dressed  with  a 
little  butter,  they  form  an  exceedingly  nice  winter  vege- 
table, and  are  quite  easy  of  digestion.  The  preferable 
varieties  for  boiling  are  the  large  Japanese  and  black 
Spanish. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  331 

TURNIPS 

Of  these  we  use  two  varieties,  Brassica  Rapa,  Linn, 
and  the  ruta-baga  or  Swedish  turnip ;  both  are  prepared 
after  the  same  recipes.  Turnips  do  not  contain  sugars 
nor  starch,  but  amyloids  in  the  form  of  gum  and  inulin, 
with  quite  a  marked  quantity  of  pectose.  When  well 
cooked,  they  make  an  agreeable  and  harmless  vegetable  for 
diabetic  persons.  Turnip  tops,  or  the  sprouts  from  old 
white  turnips,  dressed  with  French  dressing,  make  an 
exceedingly  nice  spring  salad. 

BOILED  TURNIPS 

Pare  a  solid  turnip,  cut  it  into  dice,  and  soak  in  cold 
water  for  a  half  hour ;  drain,  put  in  a  kettle  of  unsalted 
boiling  water  and  boil,  uncovered,  for  twenty  minutes  or 
until  white  and  transparent.  Drain  in  a  colander.  Serve 
with  melted  butter  and  a  little  salt  to  diabetic,  rheu- 
matic and  gouty  patients.  Turnips  are  a  nice  accompani- 
ment to  boiled  or  roasted  mutton. 

TOMATOES    (Lycopersicum   esculentum.   Miller) 

Dietitians  disagree  regarding  the  advisability  and 
wholesomeness  of  adding  tomatoes  to  diet  for  the  sick.  Of 
this  we  are  quite  certain,  persons  who  have  rheumatic  or 
gouty  diathesis,  or  cancer,  cannot  eat  tomatoes  without 
definite  and  unconifortable  results.  When  eaten  raw  with 
a  little  sugar,  or  a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  a  little  olive  oil, 
they  seem  to  agree  far  better  than  when  cooked. 

TO   SERVE  RAW 

Select  a  large  ripe,  solid  tomato,  peel  it  carefully,  with- 
out scalding,  cut  a  thick  slice  from  the  middle  of  the  fruit, 
dish  and  dust  lightly  with  sugar  or  with  salt,  and  pour  over 
a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil. 

Do  not  serve  tomatoes  with  mayonnaise  dressing  or 
vinegar  to  the  sick. 


332  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

SPINACH    (Spinacia  oleracea,  Miller) 

This  includes  a  number  of  varieties  of  the  same  plant, 
common  spinach,  green  and  blue,  the  New  Zealand  and 
West  Indian.  They  differ  very  little  chemically,  and  may 
be  cooked  and  served  by  the  same  rules. 

BOILED   SPINACH 

One  Serving 

Wash  a  quart  of  spinach  through  several  cold  waters, 
always  shaking  it  from  the  water  and  putting  it  in  another 
dish  of  clean  water.  Cut  off  the  roots.  Put  the  leaves  in 
a  colander,  plunge  the  colander  down  and  up  in  a  good- 
sized  pan  of  cold  water.  Put  a  half  cupful  of  water  in  a 
saucepan,  put  in  the  spinach,  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  cover  the  saucepan  and  cook  slowly  for  twenty  min- 
utes ;  drain  carefully,  and  chop  the  spinach  very,  very  fine. 
Return  it  to  the  saucepan,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
stir  over  the  fire  until  smoking  hot,  arrange  it  in  the  form 
of  a  mound  in  a  small  heated  dish,  put  over  the  top  a 
hard-boiled  tgg  pressed  through  a  sieve,  and  if  admissible 
garnish  the  edge  of  the  dish  with  triangular  pieces  of 
toast. 

SPINACH  a  la  CREME 

Cook  the  spinach  as  directed  in  first  recipe.  W^hen 
done  and  drained,  chop  it  very  fine,  put  it  back  in  the  sieve 
to  drain  again  ;  when  dry  turn  it  into  a  saucepan,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  a  dash  of  salt,  and  when  hot 
serve  on  a  piece  of  toasted  bread,  softened  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  milk. 

STACHYS    (Stachys  tuberosa) 

This  small  tuber  resembles  very  much  a  short,  thick 
corkscrew ;  it  is  grown  in  many  parts  of  the  United  States, 
but  is  of  Japanese  origin.  It  resembles  in  texture  and  com- 
position the  Jerusalem  artichoke.     It  contains   inulin,  but 


MRS.    RORER's    diet   FOR    THE    SICK  333 

no  starch.  It  may  be  boiled  in  unsalted  water  and  served 
with  melted  butter  and  a  dash  of  lemon  juice,  or  with  a 
little  salt  and  cream. 

MOCK   ARTICHOKES 

Pare  a  solid  white  turnip,  cut  it  into  slices  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  and  with  a  round  cutter,  cut  from  each 
slice  a  *'cake"  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter.  Cook 
in  boiling-  unsalted  water  until  perfectly  transparent.  Ar- 
range them  on  a  small  platter,  one  slice  overlapping  the 
other;  put  at  the  end  of  the  platter  a  well-made  Qgg  sauce. 

MASHED    TURNIPS 

Boil  the  turnips  according  to  the  first  recipe,  drain 
in  a  colander,  press  through  a  colander  and  add  salt  and 
butter. 


334  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


EDIBLE  WEEDS 

SOURDOCK  (Rumex  cripus,  Linn.) 

Sourdock  contains  a  small  amount  of  oxalic  acid  and 
cannot  be  used  in  ordinary  sick  diet  unless  ordered  by  a 
physician.    It  is  cooked  the  same  as  spinach. 

SORREL   {Rumex  Acetosella,  Linn.) 

What  is  true  of  sourdock  is  true  also  of  sorrel.  Culti- 
vated sorrel  contains  less  acid  than  the  wild  variety.  It  is 
not  palatable  alone,  as  a  salad,  but  chopped  and  sprinkled 
over  lettuce  gives  variety  to  the  diet  in  diabetes. 

POKE    SHOOTS 

The  young  shoots  of  the  Phytolacca  decandra  may  be 
boiled  and  served  on  toast  with  cream  sauce  or  melted 
butter  alone,  same  as  asparagus.  When  well  cooked,  they 
are  tender  and  easy  of  digestion ;  good  in  cases  of  chronic 
constipation. 

LAMBS'  QUARTERS 
{Chenopodium  capitatum,  Watson) 

Lambs'  quarters  grow  in  almost  every  garden  and 
make  the  most  delicate  of  the  greens.  Cook  them  the  same 
as  you  would  cook  spinach ;    they  are  much  better. 

PURSLANE    (Portulacca   oleracea,  Linn.) 

Purslane  is  a  hardy  annual  plant,  a  common  weed  in 
most  yards.  If  it  grows  in  a  garden  where  it  is  slightly 
cultivated,  it  is  much  better.  Boiled  in  plain  salt  water 
makes  an  exceedingly  good  green.  Is  valuable  in  chronic 
constipation,   chronic   rheumatism   or   gout. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet   FOR    THE    SICK  385 

SHEPHERDS'   PURSE 

(Capsella  Bursa-Pastoris,   Moench) 

This  is  also  a  common  weed,  which  may  be  washed, 
boiled  and  served  same  as  spinach. 

DANDELION    (Taraxacum   officinale,  Weber) 

Almost  everybody  knows  that  the  early  shoots  from 
the  dandelion  roots  make  a  very  good  ''green"  as  well  as 
a  salad.  From  a  medicinal  standpoint,  the  tender  shoots 
served  raw  are  ♦best.  If  boiled,  use  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible; cook  them  the  same  as  spinach.  The  tender  shoots 
soaked  in  cold  water,  make  an  admirable  salad  when 
dressed  with  French  dressing.  Good  for  rheumatics,  liver 
and  certain  urinary  troubles. 

MINT 

The  ordinary  spearmint  (Mentha  inridis,  Linn.)  is  used 
with  vinegar  in  mint  sauce.  Without  sugar  it  makes  an 
agreeable  addition  to  lamb  in  diabetic  diet.  It  is  also  nice 
chopped  and  sprinkled  over  a  cabbage  salad.  A  bit  of  mint 
cooked  with  string  beans  gives  them  a  new  and  attractive 
flavor. 

PARSLEY    (Carum  petroselinum,  Bentham) 

A  little  chopped  parsley  over  a  dish  of  creamed  pota- 
toes, lettuce  salad  or  carefully-cooked  turnips  makes  a 
pretty  garnish  and  gives  a  nice  flavor. 

Curly  parsley  is  the  most  popular  garnish  for  meats 
and  fish. 


386  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


THE  COMMON  SALAD  PLANTS 

While  many  of  the  plants  in  this  group  are  frequently- 
cooked,  they  are  decidedly  more  palatable  and  attractive 
when  served  raw.  They  are  quite  free  from  starch  and 
sugar,  are  very  succulent,  containing  about  ninety-five  per 
cent,  water  and  a  small  amount  of  mineral  matter.  They 
are  valuable  waste  food.  Many  contain  pungent  volatile 
oils,  to  which  they  owe  their  flavor. 


CHICORY   (Cichorium  Intybus,  Linn.) 

Young  and  tender  chicory  makes  one  of  the  nicest  of 
salads.  It  comes  in  the  winter  when  lettuce  is  not  good. 
It  should  be  washed  in  cold  water,  put  into  a  dry  napkin 
or  small  bag  and  hung  up  in  a  cold  place  or  put  on  the  ice 
until  serving  time.  The  outside  leaves  of  chicory  may  be 
cooked  the  same  as  spinach. 

CORN  SALAD  OR  LAMB'S  LETTUCE 
(Valerianella  olitoria.  Poll) 
While  this  plant  grows  abundant  and  wild  in  Southern 
Europe,  it  is  cultivated  in  the  United  States  for  an  early 
spring  salad  green.  It  has  little  or  no  place  in  diet  for  the 
sick,  it  wilts  quickly  and  unless  carefully  treated  becomes 
indigestible. 

ENDIVE  (Cichorium  Endivia,  Linn.) 

The  ordinary  American  endive  makes  a  good  fall  and 
winter  salad.  Like  chicory,  the  very  tender  middle  shoots 
must  be  used.  The  outside  bitter  leaves  may  be  cooked 
and  served  the  same  as  spinach.  It  is  said  to  be  good  in 
cases  of  chronic  rheumatism  or  gout,  or  for  people  who 
have  inactive  or  sluggish  livers. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE    SICK  337 

IMPORTED  ENDIVE 

The  imported  endive  or  Batavia,  which  is  also  grown 
in  this  country,  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  our  ordinary 
variety,  but  is  treated  in  a  different  manner.  The  first 
leaves  are  cut  from  the  roots,  leaving  a  crown ;  the  roots 
are  buried  in  sand,  and  it  is  the  second  crop  of  leaves  that 
are  used  for  salads.  It  makes  a  most  appetizing  salad.  If 
allowable,  it  may  be  served  with  mayonnaise,  but  as  a  rule 
French  dressing  is  to  be  preferred. 


GARDEN  CRESS  OR  PEPPER  GRASS 

(Lepidium  sativum) 

This  resembles  in  flavor  and  slightly  in  appearance  the 
ordinary  water  cress ;  it  must,  however,  be  used  when  very 
tender  and  young  or  it  becomes  pungent  and  bitter.  It 
makes  a  better  salad  flavoring  than  a  salad.  A  few  leaves 
sprinkled  over  lettuce  or  over  a  well-made  cabbage  salad 
give  variety  to  dinner  salads. 


LETTUCE  (Lactuca  sativa,  Linn.) 

We  have  many,  many  varieties  of  lettuce  in  the  mar- 
ket; all  of  them,  when  young,  tender  and  crisp,  are  whole- 
some, cooling,  palatable,  and  if  thoroughly  masticated, 
digestible.  The  cos  or  upright  lettuce,  known  in  the  market 
as  Romaine,  served  with  French  dressing,  makes  one  of  the 
most  attractive  of  salads. 


STEWED  LETTUCE 

Wash  thoroughly  a  fine  head  of  lettuce ;  with  a  sharp 
knife  shred  it  across  the  head,  put  it  in  a  kettle,  with  a 
half  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
cover  the  kettle  and  cook  slowly  for  at  least  three  quarters 

22 


338  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

of  an  hour,  until  the  lettuce  is  perfectly  tender.     Drain, 
chop  it  very  fine,  add  a  little  butter  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 
Good  for  diabetic  patients.   Lettuce  may  also  be  stuffed 
w^ith  meat  and  served  the  same  as  savoy. 

MUSTARD 

The  leaves  of  the  young  Brassica  alba  are  sweet  and 
bland,  and  may  be  served  alone  with  French  dressing  as  a 
salad,  but  are  much  better  sprinkled  over  lettuce  or  cab- 
bage or  young  chicory. 

WATER  CRESS    (Nasturtium  officinale,  R.  Brown) 

This  plant  grows  wild  over  a  number  of  our  running 
streamlets.  It  must  be  well  washed,  the  leaves  broken 
from  the  stems,  or  very  young  shoots  used.  It  is  anti- 
scorbutic and  makes  an  excellent  salad  in  chronic  consti- 
pation. Many  German  physicians  give  it  in  cases  of  in- 
active livers. 

All  uncooked  vegetables  must  be  thoroughly  masti- 
cated. 5 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  339 


SALADS 

Nearly  all  cold  cooked  green  vegetables,  as  well  as  the 
tender  uncooked  leaves  of  such  vegetables  as  lettuce  and 
cress,  with  French  dressing,  make  palatable  and  sightly 
salads;  they  cannot,  however,  be  considered  sick  diet. 
Where  feeding  is  long  continued,  as  in  chronic  rheumatism, 
gout,  tuberculosis,  chronic  constipation  and  in  certain  cases 
of  diabetes,  salads  are  to  be  recommended.  Do  not  use 
mayonnaise  dressing,  unless  now  and  then  with  a  peeled 
tomato  or  on  very  tender  celery. 

Use  pure  olive  oil,  with  a  little  salt  and  lemon  juice  or 
pure  apple  vinegar. 

Thick  dressings,  made  from  butter  and  cream  or  thick- 
ened milk,  are  not  acceptable  to  a  weak  stomach.  Fruit 
salads  are,  as  a  rule,  unpalatable  and  frequently  nauseating 
to  the  sick.  The  only  fruits  that  make  an  attractive  and 
wholesome  salad  are  grape  fruit  and  apples,  served  with 
French  dressing,  not  mayonnaise. 

Where  waste  food  is  necessary  as  well  as  bulk,  green 
vegetable  salads  are  excellent.  They  contain  the  salts 
necessary  to  the  well-being  of  the  blood,  the  oil  is  an  im- 
portant food,  and  the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  gives  appetite, 
which  aids  in  the  digestion  and  assimilation. 

In  winter,  hard  white  cabbage,  shaved  as  fine  as  hair, 
soaked  in  cold  water  for  one  or  two  hours,  drained  and 
served  with  French  dressing,  makes  the  best  salad  in  cases 
of  rheumatism,  chronic  constipation  or  gout.  It  is  an  ex- 
ceedingly nice  accompaniment  to  plain  broiled  oysters. 
Also  good  as  bulk  food  in  cases  of  obesity. 

As  soon  as  green  vegetables  come  home  from  the  mar- 
ket put  them  in  cold  water,  soak  for  a  half  hour,  wash 
thoroughly  and  put  in  a  bag  or  salad  shaker  and  on  ice, 
or  in  any  cold  place,  until  dry  and  crisp.  The  better  way 
is,  put  them  in  a  cheesecloth  bag,  on  the  ice ;  then,  each 
time  a  salad  is  needed  take  out  the  desired  quantity,  which 
will  be  cold  and  crisp,  and  most  important,  dry. 


340  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

The  dressing  should  be  made  at  the  last  minute,  poured 
over  the  salad,  the  salad  thoroughly  mixed  and  served  at 
once.  If  the  dish  is  handsomely  garnished,  take  it  to  the 
patient  without  dressing,  keeping  the  dressing  in  a  tiny 
pitcher  or  bowl.  Pour  over  the  dressing,  mix,  and  allow 
the  patient  to  eat  it  from  the  dish  on  which  you  have 
mixed  it. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

Put  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  half  drop  of  Tabasco 
(if  admissible)  into  a  bowl  or  soup  plate,  put  in  a  piece 
of  ice  the  size  of  an  egg,  rub  the  salt  with  the  ice  until 
the  salt  is  dissolved,  pour  over  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive 
oil,  stir  a  moment,  remove  the  ice,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar  and  beat  a  moment  until  the  dress- 
ing is  rather  thick  and  opaque.  Use  at  once.  This  will 
be  sufficient  for  one  person. 

The  flavoring  of  the  dressing  may  be  changed  by  rub- 
bing the  spoon  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  adding  tarragon  in- 
stead of  plain  vinegar,  or  sprinkle  various  chopped  herbs 
over  the  lettuce. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

Put  the  uncooked  yolk  of  one  egg  into  a  clean,  cold 
soup  dish,  add  a  half  drop  of  Tabasco  and  a  pinch  of  salt; 
stir  with  a  fork  until  well  mixed,  and  add,  drop  by  drop, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil ;  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar,  and  put  it  into  the  serving  receptacle. 
Stand  aside  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted. 

Where  a  large  quantity  of  mayonnaise  is  needed,  of 
course  the  proportions  must  be  larger;  start  with  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  instead  of  one. 

WHITE  MAYONNAISE 

Make  a  plain  mayonnaise  dressing  and  stand  it  aside 
until  wanted.  At  serving  time  put  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
thick  cream  into  a  small  bowl,  stand  it  in  another  of  cracked 
ice,  and  with  an  ordinary  vv^ire  tgg  beater  or  a  Dover  beater 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  341 

beat  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth ;  fold  it  into  the  mayonnaise 
and  use  it  at  once. 

This  is  nice  for  very  tender  celery  or  cold  boiled  fish. 

A  GROUP  OF  SUCCULENT  VEGETABLES  FOR 

SALADS 

Hard  white  cabbage  Cress 

Tender  asparagus  Very  young  cucumbers 

Very  young  peas  Young  dandelions 

Young  string  beans  Romaine 

Carrots  Endive 

Cauliflower  Imported  endive 

Chicory  Spinach 

ATTRACTIVE  COMBINATIONS 

Tart  apple   on  lettuce 

Tender    celery    in   peeled   tomatoes 

Tender    celery    and   apple 

Chopped  mint  on  cabbage 

Cold  left-over  peas  in  peeled  tomatoes 

Molded   spinach    on   a   slice    of   boiled   turnip 

Grated  raw  carrot  with  ground  pecans 

Macedoine  of   vegetables   on  lettuce 

Macedoine  in  turnip   cups 

Grape   fruit    and   lettuce 

Orange  and  lettuce 

Grated  raw  pineapple  and  lettuce 

All  to  be  served  with  French  dressing-. 

SUITABLE  COMBINATIONS  FOR  MAYONNAISE 

Sweetbreads 

White  meat  of  boiled  chicken 

Tender  breastmeat  of  tame  duck 

Breasts   of   birds 

Boiled  white-fleshed  fish 

Carefully-cooked  lamb 

The  tender  meat  of  the  chicken  and  lamb  may  be  mixed 
with  finely-shaved  celery.  Fish  is  usually  served  with 
lettuce  or  cucumbers. 


342  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

BREAD  MAKING 

Bread  for  persons  in  health,  as  well  as  those  in  disease, 
should  be  made  from  good  strong  flour  and  the  best  com- 
pressed yeast  or  sweet  homemade  yeast.  It  should  not 
contain  either  sugar,  lard  or  butter.  According  to  my  way 
of  thinking,  bread  is  much  better  made  in  daylight  than  in 
the  dark.  It  should  be  sponged  early  in  the  morning,  and 
baked  at  noon,  or  a  little  before.  It  should  be  made  into 
small  square  loaves,  each  loaf  put  into  a  separate  pan  and 
baked.  When  taken  from  the  oven,  turn  it  out  on  a  wire 
rest,  or  stand  the  loaf  leaning  against  the  pan  so  that  the 
air  may  circulate  freely  around  it.  Do  not  cover  it  with 
either  paper  or  cloth.  If  covered,  the  moisture  is  retained, 
the  bread  spoils  quickly  and  the  crust  becomes  soft. 

Fresh  bread  should  not  be  eaten  by  the  well  or  sick. 
In  every  well-regulated  household  enough  bread  should  be 
made  one  day  to  last  an  entire  week.  Small  breads,  bis- 
cuit, bread  sticks  and  Vienna  rolls  may  be  placed  in  a  hot 
oven  five  minutes  before  serving  time  to  renew  their  crisp- 
ness.  No  matter  how  stale  the  bread  or  rolls,  a  few  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven  will  make  them  crisp  and  palatable. 

Reheat  or  rebake  only  the  quantity  required.  The 
evaporation  of  water  under  the  influence  of  heat  makes  them 
hard  and  unpalatable  when  reheated  a  second  time. 

To  Keep  Bread:  When  the  bread  is  cool  put  it  away, 
without  wrappings,  in  a  perfectly  clean  tin  box.  The  fibre 
of  either  linen  or  cotton  takes  up  the  moisture  thrown  off 
from  the  bread,  and  will  in  a  short  time  sour,  become  moldy 
and  contaminate  the  bread.  Sour,  moldy  bread  is  un- 
wholesome, if  not  dangerous. 


TWENTIETH  CENTURY  BREAD 

Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  into  one  pint  of  milk. 
When  lukewarm  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  an  ounce 
of  compressed  yeast  moistened  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
warm  water,  then  sufficient  whole  wheat  flour  to  make  a 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  343 

batter  that  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Beat  thoroughly 
for  about  five  minutes,  scrape  down  the  side  of  the  bowl, 
remove  the  spoon,  stand  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  warm  water, 
cover  the  w'hole,  keep  in  a  warm  place  (75°  Fahr.)  for 
three  hours.  Then  stir  in  gradually  sufficient  whole  wheat 
flour  to  make  a  dough.  Turn  the  mixture  on  the  baking 
board  and  knead  thoroughly  until  soft  and  elastic.  It  must 
not  be  dry  and  need  not  necessarily  lose  all  its  stickiness. 
Cut  the  mixture  into  four  loaves, "roll  them  out,  under  the 
hand,  about  twelve  inches  in  length  and  three  inches  in 
diameter.  Place  them  in  long  French  bread  pans,  cover 
and  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  one  hour  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes. 

This  bread,  well  buttered,  is  a  perfect  food.  It  contains 
the  mineral  matter  of  the  wheat,  and  should  be  the  only 
bread  given  to  children. 

WHITE  BREAD 

Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  into  one  pint  of  milk. 
When  lukewarm  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  an  ounce 
of  compressed  yeast  moistened  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
warm  water.  Then  add,  gradually  beating  all  the  while, 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  dough.  Take  the  mixture  on  the 
board  and  knead  it  until  it  loses  its  stickiness  and  is  soft 
and  elastic.  Put  it  back  into  the  bowl,  stand  it  in  a  pan 
of  warm  water,  cover  the  whole  for  three  hours.  Then 
turn  the  dough  on  the  board,  form  into  two  loaves,  stand 
aside  for  one  hour,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  thirty  minutes. 
This  bread  may  be  used  as  a  dinner  bread  or  with  any 
meal  where  concentrated  nitrogenous  foods  are  served. 

HOMEMADE  YEAST 

Use  Fleischmann's  compressed  yeast  cakes  if  you  can 
get  them,  especially  in  making  bread  for  the  sick.  If  this 
is  out  of  the  question,  use  as  next  choice  good  homemade 
yeast. 


344  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Grate  four  good-sized  potatoes  into  one  quart  of  boil- 
ing water,  cook  and  stir  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes ;  when 
cool  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar, 
a  half  cupful  of  homemade  yeast  or  one  compressed  yeast 
cake  dissolved  in  a  half  cupful  of  cool  water.  Put  this  in 
a  good-sized  stone  or  glass  jar,  cover  with  a  saucer  and 
stand  in  a  warm  place  (68°  Fahr.)  for  several  hours.  Each 
time  the  mixture  comes  to  the  top  of  the  jar  stir  it  down, 
and  keep  stirring  it  down  until  fermentation  stops.  Bottle, 
cork  with  a  cotton  plug  and  keep  in  a  cold  place. 

One  cupful  of  this  yeast  will  make  three  one-pound 
loaves  of  bread. 


BREAD  MADE  WITH  HOMEMADE  YEAST 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk,  add  one  pint  of  water,  and 
when  lukewarm  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  homemade  yeast  and  suffi- 
cient flour  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop  rather  than  .pour 
from  a  spoon.  Beat  thoroughly  for  ten  minutes,  by  time ; 
add  another  cupful  of  flour,  mix  thoroughly,  cover  and  stand 
in  a  warm  place  over  night.  Next  morning  add  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  dough ;  knead  this  until  it  is  soft  and  elastic, 
put  it  back  in  the  bowl,  cover,  and  when  it  has  doubled  its 
bulk  in  two  and  a  half  or  three  hours,  mold  it  into  loaves,  put 
each  loaf  in  a  greased  square  pan,  cover,  and  when  it 
has  doubled  its  bulk  and  is  very  light,  bake  in  a  moderately 
quick  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


GRAHAM    BREAD 

To  make  one  loaf  of  Graham  bread,  take  one  pint  of 
white  sponge ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  molasses  and  stir  in 
sufficient  Graham  flour  to  make  a  batter,  that  is  difficult  to 
stir  but  not  sufficiently  stifiF  to  knead.  Pour  into  a  greased 
square  pan ;  let  it  stand  one  hour,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  345 

PULLED   BREAD 

Pulled  bread  is  simply  the  crumb  of  a  one-day  old  loaf, 
pulled  or  cut  apart  into  strips  and  carefully  rebaked.  Trim 
the  crusts  from  the  outside  of  the  entire  loaf;  begin  at  one 
end  of  the  loaf,  pull  it  into  halves,  using  two  forks,  then 
pull  each  half  into  quarters  and  eighths.  Put  these  in  a 
baking  pan  lined  with  brown  paper,  stand  the  pan  in  the 
warm  oven,  with  the  door  open,  until  the  bread  is  dry,  then 
close  the  door  and  toast  it  to  a' golden  brown.  To  be 
exactly  right  it  must  be  crisp  to  the  very  center.  It  may 
be  kept  in  a  tin  box,  and  reheated.  The  ordinary  long 
French  loaf,  that  can  be  purchased  in  any  city,  makes  the 
best  pulled  bread. 

BREAD   STICKS 

Use  either  of  the  preceding  rules  for  bread.  When  the 
bread  is  light  at  molding  time,  take  off  a  tiny  portion  the 
size  of  a  marble,  roll  it  out  under  your  hand  until  it  is 
four  or  five  inches  long  and  the  size  of  a  lead  pencil.  Put 
it  in  a  greased  baking  pan  or  into  a  bread  stick  pan ;  cover 
and  stand  aside  a  half  hour  in  a  warm  place.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

RUSKS 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk,  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  when  lukewarm,  half  an 
ounce  of  compressed  yeast,  moistened  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  warm  water.  Now  add  sufficient  flour,  about  one 
pint  and  a  half  to  make  a  batter.  Beat  thoroughly  and 
stand  in  a  pan  of  warm  water,  cover  the  whole  and  keep 
warm  for  four  hours.  When  light  add  sufficient  flour  to 
make  a  dough,  knead  lightly  until  soft  and  elastic.  Put  it 
back  in  the  bowl  and  when  it  has  doubled  its  bulk  and  is 
very  light,  pinch  off  bits  of  the  dough,  form  them  into  round 
biscuits,  stand  in  greased  pans,  cover  and  stand  in  a  warm 
place  (75°  Fahr.)  for  one  hour  or  until  very  light.     Brush 


346  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

the  tops  with  water  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  min- 
utes. Stand  aside  until  cold  and  they  are  ready  for  making 
into  zweiback. 

ZWEIBACK 

After  the  rusks  have  been  baked  according  to  the 
preceding  recipe,  and  are  quite  cold,  pull  them  into  halves, 
put  them  on  brown  paper  in  an  ordinary  shallow  baking 
pan,  baked  side  down,  dry  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  with 
the  door  open,  until  they  are  crisp  but  not  brown,  then 
close  the  door  and  toast  them  gradually,  watching  care- 
fully, until  they  are  a  light  brown.  To  be  quite  perfect, 
they  must  be  crisp  to  the  very  center. 

These  will  keep,  in  a  tin  box,  in  a  dry  place,  for  a  week. 

ZWEIBACK  SLICES 

Make  the  rusk  dough  according  to  the  recipe  given, 
but  knead  it  into  two  round  loaves,  put  these  in  round, 
shallow  basins,  and  when  light  bake  as  directed ;  stand 
them  aside  over  night.  Next  morning  cut  the  loaves  into 
slices  a  half  inch  thick,  put  them  \on  brown  paper  in  a 
shallow  baking  pan  and  toast  as  directed  for  rusks. 

UNLEAVENED    BREAD 

Unleavened  bread  is  bread  made  without  yeast  or  mate- 
rials that  produce  fermentation  when  moistened.  No  means 
are  taken  to  make  the  bread  light  except  ordinary  kneading 
and  beating,  which  aerates  the  dough. 

Put  a  quart  of  flour  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  sufficient  water  and  milk  mixed  to  make  a  dough 
that  is  rather  stiff.  Take  this  on  a  board,  and  knead  and 
work  it  with  the  hands  until  it  becomes  soft  and  elastic. 
Pound  it  with  an  ordinary  potato  masher,  folding  the  dough 
over  as  you  pound  it  out ;  or,  if  you  live  in  the  South,  use 
the  ordinary  Maryland  biscuit  ''brake."  When  the  dough 
is  light  and  seems  filled  with  air  bubbles,  make  it  into  small 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK  347 

biscuits  or  tiny  rolls  the  length  and  size  of  your  finger,  or 
it  may  be  rolled  into  a  thin  sheet  and  cut  into  squares.  All 
unleavened  bread  must  be  baked  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
thoroughly  done  and  lightly  browned. 

PASSOVER  BREAD 

Make  an  unleavened  dough,  pound  it  and  knead  it  until 
very  light,  take  off  a  piece  the  size  of  a  teacup,  roll  it  in 
a  very  thin  sheet,  cut  it  into  rounds  the  size  of  an  ordinary 
breakfast  plate,  pick  them  carefully  with  a  fork,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  slightly  browned,  thoroughly 
dried  and  crisp. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  FINGERS 

Make  a  dough  as  directed  for  unleavened  bread,  using 
whole  wheat  flour  in  the  place  of  white  flour.  When  the 
dough  is  soft  and  elastic,  roll  it  into  a  very  thin  sheet, 
cut  into  small  squares  with  pastry  jagger,  and  bake  thor- 
oughly in  a  moderate  oven. 

If  these  are  to  be  served  warm,  bake  them  in  a  quick 
oven  to  make  them  puff. 

UNLEAVENED  WHOLE  WHEAT  GEMS 

Grease  iron  gem  pans,  and  put  them  into  a  very  hot 
oven.  Put  one  pint  of  ice  water  in  a  bowl,  and  stir  in 
hastily,  beating  rapidly,  a  half  pint  of  whole  wheat  flour. 
Pour  this  into  the  hot  gem  pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Two  tablespoonfuls  is  quite  enough  for 
one  gem.     If  well  made  they  resemble  popovers. 

TO    MAKE    BRAN    FLOUR 

Take  three  quarts  of  wheat  bran,  and  boil  in  two  successive 
waters  for  ten  minutes,  each  time  straining  through  a 
sieve.  Then  wash  it  well  with  cold  water  in  the  sieve  until 
the  water  runs  off  perfectly  clear ;  squeeze  the  bran  in  a  cloth 
until  dry,  spread  it  in  a  granite  baking  pan  and  dry  it  in  a 


348  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

slow  oven.  A  very  good  way  is  to  put  it  in  the  oven  at  night, 
allowing  it  to  remain  until  the  morning.  The  oven  must  be 
sufficiently  hot  to  dry  the  bran  or  it  will  ferment.  When 
perfectly  dry  and  crisp  grind  it  through  a  coffee  mill  and  sift 
through  a  fine  hair  sieve.  If  any  portion  of  the  bran  is 
retained  in  the  sieve  put  it  back  and  grind  it  over.  Put  the 
flour  thus  produced  in  glass  jars  and  stand  aside  for  use. 

THE  BRAN  LOAF  AND  GEMS 

To  make  bran  bread  or  gems,  beat  three  eggs  without 
separating,  add  to  them  a  half  pint  of  milk,  then  stir  in  three 
ounces  of  bran  flour.  Add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  ground 
ginger,  35  grains  of  bicarbonate  of  soda  and  three  drops  of 
dilute  hydrochloric  acid.  Pour  into  greased  gem  pans  or  into 
a  small  square  bread  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

BISCUITS  FROM  BRAN  FLOUR 

Beat  three  eggs  without  separating.  Mix  with  six  ounces 
of  bran  flour  half  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  35  grains  of  bicar- 
bonate of  soda ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  molasses  and  the 
eggs  to  a  half  pint  of  water  and  stir  into  the  bran.  Knead 
using  more  bran  flour  if  necessary,  roll  out  in  a  very  thin 
sheet,  cut  into  squares,  bake  lightly  until  thoroughly  crisp. 
These  will  keep  for  a  long  time  in  a  tin  box. 

BRAN   STICKS 

Moisten  bran  flour,  prepared  according  to  the  first  recipe, 
with  a  little  cold  milk.  The  dough  must  be  stiff  enough  to 
roll,  when  well  worked.  Roll  it  out  the  length  of  your 
finger  and  a  little  larger  than  a  lead  pencil.  Place  on 
greased  paper  in  a  baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

BRAN  SHEET 

Beat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a  cream.  Dis- 
solve a  saltspoonful  of  soda  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water, 
add  it  to  the  butter,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  one 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  349 

beaten  egg;  stir  in  sufficient  bran  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff 
dough.  Knead  well  and  roll  it  out  into  a  sheet  as  thin  as  a 
wafer;  cut  it  into  squares  of  two  inches,  lift  with  a  broad 
knife,  place  on  greased  paper,  in  baking  pans,  and  bake  in 
a  very  slow  oven  until  crisp  and  slightly  brown. 

BRAN  CAKES 

Take  two  ounces  of  the  bran  flour  and  rub  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Beat  two  eggs,  without  separating, 
until  light,  add  a  half  pint  of  milk,  stir  this  into  the  bran, 
add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  drop  quickly 
into  greased  gem  pans,  or  spread  on  oiled  paper  in  the  bottom 
of  a  baking  pan.  It  must  not  be  over  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick.    Bake  until  crisp  and  hard. 

All  these  bran  breads  take  the  place  of  ordinary  bread 
for  diabetic  patients.  It  must  be  remembered  that  bran  is 
quite  irritating  to  the  intestinal  tract;  if  diarrhcea  is  pro- 
duced, substitute  gluten  breads. 

PURGATIVE  BISCUITS 

Put  four  ounces  of  whole  wheat  flour  into  a  bowl,  add 
to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rolled  oats,  six  ounces  of  moist 
browned  sugar,  thirty  grains  of  brown  Jamaica  ginger, 
sixty  grains  of  powdered  jalap,  and  mix  thoroughly  to- 
gether. Beat  three  whole  eggs,  stir  them  into  the  mixture, 
knead,  roll  out  to  a  thin  sheet,  cut  into  eighteen  square 
biscuits,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  one  hour.  These  must  be 
thoroughly  dry  to  the  very  center  and  a  golden  brown. 
One  at  bedtim.e,  thoroughly  masticated  and  followed  by 
a  half  glass  of  cold  water,  will  relieve  the  most  obstinate 
cases  of  chronic  constipation. 

SWEDISH  SHEETS 

Add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  one  quart  of  whole 
wheat  flour,  rub  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  then 
add   sufficient   cold   water   to    make    a   very   hard    dough. 


350  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Knead  and  beat  this  dough  with  a  potato  masher  until  it 
becomes  soft  and  elastic.  Take  off  a  portion  of  the  dough, 
roll  it  into  a  very  thin  sheet,  not  over  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
in  thickness;  cut  this  into  biscuits  about  the  size  of  a 
breakfast  plate — put  a  plate  down  and  cut  around  it.  Pick 
them  to  the  very  bottom  with  a  steel  fork,  bake  them  at 
first  in  a  quick  oven,  then  allow  the  oven  to  cool  until  the 
cakes  are  thoroughly  dry  to  the  very  center. 

These  should  be  crisp  and  brittle.  An  exceedingly 
good  bread  for  dyspeptics. 

PEPTIC   BREAD 

Sift  one  quart  of  flour,  four  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  together  three  times. 
Beat  two  eggs,  without  separating,  add  one  pint  of  milk, 
turn  this  into  the  flour,  and  stir  quickly  and  thoroughly  until 
the  dough  is  well  mixed.  Turn  at  once  into  two  greased 
pans,  stand  aside  ten  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  moderately 
quick  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

SCHOOL  LUNCHEON  BREAD 

Sift  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
two  rounding  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  together;  add 
one  cupful  of  chopped  peanuts,  or  English  walnuts,  or 
pecans,  and  one  cupful  of  currants  or  raisins.  Beat  one 
egg  until  well  mixed,  without  separating,  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  molasses  and  a  half  pint  of  milk.  Add  these  to 
the  dry  ingredients,  stir  until  well  mixed,  turn  into  a 
greased  square  bread  pan  and  stand  aside  ten  minutes. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty  minutes. 

Cut  into  thin  slices  and  buttered,  this  makes  exceed- 
ingly nice  sandwiches  for  school  luncheons. 

THE  NUT  LOAF 

Put  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  rounding  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  a  flour 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  351 

Sieve,  sift  thoroughly  once  or  twice  and  add  two-thirds  of  a 
cupful  of  finely-chopped  nuts,  pecans  or  peanuts.  Beat  one 
egg  lightly,  without  separating,  add  one  cupful  of  milk, 
turn  this  into  the  flour  mixture,  stir  thoroughly  and  quickly 
until  well  mixed,  turn  into  a  square  greased  pan,  cover, 
stand  aside  ten  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Raisin  Bread — Make  precisely  the  same  as  nut  bread, 
substituting  a  cupful  of  chopped  raisins  for  the  nuts. 

QUICK  BISCUITS 

While  hot  yeast  breads  of  all  kinds  should  be  avoided  both 
by  the  well  and  sick,  a  warm  baking-powder  biscuit  may  now 
and  then  be  used.  Put  one  quart  of  flour  in  a  bowl,  rub  in 
quickly  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil. 
Add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  mix  thoroughly  and  add  sufficient  milk,  about  a  cup 
and  a  half,  to  make  a  moist  dough.  Take  the  dough  out  on  the 
board,  knead  lightly  and  quickly,  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  into  small  round  biscuits,  stand  them  in  a  greased 
pan,  sufficiently  far  apart  not  to  touch.  Brush  the  tops  with 
milk  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  These  may  be 
made  from  either  whole  wheat  or  white  flour. 

GEMS 

Separate  two  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  and  add  one  cupful  (a 
half  pint)  of  milk;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one 
and  three  quarters  cupfuls  of  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  add 
two  rounding  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  beat  again, 
fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  bake  in 
twelve  greased  gem  pans,  in  a  quick  oven,  twenty  minutes. 

This  recipe  will  answer  for  whole  wheat  or  rye  meal  gems. 

RICE  GEMS 

Add  a  cupful  of  left-over  cold  boiled  rice  to  the  preceding 
recipe. 


353  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

OATMEAL  GEMS 

Add  one  cupful  of  left-over  oatmeal  breakfast  mush  to- the 
recipe  for  gems. 

FRUIT  GEMS 

Add  a  half  cupful  of  chopped  dates,  figs  or  raisins  to  the 
recipe  for  gems  just  before  folding  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Whole  wheat  flour  is  preferable  to  white  flour  for  fruit  gems. 

CORN    DODGERS 

Put  one  pint  of  white  cornmeal  into  a  bowl,  put  in  the 
center  a  tablespoonful  of  shortening,  and  pour  over  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  just  wet  the  meal;  it  must  not  be  too  moist. 
Cover  and  let  it  stand  until  cool.  Beat  one  egg,  without  sepa- 
rating, until  light,  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  stir 
them  thoroughly  into  the  meal.  Drop  by  tablespoonfuls  on 
a  greased  shallow  baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderately 
quick  oven  a  half  hour. 

The  batter  must  be  sufficiently  thick  to  keep  the  shape  of 
the  spoon  when  dropped  in  the  pan. 

GERMAN  PUFFS  OR  POPOVERS 

Beat  two  eggs,  without  separating,  until  well  mixed,  add 
a  half  pint  of  milk  and  pour  gradually  into  a  half  pint  of 
flour;  mix  well  and  strain  through  a  sieve  into  the  first  bowl. 
Grease  and  heat  the  gem  pans,  half  fill  each  with  this  thin 
batter,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  for  forty  minutes. 
These  may  be  used  as  breakfast  muffins,  or  served  with  a  sauce 
as  dessert. 

VIRGINIA  WAFERS 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  or  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  into  one  quart  of  flour  and  rub  thoroughly.  Add  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt.     Add  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  dough. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  353 

Knead  it  thoroughly  until  it  becomes  soft  and  elastic  and  is  free 
from  stickiness.  Then  pound  it  for  twenty  minutes,  folding  the 
dough  over  and  over.  When  light  and  filled  with  air  bubbles 
roll  it  out  into  a  very  thin  sheet,  cut  into  squares  of  two  inches, 
pick  the  tops  with  a  fork,  and  bake  slowdy  in  a  moderate 
oven.  If  well  made,  these  will  puff  and  be  very  light  and 
crisp.  Make  without  shortening  for  people  w^ith  weak  diges- 
tion, and  bake  until  hard,  to  necessitate  thorough  mastica- 
tion.    Use  either  whole  wheat  or  "white  flour. 

MARYLAND  BISCUITS 

Maryland  biscuits  may  be  made  by  following  the  pre- 
ceding recipe.  Roll  the  mixture  out  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  in  thickness,  cut  it  into  round  biscuits,  pick  it  over  the 
top  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  a  half  hour. 

GLUTEiN  BREAD  FROM  MOIST  GLUTEN 

Put  two  quarts  of  flour  in  a  bowl,  add  sufficient  wate;r 
to  make  a  very  hard  dough.  Knead  this  dough  until  thor- 
oughly mixed,  then  put  it  on  a  sieve,  under  a  small  stream 
of  water,  and  knead  until  the  dough  is  nearly  free  from 
starch.  When  the  water  is  clear,  take  the  remaining  gluey 
mass  to  the  bread  board,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  mix,  break  off  a  piece  about  the  size  of  an  English 
walnut,  and  roll  it  out  under  your  hand  into  a  stick  about 
four  inches  long  and  the  size  of  a  lead  pencil.  Put  these 
on  an  oiled  paper  and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  until  crisp. 

If  these  are  to  be  served  warm,  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven, 
which  gives  an  entirely  different  effect. 

THE   GLUTEN    LOAF 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk;  when  lukewarm  add  one  com- 
pressed yeast  cake  moistened  in  a  half  cupful  of  warm  water, 
and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  in  sufficient  80%  gluten 
flour,  beating  all  the  while,  to  make  a  rather  stiff  dough; 

23 


354  MRS.  rorer''s  diet  for  the  sick 

cover  and  stand  aside  for  three  hours.  Then  beat  rapidly 
five  minutes,  turn  into  a  greased  square  bread  pan,  and 
when  again  light,  about  one  and  a  half  to  two  hours,  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Gluten  bread  may  be  used  for  rheumatic  patients,  or  to 
give  variety  in  tuberculosis  cases,  where  the  diet  is  restricted 
for  a  long  time.  It  is  not  fit,  however,  for  diabetic  persons 
unless  you  use  80%  gluten  flour. 

ALEURONAT    GEMS 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  tgg  until  creamy,  then  fold  in  the  well- 
beaten  white,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  four  level  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  aleuronat ;  mix  carefully,  drop  by  tablespoonfuls  into 
greased  gem  pans,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  a  half  hour,  then  cool 
the  oven  and  bake  ten  minutes  longer. 

ALEURONAT   MUFFINS 

Separate  one  egg;  beat  the  yolk  until  it  is  creamy,  add  a 
half  cupful  of  milk  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Sift  a  half  cup- 
ful of  aleuronat  with  a  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder; 
stir  this  into  the  egg  and  milk,  fold  in  the  well-beaten  white  of 
the  egg,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  These 
may  be  eaten  warm,  or  pulled  apart  and  toasted.  This  quan- 
tity makes  four  muffins. 

ALEURONAT  MUSH 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  water  in  a  small  saucepan ;  when  boil- 
ing add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  stir  in  carefully  two  level  table- 
spoonfuls  of  aleuronat,  stir  constantly  for  five  minutes,  boiling 
all  the  while.  Turn  at  once  into  the  serving  saucer,  and 
when  partly  cool  serve  with  cream  or  milk. 

Serve  cool  because  the  odor  of  hot  gluten  food  is  par- 
ticularly disagreeable  to  many  persons. 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


355 


CEREAL  FOODS 

Under  this  heading  I  shall  place  all  the  ordinary  grains, 
the  seeds  of  grasses,  as  wheat,  oats,  barley,  corn  and  rice, 
although  the  recipes  for  cooking  rice  will  be  found  under  the 
starchy  vegetables. 

Many  of  these  seeds  are  almost  typical  food  for  man. 
Wheat,  for  instance,  needs  only  the  addition  of  a  little  fat. 
White  bread,  howxver,  must  not  be  mistaken  for  the  whole 
wheat  grain.  In  making  flour  many  elements  of  the  wheat  are 
lost,  and  unless  w^e  purchase  a  good  strong  flour  we  are 
robbed  of  mineral  matter  and  protein.  The  principal 
carbohydrate  is  starch,  wdiich  is  about  seventy  per  cent,  of 
the  entire  grain.  The  mineral  matter  is  about  tw-o  per  cent. 
of  the  grain.  The  cellulose  is  found  principally  in  the  outer 
husk ;  it  is  indestructible  in  the  digestive  tract,  and  for  this 
reason  is  used  in  severe  cases  of  chronic  constipation  ;  but 
I  doubt  very  much  if  bran  can  be  eaten  any  length  of  time 
without  serious  results.  All  cereals  must  be  thoroughly 
cooked. 


COMPARATIVE  ANALYSIS   OF.  GRAINS 

These  tables  are  principally  from  Farmers'   Bulletin,  by  Jenkins  and  Winton. 
PERCENTAGE   COMPOSITION 


Grains 

Spring  wheat  . . . 
Winter  wheat  . . 
Flour,  fine  white 

Rye    

Rye  flour    

Oats    

Oatmeal 

Rice  

Barley   

Corn , 

Corn  meal   

Buckwheat    

Buckwheat  flour 


Water 

10.4 
10.5 

12.2 

11.6 

II.O 

7.9 
12.4 

10.9 
10.6 

15.0 

12.6 

14.6 


Alineral 
matter 
or  ash 


1.9 

1.8 
0.6 
1.9 
0.7 
3-0 
2.0 
0.4 
2.4 

1-5 

1.4 
2.0 
i.o 


Album- 
inoids or 
protein 


12.5 

II.8 
14.9 
10.6 

6.7 
11.8 
14.7 

74 
12.4 

10.3 
9.2 

lo.o 
6.9 


Cellu- 
lose or 
crude 
fibre 

1.8 
1.8 
0.3 
1.7 
0.4 
9-5 
0.9 
0.2 
2.7 
2.2 
1.9 
8.7 
0.3 


Starch 
and  trace 
of  sugar 


71.2 
72.0 
70.0 
72.5 
78.3 
59.7 
67.4 
79.2 
69.8 
70.4 
68.7 
64.5 
75.8 


Ether 
extract 
— fats 
gums 

2.2 
2.2 
2.0 

1-7 
0.8 

7.1 

0.4 

1.8 

5.0 

3.8 

2.2 
1.4 


356  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

WHEAT  GERM 
COMPOSITION    (Church) 

Water  12.5 

Albuminoids,  diastase,  etc 35.7 

Starch,  with   some  dextrin  and  maltose    31.2 

Fat  or  oil   13.1 

Cellulose    1.8 

Mineral  matter 5.7 

COMPOSITION   (Yeo) 

Fine  Whole 

flour  wheat 

Water    12.0  14.0 

Proteids    9.3  14.9 

Fat  0.8  1.6 

Carbo-hydrates    (starch,  sugar,  etc.)    ..   76.5  66.2 

Fibre    0.7  1.6 

Mineral  matter   0.9  1.7 

OATS   (Avena  sativa) 

Oats  is  very  rich  in  nitrogenous  matter  and  contains 
more  fatty  matter  and  iron  than  most  grains.  Well  cooked 
and  served  with  milk  and  a  little  salt,  it  makes  an  ideal 
breakfast  food  for  children.  The  old-fashioned  Scotch  or 
Irish  oatmeal  and  Akron  oatmeal  should  be  cooked  for 
several  hours.  Rolled  oats  cooks  in  less  time,  but  even  this 
should  be  boiled  for  one  to  two  hours. 

In  serving  cereals,  use  one  morning,  oatmeal,  another 
Cream  of  Wheat,  another  Wheatena  or  Wheatlet,  carefully- 
boiled  rice,  bran  mush,  cornmeal  mush,  hominy  grits,  or 
stale  cubes  of  bread  and  cream.  Keep  in  mind  that  oatmeal 
and  hominy  grits  and  wheatena  and  wheatlet  are  typical 
winter  or  cold-climate  foods,  and  rice,  Cream  of  Wheat  and 
farina  are  better  adapted  to  warm  weather. 

SCOTCH   OATMEAL 

Sprinkle  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Scotch  oatmeal  into  one 
pint  of  boiling  water,  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler;  put' 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  357 

this  directly  over  the  fire  for  a  minute,  bring  to  boiling 
point,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  cover,  put  the  upper  part 
back  in  the  lower  part  of  the  boiler  and  cook  continuously 
for  two  hours ;  stand  it  aside  over  night.  In  the  morning 
reheat  without  stirring.  It  should  be  jellylike  and  soft,  not 
pasty.  Do  not  add  sugar  to  cereals,  either  for  the  well  or 
sick. 

ROLLED   OATMEAL 

This  recipe  will  answer  for  all  kinds  of  rolled  oats. 

Put  one  pint  of  boiling  water  in  the  upper  part  of  a 
double  boiler,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  when  the 
water  in  the  under  vessel  is  boiling  rapidly  sprinkle  in  one 
cupful  of  rolled  oats;  allow  each  grain,  if  possible,  to  fall 
in  separately.  Do  not  stir  it.  Cover  and  boil  continuously 
for  one  hour.  Dip  this  into  the  serving  dish  carefully,  with- 
out breaking  the  grains. 

OATMEAL  WITH  FRUIT  MERINGUE 

Left-over  oatmeal  may  be  turned  at  once  into  a  small 
round  mold;  at  serving  time  turn  out  the  mold,  cut  the 
oatmeal  into  thin  slices,  put  a  slice  in  the  serving  dish, 
cover  with  strawberries,  raspberries,  very  ripe  blackberries, 
or  sliced  peaches ;  put  on  another  slice  of  oatmeal  and  dust 
lightly  with  powdered  sugar.  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg 
to  a  stifif  froth,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  beat 
again  until  fine  and  glossy ;  spread  this  over  the  oatmeal 
top  and  sides,  dust  again  with  powdered  sugar,  run  it  in 
the  oven  just  a  moment,  to  brown  the  meringue.  Serve  at 
once,  with  a  tiny  pitcher  of  cream. 

Excellent  for  children  and  good  in  cases  of  chronic 
constipation. 

A  baking-powder  box  makes  an  exceedingly  good  mold. 

ROLLED   WHEAT 

This  may  be  cooked  precisely  the  same  as  rolled  oats. 


358  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

BARLEY    (Hordeum   vulgare) 

Rolled  barley  may  be  cooked  precisely  the  same  as 
rolled  oats. 

This  is  frequently  used  in  place  of  oats,  or  grits  for 
the  rheumatic  and  gouty. 

RYE 

The  common  rye  (Secale  cereale)  makes  an  exceedingly 
good  food  in  cases  of  chronic  constipation,  rheumatism,  gout 
and  intestinal  indigestion. 

RYE  MUSH 

Purchase  rye  meal,  a  coarse  meal  containing  a  part  of 
the  bran.  Put  a  pint  of  water  in  the  upper  part  of  the 
double  boiler,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt;  when  this  is  boil- 
ing sprinkle  in  carefully,  stirring  all  the  while,  a  half  cupful 
of  rye  meal ;  cover  the  saucepan  and  cook  slowly  one  hour. 
Serve   with  cream  or  milk. 

WHEAT  GERM  CEREALS 

We  find  in  the  markets  of  the  United  States  a  long 
list  of  breakfast  foods  quite  different  in  chemical  composi- 
tion from  comm.on  cereals.  Many  of  them  are  made  from  a 
portion  of  the  grain  only.  If  they  contain  the  germ  of  the 
grain,  they  are  rich  in  fatty  matter.  When  well  cooked,  and 
served  with  milk,  without  sugar,  they  are  excellent  winter 
breakfast  cereals  for  children  and  the  aged. 

They  are  sold  under  the  names  of  Wheatena,  W^heat- 
let.  Farinose,  Yuca,  Germea,  Wheat  Germ  Food,  Vitos  and 
Ralston's  Breakfast  Food. 

WHEAT   GERM   PORRIDGE 

This  rule  v^^ill  answer  for  the  cooking  of  all  wheat 
germ  cereals. 

Put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  into  the  upper  part  of  a 
double  boiler,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  when  this  is 
boiling   sprinkle   in   slowly,   stirring  all   the   while,   a   half 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  359 

cupful  of  cereal ;  stir  and  boil  for  six  minutes,  then  cover 
the  vessel  and  cook  for  a  half  hour. 

As  these  are  rich  in  fat,  serve  with  milk  instead  of 
cream  and  do  not  add  sugar  for  children. 

Cold  left-over  germ  cereals  may  be  molded  and  served 
cold  with  a  sauce  Sabayon,  plain  cream  or  fruits. 

WHEAT  GERM  TIMBALE 

Pour  left-over  cereal  into  a  custard  cup  and  stand 
away  until  cold.  At  serving  time  turn  out  the  cereal  and 
scoop  out  the  center,  leaving  a  very  thin  wall.  Stand  the 
"cup"  in  a  dainty  serving  dish,  fill  the  center  with  straw- 
berries, raspberries,  blackberries  or  chopped  peaches;  dust 
lightly  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  with  a  tiny  pitcher 
of  cream.    Very  pretty. 

WHEAT  GERM  SOUFFLE 

Cook  a  half  quantity  of  wheat  germ  cereal  according 
to  the  first  recipe ;  when  done  add  to  it  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
stir,  and  fold  in  the  well-beaten  white,  turn  it  into  an  in- 
dividual baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.     Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

This  takes  the  place  of  cereal  and  meat  for  breakfast. 

FARINA 

Farina  does  not  contain  as  much  nitrogenous  matter 
as  cereals  made  from  the  whole  grain,  but  it  is  delicate  and 
easy  of  digestion.  For  young  children  and  invalids  it  makes 
an  admirable  supper  food. 

Cream  of  Wheat  may  be  cooked  according  to  any  of 
the  recipes  given  for  farina. 

FARINA  PORRIDGE 

Put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  into  a  saucepan  directly 
over  the  fire,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  sprinkle  in 
slowly  a  half  cupful  of  farina,  stirring  all  the  while.     Boil 


360  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

rapidly,  stirring  now  and  then,  for  ten  minutes.  Push  it 
to  the  back  of  the  stove  to  cook  slowly  twenty  minutes 
longer. 

Left-over  farina  may  be  made  into  a  mold  according 
to  the  directions  for  wheat  germ. 

I  consider  farina  souffle  one  of  the  nicest  supper  dishes 
for  children  or  the  aged.  It  takes  the  place  of  both  bread 
and  meat. 

FARINA  SOUFFLE 

One   Serving 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  milk  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double 
boiler;  when  hot  add  a  grain  of  salt,  and  sprinkle  in  slowly 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  farina  ;  stir  until  it  thickens,  cover  and 
cook  ten  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire,  drop  in  the  yolk  of 
one  Qgg,  mix,  and  then  fold  in  quickly  the  well-beaten  white 
of  the  Qgg.  Turn  this  into  a  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erately quick  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Serve  as  a  spoon  bread  and  eat  it  with  butter. 

GLUTEN  MUSH 

All  gluten  preparations  are  quickly  prepared,  and  while 
most  of  them  contain  a  considerable  amount  of  starch,  they 
are  much  richer  in  protein  than  ordinary  cereals.  They  are 
better  served  with  cream  than  milk.     Do  not  use  sugar. 

To  each  half  pint  of  water  allow  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
gluten  flour.  Sprinkle  the  dry  flour  slowly  into  cold  water, 
stirring  all  the  while ;  stand  the  vessel  in  another  of  hot 
water,  or  use  a  double  boiler ;  cook  twenty  minutes  and 
serve. 

COOKED,  READY  FOR  SERVING 

We  have  in  the  markets  of  the  United  States  an  end- 
less variety  of  the  so-called  prepared  cereals.  Some  are 
good,  some  middling,  others  totally  worthless.  To  serve, 
put  them  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  renew  their  crisp- 
ness,  and  then  they  may  be  served  with  fruit  juices,  milk 
or  cream.     Avoid  sugar. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  361 

FRUITS 

The  sub-acid  and  sweet  fruits — mulberries,  huckleber- 
ries, guavas,  bananas,  cantaloupes,  watermelons,  peaches, 
pears,  apples  and  grapes,  should  be  served  quite  cold.  The 
acid  fruits — oranges,  grape  fruit,  strawberries,  raspberries, 
blackberries  and  currants,  should  be  only  moderately 
chilled;    overchilling  makes  them  sour  and  unpalatable. 

All  fruits  should  he  thoroughly  zi'ashed  in  cold  zvater. 
Grapes  at  serving  time  should  be  washed  and  served  on  finely 
chopped  ice. 

To  wash  small  fruits,  put  them  in  a  colander,  and  lift 
the  colander  down  and  up  several  times  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water.     Wash  strawberries  before  they  are  hulled. 

To  serve  fruit,  use  an  appropriate  dish,  both  in  shape 
and  color,  and  after  the  fruit  is  arranged  garnish  the  dish 
with  a  fern  or  other  appropriate  green.  A  fresh  rose  at 
the  side  of  a  dish  of  strawberries  is  most  attractive.  A  peach, 
apple  or  pear  may  be  served  on  a  dainty  doily,  on  a  pretty 
plate. 

The  French,  those  wonderful  people  who  know  just 
how  to  cook  and  serve,  use  artificial  leaves  where  fresh 
leaves  cannot  be  obtained.  To  me,  this  is  not  attractive, 
but  the  beautiful  is  always  to  be  considered  when  feeding 
the  sick. 

Strawberries  are  dainty  served  with  the  hulls  on. 
Arrange  them  around  a  little  mound  of  powdered  sugar,  on 
a  pretty  dish. 

Serve  all  fruits  without  sugar,  if  possible.  If  they  are 
too  acid  to  be  palatable,  I  should  say  they  were  too  acid 
to  be  served.  This  is  Nature's  way  of  warning  us  against 
unwholesome  foods.  Moreover,  sugar  does  not  correct  an 
acid ;  it  only  disguises  it  so  that  it  may  pass  the  palate.  The 
fruit  and  sugar  enter  the  stomach  in  their  original  condition, 
the  acid  as  an  acid,  and  the  sugar  as  sugar.  A  simple  food 
has  been  complicated. 

Canned  fruits  are  far  better  than  no  fruits  at  all,  but 
are  inferior  to  fresh  fruits,  not  because  they  are  cooked, 


362  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

but  because  they  frequently  contain  a  goodly  quantity  of 
added  sugar.  If  fruits  are  too  sour  to  be  stewed  without 
sugar,  combine  the  sweet  and  the  sour  fruits  in  cooking. 
Good  combinations  are  cranberries  and  raisins,  cranberries 
and   figs,   cranberries  and  dates,   currants   and  raspberries. 

Fruits,  ripe  and  fresh,  or  simply  stewed,  should  form  a 
part  of  the  daily  food  of  persons  in  health ;  in  sickness  they 
are  a  necessity. 

In  fevers,  fruit  juices  are  the  most  essential  and  most 
appetizing  of  all  foods ;  orange  and  lemon  juice  are  especially 
good. 

Fresh  fruit  juices  in  this  country  take  the  place  of 
the  old-fashioned  German  fruit  soups,  and  are  certainly 
much  more  palatable.  In  cases  of  biliousness,  sick  head- 
ache and  fevers,  all  acid  fruit  juices,  carefully  strained,  are 
admissible.  In  pupura  haemorrhagica,  fresh  grape  juice 
is  indispensable — not  the  grape  juice  that  one  buys  in  a 
bottle  that  has  been  sterilized,  but  fresh  pressed  grapes ;  the 
juice  must  be  alive,  not  dead.  In  fevers,  orange,  lemon, 
lime,  apple,  currant  and  grape  juice  are  to  be  preferred. 

A  scraped  apple,  a  fig,  carefully  masticated,  or  a  half 
dozen  raisins,  seeded  and  masticated  at  bed  time,  will  fre- 
quently cure  obstinate  constipation. 

Raw  pineapple  juice  contains  a  digestive  enzyine  known 
as  hromelin,  which  aids  in  the  digestion  of  the  albuminoids. 

Fresh  raw  pineapple  juice  is  especially  beneficial  in 
cases  of  tonsilitis,  membranous  croup  and  diphtheria. 
Cooking  of  course,  renders  the  enzymes  inert. 

The  papaya  (Carica  papaya)  is  a  large  tropical  fruit  of 
Central  and  South  America.  Like  the  pineapple,  it  contains 
an  enzyme,  which  aids  in  the  digestion  of  the  albuminoids. 
In  hot  countries  where  meat  must  be  eaten  a  few  hours  after 
it  is  killed,  the  piece  to  be  used  is  wrapped  in  a  bruised 
papaya  leaf  and  put  aside  for  two  hours;  it  is  then  tender 
and  eatable ;  in  other  words,  the  enzyme  has  partly  digested 
the  tough  fiber. 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


363 


FRUIT  JUICES 

Where  fruit  juices  are  to  be  used  for  the  sick,  make 
them  fresh  each  day.  Keep  the  fruit  in  a  cold  place,  mash 
and  sqtieeze  it  as  wanted. 

The  following  table  gives  the  average  composition  of 
a  few  of  our  common  fruits  (after  Bauer — Yeo)  : 


Water   

Nitrogenous  Mat- 
ters   

Free  Acids    

Sugar  

Other  non-Nitrog- 
enous  Matters.. 

Cellulose  and  Ker- 
nel     

Ash    


Apple 


83.58 

0.39 
0.84 

5-17 

1.98 
0.31 


Pear 


83.03 

0.36 
0.20 
8.26 

3-54 

4-30 
0.31 


Peach 


80.C3 

0.65  1 

0.92 

4.48 

7.17 

6.06 
0.69 


Grape 


78.18 

0.59 

0.79 

14.36 

1.96 

3.60 
0.53 


Straw- 
berry 


87.66 

1.07 
0-93 
6.28 

0.48 

2.32 
0.81 


Cur- 
rants 


84.77 

0.51 
2.15 
6.38 

0.90 

4.57 
0.72 


Orange 
(pulp 
only) 


89.01 

0.73 
2.44 

4.59 
0.95 

1.79 
0.49 


The  following  gives  the  composition  of  certain  dried 
fruits : 


Water    

Nitrogenous   Matters    

Fat    

Free  Acid    

Sugar   

Other  non-Nitrogenous  Matters. 

Cellulose  and  Seeds   

Ash  


Apple 

Cherry 

Raisin 

27.95 

49.88 

32.02 

1.28 

2.07 

2.42 

0.82 

0.30 

0.49 

3.60 

— 

— 

42.83 

31.22 

54.26 

17.0 

14.29 

7.48 

4-95 

0.61 

1.72 

1.57 

1.63 

1.21 

Fig 


31.20 
4.01 
1.44 
1. 21 

49-79 
4.51 
4.98 
2.86 


The  above  tables  show  that  the  nutritive  value  of 
fruits  consists  of  a  small  amount  of  nitrogenous  matter,  and 
a  goodly  quantity  of  sugar.     They  are  valuable,  however. 


364  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

for  the  vegetable  acids  and  salts  they  contain.  Malic  acid 
is  found  in  apples,  pears,  peaches,  apricots,  currants,  man- 
goes, gooseberries  and  plums ;  tartaric  acid  in  grapes ;  and 
citric  acid  in  all  the  citrus  fruits ;  they  possess  valuable  anti- 
scorbutic properties.  Some  fruits  contain  agreeable  aro- 
matic oils,  others  contain  a  large  amount  of  pectin  or 
vegetable  jelly;  the  most  important  among  the  latter,  are 
the  guava,  quince,  banana,  crab  apple  and  the  ordinary 
apple. 

APPLES 

'Tis  said:  "It  beggars  a  physician  to  live  where  apple 
orchards  thrive,"  and  still  many  perfectly  healthy  persons 
claim  they  cannot  digest  a  raw  apple ;  I  do  not  believe,  how- 
ever, that  it  is  the  fault  of  the  apple.  Many  people  bolt, 
rather  than  masticate,  their  food,  and  this  renders  the  apple 
indigestible.  Again,  many  persons  take  an  apple  after  a 
hearty  meal  of  other  foods;  this  is  a  mistake.  Fruits  should 
be  eaten  alone,  or  as  a  part  of  the  meal,  not  as  an  addition 
to  the  meal.  Stale  or  tough,  unripe,  or  cold  storage  apples 
will  frequently  produce  digestive  disorders. 

If  apples  are  eaten  raw,  they  must  be  thoroughly 
masticated  or  scraped,  and  eaten  alone  as  a  luncheon,  or 
taken  at  the  beginning  of  breakfast.  In  cases  of  constipa- 
tion, the  apple  is  particularly  beneficial ;  it  has  a  marked 
influence  over  the  peristaltic  movement  of  the  intestines. 
Fresh  apple  juice  is  a  liver  and  stomach  tonic. 

A  fresh  apple  contains  about  84  to  86  per  cent,  of 
water,  and  8  per  cent,  of  sugar. 

TO  BAKE  AN  APPLE 

Wash,  wipe  the  apple,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  through 
the  skin  around  the  apple  about  an  inch  from  the  stem ; 
this  prevents  the  skin  from  cracking,  and  keeps  the  apple 
in  better  shape ;  remove  the  core  with  a  sharp  knife  or 
an  apple  corer,  stand  the  apple  in  a  porcelain  or  granite 
dish,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  in  the  cored  space,  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  water  and  bake  in  a  moderately 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  365 

quick  oven,  basting  once  or  twice.  The  apple  must  be 
perfectly  tender,  and  should  be  served  warm;  cold  baked 
apples  are  indigestible.     Omit  sugar  for  children. 

BAKED   PANNED  APPLES 

Wash  and  core  a  good-sized  tart  apple,  but  do  not  pare 
it ;  cut  it  into  halves,  then  into  quarters,  and  cut  each 
quarter  into  thin  slices.  Put  a  layer  of  apples  and  a 
sprinkling  of  sugar,  and  another  layer  of  apples  in  the 
bottom  of.  an  individual  casserole  or  ramekin  dish,  add 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  cover  the  dish  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  about  twenty  minutes,  until  the  apple  is  perfectly 
transparent  and  soft. 

Do  not  allow  the  patient  to  eat  the  skin,  but  apples 
cooked  with  the  skin  on  have,  by  far,  a  better  flavor. 

SMOTHERED  APPLES 

Remove  the  core  from  a  perfectly  smooth  tart  apple ; 
with  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  skin  of  the  apple  around  at 
what  might  be  called  "the  equator,"  fill  the  core  space  with 
sugar  if  admissible,  stand  it  in  an  individual  casserple  or 
ramekin  dish,  add  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  water,  cover  and 
bake  slowly  until  the  apple  is  almost  transparent,  about 
thirty  to  forty  minutes.     Serve  warm. 

CODDLED    APPLE 

Pare  a  good-sized  tart  apple  and  remove  the  core.  Put 
the  apple  in  an  individual  granite  dish,  put  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  nuts  in  the  core  space,  add  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  water,  cover  the  pan  and  cook  in  the  oven  until  the 
apple  is  tender.  Serve  warm,  plain  or  with  thick  cream, 
or  Devonshire  cream. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA 

Coddle  an  apple  according  to  the  preceding  recipe. 
While    it    is    baking    soak    a    tablespoonful    of   granulated 


366  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

tapioca  in  a  half  cupful  of  cold  water,  bring  this  to 
boiling  point;  the  tapioca  must  be  perfectly  clear.  Fill  as 
much  as  is  necessary  into  the  core  space  of  the  coddled 
apple,  cover  the  baking  dish  and  bake  five  or  ten  minutes 
longer.     Serve  hot  or  cold,  plain  or  with  cream. 

This  should  be  cooked  in  an  individual  casserole  or 
ramekin  dish,  so  that  it  can  be  served  in  the  dish  in  which 
it  is  cooked. 

APPLE  JUICE 

Procure  perfectly  fresh,  sound  apples,  and  plunge  them 
for  a  minute  into  boiling  water,  then  into  cold  water.  Then 
put  them  into  a  small  press,  grind  and  press  out  every  par- 
ticle of  juice  ;  strain  and  put  at  once  into  a  clean  fruit  jar,  and 
keep  in  a  cold  place. 

A  small  inexpensive  fruit  press  is  made  by  the  Enter- 
prise  Manufacturing  Company. 

APPLE  a  la  ZOUAVE 

Grate  half  of  a  tart  apple  into  a  half  cupful  of  good 
milk;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  beaten  with  the  yolk  of 
one  egg,  and  six  blanched  almonds,  chopped  or  ground 
very  fine;  turn  this  into  a  custard  cup,  stand  it  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  *'set"  in  the 
center;  test  by  putting  a  silver  knife  in  the  center,  if  it 
comes  out  milky,  it  is  not  done ;  it  is  just  right  when  the 
knife  comes  out  clean.  Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  again. 
Spread  this  over  the  top  of  the  custard,  dust  it  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  brown  a  moment  in  the  oven.    Serve  cold. 

STEWED   APPLES 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  one  tart  apple,  put  it  in  a  granite 
saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  cover  the  saucepan  and 
bring  quickly  to  a  boil ;  take  from  the  fire  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  The  apple  should  be  quite  trans- 
parent, and  the  pieces  perfectly  whole. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  367 

APPLE  SAUCE 

Quarter  and  core  two  tart  apples ;  do  not  pare  them. 
Put  them  in  a  granite  saucepan,  with  a  half  cupful  of  cold 
water,  cover  the  pan  and  bring  quickly  to  a  boil.  Press 
through  a  sieve  and  serve  warm.  Add  sugar,  or  not,  as 
ordered. 

APPLE  FLUFF 

Stir  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg  into  apple  sauce 
after  it  has  been  pressed  through  a  sieve  and  is  still  warm. 
This  may  be  served  hot  or  cold,  plain  or  with  cream. 


MARLBOROUGH    APPLE    SAUCE 

Press  the  pulp  from  one  hot  baked  apple  through  a 
sieve,  add  to  it,  while  hot,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and 
the  yolk  of  one  egg.    Heap  this  into  a  glass  dish  and  serve. 


APPLE  SNOW 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  until  very,  very  stiff;  grate 
into  it  a  quarter  of  a  tart  apple;  mix  quickly;  heap  it  into 
a  glass  lemonade  cup,  dust  it  with  powdered  sugar  and 
serve.  To  give  variety,  the  cup  may  be  partly  filled  with 
cold  soft  custard,  or  cream. 


LEMON   APPLE 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  one  good-sized  apple.  Put  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  water  in  a 
saucepan,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  the  grating  of  yellow  rind  of  a 
lemon,  bring  to  a  boil,  skim,  boil  two- minutes,  strain,  return 
the  syrup  to  the  saucepan,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice 
and  the  apple,  cover  the  saucepan  and  stand  it  on  the  back 
of  the  stove,  where  it  cannot  possibly  boil,  until  the  apple  is 
tender  and  clear. 


368  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

GRILLED   APPLES 

Shell  two  large  or  four  small  chestnuts,  remove  the 
brown  skin,  throw  them  into  salted  water  and  boil  care- 
fully until  they  are  tender;  drain.  Take  the  core  from 
one  tart  apple;  do  not  pare  it.  Cut  two  good  slices,  a  half 
inch  thick,  from  the  center  of  the  apple,  put  these  on  a 
wire  broiler  and  broil  carefully  over  a  clear  fire,  five  min- 
utes, until  they  are  tender.  Dish  them  on  a  heated  plate, 
put  one  large  or  two  small  chestnuts  in  the  center  of  each ; 
stand  them  in  the  oven  a  minute  while  you  boil  together 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 
As  soon  as  the  sugar  and  water  have  boiled,  skim  and  add 
a  level  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  water,  boil  a  minute,  add  a  dash  of  lemon  juice  and 
baste  it  over  the  apples. 

APPLE  OMELET 

Beat  one  egg,  without  separating,  until  well  mixed; 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  soft  portion 
from  one  baked  apple.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil  into 
a  shallow  pan,  and  when  hot  turn  in  the  egg  mixture,  brown 
quickly  and  stand  in  the  oven  a  moment  until  set ;  fold 
over,  turn  on  to  a  small  heated  platter,  dust  with  powdered 
sugar  and  serve  at  once. 

SCALLOPED  APPLE 

Stew  one  apple.  Roll  and  sift  sufficient  dry  bread  to 
make  four  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs.  Put  the  stewed 
apple  in  an  individual  casserole  or  baking  dish,  dust  over 
the  bread  crumbs,  dust  the  top  lightly  with  sugar  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  Serve  warm, 
plain  or  with  cream. 

APPLE  SPONGE 

Wash  and  core  one  tart  apple,  cut  it  into  slices;  put  it 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  cupful  of  cold  water,  bring  to  a 
boil,   add  two   tablespoonfuls  .of   sugar,   a   teaspoonful   of 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  369 

lemon  juice  and  a  teaspoonful  of  gelatin  that  has  been 
soaked  for  a  half  hour  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water. 
When  the  gelatin  is  dissolved,  press  the  whole  through  a 
sieve,  and  pour  while  hot  into  the  beaten  white  of  one  tgg. 
Turn  into  an  individual  mold  and  stand  aside  to  harden. 
Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream,  or  a  soft  custard  made 
from  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  a  half  cupful  of  milk. 

FROSTED    APPLE 

Pare  one  nice  tart  apple,  core  and  stand  it  in  an  indi- 
vidual baking  dish  ;  fill  the  core  space  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  granulated  sugar,  add  a  half  cupful  of  water,  cover  and 
bake  until  the  apple  is  perfectly  tender.  Beat  the  white  of 
one  egg  until  light  and  dry,  add  a  level  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  beat  again.  Take  the  apple  from  the 
oven,  cover  it  thickly  with  the  meringue,  dust  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  return  to  the  oven'  until  a  golden  brown. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

YORKSHIRE  APPLE 

Cook  an  apple  according  to  the  preceding  recipe,  filling 
the  core  space  with  orange  marmalade  instead  of  sugar. 
Serve  warm. 

APPLE  WITH   QUINCE  JELLY 

Cook  an  apple  as  directed  for  frosted  apple.  Fill  the 
core  space  with  quince  jelly.  Serve  warm  or  cold,  plain  or 
with  cream. 

BRANDY  APPLE 

Pare  a  large  tart  apple,  remove  the  core,  stand  the 
apple  in  a  baking  dish  or  individual  casserole  mold,  fill  the 
core  space  with  orange  marmalade,  add  a  half  cupful  of 
water,  cover  the  mold  and  bake  slowly  until  the  apple  is 
tender.  Soak  a  tablespoonful  of  gelatin  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  water,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  brandy  and  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water;  stir  until 
the  gelatin  is  dissolved  and  stand  aside  to  cool,  not  harden. 

24 


370  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

When  the  apple  is  done,  remove  it  from  the  baking  dish, 
and  when  partly  cool  baste  it  with  the  brandy  jelly,  and 
keep  on  basting  until  the  apple  is  thoroughly  coated  with 
the  jelly.    Serve  plain,  or  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

APPLE  SALAD 

Pare  and  core  one  perfect  tart  apple.  Sprinkle  over 
the  apple  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  mix  thoroughly 
until  each  piece  is  covered;  this  will  prevent  discoloration. 
Put  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  in  a  bowl,  add  to  it  a  half  drop 
of  Tabasco,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  and  a  half  tablespoon- 
ful of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar;  mix,  baste  this  over  the 
apple,  heap  it  neatly  on  a  little  nest  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves 
and  serve  at  once.  If  admissible,  the  apple  may  be  mixed 
with  very  tender  young  celery.  To  make  it  more  attractive 
the  apple  may  be  scooped  from  the  fresh  red  skin  and  the 
salad  served  in  the  skin.  To  prevent  the  inside  of  the  skin 
from   discoloration,  wash   it  thoroughly  with  lemon  juice. 

APRICOTS 

To  serve  fresh  apricots,  wipe  the  skin  thoroughly,  stand 
them  in  a  cold  place  until  slightly  chilled,  and  dish  on  a 
dainty  doily.  Serve  also  a  finger  bowl  and  fruit  knife. 
The  skin  must  be  removed  before  eating. 

APRICOT  PUREE 

This  makes  a  very  nice  sauce  for  any  of  the  gelatin 
jellies,  mock  charlotte,  or  to  plain  blancmange. 

Wash  two  apricots,  cut  them  into  halves,  remove  the 
stones,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  cupful  of  cold 
water,  bring  quickly  to  boiling  point,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
cornstarch  moistened  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  boil  just  a  minute  until  the  cornstarch 
is  thoroughly  cooked,  and  press  them  through  a  sieve.  This 
should  be  as  thick  as  very  thick  cream ;  if  too  thick  add  a 
tablespoonful  or  two  of  hot  water. 


MRS.    RORER'S    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  371 

APRICOT    TOAST 

Make  a  puree  of  apricot  according  to  preceding  recipe. 
Cut  a  slice  from  a  square  loaf  of  bread,  trim  off  the  crusts, 
dry  the  bread  in  the  oven,  toast  it  quickly  on  one  side,  then 
on  the  other,  put  it  at  once  on  a  heated  small  dish  and 
cover  it  with  apricot  puree. 

This  is  exceedingly  nice  for  a  child's  breakfast.  If  not 
convenient  to  make  toast,  put  it  over  the  upper  crust  of  a 
shredded  wheat  biscuit. 

APRICOT    SOUFFLE 

Make  a  puree  of  apricot  according  to  the  first  recipe, 
pour  it  while  hot  into  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg. 
Dish  at  once  in  a  pretty  individual  glass  stem  dish  or 
lemonade  cup,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  stand  aside 
to  cool. 

BANANAS 

There  are  many  varieties  of  bananas  grown  in  Central 
and  South  America  that  are  not  exported.  The  one  best 
known  in  the  United  States  is  the  Gross  Michael ;  I  have 
noticed,  however,  in  the  markets  of  New  York  large 
quantities  of  the  ordinary  red  banana,  and  a  yellow  banana, 
short  and  thick  like  the  red  one,  knoAvn  as  the  Congo,  and 
a  white,  thick  banana,  the  Governor  "fig,"  also  known  in 
some  parts  of  South  America  as  the  apple  ''fig."  All 
bananas  are  known  to  the  natives  in  the  districts  where 
bananas  grow,  as  Indian  ''figs."  The  word  banana,  how- 
ever, is  always  applied  to  the  red  banana. 

Bananas  are,  without  doubt,  the  most  nutritious  of  all 
fruits  in  common  use.  They  should  not,  however,  be  given 
to  the  sick  or  children  unless  they  are  thoroughly  and 
simply  cooked.  The  so-called  ''lady  fingers"  or  Gross 
Michaels  are  best  for  cooking. 

Banana  flour  is  made  from  underripe  bananas,  thor- 
oughly dried  and  ground.  It  is  exceedingly  good  for  dia- 
betic, rheumatic  and  gouty  patients.  It  may  be  made  into 
mush,  or  gems,  or  small  cakes. 


372  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

BAKED    BANANAS 

Take  the  banana  out  of  the  skin  by  stripping  off  one 
piece  and  then  lifting  it  out.  If  you  strip  the  skin  down 
you  are  very  apt  to  leave  the  bitter  portion  fast  to  the 
fruit.  Put  the  banana  into  an  earthen  or  granite  baking 
dish,  brush  it  with  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  dust  it  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  granulated  sugar  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
thirty  minutes.  Bananas  to  be  just  right  should  be  a  golden 
brown  and  very  tender.     Serve  warm. 

SCALLOPED  BANANA 

Peel  the  banana  and  cut  it  into  thin  slices  with  a  silver 
knife.  Put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  individual  casserole  or 
ramekin  dish,  a  little  dusting  of  sugar,  another  layer  of 
banana,  and  so  continue  until  you  have  the  ingredients 
used.     Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 

BANANA   SOUFFLE 

Select  a  full  ripe  banana,  skin  and  mash  it ;  put  it  in 
a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  orange  juice  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar.  When  hot  fold  into  it  carefully  the 
well-beaten  white  of  one  egg.     Serve  cold. 

BANANA   MUSH 

This  is  made  from  banana  flour,  which  is  easily  digested 
and  very  agreeable.  It  frequently  contains  just  a  trace  of 
glucose. 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  water  into  a  saucepan,  when  boiling 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Moisten  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  banana  flour,  stir  it  into  the  hot  milk  and  water,  bring 
to  a  boil,  and  take  from  the  fire.  The  flavoring  of  this  may 
be  changed  by  adding  a  little  orange  or  lemon  juice,  by 
making  the  gruel  entire  milk,  or  entire  water.  Serve  with 
cream. 

This  is  an  exceedingly  nice  mush  for  delicate  children 
or  invalids,  but  is  not  a  good  food  for  diabetic  patients 
unless  a  starch-free  flour  is  used. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  373 

BANANA  PUFF 

Separate  one  egg,  beat  the  yolk  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  powdered  sugar.  Peel  and  slice  a  ripe  banana,  put  it 
in  a  saucepan  and  stir  it  constantly  over  hot  water  until 
thoroughly  heated,  mash  and  add  the  yolk  and  sugar,  cook  a 
minute  longer,  fold  in  the  well-beaten  white ;  heap  it  in  rame- 
kin or  individual  dish,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  until  a  golden  brown.  A  nice  breakfast  for  a 
child,  or  an  invalid  or  the  aged. 

STEWED  BANANAS 

Peel  a  banana,  cut  it  in  slices  a  half  inch  thick  using 
a  silver  knife ;  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cold  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  orange  or  lemon 
juice;  cover  and  bring  quickly  to  a  boil.  Serve  warm  or 
cold. 

BANANA    CHARLOTTE 

Stew  the  bananas  according  to  the  preceding  recipe, 
and  beat  with  a  silver  fork  until  light ;  stand  asidei  to  cool. 
When  cool,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  instead  of  the 
lemon,  and  stir  in  carefully  six  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Serve  in  a  pretty  stem  glass 
dish. 

BLACKBERRIES 

When  fully  ripe,  blackberries,  like  raspberries,  do  not 
contain  as  much  free  acid  as  currants  or  cranberries.  In 
cordial,  syrup,  jelly  and  jam,  they  give  variety  to  the  diet 
in  cases  of  chronic  diarrhoea. 

In  vinegar  or  wine  the  blackberry  makes  a  pleasant, 
cooling  drink  for  convalescents. 

Blackberries  and  dewberries  are  laxative  only  when 
eaten  raw. 

TO  SERVE  RAW 

Select  large,  fully  ripe  blackberries,  arrange  them 
neatly  in  a  fruit  dish,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  stand 
them  in  a  cold  place  for  ten  minutes  and  serve. 


374  MRS. 

Fully  ripe  large  berries  have  a  core,  which  the  patient 
must  not  swallow. 

BLACKBERRY   MUSH 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  very  ripe  blackberries  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  half  cupful  of  water,  bring  to  boiling  point,  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot  moistened  in  a  little  cold 
water;  cook  slowly  five  minutes,  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  and  press  the  mixture  through  a  fine  sieve.  Put 
into  an  individual  dish  for  cooling.  Serve  plain,  or  with 
cream. 

BLACKBERRY  FLUFF 

Press  sufficient  full  ripe  blackberries  through  a  fine 
sieve,  to  make  a  half  cupful  of  clear  juice.  Bring  to  boil- 
ing point,  boil  a  minute,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
and  pour  while  hot  into  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  Qgg. 
Heap  at  once  into  a  lemonade  cup  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

BLACKBERRY  JELLY 

Press  sufficient  underripe  blackberries  through  a  sieve 
to  make  one  cupful  of  juice.  Bring  the  juice  to  a  boil,  boil 
three  minutes,  add  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar,  boil  about 
five  minutes,  until  the  mixture  will  jelly  when  cool.  Turn 
into  small  serving  glasses  and  stand  in  the  refrigerator. 
The  jelly  must  be  soft  and  delicate,  not  tough. 

BLACKBERRY  SHRUB 

Press  sufficient  very  ripe  blackberries  through  a  sieve 
to  half  fill  a  tumbler;  siphon  into  this  either  soda  or  plain 
carbonated  water;  or  if  a  siphon  is  out  of  the  question,  add  a 
split  of  Apollinaris,  and  serve  at  once. 

This  makes  an  exceedingly  nice  drink  in  cases  of  chronic 
diarrhoea. 

BLACKBERRY  SYRUP 

Squeeze  sufficient  slightly-heated,  very  ripe  blackber- 
ries to  make  one  pint  of  juice.     Boil  one  pound  of  white 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  375 

rock  candy  with  a  pint  of  water  for  ten  minutes,  add  the 
juice,  boil  five  minutes,  bottle  while  hot  and  seal. 

BLACKBERRY   CORDIAL  I 

Heat  four  quarts  of  blackberries,  stirring  them  all  the 
while;  do  not  add  water.  Mash  the  berries  and  strain 
them  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth,  pressing  out 
all  the  juice.  Measure  the  juice,  put  it  in  a  preserving 
kettle,  add  to  each  quart  of  juice,  -one  pound  of  sugar,  ten 
whole  allspice,  two  cloves,  and  an.  inch  piece  of  cinnamon. 
Bring  to  a  boil,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  take  from  the  fire, 
and  when  cool  add  one  gill  of  brandy  to  each  quart.  Bottle 
in  perfectly  clean  bottles,  cork  and  seal. 

If  good  brandy  cannot  be  purchased,  use  the  best  rye 
or  Bourbon  whiskey. 

BLACKBERRY   CORDIAL   II 

Mash  and  squeeze  sufficient  blackberries  to  make  one 
quart  of  juice ;  stir  in  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  Tie 
a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  the  same  of  allspice, 
the  same  of  ginger  and  a  saltspoonful  of  cloves  into  a  little 
square  of  cheesecloth ;  put  it  into  the  juice,  bring  to  a  boil 
and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Strain  through  two  thicknesses 
of  cheesecloth,  and  when  cold  add  a  half  pint  of  brandy. 
Bottle  and  cork. 

TO   SERVE   CORDIAL 

Put  two  ounces  into  an  ordinary  tumbler  and  fill  the 
tumbler  with  cool,  plain  water.  Or  serve  two  ounces  plain, 
in  a  wineglass.    Good  in  dysentery  and  diarrhoea. 

BLACKBERRY   VINEGAR 

Put  two  quarts  of  ripe  blackberries  into  a  stone  jar, 
pour  over  one  quart  of  good  cider  vinegar,  cover  the  jar 
and  stand  aside  for  two  days.  Drain  ofif  the  liquor  without 
mashing  the  berries,  pour  it  over  a  quart  of  fresh  berries, 
cover  and  stand  aside  as  before.    Do  this  once  more,  using 


376  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

fresh  berries  each  time,  this  time  straining  through  two 
thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  Measure  the  Hquor,  and  add 
one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint.  Boil  slowly  five  minutes, 
skim,  let  it  stand  a  minute  to  cool,  fill  it  into  clean  bottles, 
cork  and  seal. 

This  makes  a  cooling  drink  in  hot  weather  for  convales- 
cents or  fever  patients. 

BLACKBERRY   BRANDY 

I  quart  of  very  ripe  blackberries  12  whole  allspice 
I  clove  2  pounds  of  loaf  sugar 

I  pint  of  water  i  quart  of  good  brandy 

An  inch  piece  of  cinnamon 

Mash  the  berries  and  strain  them  through  two  thick- 
nesses of  cheesecloth.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  ten  min- 
utes, add  the  syrup  to  the  juice,  add  all  the  spices  and  one 
quart  of  good  brandy ;  stand  the  mixture  away  in  fruit 
jars,  lightly  covered,  for  at  least  two  weeks.  Strain,  bottle, 
cork  and  seal. 

BLACKBERRY   JUICE 

Mash  wild  blackberries,  bring  them  to  boiling  point 
and  drain  over  night.  Next  morning  put  the  juice  in  a  pre- 
serving kettle;  boil  five  minutes  and  skim;  fill  it  into 
bottles,  leaving  a  two-inch  space  in  the  neck;  cork  and 
put  them,  on  their  sides,  in  a  wash  boiler,  with  enough  hot 
water  to  cover.  Boil  a  half  hour,  and  allow  them  to  cool 
in  the  water.     When  cold  dip  the  corks  in  sealing  wax. 

BLACKBERRYADE 

Mash  one  cupful  of  ripe  berries,  strain  through  cheese- 
cloth, add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  put  the  mixture  in  a  large  tumbler, 
add  a  little  cracked  ice,  and  fill  the  tumbler  with  carbonated 
or  plain  water. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  377 

BLACKBERRY   BOUNCE 

Put  one  quart  of  very  ripe  blackberries  in  a  granite  or 
porcelain-lined  kettle,  add  a  half  cupful  of  water,  cover  the 
kettle  and  when  hot  stir  until  the  blackberries  are  thor- 
oughly heated;  press  them  through  a  sieve  sufficiently 
fine  to  take  out  the  seeds.  Add  to  this  pulp  ten  lumps  of 
Domino  sugar  and  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water.  Boil  two 
minutes,  take  from  the  fire,  bottle,  cork  and  stand  aside  in  a 
cold  place.  At  serv^ing  time  put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  this 
in  a  wineglass  or  small  tumbler,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
brandy. 

The  patient  must  sip  this  slowly.  Good  as  a  mild 
stimulant  for  tuberculosis  and  chronic   diarrhoea  patients. 

Raspberry  bounce  is  made  precisely  the  same  as  black- 
berry bounce.  Red  and  black  raspberries  may  be  mixed, 
or  each  used  alone. 

Dewberries  may  be  used  the  same  as  blackberries. 

CHERRIES 

The  cherry,  on  account  of  its  tough,  indigestible  skin 
and  solid  fruit,  plays  little  or  no  part  in  diet  for  the  sick. 
The  sour  morello  cherry,  when  fully  ripe,  is  the  least  objec- 
tionable of  all  varieties. 


CHERRY   JUICE 

Put  a  quart  of  morello  cherries  into  an  ordinary  granite 
or  porcelain  kettle,  add  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water,  stir 
over  the  fire  until  they  are  boiling  hot,  take  from  the  fire, 
mash  with  an  ordinary  pestle,  and  strain  through  two  thick- 
nesses of  cheesecloth ;  cool  at  once. 

Cherry  juice  may  be  substituted  for  orange,  currant 
or  raspberry  juice  as  a  cooling  and  refreshing  drink. 

Cherries  and  cherry  juice  contains  too  much  free  acid 
to  be  used  with  starchy  foods  or  milk.  Such  combinations 
quickly  upset  digestion. 


378  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

In  fever  cases  cherry  juice  may  be  substituted  for 
orange  juice  as  a  base  for  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  or 
use  it  as  a  flavoring  in  gelatin  jellies. 

Morello  cherries,  if  the  skins  are  rejected,  w^ill  fre- 
quently relieve  obstinate  constipation. 

CRANBERRIES 

This  fruit  contains  too  much  free  acid  to  be  used  in  any 
great  quantity,  unless  so  ordered  by  a  physician.  For 
convalescing  patients,  where  admissible,  they  may  be  made 
into  jelly,  or  may  be  stewed  or  baked.  Baked  cranberries 
are  considered  valuable  in  cases  of  chronic  constipation. 

BAKED   CRANBERRIES 

Wash  a  half  pint  of  perfect  cranberries,  put  them  into 
a  baking  dish,  add  a  half  pint  of  sugar,  mix  thoroughly, 
cover  the  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  cran- 
berries are  perfectly  tender  and  transparent. 

CRANBERRY   SAUCE 

Wash  a  half  pint  of  perfectly  sound  cranberries,  add 
a  half  pint  of  water,  bring  quickly  to  a  boil  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  Return  them  to  the  saucepan,  add  a  half 
pint  of  sugar,  bring  to  a  boil  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

CRANBERRY  AND   APPLE  SAUCE 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  a  small  tart  apple,  put  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  half  pint  of  sound  cranberries,  add  a  half 
pint  of  water,  bring  to  a  boil,  boil  five  minutes  and  press 
through  a  sieve;  add  a, half  pint  of  sugar,  stir  over  the  fire 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

CRANBERRY   JELLY 

Wash  a  half  pint  of  solid,  perfect  cranberries,  put  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  gill    (a  half  cupful)    of  cold  water, 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  379 

bring  to  boiling  point,  boil  five  minutes  and  press  through 
a  sieve.  Return  them  to  the  saucepan,  boil  two  minutes, 
add  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar,  and  when  the  sugar  is 
dissolved  boil  one  minute  and  turn  into  small  molds  or 
glasses  to  harden. 

FROZEN  CRANBERRYADE 

Put  half  a  pint  of  fully  ripe  cranberries  in  a  pint  of 
water,  boil  for  five  minutes,  mash  and  strain  through  two 
thicknesses  of  cheesecloth,  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

When  wanted  for  use,  put  the  desired  quantity  into  an 
individual  freezer,  pack  with  fine  salt  and  ice,  and  turn  the 
freezer  until  the  mixture  is  frozen  like  wet  snow. 

This  is  very  refreshing  to  fever  patients,  but  should  be 
used  in  small  quantities,  as  one  would  use  any  acid  sherbet. 

CURRANTS 

Currants,  gooseberries  and  wineberries  are  remarkable 
for  the  amount  of  free  acid  they  contain.  The  expressed 
juices  of  these  fruits  make  an  agreeable  addition  to  effer- 
vescent waters.  Currants  eaten  raw  at  the  beginning  of 
a  meal,  either  plain  or  with  sugar,  are  good  in  cases  of 
chronic  constipation. 

Currant  jelly  is  one  of  the  most  palatable  and  attractive 
of  all  fruit  jellies,  and  may  be  served  with  meats,  or  in 
the  absence  of  fresh  currants,  may  be  dissolved  in  boiling 
water,  cooled  and  used  with  effervescing  waters  in  cases 
of  fever. 

FROSTED  CURRANTS 

Select  large  bunches  of  full  ripe  currants.  Beat  one 
egg  slightly,  add  ten  grains  of  cream  of  tartar,  then  add 
gradually,  beating  all  the  while,  sufficient  powdered  sugar 
to  make  an  icing,  about  eight  tablespoonfuls  to  the  white 
of  one  egg.  Wash  the  currants  and  see  that  they  are  per- 
fectly dry;  dip  them,  or  rather  push  them  down  into  this 
icing,  and  dry  them  on  a  sieve,  putting  them  upside  down 


380  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

if  possible,  so  the  currants  will  stand  out  from  the  stem 
and  be  thoroughly  iced  all  over.  Serve  on  a  small  glass 
dish,  for  breakfast  or  luncheon.  There  is  no  food  value 
particularly  in  a  bunch  of  currants,  but  they  make  one  of 
the  most  attractive  dishes  for  invalids;  they  are  dainty, 
sightly  and  appetizing. 

CURRANT  SHRUB 

Strip  sufficient  red  currants  from  the  stems  to  make  a 
half  pint;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quarter  of  a  cup- 
ful of  water,  cover  the  saucepan  and  bring  to  boiling  point. 
Press  them  through  a  sieve  or  strain  through  two  thick- 
nesses of  cheesecloth,  and  stand  aside  until  wanted.  At 
serving  time  put  one  gill  of  this  juice  in  a  tumbler,  and 
siphon  the  tumbler  full  of  either  seltzer  or  carbonated 
water,  or  Apollinaris. 

BLACK  CURRANTS 

These  are  entirely  different  from  red  currants,  both  in 
taste  and  food  value.  The  juice  of  black  currants  may  be 
expressed  the  same  as  red  currants,  and  used  as  a  ''shrub," 
or  may  be  made  into  jelly  to  serve  with  game  or  red  meats. 

CURRANTS  AND  RASPBERRIES 

The  expressed  juice  of  red  currants,  with  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  raspberry  juice,  makes  an  exceedingly  nice  beverage 
when  diluted  with  Apollinaris  or  with  carbonated  water. 

These  fruit  waters  are  useful  in  fevers,  and  are  espe- 
cially desirable  where  lime  or  lemon  juice  cannot  be 
obtained. 

DATES    {Phoenix  dactylifera) 

Dates  are  the  fruit  of  a  palm.  They  frequently  con- 
tain half  their  weight  in  sugar,  and  a  goodly  amount  of 
flesh-forming  elements.  With  bread  and  butter,  or  with 
milk  and  bread  and  butter,  they  make  an  exceedingly  good 
meal  for  children. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  381 

To  cleanse — Take  off  the  desired  quantity,  pull  them 
apart,  put  them  in  a  colander,  plunge  them  quickly  into  a 
bowl  of  boiling  water,  then  into  cold  water,  and  throw 
them  on  a  towel  to  dry.  Sterilize  enough  one  day  to  last 
for  a  week.  Candy-eating  children  may  be  cured  of  the 
habit  by  substituting  dates  for  candy. 

According  to  Church,  one  pound,  without  stones,  con- 
tains the  following: 

Water 3  oz.  143  gr. 

Albuminoids,    etc i  oz.     25  gr. 

Sugar     8  oz.  280  gr. 

Pectose  and  gum    i  oz.  354  gr. 

Fat    o  oz.     14  gr. 

Cellulose  o  oz.  385  gr. 

Mineral  matter  o  oz.  112  gr. 

STUFFED   DATES 

Plunge  the  dates  into  boiling  water,  remove  the  stones 
and  put  in  their  places  either  half  of  a  pecan  or  an  almond, 
or  a  mixture  of  chopped  nuts  or  another  stoned  date. 

DATE  MUFFIN 

Scald  and  stone  the  dates  and  put  them  through  a 
meat  grinder.  Separate  two  eggs,  add  to  the  yolks  one 
cupful  of  milk  and  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  whole  wheat 
flour;  beat  thoroughly,  add  a  half  cupful  of  the  chopped 
dates  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  when  well 
mixed  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in 
ten  shallow  muffin  pans. 

DATE  MUSH 

Stir  finely-chopped  dates  into  well-cooked  oatmeal,  at 
serving  time. 

DATE    SANDWICHES 

Stone  and  chop  a  half  dozen  dates.  Butter  two  thin 
slices  of  bread,  put  the  dates  between,  press  them  together, 
trim  the  crusts,  cut  into  triangles  and  serve. 


382  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

DATE   GEMS   FOR  CHILDREN 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  dates  in  a  wire  basket, 
plunge  them  down  into  boiling  water,  lift  quickly,  remove 
the  stones  and  cut  the  dates  rather  fine.  Separate  two 
eggs,  beat  the  yolks,  add  a  half  pint  of  milk,  a  quarter  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  cupful  of  whole  wheat  flour 
and  one  cupful  of  Roman  meal ;  beat  thoroughly,  add  two 
level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  beat,  add  the  dates, 
mix  and  stir  in  carefully  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  gem  pans,  in  a  quick  oven  thirty  minutes. 

These,  with  milk,  make  an  exceedingly  nice  supper  for 
children. 

ELDERBERRIES 

Elderberry  juice,  wine  or  cordial  is  said  to  have  a 
slightly  diuretic  efifect.  Elderberry  jelly  is  thought  to  be 
beneficial  in  cases  of  tuberculosis.  To  make  a  perfectly  stiff 
jelly,  however,  the  elderberry  juice  must  be  mixed  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  green  grape,  apple  or  crab  apple  juice. 
Alone,  it  v/ill  not  form  a  true  jelly. 

ELDERBERRY  TOAST 

Strip  sufficient  elderberries  from  the  stem  to  make  a 
half  pint,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  cupful  of 
water,  stew  five  minutes,  mash  and  strain  them  through 
two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  Return  this  juice  to  the 
saucepan,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  or  arrowroot 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  water;  stir  and  cook  five  minutes, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  pour  over  a  nicely 
toasted  slice  of  bread. 

This  also  makes  a*  nice  sauce  for  blancmange  or  other 
puddings. 

ELDERBERRY   CORDIAL 

Strip  the  elderberries  from  the  stems,  mash  them  with 
a  potato  masher  and  strain  them  through  a  jelly  bag  or 
cheesecloth.    To  each  half  pint  of  this  juice  add  two  table- 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  383 

Spoonfuls  of  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and 
stand  aside  in  a  pitcher  or  large  jar  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Then,  add  to  each  half  pint,  one  gill  of  the  best  brandy. 
Bottle  and  cork,  leaving  plenty  of  space  at  the  neck ;  stand 
the  bottles  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling 
point  and  boil  continuously  for  a  half  hour.  Lift  the  lid, 
let  the  bottles  cool  in  the  water.  Dip  each  cork  into  sealing 
wax  and  stand  aside  for  keeping. 

This  makes  an  exceedingly  nice  drink  for  chronic 
diarrhoea  or  dysentery.  Being  slightly  astringent,  it  should 
not  be  given  to  persons  inclined  to  constipation. 

ELDERBERRY   WINE 

Mash  four  quarts  of  elderberries  that  have  been  stripped 
from  the  stems ;  add  to  them  one  quart  of  water  and  one 
pint  of  brown  sugar,  stir  thoroughly  and  put  it  aside  in  a 
stone  crock,  the  top  of  which  is  covered  with  a  plate  or 
loose  fitting  lid.  Let  this  ferment  for  a  week  or  ten  days. 
Rack  it  off  carefully  into  bottles,  cork  the  bottles  loosely 
and  let  them  stand  in  a  cold  place  until  fermentation  ceases; 
then  put  it  into  clean  bottles,  cork,  tie  and  seal  with  wax. 

ELDERBERRY  JUICE 

Mash  four  quarts  of  elderberries,  add  one  pint  of  water 
and  strain  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  Fill 
the  juice  thus  expressed  into  bottles,  leaving  considerable 
space  at  the  neck ;  cork  the  bottles  loosely,  stand  them  in 
a  kettle,  surround  them  partly  with  cold  water,  bring  to 
a  boil  and  boil  continuously  for  a  half  hour.  Then  lift  each 
bottle,  push  in  the  corks,  put  them  on  their  sides  and  con- 
tinue the  boiling  for  another  thirty  minutes.  Cool  the 
bottles  in  the  water.     Seal  with  wax. 

Serv^e  plain  or  with  plain  or  carbonated  water. 

FIGS 

Figs,  both  fresh  and  dried,  contain  a  large  amount  of 
sugar;   dried   figs   about   forty-nine   per   cent.      They   also 


384  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

contain  a  little  nitrogenous  matter,  which  makes  them  much 
more  nutritious  than  most  of  our  common  fruits.  Both 
fresh  and  dried  they  are  aperient. 

If  dried  figs  become  hard,  they  may  be  scalded  and 
soaked  three  or  four  hours,  or  over  night.  Dried  figs  must 
be  thoroughly  masticated ;  in  fact,  it  is  better,  if  the  skin 
is  tough,  to  reject  it  entirely. 

TO   SERVE  DRY  FIGS 

Purchase  the  so-called  pulled  figs,  put  them  in  a  wire 
basket,  plunge  them  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  to  thor- 
oughly sterilize  the  outside.  If  you  have  not  a  wire  basket, 
put  them  on  an  tgg  beater,  a  few  at  a  time,  and  hold  them 
in  the  water  for  at  least  two  minutes ;  lift  and  throw  them 
on  a  plate  to  drain.  Serve  on  a  dainty  plate,  with  a  fruit 
knife  and  fork. 

TO  SERVE  FRESH  FIGS 

Buy,  a  few  figs  at  a  time,  and  put  them  at  once  in  a 
cold  place  to  keep.  At  serving  time  fill  a  small  individual 
serving  dish  with  cracked  ice,  sink  the  figs  in  the  ice,  stem 
end  up.  These  are  rich  and  luscious,  and  must  be  handled 
very  lightly. 

STEAMED  FIGS 

Wash  the  given  amount  of  pulled  figs  in  cold  water, 
let  them  soak  for  two  hours ;  place  them  in  a  colander,  over 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  steam  continuously  for  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  These  may  be 
cut  into  pieces  and  eaten  with  a  fork,  or  they  may  be 
eaten  from  the  fingers. 

STEWED  FIGS 

Wash  a  half  pound  of  pulled  figs,  cover  with  a  pint  of 
water  and  soak  them  over  night.  Next  morning  bring 
to  boiling  point,  add  a  bay  leaf,  cover  the  saucepan  and 
push  it  to  the  back  of  the  stove  where  it  will  keep  boiling  hot 
for  one  hour.    Serve  cold,  plain  or  with  cream. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  385 

FIG  TOAST 

Put  two  stewed  figs  through  a  meat  grinder,  then  into 
a  saucepan  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  they  reach  the  boiling  point.  Have  ready  on 
a  breakfast  plate  a  slice  of  bread,  toasted  to  a  golden  brown 
and  buttered;  put  over  the  fig  mixture  and  serve  at  once, 
with  cream  or  milk. 

This  takes  the  place  of  fruit  and  cereal,  and  is  an  excel- 
lent remedy  for  obstinate  constipation.  It  makes  a  good 
supper  as  well  as  a  good  breakfast  dish. 

FAIRY   TOAST 

Toast  a  slice  of  sponge  cake,  cover  it  with  the  fig  mix- 
ture and  serve  with  cream  or  milk. 


FIG  CARAMELS 

Soak  a  half  pound  of  pulled  figs  over  night.  Next 
morning  bring  to  boiling  point,  boil  five  minutes  and  drain. 
Put  them  through  a  meat  grinder.  Blanch  a  half  pound 
of  Jordan  almonds,  put  them  through  a  meat  grinder,  and 
mix  the  two  together.  Knead  the  same  as  bread,  roll  the 
mixture  into  a  sheet  a  half  inch  thick,  cut  into  "caramels," 
wrap  each  in  waxed  paper  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

These  make  a  nice  ''candy"  for  children.  Two,  slowly 
eaten,  just  before  going  to  bed,  Will  relieve  obstinate  con- 
stipation. 

FIGS  AND  ALMONDS  ON  TOAST 

Wash,  scald  and  soak  two  figs  over  night ;  next  morn- 
ing put  them  through  the  meat  grinder  with  twenty-four 
blanched  almonds.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  or 
enough  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  a  thick  sauce ;  spread 
it  on  a  slice  of  hot  buttered  toast;  eat  plain  or  with  milk. 
An  excellent  breakfast  for  school  children. 

25 


386  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

FIG  SANDWICHES 

Use  the  same  mixture  as  above,  without  water,  be- 
tween two  slices  of  bread  and  butter. 

GRAPES 

Fresh  ripe  grapes  are  enjoyed  mostly  on  account  of 
their  flavor  and  aroma.  They  are  rich  in  sugar,  frequently 
containing  nearly  twenty  per  cent.,  but  this  is  not  more  im- 
portant than  the  potash  salts  they  contain.  The  acid  is 
chiefly  tartaric,  a  part  of  which  is  combined  with  the 
potash.  The  seedless  grape,  such  as  the  black  Hamburg,  is 
an  excellent  food  for  children  and  invalids.  The  white  and 
purple  California  grapes,  with  the  seeds  removed,  are  equally 
palatable  and  wholesome. 

Grapes,  on  account  of  their  sugar,  are  forbidden  to 
diabetic,  rheumatic  and  gouty  patients.  The  ordinary  Con- 
cord or  similar  grapes  must  be  very  carefully  eaten.  If  the 
pulp  is  to  be  swallowed,  the  seeds  must  be  removed  be- 
tween the  teeth,  and  the  rich  juice  on  the  inside  of  the 
skin  should  be  drawn  out,  and  both  skin  and  seeds  discarded, 
as  they  hinder  digestion  and  frequently  cause  diarrhoea. 

A  special  grape  cure  has  been  established  in  many 
grape-growing  countries,  but  the  fact  is  that  almost  any 
restricted  diet  will  cure  stomach  or  liver  trouble  and  aid  in 
the  removal  of  chronic  constipation,  if  the  patient  will 
adhere  to  it  for  a  given  length  of  time.  It  matters  not  so 
much  whether  the  "cure"  is  the  "peach,"  "grape,"  or  "apple 
cure ;"  the  point  is  to  put  the  patient  on  a  limited  diet  until 
a  cure  is  effected ;  patients  with  these  troubles  are  fre- 
quently large  eaters.  Restricted  feedings  of  all  kinds  must 
be  prescribed  and  carried  out  under  the  eye  of  a  physician 
and  a  trained  nurse  or  attendant. 

The  fruit  of  some  varieties  of  grapes  are  dried  and 
known  as  raisins ;  these  are  very  rich  in  sugar.  The 
ordinary  dried  "currants"  are  merely  dried  small  grapes; 
they  are  indigestible  and  should  not  be  given  to  the  sick. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE   SICK  387 

TO   SERVE  RAW 

Wash  the  grapes  as  soon  as  they  come  from  the  market, 
and  put  them  in  a  cold  place.  At  serving  time  fill  either 
a  grape  goblet  or  an  individual  dessert  plate  with  finely- 
shaved  ice,  put  the  bunch  of  grapes  down  into  the  ice,  stand 
on  a  service  plate  and  serve  with  them  on  the  same  tray 
a  finger  bowl  partly  filled  with  warm  water. 

GRAPE  JUICE 

Pick  the  quantity  of  ripe  Catawba  or  Concord  grapes 
from  the  stems,  put  them,  into  the  preserving  kettle 
with  water  enough  to  prevent  scorching,  and  stir  and  cook 
until  soft.  Mash  them  with  a  potato  masher  and  put  them 
into  a  jelly  bag  to  drain  over  night.  Next  morning  bring  the 
juice  to  boiling  point  and  skim.  Have  the  bottles  ready, 
cleaned,  and  clean  corks.  Fill  the  juice  into  the  bottles, 
leaving  a  space  at  the  necks ;  cork  them  tightly  and  drop 
them  at  once  into  a  boiler  of  hot  water.  When  the  last  bottle 
is  in,  cover  the  boiler  and  boil  continuously  for  a  half  hour. 
Cool  the  bottles  in  the  water,  dip  the  corks  in  sealing  wax 
and  put  them  in  a  cool  place  for  keeping. 

GRAPE  JUICE  WITH   SUGAR   , 

Strain  the  juice  according  to  preceding  recipe ;  meas- 
ure, and  to  each  quart  allow  a  half  pint  of  sugar.  Boil  the 
juice,  skim,  add  the  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
bottle  and  finish  as  directed  in  preceding  recipe. 

FRESH   GRAPE  JUICE  I 

This  is  considered  very  beneficial  in  cases  of  purpura 
hsemorrhagica. 

Pick  from  the  stems  sufficient  grapes  to  make  a  quart ; 
pulp  them  and  put  the  skins  through  either  a  meat  grinder 
or  an  ordinary  fruit  press  and  strain  the  juice  through  cheese- 
cloth. This  expressed  juice  is  quite  thick.  Keep  in  a  cold 
place  until  wanted. 


388  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Two  ounces  may  be  given  every  three  or  four  hours, 
between  feedings.  If  the  grapes  are  fully  ripe,  it  will  take 
one  quart  of  grapes  to  make  a  half  pint  of  juice. 

FRESH   GRAPE  JUICE   II 

Pulp  Concord  or  other  black  grapes;  save  the  skins. 
Heat  the  pulp  just  a  minute,  press  it  through  a  sieve,  cool 
quickly,  then  add  the  skins,  and  put  the  whole  through  an 
ordinary  meat  grinder  or  regular  fruit  press.  A  large  lemon 
squeezer  will  answer  if  no  other  machine  is  at  hand. 

GRAPE  JAM 

Pick  sufficient  Concord  grapes  from  the  stems  to  make 
one  quart ;  wash  them,  pulp  the  grapes,  saving  the  skins. 
Put  the  seeds  and  pulp  in  a  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling  point 
and  press  them  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  skins  to  this; 
measure,  and  to  each  pint  allow  a  half  pint  of  sugar.  Put 
the  skin  mixture  in  a  saucepan,  stir  and  cook  until  the  skins 
are  tender,  then  press  them  through  a  sieve  sufficiently  fine 
to  make  a  soft  pulp,  and  sufficiently  coarse  to  allow  all  the 
skin  to  go  through.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  add  the  sugar, 
boil  twenty  minutes,  and  put  into  tumblers  or  jars. 

FRESH    GRAPE   JELLY 

Freshly  made  jelly  is  much  more  acceptable  to  the  in- 
valid;  old  jelly,  unless  carefully  covered,  is  apt  to  taste 
musty. 

Pick  a  pint  of  grapes  from  the  stem,  put  them  in  a 
kettle  with  a  little  water  to  prevent  scorching,  bring  to 
boiling  point,  mash  them  and  strain  through  two  thick- 
nesses of  cheesecloth."  Measure  the  liquor;  you  should 
have  a  half  pint;  put  it  in  a  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling 
point,  boil  ten  minutes,  add  a  half  pint  of  sugar,  boil  ten 
minutes  and  begin  to  try.  As  soon  as  it  forms  a  jelly  when 
cool,  turn  it  into  small  stem  glasses  and  stand  aside  to  cool, 
or  cool  it  into  small  fancy  molds. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  389 

GRAPE  WATER  ICE 

Sweeten  and  freeze  ordinary  grape  juice. 

GRAPES  IN  ORANGE  JELLY 

Cover  two  teaspoonfuls  of  granulated  gelatin  with  a  half 
cupful  of  cold  water,  soak  twenty  minutes ;  stir  over  the  fire 
until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved;  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
orange  juice  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  'sugar,  and  stand 
aside  to  cool,  but  not  thicken.  Skin  twelve  large,  white 
grapes,  cut  them  into  halves,  remove  the  seeds,  arrange  the 
grapes  neatly  in  an  individual  mold,  pour  over  the  orange 
jelly  and  stand  aside  to  harden. 

GRAPE  TOAST 

Boil  together  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grape  juice  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch 
or  arrowroot  moistened  in  a  little  cold  water,  a  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Pour  this  over 
a  slice  of  nicely-toasted  bread  and  serve  at  once.  Or  in 
place  of  toast  use  the  upper  half  of  a  toasted  Shredded  Wheat 
biscuit. 

RAISINS 

Raisins  are  a  dried  sweet  grape  known  as  the  ''raisin 
grape."  They  contain  more  sugar  than  ordinary  grapes, 
and  have  no  place  whatever  in  diet  for  the  sick  except  as 
flavoring  to  milk  dishes. 

Layer  raisins,  seeded,  or  the  ordinary  seedless  raisins, 
carefully  stewed,  may  be  used  to  advantage  in  cases  of 
chronic  constipation,  and  in  winter  they  may  be  used  as 
a  breakfast  fruit  for  children,  providing  the  children  have 
been  taught  to  masticate.  They  should  be  well  washed  and 
soaked  over  night  before  cooking. 

STEWED  RAISINS 

Put  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins  into  a  colander  in  a  bowl 
of  cold  water,  wash   thoroughly,   lift   them,   put  them   in 


390  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

a  saucepan  with  just  boiling  water  to  cover;  cover  and 
stand  aside  over  night.  Next  morning  the  water  should 
be  absorbed  by  the  raisins.  Add  a  little  more  water,  bring 
slowly  to  boiling  point,  take  quickly  from  the  fire  and 
turn  out  to  cool.     Do  not  add  sugar  or  flavoring. 

RAISINS  AND  RICE 

Children  frequently  like  boiled  rice  and  raisins  as  a 
dessert  or  luncheon  dish. 

Boil  the  rice  carefully  as  directed  for  boiling  rice,  and 
cover  it  with  seeded  stewed  raisins.  The  raisins  are  suffi- 
ciently sweet  to  sweeten  the  rice  without  additional  sugar. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  AND  SHADDOCK 

Grape  fruit  closely  resembles  the  shaddock,  and  is 
called  ''grape  fruit"  because  it  grows  in  clusters  like  grapes, 
while  the  shaddock  and  alemoen  grow  singly.  The  skin 
surrounding  each  carpel  in  the  shaddock  instead  of  being 
white  like  other  citrus  fruit  is  pale  pink ;  the  pulp  is  also 
pink,  and  unlike  grape  fruit,  is  only  moderately  acid. 

TO  SERVE  GRAPE  FRUIT 

Wash  the  grape  fruit  and  stand  them  on  the  ice  until 
moderately  cold.  Acid  fruits  must  not  be  icy  cold,  or  they 
are  unpalatable.  Cut  the  skin  into  strips  and  peel  it  off. 
Separate  the  carpels,  and  holding  each  carpel  in  the  hand, 
break  it  open,  disclosing  the  pulp ;  with  a  pointed  knife  take 
the  pulp  carefully  from  the  bitter  envelope,  put  it  into  an 
individual  glass  dish,  and  serve  it  at  once ;  or  it  may  be 
placed  on  the  ice  until  wanted. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  IN  THE  HALF  SHELL 

Wash  the  grape  fruit,  make  it  moderately  cold,  plunge 
it  into  boiling  water  and  cut  it  at  once  into  halves.  With  a 
sharp  knife  take  out  the  seeds  and  loosen  the  flesh  of  each 
carpel.  Serve  plain  or  with  sugar;  without  sugar  they  are 
decidedly  more  wholesome. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  391 

GRAPE  FRUIT   FOR  LUNCHEON 

Proceed  according  to  the  foregoing  recipe ;  remove  the 
seeds  and  cut  out  the  core.  Fill  the  core  space  with  brandy 
or  sherry,  according  to  directions. 

GRAPE  FRUIT   FOR  THE  DIABETIC 

Remove  the  seeds  and  core  space  from  a  perfectly 
sound  grape  fruit ;  put  into  the  core  space  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  olive  oil,  and  serve. 

People  can  soon  accustom  themselves  to  eating  grape 
fruit  with  olive  oil.     It  is  wholesome  and  palatable. 

GRAPE    FRUIT    SALAD 

Remove  the  carpels  from  the  grape  fruit  according  to 
the  directions  for  serving  grape  fruit,  and  place  them  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  into 
a  bowl,  stir'with  a  piece  of  ice  until  the  oil  thickens,  then  add 
the  juice  that  drained  from  the  grape  fruit ;  beat  thoroughly, 
baste  it  over  the  salad  and  send  it  at  once  to  the  table. 

TO    SERVE   SHADDOCK 

Remove  the  thick  skin — and  this,  by  the  way,  may  be 
reserved  for  candying  or  conserving — not  for  the  sick — 
separate  each  carpel;  pick  up  one  carpel  at  a  time,  taking 
the  ends  between  the  forefinger  and  thumbs,  bend  it  back, 
cracking  the  white  bitter  skin  in  the  center.  Peel  this  skin 
ofif,  or  turn  the  pulp  out  into  an  individual  glass  dish, 
sprinkle  over  a  little  finely-shaved  ice,  and  serve  at  once. 

This  is  frequently  flavored  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
sherr}^  or  Madeira. 

HUCKLEBERRIES,   BLUEBERRIES, 

WHORTLEBERRIES  OR  BILBERRIES 

These  berries,  known  by  different  names  in  different 
places,  commonly  grow  wild  in  our  woods ;  in  fact  they  are 
rarely  cultivated.    They  contain  some  free  acid  and  a  little 


392  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

sugar,  and  on  account  of  their  seeds  are  moderately  laxa- 
tive if  eaten  alone ;  with  other  food  they  are  frequently 
quite  constipating.  Huckleberry  juice  is  used  as  a  remedy 
for  chronic  diarrhoea.  Being  sub-acid,  the  large  blueberries 
can  be  eaten  by  people  with  whom  acid  fruits  disagree. 

TO  SERVE  RAW 

Select  the  large  blueberries  and  put  them  in  the 
refrigerator  until  moderately  cold.  Dish  them  in  a  small 
glass  dessert  dish,  and  if  necessary  dust  with  powdered 
sugar.  Fruits  of  this  kind  are  better  eaten  plain,  without 
either  sugar  or  cream. 

HUCKLEBERRY    JUICE 

Mash  the  huckleberries  with  an  ordinary  potato  masher, 
in  a  granite  or  earthen  bowl;  put  the  juice  into  a  jelly  bag 
and  squeeze  and  press  it.  Stand  aside'  in  a  cold  place ;  use 
as  directed. 

It  may  be  served  alone,  or  with  carbonated  or  plain 
water. 

HUCKLEBERRY    FLUMMERY 

Peel  one  banana,  cut  it  into  slices  and  press  it  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Mash  sufficient  large  huckleberries  to  make 
half  a  cupful ;  add  this  to  the  banana,  stir  over  the  fire  until 
they  reach  boiling  point,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot 
moistened  in  cold  water,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar; 
cook  five  minutes  and  strain  into  a  small  glass  dish.  Serve 
cold,  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

LEMONS  AND  LIMES 

Lemons  and  limes  are  not  true  foods  from  an  ordinary 
standpoint,  but  they  are  agreeable  as  flavorings,  and  the 
potash  and  other  salts  they  contain,  mingled  with  vegetable 
acids,  makes  them  valuable  anti-scorbutics. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE    SICK  393 

Lemon  juice  added  to  plain  water  is  excellent  in 
obesity.  In  fevers,  it  cleanses  the  mouth  and  stomach,  aids 
digestion  and  allays  thirst. 

In  large  quantities,  lemon  juice  hinders  digestion  by 
overpowering  the  more  mild  natural  acid  of  the  stomach. 
Taken  in  the  mouth  with  starchy  foods,  it  hinders  the 
mouth  digestion  of  these  foods  by  neutralizing  the  alkaline 
saliva. 

A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  on  fish  or  meat  aids  in 
their  digestion. 

Pure  lemon  juice  is  said  to  be  excellent  in  cases  of 
ptomaine  poisoning. 

Lemon  juice  intensifies  the  flavor  of  many  other  fruits. 
The  yellow  rind  contains  a  volatile  oil ;  grated,  it  may  be 
added  as  flavoring  to  custards  and  other  dishes. 

MANGOES 

Mangoes  seldom  come  to  the  United  States  in  good 
condition.  In  countries  where  grafted  mangoes  can  be 
obtained  fresh  and  ripe  they  are  certainly  the  most  luscious 
of  fruits.  It  is  said  by  the  natives  of  mango  countries  that 
if  you  take  a  piece  of  skin  the  size  of  an  ordinary  silver 
ten-cent  piece  and  masticate  it  thoroughly  and  swallow  it, 
before  eating  the  mango,  they  will  never  produce  diarrhoea. 
I  think,  however,  that  diarrhoea  is  caused  by  eating  under- 
ripe or  stale  fruit. 

TO  SERVE  MANGOES 

Wash  the  mangoes  thoroughly  in  cold  water  and  put 
them  on  the  ice.  At  serving  time  fill  a  little  individual 
glass  dish  with  finely-shaved  ice  and  sink  the  mango  down 
into  the  ice. 

Always  serve  with  it  a  finger  bowl,  as  it  is  difficult  to 
eat  a  mango  without  soiling  the  hands. 

To  eat  the  mango,  cut  off  the  ''cheeks,"  to  the  stone ; 
with  your  knife  make  a  cross  on  the  flesh  of  each  cheek 
and  bend  the  skin  back;  simply  bite  the  flesh  from  the  skin. 


394  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Then  peel  the  remaining  portion  around  the  stone  and  suck 
the  flesh  from  the  stone.  To  be  good  they  must  be  free 
from  strings. 

To  eat  a  mango  with  strings,  however,  work  it  with 
your  fingers,  without  breaking  the  skin,  until  you  feel  that 
it  has  been  reduced  to  a  pulp ;  make  a  hole  in  one  end  and 
suck  out  the  flesh  as  you  would  suck  an  orange,  leaving 
all  the  strings  inside,  or  eat  it  with  a  spoon. 

ORANGES 

The  common  sweet  orange  is  a  very  useful  fruit,  both 
in  health  and  sickness.  It  is  always  refreshing,  and  not 
liable  to  upset  digestion.  It  is  especially  useful  for  chil- 
dren who  have  weak  digestion.  In  fevers  it  allays  thirst. 
Orange  juice  should  be  used  daily  for  children  who  have 
rickets,  between  the  meal  hours. 

TO   SERVE   ORANGES   IN   THE  HALF   SHELL 

Chill  the  oranges.  At  serving  time  plunge  them  into 
boiling  water;  do  not  allow  them  to  remain  an  instant. 
Wipe,  cut  them  into  halves  and  serve  on  a  dainty  doily. 

Induce  the  patient  to  eat  oranges  and  grape  fruit  with- 
out sugar. 

TO  SERVE  IN  GLASS  DISH 

Chill  the  orange,  plunge  in  boiling  water  according 
to  preceding  recipe,  quickly  remove  the  skin  and  all  the 
white  portion  underneath  the  skin.  With  a  sharp  knife 
remove  each  carpel,  take  out  the  seeds,  put  the  solid  flesh 
in  a  pretty  glass  dish  and  serve. 

TO  SERVE  AN  ORANGE  IN  THE  SKIN 

Plunge  a  cold  orange  into  boiling  water;  do  not  allow 
it  to  remain  an  instant.  Cut  the  skin  into  eighths,  begin- 
ning at  the  blossom  end,  but  do  not  detach  it  from  the  stem 
end.  Loosen  the  skin  carefully  from  the  flesh,  take  the 
orange  out,  and  remove  every  particle  of  white  pith  from 


MRS.    ROREr's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  395 

the  outside.  Separate  the  carpels  without  breaking  the 
skin,  put  them  together  as  they  were  originally  in  the 
orange,  stand  the  orange  back  in  the  skin,  tucking  the  end 
of  each  bit  of  skin  down,  forming  a  sort  of  loop.  This 
will  keep  the  orange  from  falling  apart,  and  makes  an  ex- 
ceedingly pretty  dish.  Serve  on  a  paper  mat  or  pretty 
linen  doily. 

COMPOTE   OF   ORANGE 

Separate  the  carpels  of  a  fine  seedless  orange.  Put 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  two  of  water  in  a  sauce- 
pan, stir  until  it  reaches  boiling  point,  boil  two  minutes, 
add  the  juice  of  half  an  orange,  pour  hot  over  the  carpels 
and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

ORANGE    COCKTAIL 

Purchase  a  large  bright  yellow-skinned  orange  for  the 
''basket."  Cut  through  the  skin  into  the  flesh,  making  a 
handle  from  a  band  of  skin,  and  a  basket ;  scoop  out  the  pulp. 
Throw  the  basket  thus  made  into  cold  water  until  crisp  and 
bright.  Cut  a  sweet  orange  into  halves,  scoop  out  the  pulp, 
saviag  the  juice  and  rejecting  the  seeds  ;  add  to  the  pulp  and 
juice  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  brandy  and  fill  the  orange  basket.  Serve  on  a  mat  or 
doily. 

If  the  basket  is  troublesome,  cut  the  orange  into  halves, 
scoop  out  the  flesh  and  use  "the  half  shell."  These  baskets 
are  also  pretty  for  whipped  cream  and  orange  jelly. 

ORANGEADE 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  one  orange  in  a  tumbler,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved and  fill  the  tumbler  with  plain  cold  water. 

ORANGE  SQUASH 

Put  the  juice  of  one  orange  in  a  tumbler,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  when  the  sugar  is  dis- 


396  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

solved   fill   the   glass   from   a   siphon   of   either   plain,   car- 
bonated water,  seltzer  or  soda  water. 

ENGLISH  ORANGE  SQUASH 

Put  a  rasping  of  the  yellow  rind  of  an  orange,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of  water  in  a 
saucepan  to  boil,  boil  five  minutes  and  strain.  When  this 
is  cold  add  the  juice  of  a  large  orange;  put  it  in  a  glass, 
add  a  little  finely-shaved  ice  and  fill  the  glass  with  soda 
or  carbonated  water. 

FROZEN   ORANGE  JUICE 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  one  orange,  sweeten  it  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  put  it  in  an  individual 
freezer,  pack  with  salt  and  ice,  and  turn  now  and  then 
until  frozen  like  wet  snow;  then  stir  rapidly  a  minute  and 
it  is  ready  to  serve.  Serve  in  a  small  dainty  punch  glass 
or  ice  cream  stem  glass.     For  fever  patients  omit  sugar. 

ORANGE  SORBET 

Follow  the  preceding  recipe,  pack  the  freezer,  and  stir 
constantly  until  the  mixture  is  frozen.  Beat  the  white 
of  one  egg  until  stift',  add  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
sugar  and  beat  again;  remove  the  dasher  from  the  freezer, 
stir  in  the  meringue,  cover  and  let  it  stand  thirty  to  forty 
minutes. 

ORANGE    SPONGE 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  one  orange ;  it  should  measure 
two-thirds  of  a  cupful.  Cover  a  teaspoonful  of  granulated 
gelatin  with  a  tablespoonful  of  water  to  soak  for  a  half 
hour;  stand  over  hot  water  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved. 
Turn  the  orange  juice  into  the  bowl,  add  the  gelatin  and 
stir  until  the  mixture  is  cold,  but  not  stiff;  then  fold  in  the 
well-beaten  white  of  one  egg.  Turn  into  an  individual 
mold  or  pretty  glass  dish  and  put  in  a  cold  place  for  one 
hour  or  more.     Sweeten  if  admissible. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  397 


ORANGE  SOUFFLE 

Follow  the  preceding  recipe,  and  when  the  gelatin  is 
cold  (not  stiff)  fold  in  six  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  whipped 
to  a  stiff  froth. 

ORANGE  SOUFFLE  PUDDING 

The  pudding — ^put  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  in  a  saucepan;  measure  a  half 
cupful  of  milk,  add  this  gradually  to  the  flour  and  corn- 
starch. Bring  to  boiling  point ;  it  should  be  smooth  and 
thick.  Take  from  the  fire,  beat  in  the  yolk  of  one  ^gg 
and  then  fold  in  the  well-beaten  white.  Turn  into  a  custard 
cup,  stand  the  cup  in  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes.  When  done  turn 
it  carefully  into  a  dessert  saucer,  pour  over  the  sauce  and 
serve  at  once. 

The  sauce — grate  sufficient  yellow  rind  of  an  orange 
to  make  a  teaspoonful,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  ;  mix  thoroughly  and  add  hastily 
a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water;  stir  until  the  mixture  boils, 
boil  two  minutes  and  strain.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  orange  juice. 

This  is  a  nice  dessert  for  convalescing  patients,  in- 
valids or  children. 


ORANGE  JELLY 

Cover  a  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  soak  a  half  hour,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  stand  over  boiling  water  and 
stir  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved.  Add  the  juice  of  an 
orange,  stir  carefully,  strain,  turn  into  an  individual  mold 
and  stand  at  once  in  the  cold. 

Orange  jelly  may  be  cooled  in  a  shallow  pan,  cut  into 
blocks  and  served  in  an  orange  basket. 


398  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

ORANGE  WHIP 

Cover  -one  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  to  soak  for  a  half  hour;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  stir  over  the  fire  until 
the  gelatin  is  dissolved,  and  add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of 
orange  juice.  Stand  this  aside  until  it  begins  to  jelly,  then 
stand  the  dish  in  another  of  cracked  ice  or  ice  water,  and 
whip  with  an  ordinary  egg  beater  until  the  whole  mixture 
is  as  white  as  snow.  Turn  at  once  into  an  individual  mold 
and  stand  on  the  ice.  This  is  nice  served  with  a  compote 
of  orange. 

ORANGE  SALAD 

Peel  the  orange,  remove  the  carpels  very  carefully 
and  arrange  them  neatly  on  a  heart  of  lettuce.  Put  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  oil  into  a  bowl,  put  in  a  piece  of  ice  and  stir  until  the 
salt  and  sugar  are  dissolved  ;  remove  the  ice  and  baste  the 
mixture  over  the  orange  on  the  lettuce  leaf.  Squeeze  on  top 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  serve  at  once. 

ORANGE  FLOAT 

Moisten  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch  with  a 
half  cupful  of  cold  water,  stir  constantly  until  it  reaches 
the  boiling  point,  boil  about  two  minutes  and  add  a  table- 
spoonful of  sugar ;  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  grating  from  the 
yellow  rind  of  an  orange  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  orange 
juice ;  and  pour  while  hot  into  the  well-beaten  white  of  one 
egg.  Turn  this  at  once  into  a  little  glass  stemmed  dish  and 
put  in  the  refrigerator  to  cool.  At  serving  time  fill  the  dish 
with  orange  juice  and  stand  it  on  a  pretty  mat  on  a  service 
plate. 

PEACHES   AND   NECTARINES 

Nectarines  are  not  easily  obtainable  in  this  country, 
so  need  not  be  considered  singly ;  they  may  be  used  the 
same  as  peaches. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  399 

Peaches  ^are  wholesome,  easily  digested,  and  contain 
less  sugar  than  other  fruits;  for  this  reason,  they  are  suited 
to  the  rheumatic,  the  gouty  and  the  diabetic ;  in  diabetes, 
however,  they  must  not  be  used  unless  ordered  by  the 
physician,  and  then  they  must  be  fully  ripe.  When  mellow, 
soft  and  ripe,  freshly  picked  from  the  tree,  they  are  con- 
sidered curative  in  cases  of  chronic  diarrhoea.  A  little 
underripe,  eaten  alone,  they  are  laxative. 

TO    SERVE   WHOLE,   RAW 

Wash  the  peach  and  thoroughly  chill  it ;  sink  it  in  a 
little  dish  of  shaved  ice,  stem  end  up ;  if  possible,  garnish 
with  peach  leaves  and  serve  at  once. 

For  serving  raw  always  select  a  fine  specimen. 

TO    SERVE,    SLICED 

Pare  and  slice  the  peach  at  the  last  moment ;  dust  it 
lightly  with  powdered  sugar,  or  serve  it  plain.  Do  not 
use  cream  or  milk ;  such  combinations  complicate  digestion. 

PEACH   PUREE 

Peel  one  large  mellow  peach,  press  it  through  a  sieve, 
heap  it  in  a  punch  or  lemonade  glass,  make  a  hole  in  the 
center,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  sherry  or  brandy,  dust  it 
with  powdered  sugar  and  serv^e. 

BAKED  PEACHES 

Select  a  very  large  free-stone  peach,  wash  and  wipe  it; 
stand  it  in  a  small  saucer  or  porcelain  dish,  and  in  a  hot 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  When  done,  pull  the  peach  open 
with  two  forks  and  remove  the  stone ;  dust  it  with  powdered 
sugar  and  serve.  The  patient  must  reject  the  skin,  scoop- 
ing out  the  soft  portion  with  a  spoon. 

COLD   PEACH   SOUFFLE 

Mash  one  large  mellow  peach  through  a  fine  sieve  and 
stir  into  it  at  once  six  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  whipped  to 


400  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

a  stiff  froth.     I  prefer  this  to  be  served  without  sugar.     If, 
however,  the  patient  is  allowed  sweet  dishes,  sprinkle 
a  little  powdered  sugar. 


over 


ICED  PEACH  ON  TOAST 

Bake  a  peach  according  to  directions  for  baked  peaches  ; 
when  the  peach  is  done,  dish  it  on  a  square  of  toasted 
bread,  cover  it  with  a  meringue  made  from  the  white  of 
one  egg,  dust  with  sugar  and  return  to  the  oven  a  moment 
to  brown. 

STEWED  PEACH 

Fruit  stewed  without  sugar  will  frequently  agree  with 
persons  who  cannot  eat  raw  fruit. 

To  peel  the  peach,  plunge  it  into  boiling  water  and  pull 
off  the  skin ;  put  it  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  half  cupful  of  water, 
cover  the  saucepan  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Lift  to  the  serv- 
ing dish,  baste  with  the  syrup  that  has  formed  in  the  bottom 
of  the  saucepan,  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  Serve  plain ;  do 
not  add  sugar. 

FROZEN  PEACH 

Make  a  puree  of  peach,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream,  turn  into  an  individual  freezer,  pack  with  salt  and 
ice;  turn  slowly  now  and  then  until  frozen.  Serve  in  an 
individual  glass  stem  dish  or  punch  cup. 

PEACHES  a  laTMPERATRICE 

Dish  one  stewed  peach  on  four  tablespoonfuls  of  care- 
fully-boiled rice  and  baste  the  rice  with  the  peach  syrup. 
Serve  with  plain  cream. 

PEACH  TAPIOCA 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  granulated  tapioca  into  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  water,  soak  for  twenty  minutes,  and  stir 
over  hot  water  until  transparent  and  rather  thick.  Pare 
a  large  ripe  peach ;  with  a  skewer  push  out  the  stone,  keep- 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  401 

ing  the  peach  whole.  Stand  it  in  a  ramekin  dish,  fill  the 
stone  space  with  tapioca,  dust  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  sugar  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  the  peach  is 
tender  and  slightly  brown.  Just  before  you  take  it  out, 
dust  again  with  sugar  and  let  it  melt  over  the  peach.  Serve 
warm  with  cream. 

PEACH   ICE   CREAM 

Sweeten  a  half  pint  of  good  cream,  turn  it  into  an 
individual  freezer  and  stir  slowly  until  frozen  like  wet 
snow.  Peel  and  press  a  very  ripe  peach  through  a  sieve, 
stir  it  into  the  frozen  cream,  put  on  the  cover  and  turn 
the  crank  slowly  until  the  mixture  is  again  frozen. 

PEACH  DUMPLING 

Make  the  same  as  apricot  dumpling. 

PEACH  TOAST 

Peel  one  peach,  remove  the  stone  and  crack  it ;  take  out 
the  kernel,  cut  it  into  halves,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of  water;  boil 
two  minutes,  strain,  and  add  the  peach  that  has  been 
pressed  through  a  sieve,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  almond  paste 
or  ground  almonds.  Have  ready  a  square  of  nicely-toasted 
bread,  heap  the  puree  on  the  toast  and  serve. 

A  nice  breakfast  for  the  chronic  dyspeptic. 

PEACH   PUFF 

Pare  a  ripe  peach,  press  the  flesh  through  a  sieve  and 
stir  into  it  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  Qgg;  heap  this  into 
a  ramekin  dish,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  bake  five 
minutes  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 

PEACH  PUDDING 

One  large  mellow  peach,  peeled  and  pressed  through 
a  sieve;  add  to  it  the  yolk  of  one  egg  slightly  beaten,  and 

26 


402  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Dust  an  individual  baking 
dish  or  casserole  thickly  with  bread  crumbs,  put  in  the 
peach  mixture  and  bake  eight  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 
Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  until  fine  and  dry;  heap 
this  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  dust  it  with  powdered 
sugar  and  put  back  in  the  oven  a  minute  to  brown.  Serve 
cold. 

PEACHES  AND  HONEY 

Put  one  tablespoonful  of  peach  brandy  into  a  glass, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  honey,  mix,  and  fill  the  glass  with 
either  plain  or  carbonated  water. 

PEACH   SYLLABUB 

Peel  and  mash  one  peach  through  a  sieve,  add  a  table- 
spoonful of  powdered  sugar,  stir  into  it  eight  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  heap  in  a  glass  dish,  and 
when  very  cold  serve. 

PEACH  BRANDY 

Mash  a  quart  of  ripe  peaches,  without  peeling,  and 
break  half  the  stones ;  put  them  in  two  half-gallon  fruit 
jars,  add  a  pint  of  95%  grain  alcohol  to  each  jar,  and  a 
pint  of  water;  cover  and  stand  aside  over  night.  Strain 
off  the  liquor,  carefully  pressing  the  peaches,  then  strain 
this  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  Add  a  half 
pint  of  rock  candy  syrup  and  a  tablespoonful  of  caramel ; 
mix,  bottle  and  cork. 

HOT  PEACH   TODDY 

This  dish  used  to  be  ordered  by  physicians,  more 
frequently  than  now,  but  the  recipe  is  well  worth  having. 

Split  a  large  mellow  peach  into  halves,  remove  the 
stone,  stand  the  peach,  skin  side  down,  into  a  baking  dish, 
dust  it  with  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  bake 
until  tender.     Press  it  from  the  skin  into  a  small  pitcher; 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  403 

add  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  a  grating  of  nutmeg, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy  or  whiskey,  and  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  make  a  pint.  Stir  and  stand  aside  to 
cool.  When  wanted,  fill  a  tumbler  quarter  full  of  the  toddy 
and  fill  it  with  boiling  water.  More  brandy  may  be  added 
if  desired. 

This  is  excellent  in  cases  of  chronic  diarrhoea  and  dysen- 
tery. 

PEARS 

The  Bartlett  pear  when  fully  ripe  is  soft  and  luscious, 
and  will  almost  "melt  in  your  mouth."  It  is  more  easily 
digested  than  raw  apple ;  but  the  average  pear  contains  tiny 
particles  of  silica  throughout  the  flesh,  which  are  apt  to 
provoke  gastro-intestinal  irritation  in  children  and  invalids, 
even  when  cooked. 

PEAR  HONEY 

Pare  and  remove  the  cores  from  four  Bartlett  pears ; 
put  them  in  water  to  prevent  discoloration.  Boil  together 
a  half  cupful  (four  ounces)  of  sugar  and  the  same  quantity 
of  water  until  the  syrup  will  spin  a  light  thread  when 
dropped  from  a  spoon.  Grate  the  pears  into  the  syrup, 
boil  five  minutes  and  put  in  tumblers  or  jars. 

This  makes  a  nice  sweet  to  serve  with  toast  or  rusks. 

STEWED  PEARS 

Peel  a  Bartlett  pear,  remove  the  core,  put  it  into  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  stew  gently  until 
perfectly  tender.  Lift  the  pear  to  the  serving  dish,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  the  water,  boil  until  it  forms  a 
thin  syrup,  baste  it  over  the  pear  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

BAKED   PEAR 

Peel  a  Bartlett  pear,  cut  it  into  halves  and  remove  the 
seeds.  Put  the  halves  into  a  ramekin  or  individual  casserole, 
dust  lightly  with  powdered  sugar,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 


404  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

of  water  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  pear  is  tender 
and  slightly  glazed.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

COMPOTE   OF  PEAR 

Cut  a  piece  of  bread  the  shape  of  a  half  pear  and  toast 
it.  At  serving  time  butter  it  lightly  and  put  on  the  half 
of  a  stewed  pear,  rounding  side  up.  Grate  the  other  half 
quickly  into  a  half  cupful  of  water;  bring  to  a  boil,  add 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  that  has  been  moistened 
in  a  little  cold  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  stir 
and  boil  just  a  minute,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  brandy  or  a  tablespoonful  of  sherry,  and  baste  it  over 
the  pear  and  the  toast.  It  is  wise  to  make  the  grated  pear 
first,  so  the  whole  may  be  served  warm,  not  necessarily  hot. 

PINEAPPLE 

Pineapple  juice  contains  an  enzyme,  bromelin,  which 
aids  in  the  digestion  of  the  albuminoids.  The  raw  expressed 
juice  is  said  to  be  very  beneficial  in  cases  of  sore  throat, 
tonsilitis  or  diphtheria. 

PINEAPPLEADE 

Boil  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  half  pint  of 
water  together  for  two  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire,  and 
when  cool  add  one  ripe  pineapple,  grated,  and  stand  aside 
for  two  or  three  hours.  Strain  through  two  thicknesses 
of  cheesecloth,  wringing  the  pineapple  fibre  dry.  Put  it 
in  a  jar,  and  keep  in  a  cold  place. 

This  may  be  sipped  slowly ;  or  put  four  tablespoonfuls 
in  a  tumbler,  and  fill  the  tumbler  with  plain  or  carbonated 
water. 

Raw  pineapple  should  not  be  served  with  starchy  foods 
alone.    It  is  truly  an  accompaniment  to  foods  rich  in  protein. 

PINEAPPLE  CIDER 

Grate  one  pineapple,  put  it  into  a  pitcher  with  two 
quarts  of  cold  water,  cover  the  top  with  a  piece  of  cheese- 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  405 

cloth  and  stand  it  aside  in  a  rather  warm  place  for  two 
or  three  days ;  stir  it  down  during  the  last  day.  Strain 
through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth,  bottle,  cork,  and 
wire  down  the  corks ;  put  the  bottles  on  their  sides  in  the 
refrigerator  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 


PINEAPPLE  SHRUB 

Grate  one  large  ripe  pineapple,  put  it  into  an  ordinary 
two-quart  fruit  jar,  add  one  cupful- of  sugar,  and  fill  the  jar 
with  cold  water;  shake  and  stir  thoroughly  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Put  the  top  on  the  jar  loosely  and  stand  it 
in  a  warm  place  (about  80^  Fahr.)  for  three  days  until  the 
shrub  begins  to  ferment.  As  soon  as  fermentation  is  quite 
pronounced,  stand  it  in  the  ice  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

This  may  be  served,  a  teaspoonful  or  a  tablespoonful  at 
a  time,  to  persons  who  have  sore  throat,  or  to  tuberculosis 
patients,  or  may  be  given  in  a  tumbler  with  cracked  ice  and 
carbonated  water;  or,  if  admissible,  two  tablespoonfuls  may 
be  mixed  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rum  in  a  tumbler, 
and  the  tumbler  filled  with  carbonated  water. 


GRATED  PINEAPPLE 

This  is  used  frequently  in  cases  of  tonsilitis  and  sore 
throat ;  it  is  also  good  for  children  with  whooping  cough. 

Pare  the  pineapple,  remove  the  eyes,  grate  quickly, 
saving  all  the  juice,  strain  and  stand  it  aside  or  put  it  in  a 
glass  jar  on  the  ice,  to  use  as  wanted,  a  teaspoonful  at  a 
time.     It  is  much  better  if  used  without  sugar. 


PLUMS 

Plums  are  rarely  used  as  diet  for  the  sick ;  unless  very 
ripe,  they  are  apt  to  cause  diarrhoea  and  intestinal  colic. 
Green  gages  and  large  blue  plums  are  more  digestible  than 
the  smaller  varieties. 


406  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

TO   SERVE  RAW 

Select  perfectly  ripe  large  green  or  yellow  gages,  put 
them  in  a  sieve,  plunge  them  into  boiling  water,  then 
into  cold  water.  Peel  carefully,  arrange  them  in  a  pretty 
dish  of  cracked  ice,  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 


PLUM  JUICE 

Cut  a  pint  of  blue  plums  into  halves  and  remove  the 
stones;  put  them  into  a  kettle  with  a  half  cupful  of  water, 
cover  and  stew  for  ten  minutes ;  mash  and  press  them 
through  a  sieve;  put  this  aside  in  a  cold  place.  When 
wanted  for  use,  add  a  pint  of  cold  water,  stir  thoroughly 
and  strain  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth. 

This  may  be  kept  in  a  jar  in  the  refrigerator  and  used 
the  same  as  grape  or  currant  juice. 


PRUNES 

A  small  blue  plurn,  long  and  narrow,  known  as  the 
prune  plum,  is  dried  and  sold  in  almost  every  market  of 
the  world.  We  have  many  varieties  of  prunes,  some  excel- 
lent, some  good,  and  many  inferior.  The  California  large 
dried  prune  is,  as  a  rule,  very  good.  Dehydrated  prunes 
retain  their  flavor  to  a  marked  degree,  and  are  decidedly 
better  than  prunes  dried  by  the  ordinary  methods ;  in  fact, 
dehydrated  fruits,  as  a  rule,  retain  all  the  flavor  of  the 
fresh  fruits. 

Prunes  contain  a  large  percentage  of  sugar,  and  when 
eaten  alone  are  easy  of  digestion  and  laxative.  They  should 
be  soaked  over  night,  and  should  not  be  cooked  with  sugar. 

A  word  of  caution — Do  not  eat  stewed  prunes  for 
breakfast,  and  at  the  same  meal  drink  coffee.  I  do  not 
know  of  anything  that  will  more  quickly  provoke  indiges- 
tion and  sour  stomach.  Cereals  and  prunes  make  a  good 
combination,  but  do  not  wash  them  down  with  coffee. 


MRS.    RORER*S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICIt  40? 

STEWED  PRUNES 

Wash  a  pound  of  prunes  through  several  cold  waters ; 
cover  them  with  a  half  pint  of  cold  water  and  soak  over 
night.  Next  morning  bring  them  to  boiling  point,  lift  the 
prunes  with  a  skimmer,  add  a  bay  leaf  to  the  juice  and 
boil  it  down  one  half;  pour  it  over  the  prunes,  and  stand 
aside  to  cool. 

PUFFED  PRUNES 

Wash  the  prunes  through  several  cold  waters,  cover 
them  with  cold  water  and  let  them  stand  over  night ;  next 
morning  drain,  and  they  are  ready  to  use.  These  are  better 
for  constipation  than  stewed  prunes. 

PRUNES  AND  RICE 

Serve  six  puffed  prunes  on  the  top  of  hot  boiled  rice. 
Use  cream  if  admissible. 

PRUNE  PULP 

Press  puffed  prunes  through  a  sieve  sufficiently  fine 
to  reject  all  the  skin;  serve  this  pulp  in  a  glass  saucer  with 
a  little  thick  cream. 

PRUNE   SOUFFLE 

Press  six  puffed  prunes  through  a  sieve,  fold  into  them 
the  well-beaten  white  of  an  egg ;  put  this  into  an  individual 
baking  dish  or  a  custard  cup,  dust  thickly  with  powdered 
sugar,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  five  minutes,  and  serve  at  once. 

BAKED  PRUNES 

Wash  the  prunes  through  several  cold  waters.  To 
each  pound  allow  one  pint  of  fresh  cold  water.  Put  them 
in  a  casserole  mold,  pour  over  the  water,  cover  and  let 
them  stand  all  night.  Next  morning  put  them  in  a  slow 
oven  and  bake  for  at  least  one  hour. 


406  MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 

PRUNE  JEI.LY 

Press  six  stewed  prunes  through  a  fine  sieve.  Cover 
one  teaspoonful  of  gelatin  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water  to  soak  for  a  half  hour,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  hot  water,  stir  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved,  add  the 
prunes,  stir  until  well  mixed,  turn  into  a  small  fancy  mold 
and  stand  away  to  harden.     Serve  with  plain  cream. 

PRUNE  CREAM 

Skin  and  stone  four  stewed  prunes,  press  the  flesh 
through  a  fine  sieve,  fold  in  six  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped 
cream,  heap  it  in  a  small  glass  stem  dish,  make  a  tiny  hole 
in  the  center  and  put  in  one  tablespoonful  of  orange  juice; 
serve  at  once. 

QUEEN  PRUNES 

Press  six  stewed  prunes  through  a  sieve ;  heap  the  pulp 
into  an  individual  glass  dish,  cover  it  thickly  with  toasted 
bread  crumbs,  garnish  the  dish  with  whipped  cream,  and  use 
it  at  once.    This  is  better  cold  than  hot. 

PRUNELLES 

Prunelles  are  the  light  Italian  plum  sold  in  our  markets 
in  great  dried  masses  like  dates.  While  they  are  exceed- 
ingly palatable  and  may  be  eaten  by  the  well,  they  are  not 
used  as  diet  for  the  sick. 

QUINCES 

On  account  of  the  short  summers  in  the  United  States, 
the  quince  never  ripens  sufficiently  to  be  eaten  raw.  Even 
when  thoroughly  cooked  we  rarely  eat  it  alone ;  and  I  find 
no  place  for  them  in  diet  for  the  sick,  except  as  a  flavoring 
to  apples,  or  in  jelly. 

Quince  and  guava  jellies  are  the  most  wholesome  of 
the  sweet  jellies ;  in  fact  they  contain  only  a  trace  of  free 
acids,  and  can  be  taken  by  persons  who  have  to  reject  all 
acid  fruits. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  409 

QUINCE  JELLY 

Wash  the  quinces  and  wipe  them,  cut  them  into  halves 
and  remove  every  particle  of  the  seed  core  and  seeds ;  slice 
the  quinces  without  paring,  put  them  into  a  porcelain-lined 
or  granite  kettle,  add,  to  each  two  pounds,  one  quart  of 
water.  Cover  the  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling  point,  stew 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  quinces  are  tender,  and  drain 
over  night.  Next  morning  measure  the  juice,  and  to  each 
pint  allow  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the 
juice  in  a  preserving  kettle,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  skim,  boil 
rapidly  five  minutes,  add  the  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved  and  begin  to  try.  As  soon  as  it  drops,  jelly  like, 
from  a  spoon,  turn  it  into  the  jelly  glasses. 

RHUBARB 

Rhubarb  is  really  not  a  fruit,  but  as  it  is  used  in 
the  place  of  fruit,  it  is  considered  under  this  heading. 
When  thoroughly  cooked,  it  acts  as  a  laxative,  but  on 
account  of  the  oxalic  acid  it  contains,  I  find  no  use  for  it 
in  diet  for  the  sick — in  fact  I  find  very  little  use  for  it  in 
diet  for  the  well.  Mixed  with  dried  soaked  figs  in  equal 
quantities,  it  makes  a  good  marmalade. 

STRAWBERRIES 

It  is  said  that  the  strawberry  took  its  name  from  the 
old-fashioned  way  of  cultivating  and  growing  it.  When 
the  plants  were  of  a  fairly  good  size,  the  entire  ground 
was  covered  with  straw  to  protect  the  berry  from  sand 
and  dirt — so  they  were  "straw  berries." 

The  popularity  of  the  strawberry  is  based  largely  on 
its  odor  and  flavor.  It  is  wholesome  when  taken  in  mod- 
eration, and  is  always  better  when  served  plain,  without 
cream.  Strawberries  and  strawberry  juice  are  considered 
valuable  in  diet  for  the  gouty  on  account  of  the  salts  they 
contain  (potash,  soda  and  lime).  They  are  cooling  and 
laxative.      Some   people    seem    to    have    an  idiosyncrasy  for 


410  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

strawberries ;  even  a  half  dozen  will  produce  a  rash  that 
is  exceedingly  unpleasant. 

The  French,  who  always  study  to  heighten  the  flavor 
of  food,  claim  that  a  few  drops  of  orange  or  lemon  juice 
intensifies  the  flavor  of  strawbrries.  Of  this  we  are  certain : 
strawberries  served  in  orange  juice  are  much  more  whole- 
some than  strawberries  served  with  cream. 

TO  SERVE 

For  the  sick  select  large  ripe  sweet  berries  free  from 
sand.  Arrange  them  on  a  pretty  dish,  around  a  little 
mount  of  powdered  ice.  To  eat,  lift  them  by  the  stems, 
dip  them  in  the  sugar  and  bite  off  the  berry. 

TO  SERVE  IN  ORANGE  JUICE 

Stem  a  half  dozen  large  strawberries,  with  a  silver 
knife  cut  them  into  halves,  put  them  into  a  glass  punch 
cup,  strain  over  the  juice  of  one  orange,  stand  the  cup  on 
a  pretty  doily,  on  a  service  plate.  These  should  be  mod- 
erately chilled. 

FRESH   STRAWBERRY  JUICE 

Put  the  strawberries  into  a  flat  kettle,  mash  them  with 
an  ordinary  wooden  pestle,  turn  the  mashed  berries  into 
two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth  and  wring  them  until  the 
pulp  is  dry.  Put  it  at  once  into  clean  glass  jars  and  keep 
in  a  cold  place. 

Fruit  juices  for  the  sick  should  be  served  without  sugar. 
Put  four  tablespoonfuls  in  a  tumbler,  and  fill  the  tumbler 
with  plain  or  effervescing  water.  Induce  the  patient  to  take 
this  slowly,  and  hold  it  in  the  mouth  a  moment  before 
swallowing.  To  preserve  strawberry  juice  follow  the  rule 
for  grape  juice. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  411 


NUTS 

The  fruits  of  trees,  enclosed  in  hard  woody  coverings 
instead  of  soft  skins,  are^  called  nuts.  In  some,  the  fruit  is 
drupaceous,  as  the  almond,  for  instance — we  eat  the  "stone 
kernel"  and  reject  the  pulpy  covering-.  This  is  true  also 
of  the  nutmeg;  although  in  countries  where  nutmegs  are 
plentiful,  the  flesh,  which  closely  resembles  the  peach,  is 
used  for  jellies  and  jams.  Nutmeg  jelly  is  tart  and  tasty, 
and  makes  a  nice'  accompaniment  to  game. 

Nuts  are  divided  into  two  classes,  nitrogenous  and 
carbonaceous.  The  nitrogenous  are  those  containing  a  large 
amount  of  tissue-building  foods,  as  peanuts,  pecans,  Eng- 
lish walnuts,  hazel,  filbert  or  cobnuts,  pinons,  and  hickory 
nuts  in  general.  Almonds  and  pistachio  nuts  are  used 
largely  as  flavoring.  The  chestnut  and  the  chinquapin  are 
the  only  two  starchy  nuts  in  common  use.  The  black  wal- 
nut, Avhite  walnut  or  butternut,  Brazilian  nuts,  souari  and 
cocoanuts  are  oleaginous,  containing  considerable  heat  and 
energy  food.  The  cashew  nut  (Anacardium  occidentale) , 
a  common  nut  in  Central  and  South  America,  has  not  until 
recently  been  introduced  in  the  United  States ;  its  chemical 
composition  is  not  known,  but  the  fruit  itself  is  interest- 
ing. The  tree  is  short  and  shrub-like.  The  fruit  is  the 
shape  of  an  ordinary  bell  pepper,  sometimes  scarlet,  some- 
times yellow,  and  both  colors  are  found  on  the  same  tree. 
The  fruit  is  known  to  the  natives  as  "cashew  apple"  and 
is  edible.  The  nut  is  inclosed  in  a  leathery  covering  and 
springs  from  the  blossom  end  of  the  fruit.  The  pulp 
around  the  nut  contains  a  very  caustic,  acrid  oily  substance 
which  is  poisonous  and  can  only  be  eliminated  by  heat ; 
for  this  reason  cashew  nuts  are  always  sold,  in  the  markets, 
roasted. 

Peanuts  truly  belong  to  the  leguminous  seeds,  but  in 
our  market  are  classed  with  nuts. 

Pine  or  pifion  nuts  come  from  the  small  pifions  of  the 
West;  they  are  cheap,  easily  digested  and  nutritious. 


412  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

In  many  parts  of  the  United  States  the  common  acorn 
is  extensively  used  in  making  bread,  which  is,  by  the  way, 
when  properly  made,  palatable  and  nutritious. 

ALMONDS 

The  almond  is  the  seed  of  a  tropical  evergreen  (Prunus 
Amygdalus,  Baill.)  The  high  price  demanded  for  almonds 
places  them,  from  a  food  standpoint,  among  the  luxuries, 
appetizers  and  flavorings.  They  have,  however,  a  decided 
medicinal  value.  Some  physicians  recommend  an  emulsion 
of  almonds  where  fatty  food  is  called  for  and  olive  oil  is 
not  well  borne.  Almond  milk  is  very  beneficial  in  cases 
of  stomach  trouble.  Six  almonds,  blanched  and  eaten  raw, 
will  frequently  relieve  an  acute  attack  of  indigestion,  pro- 
vided they  are  thoroughly  masticated. 

In  the  United  States  we  have  fixed  in  our  minds  some- 
where that  almonds  are  digesters,  so  we  serve  them,  salted 
and  roasted,  at  the  end  of  the  meal.  The  enzymes  are  killed 
by  the  roasting,  and  the  almonds  become  a  burden  rather 
than  an  aid  to  digestion.    Serve  them  raw. 

BITTER  ALMONDS 

Bitter  almonds  taste  like  the  kernel  of  a  peach ;  they 
are  only  used  for  flavoring,  and  then  in  small  quantities. 

ALMOND   WAFERS 

Mix  one  cupful  of  almond  paste  with  one  and  a  half 
cupfuls  of  warm  water,  and  stir  in  sufficient  bran  to  make 
a  hard  dough  ;  this  will  take  nearly  one  quart.  Roll  it  to 
a  very  thin  sheet,  cut  it  into  wafers  four  inches  long  and 
two  inches  wide,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  to  a  golden 
brown.     The  bran  must  be  clean  bran,  free  from  flour. 

TO   BLANCH   ALMONDS 

Cover  the  almonds  with  boiling  water;  let  them  stand 
five  minutes,  drain,  put  them  on  a  coarse  towel  and  rub 
off  the  skins.     Stand  these  in  a  cool  oven,  where  they  will 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  413 

dry,  without  browning;  if  they  are  the  slightest  browned, 
the  digestive  qualities  are  killed. 

SALTED  ALMONDS 

Shell  and  blanch  the  almonds.  Put  them  in  a  pan,  dust 
lightly  with  salt,  and  stand  them  at  the  oven  door  until 
they  are  thoroughly  dried,  not  cooked  or  baked. 

To  be  of  service  as  digesters  they  must  not  be  baked, 
fried  or  browned. 

ALMOND  BUTTER 

Grind  blanched  almonds  through  the  finest  "plate"  of 
a  meat  grinder  or  in  a  nut  machine,  and  pack  the  "butter" 
in  tumblers.     Keep  in  a  cold  place. 

ALMOND  CAKE 

Blanch  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  put  them 
through  the  meat  grinder  twice,  then  add  one  ounce  of 
butter,  mix  thoroughly,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  When  this  is  thoroughly  mixed, 
fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  lightly 
greased  gem  pans,  about  two  tablespoonfuls  in  each  pan. 

To  take  the  place  of  bread  for  the  diabetic  patient. 

ALMOND  BISCUITS 

Blanch  and  grind  two  ounces  of  shelled  almonds; 
pound  them  in  a  mortar  if  possible.  Drop  in  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  all  the  while.  When  well 
mixed  and  smooth,  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  oiled  paper  and 
bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

ALMOND  PUDDING 

Blanch  and  grind  two  ounces  of  almonds ;  add  to  them 
two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter;  mix 
well,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven,  in  an  individual  mold,  fifteen  minutes.     Serve  warm. 


414  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

ALMOND   MILK 

Blanch  and  grind  two  ounces  of  almonds;  put  this 
*'butter"  into  a  pitcher  and  add  gradually,  stirring  all  the 
while,  a  half  pint  of  cold  water;  stir  continually  for  five 
minutes,  strain  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth 
and  stand  aside  until  palatably  cold. 

Where  almond  milk  is  to  be  used  two  or  three  times 
a  day,  it  is  wise  to  make  the  desired  quantity  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  keep  it  on  the  ice  in  a  covered  vessel.  Four  ounces 
is  a  feeding. 

ALMONDS  AND  MILK 

Follow  the  preceding  recipe,  and  substitute  milk  for 
water.  After  straining  add  ten  grains  of  salt  to  each 
individual  quantity. 

ALMOND   CROQUETTES 

Wash  and  boil  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rice.  When 
done,  drain,  throw  it  into  cold  water  to  soak  for  ten  minutes, 
and  drain  again.  Pound  this  in  a  mortar  or  press  it  through 
a  sieve.  Add  twelve  almonds  that  have  been  blanched  and 
ground,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  well,  form  into 
tiny  cylinders,  put  them  on  a  piece  of  oiled  paper  in  the 
bottom  of  a  baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes,  until  a  golden  brown.  Serve  with  Qgg, 
tomato  or  cream  sauce. 

BEECH  NUTS    (Fagus  ferruginea,  Alton) 

These  tiny,  three-sided  nuts  are  sweet  and  tender,  but 
take  no  part  whatever  in  diet  for  the  sick.  Beech  nut  oil 
is  used  in  many  places  instead  of  olive  oil;  it  is  sweet  and 
bland. 

CHESTNUTS 

The  chestnut  is  the  seed  of  a  large  tree  belonging  to 
the  oak  family  and  to  the  division  Castanea.  Chestnuts 
form  an  exceedingly  good  starchy  diet  where  potatoes  and 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  415 

Other  starchy  foods  are  not  obtainable.  Chestnut  flour,  a 
common  article  of  commerce  in  almost  all  countries,  makes 
good  thickening  for  soups  and  gruels. 

BOILED  CHESTNUTS 

Shell  the  chestnuts,  remove  the  brown  skin  under- 
neath, throw  them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted  water  and 
boil  rapidly  for  twenty  minutes,  until  perfectly  tender,  but 
not  water-soaked.  Drain,  turn  into  a  heated  dish  and  serve 
in  the  place  of  potatoes  or  rice. 

If  admissible,  they  may  be  served  with  butter  or  cream 
sauce. 

CHESTNUTS  a  la  POULETTE 

This  is  an  exceedingly  nice  dish  in  cases  of  rheumatism 
or  gout,  where  a  little  easily-digested  starchy  food  is 
admissible. 

Boil  the  chestnuts  as  directed  in  preceding  recipe, 
using  stock  instead  of  water.  When  the  chestnuts  are  done 
drain  and  cover  them  with  sauce  a  la  Poulette. 

CHESTNUTS  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM 

Boil  the  chestnuts  according  to  the  directions  in  first 
recipe.  When  done  press  them  through  a  colander  or  an 
ordinary  vegetable  press ;  heap  them  in  a  serving  dish, 
dust  them  with  powdered  sugar  and  garnish  with  whipped 
cream,  or  they  may  be  served  with  plain  cream. 

An  exceedingly  nice  dish  in  cases  of  anaemia,  where 
easily  digested  fat  forming  foods  are  required. 

COCOANUT    (Cocos  nucifera) 

Cocoanut  is  the  fruit  of  a  large  palm  growing  in  Central 
and  South  America.  The  soft  pulp  of  a  fresh  cocoanut  is 
excellent  in  cases  of  chronic  constipation,  but  in  the  cen- 
tral and  northern  parts  of  the  United  States  it  is  impos- 
sible to  obtain  fresh  cocoanuts.  The  flesh  of  dried  cocoa- 
nuts  is  most   indigestible,  but  when  made  into  cocoanut 


416  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

milk  or  cream  is  a  valuable  fatty  food.    It  is  easily  digested 
and  palatable. 

COCOANUT  MILK 

Grate  a  good-sized  cocoanut,  add  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  stir  until  it  is  thoroughly  washed  and  water-soaked. 
Put  it  in  a  cheesecloth  bag  or  towel  and  wring  the  fibre 
dry.  Stand  the  milk  thus  obtained  in  a  cold  place;  throw 
the  fibre  away. 

The  milk  thus  obtained  may  be  used  for  sauces.  The 
"cream"  makes  a  nice  salad  dressing,  or  pudding  sauce. 

COCOANUT   CREAM 

Stand  cocoanut  "milk"  aside  in  a  cold  place  for  four 
hours,  then  skim  oflf  the  "cream"  and  use  it  in  the  place  of 
ordinary  cream  or  oil. 

COCOANUT    CUSTARD 

Skim  the  cream  from  the  surface  of  the  cocoanut  milk. 
Put  a  half  cupful  of  the  "milk"  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the 
yolk  of  one  egg  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  add  the 
hot  cocoanut  milk,  stir  in  the  double  boiler  over  the  fire 
until  it  thickens  like  soft  custard ;  take  it  from  the  fire  and 
pour  it  slowly  into  the  well-beaten  white  of  the  egg.  Turn 
this  at  once  into  a  pretty  glass  dessert  cup  and  stand  aside 
to  cool. 

COCOANUT  AND  TOMATO 

Peel  a  solid  tomato  and  cut  it  in  slices  one  inch  thick; 
put  the  two  center  slices  on  a  serving  dish,  dust  them 
lightly  with  salt  and  pour  over  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoa- 
nut  cream  and  serve. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  wholesome  ways  of  serving 
tomatoes. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  417 

AMBROSIA 

Remove  the  pulp  from  one  orange  or  half  a  grape  fruit ; 
arrange  the  flesh  neatly  on  a  glass  individual  dessert  plate, 
pour  over  cocoanut  cream  and  serve. 

Without  sugar,  this  can  be  taken  by  a  diabetic  pa- 
tient; it  is  exceedingly  good  for  the  rheumatic  and  gouty, 
and  gives  variety  to  long-continued  diet  for  an  invalid. 

PEANUTS    (Arachis  hy.pogaea,  Linn.) 

In  some  parts  of  the  United  States  these  are  also  called 
ground  nuts,  but  must  not  be  confounded  with  the  true 
ground  nut  (Apois  tuberosa).  The  peanut  is  truly  a  legu- 
minous plant  v^rhich  ripens  its  seeds  below  the  surface  of 
the  soil. 

COMPOSITION   OF   SHELLED   PEANUTS    (Church) 

Water   7.5 

Albuminoids,  etc 24.5 

Starch,  etc 1 1.7 

Oil    50.0 

Cellulose    4.5 

Mineral  matter 1.8 

Peanuts,  unroasted,  ground  and  made  into  meal,  make 
good  thickenings  for  soup  and  sauces,  or  may  be  used  in 
half  quantity  in  breakfast  muffins  and  in  peanut  bread. 
Roasted  peanuts  are  used  for  peanut  butter,  peanut  wafers, 
or  like  the  unroasted  ones,  may  be  added  to  sauces  and 
soups.  They  are  an  exceedingly  concentrated  food,  and 
must  not  be  eaten  in  large  quantities. 

PEANUT  WAFERS 

Mix  a  half  cupful  of  peanut  meal  with  a  half  cupful  of 
peanut  butter  and  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Dissolve  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  half  cupful  of  warm  water,  add 
this  to  the  nut  mixture,  and  work  in  nearly  a  quart  of 
Graham  flour;  the  dough  must  be  quite  hard.    Knead  until 

27 


418  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

the  dough  is  smooth ;  roll  it  out  in  a  thin  sheet,  cut  it  into 
squares  of  two  inches  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  a 
golden  brown. 

A  good  bread  for  persons  troubled  with  constipation. 

PEANUT   BUTTER 

Shell  roasted  peanuts,  put  them  in  a  towel  and  rub  them, 
and  then  blow  away  the  skins.  Dust  them  with  salt,  put 
them  through  the  meat  grinder  with  the  finest  plate,  or  use 
a  regular  nut  grinder.  Pack  at  once  into  glass  tumblers,  cover 
with  paraffin  and  stand  away,  to  use  as  needed.  This  may  be 
used  plain,  or  diluted  with  water. 

A  meat  substitute. 


PEANUT  SOUP 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  tumbler  of  peanut  butter  into  a 
double  boiler,  with  a  half  pint  of  water,  a  saltspoonfui  of 
salt,  a  slice  of  onion,  a  bit  of  chopped  celery,  or  a  half 
saltspoonfui  of  celery  seed.  When  scalding  hot,  add  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened  in  a  little  water,  stir 
for  five  minutes  and  serve.  If  too  thick  add  a  little  hot 
water. 

PINONS  OR  PINE  NUTS 

These  nuts  are  sold  in  some  markets  under  the  name 
of  pignolias,  a  corruption  of  the  Italian  name.  They  consist 
of  the  seeds  of  several  varieties  of  pines.  Those  most 
commonly  sold  in  the  United  States  come  from  the  scrubby 
pifion  trees  (Pinus  eduUs)  of  the  far  West;  the  larger  ones 
from  the  hard  cones  of  the  South  European  pines.  They  are 
usually  sold  shelled.  As  they  are  threshed  on  the  floor  of 
barns,  or  in  blankets,  they  are  usually  dirty,  and  require 
washing  and  drying  before  they  are  fit  for  use.  They  are 
cheap,  nutritious  and  palatable,  the  most  valuable  of  all  the 
common  nuts  for  everyday  cookery. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  419 

PINON  BUTTER 

They  may  be  made  into  butter  the  same  as  peanut  but- 
ter. For  the  sake  of  variety,  they  may  be  mixed  with 
ground  meat  for  Hamburg  steaks  or  beef  roll,  or  a  few  may 
be  sprinkled  over  a  lettuce  salad.  They  make  good  stuffing 
for  tomatoes  and  cucumbers. 

PINE   NUT   MILK 

Pine  nuts  contain  less  nitrogen  and  more  fatty  matter 
than  almonds.  They  are  less  dense  than  most  nuts,  which 
makes  them  a  valuable  diet  for  the  sick.  Put  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  pine  nuts  through  a  meat  grinder,  add  one  quart 
of  cold  water  or  milk,  stir  constantly  with  an  egg-beater  for 
five  or  ten  minutes,  and  strain  through  two  thicknesses  of 
cheesecloth.    Keep  covered  in  a  cold  place. 

PISTACHIO  NUT   (Pistacia  vera) 

This  nut  contains  a  considerable  amount  of  chlorophyll, 
the  green  coloring  matter  of  plants,  and  is  used  only  as 
flavoring.  Now  and  then,  however,  a  few  salted  in  the 
shell  are  appetizing  and  aid  in  the  digestion  of  other  foods. 

SOUARI    NUT 

This  nut,  the  fruit  of  the  genus  Caryocar,  a  tree  belong- 
ing to  the  Camellia  or  tea  family,  grows  in  the  central  part 
of  South  America,  where  they  are  universally  called  butter 
nuts,  on  account  of  their  excessive  fatty  matter.  It  con- 
tains less  cellulose  than  any  other  nut.  In  cases  of  perni- 
cious anaemia  or  tuberculosis,  or  any  other  disease  where 
the  object  is  to  increase  the  weight  of  the  patient,  they  are 
most  valuable,  because  they  are  palatable  and  easy  of  diges- 
tion. 

They  may  be  ground  and  made  into  butter,  and  served 
on  bread;  or  they  may  be  eaten,  one  or  two  at  a  time,  thor- 
oughly masticated.  Chopped  fine,  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  with 
a  little  French  dressing,  they  are  most  appetizing. 


420  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

MIXED   NUT   MILK 

Make  according  to  the  preceding  recipe,  using  a  mix- 
ture of  pine  nuts,  almonds  and  pecans. 

NUT  CHEESE 

This  is  made  by  grinding  a  pound  of  mixed  nuts,  a 
half  pound  of  pecans,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pine  nuts, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds.  Add  just  enough  water 
to  bind  the  whole  together,  pack  the  mixture  into  baking 
powder  cans  or  tumblers  and  keep  in  a  cold  place. 

Thin  slices  of  nut  cheese  between  slices  of  whole  wheat 
bread  make  a  good  school  sandwich  for  children.  Followed 
by  a  glass  of  Vichy  or  plain  seltzer,  make  a  good  luncheon 
for  rheumatic  or  gouty  patients. 

NUT  AND  FRUIT  CRACKERS 

Rub  a  half  cupful  of  almond  butter  into  one  quart 
of  whole  wheat  flour;  mix,  and  add  sufficient  water  to 
moisten ;  the  dough  must  be  very  hard.  Knead  it  for  five 
minutes,  pound  with  a  potato  masher  for  five  minutes, 
and  roll  it  into  a  very  thin  sheet.  Sprinkle  half  of  the 
sheet  with  either  chopped  dates,  ground  soaked  figs  or 
chopped  raisins ;  fold  over  the  other  half,  and  with  a  rolling 
pin  roll  the  two  carefully  together.  With  a  sharp  knife 
cut  it  into  crackers  two  inches  wide  and  three  inches  long, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown  and  crisp,  about 
twenty  minutes. 

Peanut  or  pine  nut  butter  may  be  substituted  for 
almond  butter,  and  Graham  flour  may  be  substituted  for 
whole  wheat  flour. 

Eaten  slowly  at  bedtime  follow^ed  by  a  glass  of  water, 
they  will  frequently  correct  constipation. 

NUT   SOUFFLE 

Soak  one  pint  of  soft  bread  crumbs  in  one  pint  of 
cocoanut  milk  or  water  for  fifteen  minutes.     Stir  over  the 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  421 

fire  until  perfectly  smooth  ;  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  half 
pint  of  chopped  pine  or  pecan  nuts,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  fold  in 
carefully  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Turn  this  into 
a  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes. 

This  dish  takes  the  place  of  both  bread  and  meat,  and 
may  be  given  to  children  as  the  noonday  meal.  It  is  good 
in  cases  of  rheumatism  and  gout. 

This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  four  persons ;  for  a  single 
portion  divide  all  the  ingredients  by  four. 

WATER    CHESTNUTS 

These  are  really  not  nuts,  but  are  classed  with  the 
nuts  for  the  sake  of  convenience.  They  are  the  crisp  vege- 
table ingredient  in  nearly  all  the  rich  stews  made  by  the 
Chinese  and  Japanese  cooks.  In  chemical  composition 
they  resemble  closely  the  stachys  and  Jerusalem  artichoke. 
Boiled  in  plain  water  or  in  chicken  stock,  served  with  cream 
sauce,  without  thickening,  they  give  variety  to  the  long 
continued  diet  of  the  diabetic  and  the  obese. 

MOCK  CANDY 

Besides  being  a  good  candy  for  children,  this  mixture 
makes  a  nice  filling  for  school  sandwiches. 

Put  through  a  meat  grinder  a  half  pound  of  soaked 
figs,  a  half  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  a  half  pound  of  stoned 
dates,  a  half  pound  of  pine  nuts,  a  half  pound  of  pecan 
meats,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  Brazilian  or  black  walnuts.  The 
better  way  to  mix  them  is  to  put  a  few  at  a  time  into  the 
meat  chopper,  and  by  the  time  the  last  are  ground  they  are 
well  mixed.  With  your  hand  work  the  mixture  until  it  is 
a  little  soft,  pack  it  into  baking  powder  boxes  or  jelly  tum- 
blers, and  stand  it  in  a  cold  place  to  keep. 

If  this  is  to  be  made  at  once  into  caramels,  roll  it  out 
in  a  sheet  a  half  inch  thick ;  cut  it  into  caramels,  wrap  each 
in  waxed  paper  and  put  them  in   a  tin  box  for  keeping. 


422  .  MRS.    RORER*S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 

OTHER  USES  FOR  NUTS 

Chopped  almonds,  pecan  meats  and  pine  nuts  may  be 
sprinkled  over  lettuce  or  Romaine,  covered  with  French 
dressing  and  used  as  dinner  salad  where  meat  is  not  allow- 
able. 

Pine  nuts  may  be  used  as  filling  for  birds  or  chickens. 

Peanuts  may  be  added  to  cream  vegetable  soups. 
Where  starch  is  not  allowable,  use  pine  nuts,  almonds,  Bra- 
zilian nuts  and  black  walnuts  for  nut  soups. 

Where  feeding  without  meat  must  be  continuous,  a 
creative  mind  can  invent  many  recipes  in  which  nuts  may 
be  used  to  advantage. 

Sprinkled  over  boiled  spinach  or  kale,  or  over  a  dish 
of  stewed  cabbage,  they  give  a  pleasant  flavor,  and  add  the 
necessary  protein. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  423 

GELATIN  JELLIES 

GELATIN 

Gelatin  is  a  nitrogenous  food,  but  the  nitrogen  it  con- 
tains is  not  available  for  tissue  building.  The  ordinary 
commercial  gelatin  does,  however,  when  made  into  jelly, 
give  a  good  vehicle  for  the  conveyance  of  other  foods. 
Connective  tissue  of  beef,  veal,  mutton  and  chicken  will, 
by  continued  cooking  in  water,  yield  gelatin.  For  the  sick, 
buy  plain,  unfiavored  gelatin. 

Isinglass,  fish  gelatin,  is  obtained  from  the  swimming 
bladders  of  sturgeons ;  and  by  many  dietitians  it  is  preferred 
to  ordinary  gelatin. 

I  doubt  very  much  whether  the  ordinary  calves'  foot 
jelly  made  at  home,  is  better  than  a  quick  jelly  made  from 
the  commercial  gelatin.  The  flavoring  is  different,  and  this 
may  have  something  to  do  with  the  patient's  liking  for  it. 

Gelatin  is  insoluble  in  cold  water,  but  it  is  wise  to  mix 
even  granulated  gelatin  with  cold  water  before  pouring  over 
the  boiling  water.  Where  gelatin  is  boiled,  a  larger 
quantity  of  gelatin  or  a  less  quantity  of  water  must  be 
used.     After  rapid  boiling  gelatin  does  not  readily  solidify. 

Vegetable  gelatin,  clarified  sea  weeds,  is  quite 
nutritious. 

Gelatin  water  has  been  found  very  useful  in  cases  of 
hemorrhage  during  typhoid  fever. 

Meat  jellies  made  by  condensing  beef,  veal  or  chicken 
stock  are  not  more  nutritious  than  gelatins  made  from 
commercial  gelatin.  But  they  are  more  stimulating  and  have 
a  pleasant  flavor,  and  for  this  reason  are  more  agreeable  to 
the  invalid. 

LEMON  JELLY 

Cover  one  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  with  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  water,  soak  a  half  hour,  then  add  a  half 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  strain  through  two  thick- 
nesses of  cheesecloth  and  turn  either  into  a  pretty  small 


434  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

stem  glass  dish  or  in  an  individual  mold.  At  serving  time 
plunge  the  mold  quickly  into  hot  water,  loosen  the  jelly 
around  the  top  and  turn  it  out  on  a  pretty  china  serving  dish. 

LEMON  JELLY  FOR  DIABETICS  AND  OBESE 

Cover  one  package  of  gelatin  with  one  cupful  of  cold 
water  to  soak  for  a  half  hour;  then  add  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  boiling  water,  stir  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved,  add  one 
gill  (a  half  cupful)  of  lemon  juice,  a  level  teaspoonful  of 
beef  extract  and  a  level  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt ;  stir, 
strain,  add  two  drops  of  Tabasco  and  put  it  in  a  mold  to 
harden. 

Served  with  cold  meat,  or  chopped  fine  on  lettuce 
leaves  w^ith  a  little  French  dressing. 

ORANGE  JELLY 

Cover  one  teaspoonful  of  gelatin  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cold  water  to  soak  for  a  half  hour;  add  a  half 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  a  half  cupful  of  orange  juice  and 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
strain  and  put  into  two  molds  or  glasses  to  harden. 

This  is  very  pretty  if  colored  slightly  brown  with 
caramel. 

Serve  turned  from  the  mold,  or  cut  it  into  blocks  and 
serve  in  an  orange  basket. 

WINE  JELLY 

While  there  is  little  or  no  nourishment  in  any  of  the 
gelatin  jellies,  they  make  exceedingly  good  vehicles  for  the 
conveyance  of  stimulants  when  stimulants  are  ordered. 

Cover  a  half  package  of  gelatin  with  a  cupful  of 
cold  water,  let  it  soak  for  a  half  hour,  then  add  a  half  cup- 
ful of  sugar  and  a  cupful  of  boiling  water;  stir  over  the  fire 
until  the  gelatin  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Strain,  add  one 
gill  (a  half  cupful)  of  wine,  turn  at  once  into  small  stem 
glasses,  sufficient  in  each  glass  for  one  feeding.  This 
should  make  four  glasses. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  425 

Brandy  or  rum  may  be  substituted  for  sherry,  or 
brandy  and  sherry  may  be  mixed. 

WHITE  WINE  JELLY 

Put  a  half  package  of  granulated  gelatin,  covered  with 
a  pint  of  cold  water,  to  soak  a  half  hour;  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  stir  the  mixture  over  the  fire  until  the 
gelatin  is  dissolved;  add  a  half  pint  of  white  wine  and 
a  grating  of  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon ;  stir  and  turn  at  once 
into  glasses.    This  should  make  three  glasses. 

QUICK  BEEF  JELLY 

Put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  granulated  gelatin  in  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  and  soak  for  a  half  hour. 
While  this  is  soaking  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  Liebig's 
beef  extract  in  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  add  a  whole 
clove,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt ;  stir 
until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved.  Let  this  stand  until  nearly 
cold,  and  add  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cold  water.  Put  the  mixture  over  the  fire,  bring 
to  a  boil,  boil  rapidly  two  minutes  and  strain  through  two 
thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  If  well  made  this  will  be  as 
clear  as  wine.  Turn  it  at  once  into  a  small  pan  or  dish, 
and  stand  it  aside  to  harden. 

Use  as  a  garnish  for  cold  meat  dishes,  or  it  may  be 
given  in  the  place  of  beef  tea  where  cold  substitutes  are 
ordered. 

This  can  be  made  in  a  very  few  minutes,  and  quickly 
chilled  on  the  ice. 

CALVES'  FOOT  JELLY 

4  calves'  feet  2  inches  of  stick  cinnamon 

6  quarts  of  cold  water  I  pound  of  white  sugar 

Juice  of  four  lemons  Juice  of  two  oranges 

Whites  and  shells  of  two  eggs 

Clean  the  feet,  wash  and  scrub  them  well  in  cold  water. 
Put  them  in  a  soup  kettle  with  cold  water,  and  simmer 


^'26  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

slowly  for  eight  hours.  It  should  be  reduced  to  two  quarts. 
When  done,  strain  the  liquid  into  an  earthen  bowl,  and 
stand  it  away  until  next  day.  In  the  morning,  remove  all 
the  fat  from  the  surface,  and  the  sediment  from  the  bottom 
of  the  jelly.  Put  it  in  a  kettle,  and  stand  it  over  the  fire; 
and  the  cinnamon,  sugar,  lemon  and  orange  juice,  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  the  shells  crushed. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  well  together,  and  boil  it  hard, 
without  stirring,  twenty  minutes.  Throw  in  a  gill  of  cold 
water,  let  it  come  again  to  a  boil ;  then  stand  it  on  the  side 
of  the  range,  and  keep  it  closely  covered  for  a  half  hour. 
Dip  a  flannel  jelly  bag  into  boiling  water,  and  hang  it 
where  a  bowl  can  be  placed  underneath.  Now  pour  the 
jelly  into  the  bag  carefully,  and  let  it  drip  slowly.  On  no 
account  must  you  squeeze  or  touch  the  bag,  as  this  clouds 
the  jelly  at  once.  Turn  it  into  molds  and  stand  in  a  cold 
place. 

If  you  use  wine,  a  half  pint  of  sherry  may  be  added 
before  putting  it  into  the  molds. 

CHICKEN    JELLY 

For  this  purchase  a  fowl ;  the  white  meat  may  be  used 
as  food  for  the  family.  Take  all  the  dark  meat  and  the 
rough  pieces.  Crack  the  bones  with  a  cleaver,  put  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of  cold  water,  bring  to  a 
boil  and  skim.  Simmer  gently  for  at  least  three  hours,  then 
add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt,  a  bay  leaf,  one  clove 
and  a  thin  slice  of  onion  if  admissible;  simmer  thirty  min- 
utes longer  and  strain.  Stand  this  aside  until  perfectly 
cold,  then  remove  every  particle  of  the  fat.  Turn  the  jelly 
into  a  saucepan,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  the 
white  of  one  egg  beaten  with  a  tablespoonful  of  water; 
mix  all  together  and  boil  rapidly  five  minutes;  strain 
through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth  and  stand  aside  to 
harden. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK  >  427 

Use  cold  in  the  place  of  chicken  broth,  or  to  mask  or 
garnish  cold  chicken  dishes,  or  serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with 
French  dressing. 

CRANBERRY    GELATIN 

Wash  a  half  pint  of  fresh  cranberries  in  cold  water, 
put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  cold  water,  bring  to 
a  boil,  boil  five  minutes  and  press  through  a  colander;  add 
a  cupful  of  sugar.  Cover  a  tablespoonful  of  vegetable 
gelatin  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  let  it  soak 
ten  minutes.  Boil  the  cranberries,  gelatin  and  sugar  to- 
gether for  five  minutes,  strain  through  cheesecloth  and  turn 
into  a  mold  to  harden. 

IRISH  MOSS  JELLY 

Press  into  an  ordinary  measuring  cup  sufficient  Irish 
moss  to  make  a  half  cupful,  soak,  and  wash  it  .through 
several  cold  waters ;  make  sure  it  is  free  from  sand  and 
grit.  Put  one  quart  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler,  add  the 
moss,  bring  to  boiling  point,  cover  and  cook  a  half  hour. 
Strain,  add  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  take  from  the  fire,  cool 
and  flavor  with  sherry,  brandy,  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  or  if 
admissible,  a  little  vanilla ;  turn  at  once  into  molds  and 
stand  aside  to  harden.     This  will  make  five  molds. 

For  an  individual  recipe,  take  but  two  sprigs  of  moss 
and  cook  in  a  half  pint  of  milk. 

IRISH   MOSS   JELLY   No.   2 

Wash  two  full  sprays  of  Irish  moss  through  several 
cold  waters ;  soak  an  hour  in  fresh  water,  then  lift  the  moss, 
throw  it  into  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover  and  simmer 
until  the  moss  is  dissolved ;  add  four  lumps  of  loaf  sugar 
and  a  tabelspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  strain  and  turn  into 
glasses  or  molds. 

This  is  especially  nice  in  cases  of  tuberculosis,  tonsilitis, 
quinsy  and  whooping  cough. 


428  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

ISINGLASS  JELLY 

Put  a  half  ounce  of  the  best  ising-lass,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  pure  powdered  gum  Arabic,  a  half  ounce  of  rock 
candy,  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg,  grated,  and  a  pint  of  port 
wine  into  a  quart  fruit  jar,  cover,  shake  and  stand  aside 
over  night.  Next  morning  stand  the  jar  into  a  kettle  of 
cold  water,  bring  the  water  to  boiling  point  and  simmer 
until  the  gum  is  dissolved ;  stir,  strain  and  stand  aside  to 
cool. 

Give  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  in  cases  of  exhaustion.  I 
have  also  found  it  useful  in  cases  of  tuberculosis. 

QUICK  GRAPE  JELLY 

Put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  prepared  vegetable  ,^elatin  into 
a  half  pint  of  grape  juice,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
stir  over  the  fire  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved,  and  turn  at 
once  into  small  molds  or  small  stem  glass  dishes. 

ORANGE  AND   WINE  JELLY 

A  level  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  soaked  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water;  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  orange  juice,  one  tablespoonful  of  port  wine  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar;  stir  over  hot  water  until  the  gelatin  is 
dissolved,  fill  at  once  into  a  small  glass  and  stand  it  away 
to  harden. 

If  admissible,  this  may  be  served  with  whipped  cream, 
or  with  a  soft  custard  made  from  a  half  cupful  of  milk 
and  one  egg. 

COFFEE  JELLY 

One  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatin,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  cold  water;  let  this  soak  five  minutes,  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  strong  black  coffee,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream ;  mix  thoroughly  and  turn 
into  a  small  glass  or  mold  and  stand  away  to  harden. 

Serve  plain,  or  with  cream. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR    THE    SICK  429 

This  may  be  used  as  a  dessert  for^diabetics  by  omitting 
the  sugar. 

CREAM  JELLY   FOR   DIABETICS 

One  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  soaked  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  cold  water;  add  a  half  cupful  of  thick 
cream  and  a  dash  of  salt ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  gelatin 
is  dissolved  and  turn  at  once  into  molds. 

Served  plain  or  with  cream  or  with  a  little  black  coffee. 

PLAIN  JELLY  WITH  FRUIT 

Fill  a  tiny  mold  with  either  white  grapes  that  have 
been  peeled  and  seeded,  or  a  few  white  currants  'Stripped 
from  the  stem,  or  red  currants,  or  raspberries,  or  skinned 
and  stoned  cherries.  Make  plain  lemon  or  wine  jelly,  and 
pour  it  over  the  fruit  in  the  mold ;  stand  away  to  harden. 
This  is  pretty  and  palatable. 

PORT  WINE  JELLY 

Put  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  into  a  saucepan,  add  a  half 
cupful  of  cold  water,  soak  thirty  minutes,  then  stand  over 
hot  water  and  stir  until  the  isinglass  is  dissolved;  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  take  from  the  tire  and 
add  one  pint  of  the  best  port  wine.  Stir  until  every  par- 
ticle of  the  isinglass  is  dissolved,  strain  through  cheese- 
cloth and  stand  aside  until  cold. 

SNOW  PUDDING 

For  an  individual  serving,  cover  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
granulated  gelatin  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water 
and  let  it  soak  a  half  hour;  add  a  cupful  of  boiling  water, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon; 
stand  aside  until  it  begins  to  congeal  but  is  not  quite  stiff. 
Drop  in  the  unbeaten  white  of  one  tgg,  stand  the  basin  in 
a  pan  of  cold  water  and  beat  continuously  until  the  mixture 
is  as  white  as  snow.     Turn  at  once  into  a  small  mold  and 


430  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

stand  away  to  harden.  Put  a  half  cupful  of  milk  over  the 
fire,  add  the  yolk  of  the  Qgg  beaten  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  cook  a  minute,  take  from  the  fire,  beat  rapidly  a 
few  minutes  with  an  egg-beater,  and  turn  out  to  cool. 
Serve  the  pudding  with  a  sauce  poured  around  it. 

SPANISH   CREAM 

A  half  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  soaked  in 
a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  cold  water  for  a  half  hour;  add  a 
half  cupful  of  milk  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  stir 
the  mixture  over  the  fire  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved. 
Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  stir 
this  into  the  hot  mixture,  cook  a  minute,  take  from  the  fire 
and  fold  in  the  well-beaten  white  of  the  egg;  pour  at  once 
into  a  small  mold  to  harden.  If  properly  made,  this  should 
be  in  layers,  with  the  gelatin  at  the  bottom.  It  may  be 
flavored  with  a  tablespoonful  of  wine,  or  if  admissible  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

ORANGE  SOUFFLE 

Two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  granulated  gelatin  soaked  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes ;  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water,  stir  until  the  gelatin  is  dis- 
solved, add  a  half  cupful  of  orange  juice  and  a  level  table- 
spoonful of  powdered  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved 
and  stand  the  mixture  aside  until  it  begins  to  congeal,  then 
with  an  ordinary  wire  egg-beater  beat  in  the  well-beaten 
white  of  one  egg,  turn  it  into  a  small  fancy  mold  and  stand 
away  to  harden.  This  may  be  served  plain,  or  with  a  little 
extra  orange  juice.     . 

Strawberry,  blackberry  and  raspberry  juice  may  be 
used  in  the  same  way. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  431 


VEGETABLE  GELATIN  (GELOSE)  JELLIES 

I  think  the  fact  has  been  established  that,  where  gela- 
tin or  mucilaginous  foods  are  needed,  vegetable  gelatin  is 
to  be  preferred.  It  is  absolutely  free  from  flavor  in  itself, 
therefore  can  be  used  simply  dissolved  in  water ;  animal 
gelatin  cannot  be  used  in  this  way  on  account  of  the  nause- 
ous odor  that  is  intensified  by  heat..  All  vegetable  gelatins 
that  have  come  under  my  notice  have  been  very  well  made. 
They  escape  the  dangers  of  animal  products  and  the  neces- 
sary bleaching  and  cleansing  of  animal  gelatins  which  gives 
them  a  higher  food  value  and  removes  all  danger  of  un- 
cleanliness.  Like  Irish  moss  and  similar  seaweed  prod- 
ucts, it  is  useful  as  a  vehicle  for  other  foods ;  it  carries  and 
holds  wines  and  other  liquors  as  stimulants  if  ordered  by 
physicians.  In  all  these  recipes  Kellogg's  vegetable  gelatin 
has  been  used. 

It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  animal  gelatin  is  an  admir- 
able vehicle  for  the  growth  of  micro-organisms,  which 
makes  it  necessary  to  carefully  guard  all  gelatin  dishes, 
especially  meat  jellies.  Where  acids  are  used  there  Is  very 
little  danger  of  the  jelly  becoming  contaminated.  Vege- 
table gelatin  answers  the  purpose  of  ordinary  animal  gela- 
tin in  all  desserts,  and  when  combined  with  fruit  juices,  or 
wines,  or  brandy  if  ordered,  can  be  kept  from  one  day  to 
another  without  fear  of  contamination. 

To  Prepare  Vegetable  Gelatin  or  Gelose — A  quarter  of 
a  box  of  gelose  will  make  four  half-pint  cupfuls  of  jelly. 
Wash  the  gelose  through  several  waters,  soak  it  in  warm 
water  twenty  minutes,  wash  and  drain.  Put  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  cupful,  a  half  pint,  of  boiling  water,  boil  slowly, 
stirring  every  now  and  then,  until  the  gelose  is  thoroughly 
dissolved,  about  ten  minutes ;  strain  through  a  cheesecloth 
and  stand  aside  until  cold.  It  congeals  very  quickly  and 
without  ice.  A  quarter  of  this  amount  will  make  a  half  pint, 
two  portions,  of  jelly. 


432  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

ORANGE  GELOSE  I 

Put  one-quarter  of  the  prepared  gelose  into  a  small 
saucepan  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  stir  over  hot  water  until  thoroughly 
melted,  add  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  orange  juice  and 
strain  into  glasses  or  molds. 

Currant,  raspberry,  strawberry  and  blackberry  juice  may 
be  substituted  for  orange.  Mashed  peaches  and  apple  sauce 
may  also  be  used. 

ORANGE  GELOSE  II 

Put  one-quarter  of  the  prepared  gelatin  into  a  sauce- 
pan, add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  hot  water,  and  when  the  gelose  is  dissolved  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  and  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of 
orange  juice;  turn  at  once  into  glasses  or  molds. 

PINEAPPLE    GELOSE 

Pineapple  contains  an  enzyme  which  digests  protein ; 
for  this  reason,  pineapple  jelly  made  with  animal  gelatin  is 
not  satisfactory ;  in  fact,  if  the  g'elatin  is  not  chilled  before 
the  pineapple  is  added,  it  will  entirely  digest  the  gelatin, 
which  keeps  it  from  solidifying.  No  matter  how  long  it 
stands,  it  never  will  form  a  jelly. 

A  good  pineapple  jelly  can  be  easily  made  from  gelose, 
and  without  cooking  the  pineapple.  Take  the  full  amount 
of  prepared  gelose,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  cupful  of 
warm  water  and  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  stir  until  the  gelose 
is  dissolved,  take  it  from  the  fire  and  when  partly  cool  add 
one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  grated  pineapple.  Turn  at  once 
into  dainty  molds  to  harden.    This  will  keep  for  several  days. 

Use  in  cases  of  tdnsilitis,  quinsy  and  whooping  cough. 

FRUIT  GELOSE 

All  fruit  juices  —  strawberry,  raspberry  and  currant 
mixed,  blackberries,  mashed  ripe  peaches,  carefully  stewed 
apples — may  be  used  for  fruit  jellies.    Always  prepare  the 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  433 

gelose  as  directed,  and  remember  that  a  quarter  of  a  box 
will  make  four  cupfuls  of  jelly.  The  quantity  of  sugar  must 
be  regulated  by  the  acidity  of  the  fruit.  The  liquid  may  be 
part  water  and  part  fruit  juice,  or  all  fruit  juice. 

GELOSE  DRINK 

Boil  half  the  prepared  gelose  in  one  quart  of  water 
and  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  This  makes  an  exceed- 
ingly nice  drink  in  fevers,  and  may  be  used  as  a  mouth 
swab  in  place  of  Irish  moss.  Gelose  drink  is  good  in  cases 
of  whooping  cough. 

RESTORATIVE  GELOSE 

Quarter  of  a  box  of  prepared  gelose,  a  level  tablespoon- 
ful  of  powdered  white  gum  Arabic,  two  ounces  of  rock 
candy,  all  mixed  well  together;  add  two  cupfuls  of  cold 
water  and  stand  aside  two  or  three  hours.  Then  stir  over 
hot  water  until  the  mixture  is  clear  and  the  ingredients  dis- 
solved ;  take  from  the  fire  and  cool.  Add  one  and  a  half 
cupfuls  of  good  sherry,  cover  the  jar  or  saucepan  and  let  this 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  reheat,  strain  and  stand 
aside  until  cold.  This  may  be  put  at  once  into  small  molds 
or  into  individual  glass  dishes. 


28 


434  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


A  FEW  DESSERTS 

CEYLON  PUDDING 

Two  Servings 

Grate  one  cocoanut,  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boiling 
water,  stir  for  two  or  three  minutes,,  let  it  stand  until  cool 
and  wring  it  through  a  cheesecloth  or  bag.  Put  the  cocoa- 
nut  "milk"  thus  made  into  a  double  boiler,  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  cook  just  a  minute  until  slightly 
thickened,  take  from  the  fire  and  turn  into  the  serving 
dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  heap 
them  over  the  top  of  the  pudding  and  stand  it  in  the  oven 
a   minute   to   brown. 

This  may  be  given  as  a  change  to  diabetic  patients. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD 
Two  Servings 

Grate  and  wash  a  cocoanut  as  directed  in  preceding 
recipe.  Put  the  cocoanut  "milk"  in  a  double  boiler,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened  in  a  little  cold  water. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
add  them  to  the  hot  cocoanut  "milk,"  stir  until  the  thick- 
ness of  soft  custard,  take  from  the  fire  and  pour  at  once 
into  the  serving  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiflf  froth,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and 
beat  until  fine  and  dry ;  heap  them  over  the  pudding,  brown 
in  the  oven  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

Nice  for  tuberculosis  and  the  anaemic  patients. 

COCOANUT   SOUFFLE 
One  Serving 

Make  the  cocoanut  milk  as  directed  in  Ceylon  pud- 
ding, put  half  of  it  in  a  double  boiler,  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  sugar  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch  moistened 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  435 

in  a  little  cold  water;  cook  until  thick,  and  pour  while  hot 
into  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  Q'gg.  Turn  at  once  into 
a  mold,  and  stand  aside  to  harden.  Serve  with  a  soft 
custard  made  from  the  yolk  of  the  egg. 


FRENCH  FLOATING  ISLAND 

Put  a  cupful  of  milk  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler. 
Separate  one  egg,  beat  the  white  to  a  stiff  froth,  drop  it 
by  teaspoonfuls  over  the  top  of  the  hot  milk,  let  it  remain 
a  minute,  then  lift  with  a  skimmer  and  put  them  on 
a  plate  to  cool.  Add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch, 
moiste;ned  in  a  little  cold  milk,  cook  until  the  milk  is 
slightly  thickened,  then  add  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  beaten 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  When  sufficiently  thick  to 
coat  a  knife  blade,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla,  and  turn  at  once  into  the  serving  dish.  Heap 
the  whites  over  the  top,  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

To  give  variety,  if  admissible,  cover  the  top  of  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  with  three  or  four  almonds  that  have 
been  blanched,  dried  and  chopped  fine. 


CARAMEL   CUSTARD 

Beat  one  egg  without  separating  until  well  mixed,  add 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of  milk ;  a 
little  nutmeg  may  be  added  if  admissible.  Melt  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  in  an  iron  pan ;  when  it  begins  to  bum 
and  brown,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  water,  pour  this  in  the 
bottom  of  a  custard  cup,  pour  the  egg  and  milk  on  top, 
stand  the  cup  in  a  small  baking  pan  half  filled  with  hot 
water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes, 
until  they  are  "set"  in  the  center.  To  ascertain  whether 
or  not  they  are  done,  run  a  spoon  handle  or  silver  knife 
into  the  center;  if  it  comes  out  clean  they  are  done;  if 
milky,  cook  longer;  if  watery,  they  are  overdone. 


436  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD   No.   2 

Beat  one  egg  with  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  for  a  minute, 
add  a  half  cupful  of  milk  and  a  teaspoonful  of  caramel ;  turn 
the  mixture  into  a  custard  cup,  stand  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
and  bake  until  "set"  in  the  center.  Serve  warm  in  the  cup, 
or  turn  it  out  on  a  saucer. 


ORANGE    SOUFFLE    PUDDINGS 

Two  Servings 
Put  a  half  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  over  the 
fire.  Moisten  a  level  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  level  tea- 
spoonful of  cornstarch  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
milk,  and  when  smooth  add  them  gradually  to  the  hot 
milk,  stirring  all  the  while ;  when  thick  take  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  mix,  and  stir  in  carefully 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Brush  individual  bak- 
ing dishes  with  a  little  butter,  put  in  the  mixture,  stand 
them  in  a  shallow  pan  half  filled  with  boiling  water,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes.  While  these  are 
baking,  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  add  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  grated  yellow  rind  of  orange ;  bring  to  boiling  point, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  orange  juice  and  strain.  Serve  in  a 
little  pitcher  on  the  tray,  with  the  hot  souffle. 


OMELET   SOUFFLE 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the 
beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  heap  at  once  in  an  indi- 
vidual baking  dish  or  a  tiny  platter,  dust  thickly  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  three  minutes. 

Caution — The  oven  must  be  ready  before  you  begin  to 
make  the  souffle.  If  the  souffle  is  stringy  you  have  bake,d 
it  too  long.     It  must  be  smoking  hot,  but  soft  and  light. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  437 

MARLBOROUGH   CUSTARDS 

Press  one  left-over  baked  apple  through  a  sieve,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  Qgg,  well  beaten,  and  a  half  cup- 
ful of  milk.  Turn  this  into  a  baking  or  custard  cup  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  ''set"  in  the  center.  Serve 
warm  or  cold. 

RICE  PUDDING  WITH  MALT 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  into  one  quart  of  milk, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  malt  extract  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar.  Bake  slowly  one  hour,  stirring  down  the  crust  two 
or  three  times.  When  done  it  should  be  about  the  con- 
sistency of  good  cream. 

PEACH   CREAM 

Pare  one  large,  very  ripe,  mellow  peach,  press  it  through 
a  colander,  using  a  silver  spoon,  or  put  it  quickly  through 
an  ordinary  vegetable  press.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  fold  in  quickly  ;six  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Heap  at  once  into  a  pretty 
stem  glass  dessert  dish,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and 
serve. 

BANANA  CREAM 

Pare  one  very  ripe  banana;  the  skin  must  be  almost 
black,  but  the  flesh  must  be  sweet  and  good.  Whip  it 
quickly  with  an  egg-beater,  add  a  teaspoonful, of  powdered 
sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  orange  juice,  and  then  fold  in 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth ;  dust 
with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  at  once. 

PRUNE  CREAM 

(Recipe  for  this  will  be  found  under  'Trunes.") 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM 

Mash  half  of  a  baked  apple  through  a  colander,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  fresh  pineapple,  a  tablespoon- 


438  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

ful   of   powdered    sugar   and   six   tablespoonfuls   of   cream 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth ;  dish  and  serve  at  once. 

PINEAPPLE   ALBUMIN    DESSERT 

Grate  sufficient  ripe  pineapple  to  make  four  tablespoon- 
fuls ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  stir  in  quickly  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs ;  heap  this  into  an  individual 
glass  dessert  dish,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  at 
once.  This  cannot  stand  even  fifteen  minutes ;  the  pine- 
apple will  digest  the  albumin,  which  will  make  it  bitter. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY 

Wash  through  several  cold  waters  a  half  cupful  of 
granulated  tapioca,  cover  it  with  one  quart  of  cold  water, 
soak  over  night  in  the  refrigerator,  or  for  two  or  three 
hours  in  a  cold  place.  Turn  it  into  a  saucepan  and  add 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water  and  a  cupful  of  sugar ;  stir  carefully  over  the 
fire  until  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  push  it  over  a  mild 
fire  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  at  once  into  molds  and 
stand  away  to  harden.  Instead  of  adding  the  extra  pint 
of  water,  wine  may  be  added,  but  the  cooking  must  be 
done  before  the  wine  is  added. 

This  will  be  sufficient  to  last  several  days,  and  is  a 
very  easily  digested  form  of  starch.  With  cream  this  makes 
an  admirable  dessert  for  "bloodless"  girls  or  in  cases  of 
anaemia,  where  both  starch  and  fatty  matter  are  called 
for. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  439 

PUDDING   SAUCES 

SAUCE  SABAYON 

Put  a  half  pint  of  sherry  in  a  double  boiler,  add  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened  in  a  little  cold  milk, 
cook  until  the  thickness  of  cream,  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg 
beaten  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  cook  a  minute,  take 
from  the  fire  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cool,  add  the 
rasping  of  an  orange. 

SOFT   CUSTARD   SAUCE 

Put  one  gill  (a  half  cupful)  of  milk  in  a  saucepan, 
stand  it  over  hot  water  until  it  is  scalding  hot.  Beat  the 
yolk  of  one  egg  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  add  the 
hot  milk,  return  to  the  saucepan,  stir  over  hot  water  until 
it  will  "coat"  or  cover  a  knife  blade ;  be  careful  not  to 
curdle.    Take  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool,  flavor. 

PLAIN  PUDDING  SAUCE 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  until  creamy,  add  slowly 
a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  cook  over  the  fire  a  minute, 
pour  while  hot  into  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  sherry  or  brandy,  or  this  sauce  may  be  flavored  with 
the  juice  and  a  little  grated  rind  of  orange  or  lemon. 

COCOANUT   SAUCE 

Follow  the  preceding  recipe,  using  cocoanut  milk  in 
place  of  plain  water.  Or  use  cocoanut  milk  in  place  of 
cows*  milk  in  a  soft  custard  sauce  or  Sabayon. 

COCOANUT   CREAM   SAUCE 

Stand  cocoanut  milk  in  a  cold  place  over  night.  In 
the  morning  take  off  the  cream,  put  it  in  a  bowl  and  beat 
with  an  egg  beater  until  it  is  light  and  frothy;  heap  it  in 
a  glass  dish,  and  stand  on  the  ice  to  harden.  Use  on  gelatin, 
or  fruit  puddings  in  cases  of  diabetes  or  tuberculosis. 


440  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

NUT  CREAM  SAUCES 

Stir  two  rounding  tablespoonfuls  of  nut  butter  into  a 
half  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Use  plain,  or  slightly 
sweetened.  For  diabetic  patients,  however,  it  must  be 
used  without  thickening  or  sugar.  If  it  is  too  thick  to 
pour,  add  boiling  water.  Almond  paste  or  almond  butter 
is  preferable  to  other  nut  butters. 

FRUIT  JUICE  SAUCE 

Simply  express  the  juice  of  any  fresh  fruit,  and  use 
it  at  once.  These  fruit  juices  are  palatable  over  gelatin 
desserts  in  cases  of  diabetes  or  obesity ;  they  may  be 
thickened  and  used  for  pudding  sauces  for  invalidism, 
children,  or  the  aged. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  441 

ICE  CREAM 

Among  the  ordinary  nurses'  outfit  is  a  small  pint  ice 
cream  freezer;  these  are  not  expensive,  and  only  require 
four  or  five  tableispoonfuls  of  salt  and  a  pound  of  ice  to 
freeze  a  pint  or  less.  If  such  freezers  cannot  be  purchased, 
fit  a  tall  quart  kettle  into  a  bowl  or  into  a  larger  tin  kettle, 
and  stand  it  aside  to  use  for  freezing  cream  and  sherbets 
for  the  sick.  While  this  is  an  old-fashioned  way,  if  the 
kettle  is  twisted  back  and  forward  -and  the  mixture  stirred 
down  from  the  sides  every  few  minutes,  it  takes  but  a  short 
time  to  freeze  a  pint  of  cream. 

In  many  cases  a  little  frozen  cream,  unsweetened  and 
unflavored,  is  acceptable  and  pleasing  to  the  patient.  In 
fever,  frozen  fruit  juices  or  sherbets  allay  thirst. 

Pack  the  freezer  or  kettle  with  fine  salt  and  ice,  in  the 
proportions  of  two-thirds  ice  and  one-third  salt.  For  small 
freezers,  use  ordinary  table  salt  if  coarse  salt  is  not  at 
hand.  Put  the  cream  in  the  freezer,  turn  it  slowly  at  first 
until  the  cream  is  icy  cold,  then  freeze  quickly. 

A  tablespoonful  of  coffee,  or  a  suspicion  of  chocolate, 
or  a  tablespoonful  of  sherry,  used  as  flavoring,  are  always 
preferable  to  vanilla. 

ICE  CREAMS  AND  SORBETS 

Add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  a  half  cupful  of  good 
cream;  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  put  the  mixture  into 
the  ice  cream  freezer  and  stir  until  it  is  frozen. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream — Add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a 
tablespoonfvil  of  black  coffee  to  a  half  cupful  of  cream ; 
freeze. 

Lemon  Sorbet — Take  a  rasping  of  the  yellow  rind  from 
a  lemon,  put  it,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  into  one 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  boil  about  two  minutes,  strain, 
and  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  When  the  mixture  is  very 
cold,  freeze  it,  turning  constantly  until  it  is  frozen.  ~  The 
mixture  should  be  light  and  white. 


442  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

Orange  Sorbet — Make  the  same  as  lemon  sorbet,  using 
a  half  cupful  of  water  \^^ith  the  sugar  and  grated  yellow 
rind  of  a  quarter  of  the  orange.  Boil  and  strain,  and  when 
cold  add  a  half  pint  of  orange  juice,  and  freeze. 

Pineapple  Sorbet — Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together, 
strain,  take  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  add  a  half  cupful 
of  grated  fresh  pineapple,  and  freeze. 

Grape  Sorbet — Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water  to 
eight  tablespoonfuls  of  grape  juice,  and  freeze. 

Mint  Sorbet — Boil  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  with  a 
half  pint  of  water  for  two  minutes,  add  the  leaves  from 
four  stalks  of  mint,  chopped  fine  and  pounded  to  a  pulp. 
Stand  this  aside  and  let  it  steep  slowly  twenty  minutes, 
press  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  when  cold  freeze. 

All  fruit  juices  may  be  slightly  sweetened  and  frozen. 
For  fever  cases  freeze  them  without  sugar — they  are 
grateful  and  beneficial. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE    SICK  443 

BEVERAGES  AND  WATER  GRUELS 

Under  this  heading  I  shall  not  place  simply  tea  and 
coffee,  but  all  demulcent,  nutritive,  diuretic  and  refrigerant 
drinks. 

BARLEY  WATER 

Put  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley  into  a  porcelain-lined 
or  granite  saucepan,  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  boil  for 
five  minutes,  strain,  throw  the  water  away ;  add  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water  to  the  barley,  cover  and  simmer  for  two 
hours.  Skim  frequently,  and  when  done  strain  through  a 
fine  sieve  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

The  first  water  is  simply  to  cleanse  the  barley,  and 
should  not  be  retained. 

In  cases  where  plain  milk  does  not  agree  perfectly  with 
the  individual  or  child,  barley  water  may  be  added  to  ad- 
vantage in  proportion  one-third  barley  water  to  two-thirds 
milk. 

As  a  liquid  starchy  food  use  its  sweetened  and  flavored 
with  lemon  juice  or  wine. 

RICE  WATER 

Make  precisely  the  same  as  barley  water,  substituting 
two  ounces  of  rice. 

OATMEAL  WATER 

This  is  best  made  from  Irish  or  other  coarse  oats.  If 
you  use  rolled  oats,  measure  carefully  two  level  tablespoon- 
fuls.  Sprinkle  it  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water  without 
stopping  the  boiling;  boil  rapidly  thirty  minutes  and  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  stand  aside 
to  cool.     Use  the  same  as  barley  water. 

TOAST  WATER 

Toast,  to  a  dark  brown,  one  slice  of  bread ;  put  it  In  a 
bowl,  poor  over  one  quart  of  boiling  v/ater,  cover  and 
stand  aside  until  cool.    When  cold  strain  and  it  is  ready  to 


444  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

use.     If  admissible,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  may  be 
added,  but  no  sugar. 

APPLE  WATER 

Select  a  perfect,  tart  apple,  remove  the  core  and 
roast  the  apple  to  a  dark  brown ;  put  it  in  a  pitcher,  pour 
over  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  stand  aside  until  perfectly 
cold.     Strain  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

TAMARIND  WATER 

Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  two  ounces  of 
tamarinds ;  when  cool  strain  and  use. 

This  is  exceedingly  grateful  in  fevers,  and  is  slightly 
laxative. 

LEMONADE  I 

Boil  for  two  minutes  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  in 
a  half  pint  of  water,  with  a  bit  of  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Strain,  and  when  cool  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon 
juice.  Stand  this  near  the  ice,  where  it  will  get  perfectly 
cold. 

LEMONADE  II 

Grate  the  yellow  rind  from  three  lemons ;  add  this  to 
one  pound  of  loaf  sugar;  add  a  quart  of  water,  bring  to  a 
boil,  skim  and  boil  five  minutes:  add  to  this  the  juice  of 
six  lemons;  strain,  put  into  a  glass  jar  and  keep  it  in  a 
cool  place  to  use  as  needed. 

Fill  a  tumbler  half  full  of  this  mixture,  then  fill,  with 
either  carbonated,  Apollinaris  water,  or  plain  water.  It 
makes  an  exceedingly  nice,  cooling  drink. 

EGG    LEMONADE 

Separate  one  egg,  beat  the  white  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
the  yolk  and  beat  again.  Pour  into  this  slowly,  a  glass  of 
well-made  lemonade.  Or,  the  egg  may  be  dropped  into  a 
glass  of  lemonade  and  the  whole  shaken  thoroughly 
together. 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  445 

LEMON    SQUASH 

Put  into  a  tumbler  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  water 
ice,  and  fill  the  tumbler  from  a  siphon  of  soda  water.  In 
out  of  town  places  plain  soda  may  be  purchased  in  bottles. 
A  siphon  is  always  to  be  recommended,  as  after  a  bottle 
of  soda  is  opened,  the  remaining  quantity  must  be  thrown 
away. 

LIMEADE , 

Pare  the  lime  carefully,  cut  it  into  halves,  squeeze  the 
juice  into  a  tumbler.  Stir  two  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar  in  a  glass  of  water,  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  add 
the  lime  juice.    Add  ice  if  necessary. 

Add  syrup  to  the  lime  juice  and  siphon  the  tumbler 
full  of  soda,  and  you  will  have  Lime  Squash. 

IRISH   MOSS   WATER 

Wash  thoroughly  a  half  ounce  of  Irish  moss  and  soak 
it  in  a  pint  (eight  ounces)  of  water  for  two  hours.  Boil 
ten  minutes  and  strain.  You  should  now  have  a  thick, 
mucilaginous  water.  Boil  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
a  half  pint  of  water  together  for  two  minutes ;  when  cool 
add  the  Irish  moss  water  and  the  juice  of  a  good-sized 
lemon,  and  stand  aside  for  use. 

This  is  exceedingly  grateful  to  persons  with  throats 
irritated  from  coughing.  Omit  sugar  and  use  for  whooping 
cough,  quinsy  and  tonsilitis. 

SLIPPERY   ELM  TEA 

Use  a  half  ounce  of  powdered  slippery  elm  to  a  pint 
of  water;  soak  for  a  half  hour,  bring  to  a  boil,  boil  two 
minutes,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or  cheesecloth.  Add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 

In  fever  cases  this  makes  a  good  swab  mixture  for  the 
mouth. 


446  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

OLD-FASHIONED   FEVER   DRINK 

Yi.  pint  of  red  currants,  fully  ripe         i  quart  of  water 
Yz  pint   of   raspberries,    fully   ripe 

Mash  the  currants  and  raspberries  together;  strain 
them  carefully  through  a  jelly  bag  or  two  thicknesses  of 
cheesecloth.  Wash  the  residue  in  the  given  quantity  of 
water,  strain  again  and  add  it  to  the  first  juice.  Stand  in  a 
cold  place  to  keep.    Ice  may  be  added,  or  not,  as  directed. 


GELATIN  WATER 

Pare  the  yellow  rind  from  one  lemon  and  put  it  in  a 
good-sized  pitcher;  add  the  lemon  sliced,  one  ounce  of  loaf 
sugar,  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  tablespoonful  (a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce)  of  granulated  gelatin  that  has  soaked  in 
two  ounces  of  cold  water  for  a  half  hour;  cover  the  pitcher 
and  let  it  stand  until  the  contents  are  cold.  Strain  through 
a  fine  sieve  or  cheesecloth.     Use  in  fever  cases. 


ORANGE  PEEL  TEA 

Pare  the  thin  rind  from  one  orange,  put  it  in  a  pitcher, 
add^  two  ounces  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  boiling  water; 
cover  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  strain,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  orange  juice  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

LINSEED  OR  FLAXSEED  TEA 

Put  one  ounce  of  linseed,  crushed,  and  two  drams 
of  licorice  root  into  a  jug,  pour  over  a  pint  of  water,  cover 
and  stand  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  at  a  temperature  of  200° 
Fahr.  for  three  hours.  Strain  through  two  thicknesses  of 
cheesecloth  and  cool. 

This  is  exceedingly  good  to  allay  irritation  from  cough- 
ing, or  for  persons  with  pulmonary  troubles.  The  flavor- 
ing may  be  changed  by  adding  at  one  time  lemon  and  at 
another  orange. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  447 

GUM  ARABIC  WATER 

Soak  a  half  ounce  of  white  powdered  gum  Arabic  in 
a  quart  of  cold  water  for  at  least  two  hours,  or  over  night. 
Add'  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  in  the  morning,  stand  the  pitcher 
in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water  and  stir  until  the  gum  is  dis- 
solved.    Strain  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth. 

This  is  nice  in  febrile  or  inflammatory  complaints. 

BRAN  WATER 

Wash  two  ounces  of  bran  through  several  cold  waters, 
add  two  ounces  of  loaf  sugar  and  one  quart  of  cold  water; 
bring  to  a  boil,  boil  continuously  five  minutes,  strain  and 
use  either  hot  or  cold.  Cream  or  milk  may  be  added,  if 
admissible. 

To  give  this  the  flavor  of  cereal  cofifee,  the  bran  may 
be  toasted  thoroughly,  then  added  to  the  water  and  boiled; 
omit  the  washing. 

CINNAMON  TEA 

Break  a  half  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon  into  small  pieces, 
put  them  in  an  earthen  or  granite  pitcher,  add  one  pint  of 
boiling  water,  cover  and  stand  it  on  the  back  part  of  the 
stove  for  ten  minutes.  Strain  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  An 
astringent  drink  in  cases  of  diarrhoea. 

LIME  WATER 

Put  a  piece  of  unslaked  lime,  about  the  size  of  an  or- 
dinary chicken's  tgg,  into  a  large  granite  or  porcelain-lined 
kettle ;  pour  over  two  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  stir  until 
the  water  ceases  to  boil  from  the  action  of  the  lime;  then 
let  it  stand  until  perfectly  clear;  drain  off  carefully,  bottle 
and  cork. 

JELLY  WATER 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly  into  a  half  pint 
of  boiling  water,  mash  and  work  the  jelly  until  it  is  dis- 
solved, and  strain  it  at  once  into  a  tumbler.     Put  near  the 


448  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

ice  to  cool,  add  a  little  finely-shaved  ice  and  use  in  fever 
cases. 

BLACK  CURRANT  JELLY  WATER 

Use  the  same  quantity  of  black  currant  instead  of  red 
currant  jelly.     Beneficial  in  cases  of  chronic  diarrhoea. 

FRESH   GRAPE  DRINK 

Wash  two  pounds  of  Concord  grapes ;  pulp  them,  put 
the  pulp  in  a  granite  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling  point,  and 
press  them  through  a  sieve  sufficiently  fine  to  remove  the 
seeds.  Add  this  pulp  to  the  skins,  add  one  quart  of  water 
and  simmer  gently  for  a  half  hour.  Strain,  and  stand  aside 
to  cool. 

GRAPE  SQUASH 

Put  two  ounces  of  grape  juice  in  a  tumbler  and  fill  the 
tumbler  from  a  siphon  of  plain  soda. 

Orange  juice,  strawberry  juice  or  currant  juice  may  be 
substituted  for  grape  juice,  according  to  the  condition  and 
fancy  of  the  patient. 

IMPERIAL   WATER 

Dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  in  a 
half  pint  of  cold  water.  Add  the  grated  yellow  rind  from 
a  quarter  of  a  lemon  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to 
a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  boil  three  minutes ;  and  when 
cool  strain  into  the  cream  of  tartar  water,  and  stand  aside 
to  use  as  a  diuretic  drink.  To  serve,  fill  a  tumbler  half 
full  of  this  mixture,  and  fill  it  with  plain  water. 

EVANS'S  TEA  GRUEL 

Put  one  tablespdonful  of  gunpowder  tea  in  a  china  or 
earthen  pitcher,  pour  over  one  pint  of  freshly-boiled  soft 
water.  Cover  the  pitcher  for  ten  minutes.  Boil  six  lumps 
of  cut  loaf  sugar  with  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  strain 
the  tea  into  this,  add  a  grated  nutmeg  and  stand  aside  to 
cool. 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK  449 

This  is  valuable  in  cases  of  summer  complaint  for  chil- 
dren, also  in  cases  of  diarrhoea. 

A  tablespoonful  three  or  four  times  a  day  is  considered 
a  dose. 

WELSH    NECTAR 

Put  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  three  lemons  cut  into 
slices,  and  two  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  into  two  gallons 
of  boiling  water;  cover  and  stand  aside  one  week,  stirring 
every  day.  Strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  bottle,  cork  and 
stand  in  the  cold*.    This  will  keep  in  a  cold  place  for  a  month. 

WILD   CHERRY   CORDIAL 

Pick  ripe  wild  cherries  from  the  stems,  put  one  quart 
in  a  two-quart  jar,  cover  wnth  the  best  Bourbon  whisky, 
screw  on  the  top  and  stand  the  jar  away;  shake  two  or 
three  times  a  week  for  four  weeks.  Drain  off  the  whisky, 
pressing  the  cherries.  Boil  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  one 
cupful  of  water  for  five  minutes,  when  cold  add  it  to  the 
whiskey,  bottle,  cork  and  seal.  Use  in  chronic  diarrhoea  and 
dysentery. 

TEA 

Tea  is  an  aromatic  beverage  quite  popular  among  the 
English,  Scotch  and  Irish.  It  contains  an  alkaloid,  thein, 
which  is  almost  identical  to  caffein.  While  there  is  a  sim- 
ilarity in  the  effects  of  tea  and  coffee,  there  is  also  a  de- 
cided difference,  due,  no  doubt,  to  the  essential  oils  and 
the  greater  amount  of  tannin  in  tea.  The  aroma  of  tea,  like 
that  of  coffee,  is  due  to  a  volatile  oil,  which  is  driven  off 
and  dissipated  if  the  tea  is  boiled.  Boiling  spoils  tea  more, 
if  possible,  than  it  does  coffee ;  it  not  only  drives  off  the 
aroma,  but  it  dissolves  and  draws  out  a  greater  amount  of 
tannin.  Green  teas  contain  more  thein  and  volatile  oils, 
and  less  tannin  than  black  teas.  Young  Hyson  is  perhaps 
the  best  of  the  Chinese  green  teas,  and  Pekoe  the  best  of 
the  black.  Good  black  teas  from  Ceylon  and  India  are  sold 
in  the  American  markets  from  fifty  cents  to  a  dollar  and 

29 


450  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

a  quarter  a  pound.  Fancy  scented  teas,  like  orange  Pekoe, 
are  expensive,  not  because  they  are  better  than  ordinary 
teas,  but  because  they  are  flavored.  Tea,  like  coffee,  must 
be  selected,  and  must  never  be  purchased  from  an  open 
box.  No  matter  what  variety  you  use — Ceylon,  Gunpowder, 
Young  Hyson,  Imperial  or  English  Breakfast  Tea,  see  that  it 
comes  to  you  in  a  package  unopened. 

To  Make  the  Infusion — Rinse  the  teakettle,  fill  it  with 
clean  cold  water,  bring  it  quickly  to  a  boil.  Scald  the 
pot,  which  should  be  made  of  china  or  granite,  turn  out  the 
hot  water,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  tea  to  each  half  pint  of 
tea  needed,  pour  over  the  freshly-boiled  water,  cover  the  pot, 
put  over  a  cozy  or  napkin,  let  it  stand,  away  from  the 
fire,  five  minutes,  stir,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Like  cofifee,  tea  must  be  poured  at  once  from  the 
grounds.  Any  form  of  teapot  that  will  lift  the  grounds 
from  the  water  after  the  tea  is  steeped  is  to  be  recom- 
mended. The  S.  Y.  P.  teapot  is  easily  used  and  cleaned. 
In  the  upper  part  of  the  pot  there  is  a  compartment  with  a 
perforated  bottom ;  the  tea  is  put  into  this,  the  teapot  is 
tipped  on  the  side  and  filled  with  water;  as  soon  as  the  tea 
is  steeped  the  pot  is  adjusted,  which  lifts  the  grounds  from 
the  water.  The  small,  cheap  Chinese  teapots,  with  perco- 
lator, are  preferable  to  the  old-fashioned  pots.  A  Chinese 
tea  basket  is  attractive  and  sightly,  and  makes  good  tea, 
providing  you  lift  the  grounds  from  the  water.  A  Japanese 
or  English  tea  cozy  should  be  used  to  keep  the  tea  warm 
while  it  is  steeping  and  after  you  pour  the  first  cup. 

ICED  TEA 

Iced  tea  is  not  to  be  recommended  for  the  sick — at 
least  I  cannot  think  of  any  disease  in  which  it  would  be 
especially  advantageous.  If,  however,  it  is  ordered,  make 
the  tea  according  to  the  preceding  recipe,  using  double 
quantity  of  tea.  Fill  a  glass  two-thirds  full  of  finely- 
cracked  ice,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  pour 
over  the  hot  tea ;  stir,  and  serve  with  it  a  quarter  of  a  lemon. 


451 

COFFEE 

Coffee  removes  the  sensation  of  fatigue  more  quickly 
than  any  other  stimulant.  It  allays  hunger  and  strengthens 
the  heart  action  to  a  marked  degree ;  for  this  reason  it  must 
be  used  in  moderation. 

The  aroma  of  coffee  is  due  to  caffeol,  an  oil  liberated 
or  created  in  the  roasting.  The  stimulating  eft'ect  is  due  to 
the  caffein.  Taken  at  night,  even  in  a  small  quantity,  it 
frequently  produces  insomnia.  Persons  in  health  may 
drink  coffee  in  moderation,  to  their  advantage,  providing 
they  do  not  take  it  with  meals  or  with  solid  foods.  Black 
coffee  taken  at  the  end  of  the  meal  is  better  than  coffee 
with  sugar  and  cream.  To  get  the  full  effect  of  coffee,  to 
have  it  do  its  work  properly,  one  should  take  it  alone,  early 
in  the  morning,  forty  minutes  before  the  regular  breakfast. 
In  tropical  countries  coft"ee  is  brought  to  one's  bedside  at 
five  o'clock  in  the  morning;  the  general  first  meal  of  the 
day  is  not  served  until  six-thirty,  and  coffee  is  not  repeated 
at  this  meal. 

Coffee  is  injurious  when  it  is  boiled  for  a  long  time  and 
taken  with  sugar  and  cream ;  it  always  produces  flatulency, 
and  later  on  intestinal  troubles.  If  taken  at  all,  it  must  be 
freshly  made,  and  taken  Avith  scalded,  not  boiled,  milk,  and 
sipped  slowly.  I  observe  throughout  the  country  that  most 
of  the  dyspeptics  are  found  among  people  who  take  a 
mouthful  of  bread  and  butter  and  then  a  swallow  of  coffee, 
or  who  dip  their  bread  in  coffee  to  soften  it.  A  diet  of  this 
kind  is  a  sure  road  to  destruction. 

It  makes  very  little  difference  how  much  you  pay  for 
coffee  if  the  infusion  is  carelessly  made.  Do  not  buy  coffee 
shoveled  from  an  open  bin,  in  which  it  has  been  kept,  un- 
covered, for  a  week  or  two  after  roasting.  It  has  not  only 
lost  its  flavor,  but  is  possibly  covered  with  dust,  and  under 
no  circumstances  will  make  a  good  infusion. 


452  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

THE  PERFECT  CUP  OF  COFFEE 

To  make  a  perfect  cup  of  coffee  three  things  are  neces- 
sary: 

1.  Clean  water,  freshly  boiled,  in  a  clean  teakettle. 
If  the  water  is  soft  it  must  be  taken  at  the  first  boil;  if 
hard,  boil  ten  minutes. 

2.  A  good  percolating  pot,  one  that  will  hold  the 
ground  coffee  above  the  water. 

3.  A  good  quality  of  coffee,  carefully  selected  and 
cleaned,  dry  roasted  and  finely  ground.  Pulverized  coffee  is 
economical  and  good  if  the  cook  and  housewife  know  how 
to  use  it,  but  unless  percolated  through  a  muslin  bag  or  a 
hair  percolator,  the  coffee  is  bitter  and  muddy. 

The  coffee  pot  must  be  washed  and  scalded  every  day, 
rinsed  thoroughly  and  dried. 

For  breakfast  coffee  use  scalded,  not  boiled  milk.  Do 
not  use  cream.  I  am  speaking  now  from  the  standpoint  of 
health.  Hot  coffee  poured  into  cream  makes  a  mixture  that 
nine  out  of  ten  times  produces  ''sour  stomach"  and 
flatulency. 

Allow  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  coffee  to  each  half 
pint  of  boiling  water.  To  begin ;  rinse  the  teakettle  thor- 
oughly, fill  it  with  cold  water,  stand  it  over  a  quick  fire 
and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Scald  the  pot,  let  it  stand  a 
minute,  empty  out  the  water,  put  in  the  desired  quantity  of 
coffee  and  pour  through  slowly  the  given  quantity  of  boil- 
ing water.  If  you  are  making  coffee  for  one  person,  use  a 
small  pot,  otherwise  the  grounds  will  be  distributed  in  too 
thin  a  layer  over  the  percolator.  Do  not  allow  the  infusion 
to  stand  even  five  minutes  after  it  is  made ;  use  at  once, 
or  it  loses  its  flavor  and  becomes  bitter.  In  percolated 
coffee  one  gets  the  aroma  in  the  infusion ;  if  coffee  is  boiled, 
the  aroma  is  driven  off  and  the  decoction  is  usually  bitter. 

If  you  use  an  alcohol  pot  with  a  glass,  top,  scald  the 
under  part  of  the  pot,  fill  it  Avith  fresh  boiling  water  and 
adjust  the  glass  top,  put  in  the  given  quantity  of  coffee, 
cover,  light  the  lamp  and  allow  the  water  to  pass  through 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  453 

the  coffee  for  at  least  five  minutes.  Turn  down  the  lamp 
to  keep  the  coffee  hot  until  served.  The  grounds  are  so 
far  above  the  coffee  that  they  need  not  be  removed.  If 
coffee  is  made  in  the  kitchen,  percolated  in  a  bag  or  in  a 
"second  story"  pot,  it  should  be  lifted  from  the  pot  as  soon 
as  percolated.  A  few  drops  coming  from  the  stale  grounds 
will  spoil  the  flavor  of  the  whole  potful. 

A  funnel-shaped  haircloth  bag  that  can  be  purchased 
at  any  house-furnishing  store,  hung  in  a  china  pitcher  or 
pot,  makes  a  good  percolator.  Both  pot  and  bag  must  be 
scalded  before  the  ground  coffee  is  put  in. 


BOILED   COFFEE 

If  a  percolator  is  not  at  hand,  and  you  must  make 
boiled  coffee,  see  that  the  utensil  in  which  you  are  to  make 
it  is  perfectly  clean.  Rinse  the  teakettle,  start  with  water 
freshly  boiling,  scald  the  pot,  empty  out  the  water,  put  in 
the  coffee,  allowing  a  heaping  tablespoonful  to  each  half 
pint  of  water ;  add  a  very  little  white  of  egg  and  sufficient 
cold  water  to  moisten  the  coffee ;  pour  over  the  boiling 
water,  stand  the  pot  over  a  quick  fire,  watch  it  carefully 
until  it  reaches  boiling  point,  lift  it  from  the-  fire,  put  it 
down  and  let  it  boil  again ;  lift  it  again,  bring  to  a  boil  the 
third  time ;  throw  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  if  making 
a  single  cup,  and  let  it  stand  a  moment  until  the  grounds 
have  thoroughly  settled.  Heat  a  tiny  pitcher  or  pot  with 
hot  water,  empty  it  out,  drain  the  coffee  into  the  pitcher 
and  cover.  Have  ready  the  same  amount  of  scalding,  not 
boiled  milk ;  put  them  on  the  tray  and  carry  at  once  to  the 
patient. 

DISHES  FLAVORED  WITH  COFFEE 

If  it  becomes  necessary  to  continue  the  use  of  coffee, 
it  may  be  administered  in  many  ways  besides  the  regular 
infusion.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  black  coffee  may  be  stirred 
into  well-beaten  egg,  or  a  little  whipped  cream. 


454  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

COFFEE  JELLY 

Cover  a  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water,  let  it  soak  ten  minutes,  add  a  half 
cupful  of  boiling  coffee,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  turn  at  once  into  an  individual  mold.  Serve  with  plain 
or  whipped  cream. 

COFFEE   VELVET   CREAM 

Make  coffee  jelly,  according  to  the  preceding  recipe, 
and  when  cold  and  slightly  thick  stir  into  it  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  wdiipped  to  a  stiff*  froth, 

COFFEE  MOUSSE 

,  Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  until  light ;  stir  into  it  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  coffee, 
stir  over  the  fire  just  a  minute,  take  from  the  fire,  and  when 
cold  fold  in  carefully  six  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  whipped 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  this  into  a  tiny  kettle  or  mold  and 
stand  it  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice  and  salt,  for  two  hours. 
See  that  the  mold  has  a  tight  cover,  to  prevent  the  entrance 
of  the  salt  water. 

FROZEN    COFFEE 

Sweeten  a  cup  of  coff'ee,  and  turn  it  into  a  small  indi- 
vidual freezer ;  pack  with  salt  and  ice,  and  stir  slowly  until 
frozen  like  wet  snow.  Serve  in  a  glass.  This  is  also  called 
cafe  frappe. 

COFFEE  SHERBET 

This  is  made  precisely  like  frappe;  except  stir  rapidly 
until  the  mixture  is  frozen. 

COFFEE   ICE   CREAM 

Dissolve  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  in  a  half  cupful  of 
strong  black  coffee ;  when  perfectly  cold  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  thick  cream.  Freeze,  stirring  slowly  all  the 
while. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet    FOR   THE   SICK  455 

ICED   COFFEE 

Fill  the  serving  tumbler  half  full  of  clean  cracked  ice, 
pour  over  half  a  cupful  of  boiling  cofTee ;  this  coffee  must 
be  made  fresh,  the  same  as  tea ;  it  must  not  be  a  second 
boiling,  and  must  not  stand  until  it  is  cold :  it  must  be 
quickly  chilled.    Season  with  cream  and  sugar,  if  admissible. 

CHOCOLATE   (Theobromin) 

While  chocolate  contains  an  alkaloid,  tlieohromin,  which 
is  almost  identical  with  caitein,  it  differs  very,  much  from 
cofifee  'in  its  other  constituents.  The  aroma  of  tea  and 
cofTee  are  driven  off  by  boiling,  while  the  aroma  and  food 
value  of  chocolate  is  enhanced  by  boiling.  Chocolate  is 
made  from  the  beans  or  seeds  of  the  cacao  tree.  These 
seeds  grow  in  a  large  fleshy  pod,  from  a  "cushion"  on  the 
trunk  of  the  tree.  The  fruit  is  imbedded  in  a  white  pulp, 
rather  sour  and  pleasant  to  the  taste.  After  the  seeds  or 
beans  are  taken  from  the  shells  they  are  thrown  in  a  bin, 
covered  and  allowed  to  ferment,  then  they  are  dried  in 
the  sun,  and  polished  by  "dancing."  In  some  places  a 
sort  of  red  clay  is  put  over  the  bean  after  the  first  drying 
and  before  the  dancing,  which  gives  it  a  red  polished  sur- 
face. These  seeds  or  beans  must  be  roasted  to  develop 
the  aroma  and  essential  oils.  After  they  are  roasted,  the 
shells  are  removed,  the  "beans"  are  ground  and  the  fat 
extracted.  The  residue  is  made  into  the  various  prepara- 
tions known  as  chocolate,  cocoa,  and  theobroma. 

Cocoa  is  the  dry  residue  after  the  cacao  butter  has  been 
pressed  out.  The  cacao  butter  amounts  to  forty  or  fifty 
per  cent,  of  the  weight  of  the  beans;  there  is  also  about 
fifteen  per  cent,  of  starch,  considerable  mineral  matter 
and  albuminous  substances.  One  can  see  that  cocoa  is  a 
nutritious  food,  rather  than  a  beverage,  and  cannot  be 
substituted  for  tea  or  coffee. 

Chocolate  is  manufactured  from  the  ground  and  fat- 
free  cacao  bean,  with  sugar,  flavoring,  and  sometimes  other 
substances  added. 


456  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

The  following  table,  which  was  adapted  from  Konig, 
will  show  the  reader  the  difference  between  the  cacao  beans 
and  chocolate,  and  while  in  this  table  there  seems  to  be 
no  starch  in  the  chocolate,  it  certainly  is  wise  to  boil  it. 

Cacao  Beans  Chocolate 

Water   3.25  1.53 

Nitrogenous   Substances    14.76  5.06 

Fat    49.00  15.25 

Starch    13,31  — 

Sugar    —  63.81 

Other   Non-nitrogenous   Matters    ...     12.25  11.03 

Woody   Fibre    3.68  1.15 

Ash    3.65  2.15 


TO  MAKE  CHOCOLATE 

Grate  sufficient  chocolate  to  make  a  tablespoonful,  put 
it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir  it 
until  it  reaches  boiling  point,  boil  two  minutes,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  granulated  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, add  one  cupful  of  milk,  stir  until  the  milk  is  scald- 
ing hot,  take  from  the  fire,  turn  into  the  chocolate  pot  and 
serve  it  with  whipped  cream. 


TO  MAKE  CHOCOLATE  SYRUP 

If  chocolate  is  to  be  used  as  a  daily  beverage,  it  is 
wise  to  make  syrup  and  put  it  aside  in  a  cold  place. 

Grate  a  half  pound  of  chocolate,  put  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  stir  until  it  reaches  boiling 
point,  boil  ten  minutes,  add  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar, 
stir  and  boil  five  minutes  longer,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  when  cold  put  it  into  a  jar,  cover 
and  keep  in  a  cold  place. 

When  wanted  for  use,  heat  a  cupful  of  milk,  add  one 
or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate  syrup,  beat  rapidly,  put 
a  little  whipped  cream  on  top  and  serve. 


MRS.    RORER's   diet   FOR   THE   SICK  457 

MEXICAN  CHOCOLATE 

After  the  syrup  and  milk  are  well  mixed,  add  a  quarter 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  a  drop  of  extract  of  cinnamon 
and  one  of  allspice.  Whip  it  over  the  fire  for  three  minutes 
and  serve  without  whipped  cream. 

COCOA 

Put  one  cupful  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  over  the  fire. 
Moisten  one  level  tablespoonful  of  cocoa  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  add  the  scalding  milk,  return  to  the  double  boiler, 
stir  until  the  cocoa  is  thoroughly  moistened,  cover  the 
boiler  and  cook  about  two  minutes.  Sweeten  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

Broma  and  Alkathrepta  are  made  precisely  the  same  as 
cocoa. 

ICED   COCOA 

Put  one  teaspoonful  of  cocoa  into  a  saucepan,  add  grad- 
ually two  ounces  of  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil,  boil  a 
minute,  add  four  ounces  of  milk,  take  from  the  fire  and 
stand  near  the  ice  until  it  is  perfectly  cold.  Sweeten  and 
turn  into  the  serving  glass,  and  if  admissible  add  a  little 
shaved  ice  and  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream. 

Chocolate  may  be  substituted  for  cocoa. 

COCOA  FROM  THE  NIBS 

Boil  two  hours  a  half  cupful  of  the  broken  cocoa  in  a 
farina  boiler,  with  two  quarts  of  water.  To  serve,  add  an 
equal  quantity  of  hot  milk.  The  first  mixture  will  keep  for 
two  days. 

RACAHOUT  POWDER 

I  pound  of  rice  flour  i  pound  of  cocoa 

I  pound  of  confectioners'   XXX  2  ounces  of  arrowroot 

sugar  2  ounces  of  sugar  of  milk 

I  ounce  of  powdered  salep  i  vanilla  bean 

Mix  and  thoroughly  rub  together,  put  into  glass  jars 
and  fasten. 


458  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

TO   MAKE   RACAHOUT 

^  pint  of  milk  I  level  tablespoonful  of  racahont 

I  teaspoonful  of  sugar  powder 

Put  the  milk  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler,  moisten 
the  racahout  powder  in  a  little  cold  milk,  add  it  to  the  hot 
milk,  stir  until  it  thickens,  add  the  sugar,  and  serve  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  the  top. 


RACAHOUT  BLANCMANGE 
Three  Servings 
Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  moisten  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  racahout  and  one  of  rice  flour  in  a  little 
cold  milk,  add  it  to  the  hot  milk,  stir  until  it  thickens,  add  a 
half  cupful  of  sugar,  and  turn  into  small  molds  to  harden. 
Serve  with  plain  cream. 

MATE 

This  is  frequently  called  Paraguay  tea,  and  is  made 
from  the  dried  leaves  and  small  twigs  of  the  ilex  Para- 
guayensis,  a  tree  closely  allied  to  our  ordinary  holly  tree. 
Mate  contains  a  large  amount  of  thein,  and  is  valuable  in 
exhaustion.  It  must  be  percolated  the  same  as  coffee. 
The  better  method  is  to  make  a  funnel-shaped  bag,  put  a 
wire  or  rod  around  the  top,  fit  it  to  a  china  pitcher;  scald 
the  pitcher  and  bag,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  mate  in  the  bag, 
pour  through  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  lift  the  bag,  and 
the  infusion  is  ready  for  use.     Serve  plain  or  with  sugar. 

According  to  Pavy  mate  contains  an  astringent  prin- 
ciple analogous  to  tannin,  a  volatile  oil,  and  thein  amounting 
to  1.20  per  cent. 

Mate  is  by  far  a  greater  nerve  stimulant  than  Chinese 
tea,  and  should  not  be  used  to  excess. 

The  writer  has  used  it  in  cases  of  alcoholism  with 
good  results.    Cold  or  hot,  it  allays  the  craving  for  alcohol. 


PART   III 

PHYSICIANS' 
READY   REFERENCE    LIST 


This  department  is  arranged  to  facilitate  the  work 
of  the  physician,  and  conserve  his  time.  A  full 
list  of  correct  foods  is  given  for  each  case,  at 
the  same  time  emphasis  is  laid  on  w^hat  to  avoid 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


461 


ASTHMA 


MAY  EAT 


Clear  meat  soups 

Lean  beef 

Mutton 

Poultry 

Venison 

Sweetbreads 

Tripe 

Broiled  white-fleshed  fish 

A  little  lettuce 

Tender  celery 

Grape  fruit 

Plums 

Strawberries 

Currant  juice  and  raspberries 

Blackberries 

A  little  apple  butter 

An   occasional  baked  potato,   at 

noon 
Eggs 

Rice  pudding,  unsweetened 
Vegetable  gelatins   (Gelose) 
Stewed  cucumbers 
Squash 


Cress 

Jerusalem  artichokes 

Globe  artichokes 

Spinach 

Almonds 

Brazilian   nuts 

Prunes 

An  occasional  baked  apple 

Oranges 

Shredded  wheat 

Whole  wheat  bread,  twice  baked 

Gluten  bread 

Gluten  biscuit 

Coffee,  early  in  the  morning 

A  cup  of  weak  tea  in  the  middle 

of  the  afternoon 
Milk  and  milk  preparations 
Buttermilk 
Bonnyclabber 
Koumys 

Orange  marmalade 
Guava  jelly 


AVOID 


Fats 

Fried  foods 
Sweets 
Pies 
Cakes 
Puddings 
Starchy  desserts 
Mashed  potatoes 
Gravies 

Highly-seasoned  soups 
Sea   foods   except  white-fleshed 
fish 


Cheese 
Cabbage 
All  cereals 

Breads,  except  twice  baked 
Underground    vegetables,    as    tur- 
nips, asparagus,  carrots,  salsify 
Pork 
Veal 

Warmed-over  meats 
Acids,  as  pickles 


462 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


TUBERCULOSIS 

(PULMONARY    CONSUMPTION) 

MAY  EAT 

Raw  eggs  in  milk 

Raw   eggs   alone 

Egg  flip ;  eggnog 

Beaten    white   of   egg   on    orange 

juice,  or  grape  juice,  or  fresh 

apple   juice 
Hard-boiled    yolks    of    eggs    on 

cream   toast 
Hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs  grated 

over  creamed  chicken 


Egyptian   eggs 
Beauregard  eggs 
Plain  whole  milk 
Milk  and  barley  water 
Milk  and  rice  water 
Gum  and  milk  gruel 
Posset 

Junket  with  cream 
Plain  junket 
Egg  junket 
Koumys 
Leban 
Matzoon 
Zoolak 
Olive  oil 
Cocoa ;  chocolate 
Alkathrepta 
Racahout 

Puree    of    dried    peas,    beans    and 
lentils 


All  bulk  foods 

Coarse  vegetables 

Pork ;  veal 

Ducks 

Goose 

All  acid  foods 

Sorrel 

Rhubarb 

Lemons 


Meiggs'  Food 

Eskay's  Food 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Graham  bread 

Toasted   pilot   bread 

Crisp  rolls 

Baked  potato 

Broiled  or  panned  steak 

Hamburg  steaks 

Smothered  meat 

Broiled  chops 

Roasted  lamb  or  mutton 

Roasted  beef 

Sweetbreads 

Tripe 

Broiled  chicken 

Creamed  chicken 

Chicken    timbale 

Golden  chicken 

Ceylon  chicken 

Boiled  rice 

Carefully-cooked  hominy 

Fresh   peas,    pressed   through   a 

sieve 
Lima  beans  with  cocoanut  sauce 
Lettuce      hearts      with      cocoanut 

cream 
Carefuhy-cooked  spinach 
A    few    ground,    oily    nuts    (not 

with  meals) 

AVOID 

Limes 

Pickles 

Pears 

Bananas,  unless  well  cooked 

Strong  tea 

Pastry 

Sweets  in  general 

All  fried  foods 

Hot  breads;  white  bread 


MRS.    RORER's    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  463 


PNEUMONIA 

During   the  Severity  of  the   Disease  Give 

Skimmed   milk  Beef  juice 

Skimmed      milk      shaken      with       Nutritive   beef  tea 

white  of  egg  Almond   milk,    strained 

Plain  milk   containing  not  over       Milk  and  barley  water 

3%  fat  Milk  and  rice  water 

During  Convalescence,  Add 

Milk  foods  such  as  Beef  panada 

Zoolak  Bouillon 

Koumys  Veal  broth,  strained 

Matzoon  Scraped  beef  cake 

Sour  buttermilk  A  little  milk  toast 

Eggs,  raw,  with  milk  Zweiback 

Egg,  coddled 


464 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


TONSILITIS 
MAY  EAT,  in  the  Acute  Stages 


Eggnog 

Slightly       frozen       sweetened 

Egg  flip 

cream 

Junket 

Egg  soup 

Egg  junket 

Chocolate 

Modified  junket 

Cocoa 

Koumys 

A  little  black  coffee 

Matzoon 

Coffee  ice  cream 

Kefir 

Lemon    and     orange    vegetable 

Kefir  with  white  of  egg 

gelatin. 

Meiggs'  gruel 

Almond  milk  and  isinglass 

Posset 

Rum  and  isinglass 

Fruit  juices 

When  Convalescence  Begins,  Add 

Laibose 

Beef  juice 

Beef  panada 

Zoolak 

Bouillon 

Buttermilk 

Consomnie 

Milk   soups 

Soup  a  la  Reine 

Later 

Scraped  beef  cake 

Egg    and    milk    preparations,    as 

Raw   egg  and   sherry- 

custards 

Ground    mutton    cake 

with 

al- 

Boiled  rice 

mond  meal 

Baked  potato 

Gluten  mush 

Mashed    potato 

Aleuronat  mush,  with  cream 


AVOID,  in  Acute  Stages 

All  solid  foods 


AVOID-  when  Convalescence  Begins 

Bread    stuffs  All  raw  vegetables  and  salads 

Coarse  vegetable  foods  Pork 

Coarse  cereals  Veal 

All  sweets  Pink-fleshed  fish 

Pickles  and   sour  foods  Rich  sauces  and  soups 

Fruits   stewed  with  sugar 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


465 


QUINZY 

Diet  the  same  as  in  Tonsilitis. 


SENILE  HEART 


MAY  EAT 


Very  tender   Iamb 
Chopped  beef  cake,  broiled 
Young  chicken,  broiled  or  boiled 
White-fleshed     fish,      broiled      or 

boiled 
Oysters  when  in  full  season 
Whole  wheat  bread,  twice  baked 
Eggs,   raw  and  lightly  cooked 
Very  ripe  grapes 
Custards   in  place  of  meat 
Fruit  juices 


Milk  and  milk  preparations 
Cream  soups,  with  toasted  bread, 

as  a  meal 
Almond  meal  soup 
A  little  well-cooked  spinach 
Asparagus  tips 
An  occasional  baked  potato 
Boiled  rice 
Almond  milk 
Raw    tomato, 

allowable 


with    olive    oil,    if 


AVOID 


All   stimulating  foods 

Salads 

All  raw  vegetables 

Coarse     vegetables,     as     cabbage, 

onions,    string  beans,  old   beans 

and  turnips 
Pears 
Plums 
Cherries 

Fruits  cooked  with  sugar 
Tea,    coffee    and    chocolate    with 

meals 
Mashed  and  fried  potatoes 


Green  corn 

Melons 

Cantaloupes 

Hot  breads 

Very  hot  and  iced  foods 

All  fried  foods 

Rich  soups  and  sauces 

Cake 

Pastries 

Preserves 

Hot  puddings 

Effervescing  drinks 


30 


466 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


ANGINA  PECTORIS 


MAY   EAT 


Eggs 

Milk  and  milk  foods 

Leban 

Koumys 

Buttermilk 

Well-cooked  cereals,  with  cream 

White  bread,  stale  or  dry 

Fresh     fruits,     and     fruit    juices, 

alone 
Cream  soups 
Predigested  milk  and  oysters,  if 

necessary 


Tender  green  vegetables,  as 
spinach,  cooked  cress,  aspara- 
gus tips,  tender  cauliflower, 
summer  squash 

Oysters,    lightly    cooked,     either 
soup,  stewed  or  broiled 

A  little  white-fleshed  fish,  broiled 

Stewed  prunes 

Baked  apples 

Scraped  mutton  cake,  broiled 

A   little  broiled  young  chicken 

Rice 

An  occasional  baked  potato 


AVOID 


Hot  breads 

Fresh  breads 

Cakes 

Buns 

Pies 

Sweets  of  all  kinds 

Pickles 

Meat  salads 

Pork 

Veal 

All  fried  foods 


All  sea  foods  except  oysters  and 
white-fleshed  fish 

Rabbit 

Rare  steak 

Rare  roasted  beef 

Turkey 

Duck 

Goose 

All  coarse  vegetables 

Cereals  with  sugar 

Starchy  vegetables  with  the  ex- 
ception of  rice 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


467 


ANEURISM 


MAY    EAT 


BREAKFAST 


Glass  .  of  milk,  one-third  barley- 
water,   sipped   slowly 

Two  ounces  of  blocks  of  stale 
bread,  with  four  ounces  of  milk 

Four  ounces  of  any  of  the  milk 
gruels 

Two  ounces  of  fruit  juice  over 
a  small  saucer  of  dextrinized 
cereals,  flakes  of  some  sort 

The  top  of  a  shredded  wheat  bis- 
cuit, toasted,  with  milk 


The  top  of  a  shredded  wheat  bis- 
cuit, toasted,  with  two  ounces 
of  grape  juice 

The  beaten  white  of  egg  on 
orange  juice,  and  a  wafer 

The  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten  with 
four  ounces  of  milk 

The  white  of  an  egg,  thoroughly 
shaken  with  six  ounces  of  milk 


Two     ounces     of    scraped     meat, 

broiled 
Two   ounces    of   zwieback,    pulled 

bread  or  stale  bread 
Two     chops      (a     quarter     of     a 

pound),  with  stale  bread 
Two  ounces  of  mutton  cake,  with 

stale  bread  or  cracker 


DINNER 

Three  ounces  of  chicken  timbale, 
with  stale  bread   or  cracker 

Four  ounces  of  broiled  sweet- 
bread, with  stale  bread  or  pulled 
bread 

Four  ounces  of  puree  of  lentils, 
or  ■  beans,  or  peas,  with  one 
ounce  of  toast 


SUPPER 


Three  slices  of  milk  toast  (two 
ounces  of  bread  and  six  ounces 
of  milk) 

Six  ounces  of  gelose  milk 


Two  ounces  of  toast,  four  ounces 
of  hot  milk  poured  over,  covered 
v.'ith  grated  hard-boiled  yolk  of 
egg 

Six  ounces  of  beef  meal  gi*uel, 
with  two  ounces  of  toast. 


468 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


APOPLEXY 

MAY  EAT   (When  Sufficiently  Recovered) 


Cream  soups 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

"Ye  perfect  food" 

Cornmeal  mush 

Chicken  noodle  soup 

Eggs    in    all    forms,    except    hard 

boiled  and  fried 
White  meat  of  chicken 
Boiled  white  fish 
Baked  potato 
Boiled  rice 
Summer  squash 
Topground       green        vegetables, 

lightly  cooked 
Desserts     made     from     vegetable 

gelatin 
Fresh  fruits,  without  skin 
Fruits    stewed   without    sugar,    as 

prunes  and  figs 
Dry  hard  bread 
Gluten  gems 
Swedish  bread 
Unleavened  bread 
Cocoanut  sticks 


Meats 

Pink-fleshed  fish 

Oysters 

Crabs 

Clams 

Lobsters 

Shrimps 

Scallops 

All  made-over  dishes 

Fried  foods 

Rich  soups  and  sauces 

Boiled  and  mashed  potatoes 

Fried  potatoes 

Hot  breads 

All  sweets 

Pies;  puddings 


Soups   maigre 

Custards 

Occasionally  tender  lettuce,  Ro- 
maine,  tender  celery,  with 
French  dressing 

Fresh  fruits,  except  rhubarb 

Cooked  bananas 

Light  milk  puddings 

Milk  and  cream  toast 

Mock  charlotte 

Sago  snow 

A  few  coffee-flavored  desserts 

Cream  of  Wheat,  farina,  well 
cooked 

Toasted  shredded  wheat,  with  hot 
milk  and  cream 

Rice  pudding 
as       Rice  a  la  Imperatrice 

Rice  dumpling 

Rice  cream 

Rice  pudding,   with   malt 

Fruit  toasts — elderberry,  black- 
berry and  raspberry 

Apples,  simply  cooked 

AVOID 

Cakes 

Preserves 

Stewed  fruits  with  sugar 

Ice  creams  and  ices  at  the  end  of 

a  meal 
Pickles 

Condiments  of  all  kinds 
Rhubarb 

Raw  apples,  unless  scraped 
Concentrated  beef  soups,  like  beef 

tea 
The  internal  organs  of  animals,  as 

sweetbreads,  tripe  and  liver 
All  coarse  vegetables 
White  bread  made  with  sugar  and 

lard 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


469 


PERNICIOUS  ANEMIA 


MAY  EAT 


Predigested  milk 
Predigested   sweetbreads 
Modified  milk 
Meiggs'  food 
Albuminized  milk 
Egg  flip 

Raw   egg,   with    sherry- 
Raw   egg,   with   cream 
Milk,  with  cream  added 
Whey  and  cream 
Beef    marrow,    raw    and    cooked 
Homemade  pemmican 
Ground  almonds  in  milk 
Asses'  milk 
Tigers'  milk 
Orgeat 

Brazilian  nut  butter 
Cocoanut   cream 
Cocoanut  milk  and  egg 
Albuminized  cocoanut  milk 
Broiled  scraped  beef 


Roasted    and   broiled    beef 

Broiled  chops 

Puree  of  dried  peas 

Puree  of  lentils 

Wheat  germ   food,  with  cream 

Beef  meal 

Beef  panada 

Soup  a  la  Reine 

Milk  soups,  with  whole  wheat 

bread 
Chocolate 
Cocoa 

Revalenta    Arabica 
Arrowroot 
Rice  flour 

Potato  flour  cooked  in  milk 
Boiled  rice 
Laibose 
Maltose 
Somatose 
Roborat 


ANEMIA  (CHLOROSIS) 


MAY  EAT 


Eggs 

Milk 

Milk  and  cream 

Leban 

Koumys 

Matzoon 

Buttermilk 

Junket  with  cream 

Broiled   and   roasted  beef 

Mutton 

Chicken 

Sweetbreads 

Stewed  tripe 


Baked  potato 

Boiled  rice 

Macaroni 

Spaghetti 

Fruits 

Fruit  juices 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Rye  bread 

Graham  bread 

Corn  bread 

Brown  bread 

Tender  topground  vegetables 

Peas 


470 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


MAY    EAT— Continued 


Very  young  beets  and  turnips 

Asparagus  tips 

Cauliflower 

Butter 

Olive  oil 

Cream 

Cocoanut  cream 

Cup  custards 

Soft  custards 

Chestnuts  with  cream 

Wheatlet 

Wheatena 

Oatmeal,  occasionally 

Milk  soups 

Puree  of  lentils 


Portuguese  soup 

Beef  gruel 

"Ye  perfect  food" 

Eggs,  poached  or  coddled 

Eggnog 

Golden  toast 

Beauregard  eggs 

Cocoa 

Racahout 

Rice   desserts 

Milk  desserts 

Light  green    salads,    with    French 

dressing 
Prunes,  figs  and  dates,  without 

sugar 


AVOID 


Pork 
Veal 

Salt  meats 

Salt  fish 

Pink-fleshed  and  oily  fish 

Lobsters 

Crabs 

Shrimps 

Clams 

Oysters 

Goose 

All  made-over  dishes 

Warmed-over  meats 

Rich  made  dishes 

Hot  breads 

Fresh  white  bread 


Skimmed  milk 

Strong  tea 

Coffee,  except  in  the  morning 

All    coarse    vegetables,    as    boiled 

cabbage,   turnips,  parsnips 
Mashed  potatoes 
Fried  foods 
Sweets,    as   pies,    cakes,    puddings 

and  candies 
Iced  foods 
Iced  water 
Rhubarb 
Lemons 
Limes 

Pickles  of  all  kinds 
Highly-spiced  dishes 


PURPURA  HEMORRHAGICA 

MAY    EAT 


Fresh  grape  juice,  freely 
Milk  and  barley  water 
Almond  milk 
Gelatin  water  and  lemon 


Limeade 

Orange  juice  and  white  of  egg 

Dry  albumin  in  milk 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


471 


GASTRIC  DISTURBANCES 
TOO    LITTLE    HYDROCHLORIC    ACID 


MAY    EAT 


Peptonized   milk 
Peptonized  oysters 
White  of  egg  and  whey- 
Skimmed  milk  gruels 
Well-cooked     Cream     of     Wheat 

and  farina,  with  skimmed  milk 
Baked     potato     with     salt,     no 

butter 
Scraped  beef  cake,  broiled 
Scraped  mutton  cake,  mixed  with 

eight  blanched,  grated  almonds; 

broiled 
Cocoanut  milk  custards 
Lightly-cooked  eggs 
Boiled  mutton 
Boiled  chicken 
Rice  pudding  made  from  skimmed 

milk 
Skimmed  milk  koumys 


Stale  bread,  without  butter 

Daintily-cooked    topground    vege- 
tables ;  skimmed  milk  sauce 

Tender    hearts    of    lettuce,    with 
lemon  juice 

Albumin  in  skimmed  milk 

Albumin  whey 

Beef  panada,  made  with  water 

An  occasional  clear  beef  soup 

Chestnut     puree,      made     from 
skimmed  milk 

Boiled  rice 

Carefully-baked    banana,    without 
sugar  or  butter 

Bananas    stewed    in    water,    very 
slightly  sweetened 

Fruit  juices 

Fresh    ripe    soft    fruits,    without 
skin  or  seeds 


AVOID 


All  fatty  foods,  as  cream,   butter, 

olive  oil,  cocoanut  creams 
Highly-seasoned  dishes 
Iced  dishes 
Iced  water 

Strong  tea  and  coffee 
Chocolate 
Pork 
Veal 
Duck 
Goose 
Turkey 
Fried  foods 


Sweets 

Puddings 

Pies 

Cakes 

Coarse   underground   vegetables 

Hot  breads,  as  muffins,  gems,  etc. 

Rich   cream   soups 

All  sea  foods,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  white-fleshed  fish,  and 
oysters,  broiled 

All  spiritous  liquors,  unless  or- 
dered by  a  physician 


472 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


WITH    EXCESS    OF    HYDROCHLORIC    ACID 


MAY    EAT 


Whole  milk 

Milk  soups 

Cereals  with  cream 

Whipped  cream  desserts 

Nut  dishes 

Nut  milk 

Whole  wheat  and  white  bread  one 

day  old,  well  buttered 
Eggs,  lightly  cooked,  not  fried 
Koumys 
Matzoon 
Buttermilk 
Leban 


Dainty     green     vegetable     salads, 

with   French   dressing 
Baked     potatoes,     mashed     with 

cream 
Boiled  rice 

Gluten  bread,  well  buttered 
Broiled  meats,  in  a  small  quantity 
Puree  of  lentils 

Purees  of  fresh  green  vegetables 
Broiled  bacon 
Beef  nieal 
Cocoa 
Chocolate   made   from   milk,   with 

whipped  cream 


AVOID 


Excessive  meat  diet 

Pickles 

Spiced   foods 

All  sweets 

Soft  breads 

Hot  breads 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Fried  foods 

Fish 

Crustacea 

Mollusks 

Tea  and  coffee 

Milk  and  meat  at  the  same  meal 

Eggs  and  meat  at  the  same  meal 


Sauces  and  rich  soups 

Coarse  underground  vegetables 

Pork 

Veal 

Duck 

Goose  and  turkey,  except  a  little 
white  meat 

Ice  creams  and  ices 

All  spiritous  liquors,  unless  or- 
dered by  a  physician 

Malt  liquors 

Iced  drinks 

Nibbling  between  meals 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


473 


DILATATION    OF    THE    STOMACH 


MAY    EAT 


Broiled,    boiled    and    baked    lean 

meats 
Baked  potatoes 
Boiled  rice 
Macaroni 
Spaghetti 
Hominy  grits 
Spinach 
Cauliflower 
Tender  lettuce 
Cooked  cress 
Stewed  summer  squash 
Stewed  cucumbers 
Carefully-cooked  fruits 
Fruit  tapiocas 


Dried  fruits,  stewed  without  sugar 

Milk  puddings 

Fruit  vegetable  gelatins 

Well-cooked   cereals 

Whole  wheat  bread 

White  -bread 

Carefully-made  corn  bread 

Pilot  bread 

Potato  sticks 

Cocoanut  fingers 

Eggs,  lightly  cooked 

Broiled  white  fish 

Oysters,  lightly  cooked 

Custards,  baked  and  boiled 


AVOID 


All  concentrated  foods 

All  fried  foods 

Coarse  vegetables,  as  boiled  cab- 
bage 

Pork 

Veal 

Sea  foods,  except  white  fish  and 
oysters 

Pies 

Cakes 

Preserves 

Candies 


Highly-seasoned    sauces    and 

soups 
Gravies  of  all  kinds 
Pickles 
/Alcoholic  and  malt  liquors,  unless 

ordered 
Overdone  meats 
Hot  breads,   except   corn   bread 

and  w^ell-baked  waffles 
Tea,    coffee,    chocolate   and    milk, 

with  meals 


474 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


DYSPEPSIA    WITH    FLATULENCY 

MAY    EAT 


Hard   dry  bread 

Broiled  steak 

Broiled  chops 

Boiled  beef 

Eggs 

j\Iilk  and  milk  preparations 

Orange,  apple  and  grape  juice 

Beef  tea 


Mutton   broth 

Chicken  broth 

Blanched  and  dried  almonds 

Sliced  tomato 

Tender     heart     of     lettuce, 

lemon  juice 
Baked  potato,  occasionally- 
Whole  wheat  bread 


with 


AVOID 

Tea    and    coffee,    with    sugar   and       Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 


milk 
Tea  and  coffee,  with  meals 
Milk  with  meals 
All  soft  foods 
Milk  soups 
All  sweets 
Made  dishes 
Coarse  vegetables 


Pork 

Veal 

Bacon 

Ham 

Fish 

Lobsters 

Oysters  and  clams 

Water  with  meals 


AVOID 

at  all  times  and  under  all  conditions,  even  after  a  so  called  "cure' 
is  effected: 


All   fried   foods 

Sweets 

Cooked  fats  of  meat 

Tea    and    coffee    with    sugar    and 

cream  with  meals 
Chocolate  with  meals 
Salads   with   mayonnaise   dressing 
Pork 
Veal 
Sausages 

Highly-seasoned   sauces 
Meat  gravies  of  all  kinds 
Pies 
Cake 


Preserves 

Iced  food  at  the  end  of  the  meal 

Pickles 

Boiled  cabbage 

Boiled  dinners  in  general 

The    outside    pieces    of   baked    or 
roasted  meats 

Hot    breads,    except    crisp,    well- 
baked  waffles 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Sea    foods,    except    white-fleshed 
fish 

Thick  rich  soups 

Wines  at  meals 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


475 


ATONIC   DYSPEPSIA 


MAY    EAT 


Orange  juice 

Apple  juice 

Grape  juice 

Blackberry  juice 

Baked  potato,  with  a  little  butter 

and  a  drop  of  tabasco 
Chopped     meat     cakes,     seasoned 

with  tabasco 
Broiled  steak 
Roasted  beef 
Chicken 
Turkey- 
Dainty    green    vegetable    salads, 

with  French  dressing 
Grape  fruit 
Oranges 


Strawberries 

Guava  jelly 

Orange  marmalade 

Cauliflower 

Summer   squash 

Tapioca,  flavored  with  fruits 

Clam  broth 

Oyster  bouillon 

Beef  tea 

Chicken  tea 

Meat  jellies 

Milk 

Koumys 

Leban 

Matzoon 

Buttermilk 


AVOID 


All  fried  foods 

Sweets 

Bulk  foods 

Cereals 

Soft  breads 

Hot  breads 

Pickles 

Skins  of  fruit 

Coarse  vegetables 

Pork 


Veal 

Pink-fleshed  fish 

Shad 

Chocolate 

Cocoa 

Tea   and   coffee,   with   sugar   and 

milk 
Water  with  meals 
Milk  with  meals 


476 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


HUNGRY  DYSPEPSIA 


MAY  EAT 


Cream  soups 

Strained  cereals 

Baked  potatoes 

Boiled   rice 

Stewed  macaroni 

Hominy 

Hominy  grits 

Baked  sweet  potatoes 

Mashed  and  baked  sweet  potatoes 

Pumpkin,  baked  or  stewed 

Stale  breads 

Green  peas 

Cauliflower 


Spinach 

Broiled,  roasted  or  baked  meats 

Eggs 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Nuts  (a  few) 

Almonds  with  meat 

Raw  pineapple,  grated,  served 
as  a  sauce  to  broiled  meats, 
or  sliced,  eaten  with  broiled 
meats 

Light  desserts,  like  fruit  tapiocas 

Very  tender  green  salads 


AVOID 


Tea 

Coffee 

Pork 

Veal 

Fried  foods 

Sweets  in  general 

Pickles 

Bran   bread 

Pepper 


Rich  soups  and  sauces 
Coarse  vegetables 
Beans  with  hulls  on 
Underground  vegetables,  with  the 

exception  of  potato 
Pears 

Watermelons 
Cantaloupes 
Spiced  foods 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


477 


NERVOUS   "DYSPEPSIA' 


MAY    EAT 


Puree  of  lentils 

Milk  soups 

Dry  bread 

Fruit  juices 

Oranges 

Grape  fruit 

Baked  potatoes 

Boiled   rice 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Clam  broth 

Oyster  bouillon 

Broiled    steak 

Chops 

Roasted  beef 

Mutton 

Broiled  chicken 

Salisbury  cakes 

Rorer  meat  cakes 

Scraped  beef  cakes 

Crisp  French  bread 


Fresh  green  peas 
Spinach 
Celery 
Romaine 
Lettuce 

Stewed  cucumbers 
Dry  boiled  rice 

Unroasted  and  unsalted  almonds 
A  little  cream 
Cocoanut  milk  and  cream 
Well-cooked  Wheatena  or  Wheat- 
let 
Simple   whipped-cream  desserts 
Orange  marmalade 
Guava  jelly 
Blackberry  jam 
Hard  bread 
Pilot  biscuit 
Water  crackers 
Eggs,  except  fried 


AVOID 


All  meat  soups 

Acids 

Pickles 

All  sweets 

Pies 

Puddings 

Preserves 

Cakes 

Candies 

All  fried  foods 


Coarse  vegetables 

Cereals,  except  those  mentioned 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Tea 

Coffee 

Chocolates 

Liquors,  malt  and  alcoholic 

All  hot  breads 

Soft  breads 


478 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


ACUTE  GASTRITIS 


MAY   EAT, 

Predigested  milk  preparations 

Peptonized  milk  gruels 

Albuminized  whey 

Modified  milk,  without  cream 

Banana  meal  mush,  with  milk 

Egg    flip 

Egg  cordial 


in  the   Order  Given 

Almond  milk 

Koumys 

Matzoon 

Kefir 

Leban 

Meiggs'  food 

Fruit  juices 


Followed  by 

Cornmeal  and  arrowroot  gruel  Scraped  beef  cake 

"Ye  perfect  food"  Scraped   mutton   cake 

Broiled  sweetbreads  Soup  a  la  Reine 

Double  soup  Oatmeal  mutton  soup,  strained 

Double  bouillon  Veal  broth 


Later 


Well-cooked  light  cereals,  or  the 
ready-cooked  cereals,  with  milk 

Very     ripe     subacid     fruits,     as 
peaches  and  fresh  guavas 

Cooked  bananas 

Strained  blackberry  and  raspberry 
juice 


Broiled  scraped  meat  cake,  with  a 

little  fresh  grated  pineapple 
Broiled  tender  chops 
Broiled  birds 
A  little  well-cooked  rice 
Somatose 


AVOID 


Fresh  breads 

Hot  breads 

All  dry  foods 

Old  peas,  beans  and  lentils 

Pork 

Veal 

Fried  foods 

Salt  foods 

Lobsters 

Clams 

Crabs 

Shrimps 


Rich  soups  and  sauces 
Highly-seasoned   dishes 
Coarse  vegetables 
Raw  apples  and  pears 
Acid  foods,  as  pickles 
Uncooked  vegetables 
Anchovies 
Herring 
Caviar 

Alcoholic    and    malt    liquors,    un- 
less ordered 
Strong  tea  and  coffee 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


479 


CHRONIC   GASTRITIS 


MAY  EAT 


Predigested  food,  if  necessary,  but 
only  occasionally 

Broiled  tender  meats 

White  fish 

Cream  soups 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Junkets  of  all  kinds 

Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 

Alilk  gelose 

Carefully-boiled  rice 

Tender    lettuce    or    celery,    occa- 
sionally 

Stewed  prunes,  without  skins 

Eggs,  carefully  cooked 

Cereals,   strained  and  well  masti- 
cated 

Crackers 


Dark    grapes,    without    seeds    or 

skins 
Pilot  bread 

An   occasional   aleuronat  gem 
Cocoanut  milk 
Cocoanut  cream 
Tomato,  with  cocoanut  cream 
Heart    of   lettuce,    with    cocoanut 

cream 
Spinach 
Green  peas 
Asparagus 
Stewed  cucumbers 
Squash 
Cooked  cress 
A  little  olive  oil 
A  little  cream 


If  Accompanied  With   Constipation,   Add 


Baked  apples 
Coddled  apples 
Scraped  apples 
Fig  panada 


Fruit  juices  in  the  early  morning, 
and  fig  panada  the  last  thing 
at  night 


AVOID 


Pork 

Veal 

Oysters 

Clams 

Crustacea 

Salt  foods 

Warmed-over  meats 

Fried  foods 

Candies 

Puddings 

Pies 

Cakes 

Sweets 


Hot  breads 

Highly-seasoned  foods 

Beef  tea 

Tea,    coffee    and    chocolate    with 

meals 
All   liquors,   unless   ordered  by  a 

physician 
Black  pepper 
Spices 

Very  little  salt 
Fats  in  general 
Fruits  with  sugar,  stewed  or  raw 


480 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE    SICK 


ULCER  OF  THE  STOMACH 


MAY    EAT 


Predigested  milk  and  oysters 
Milk  and  milk  preparations 
Milk  and  vichy 
Milk  and  apollinaris 
Cream  soups 
Later,  broiled  chop 
Finely-minced      meats,      carefully 

broiled 
Broiled  chicken 
Sweetbreads 
Tripe 
Birds 

Baked  potato 
Pulled  bread 
Unleavened  breads 
Warm  cup  custards 


Soft  custards 

Boiled  rice 

Stewed  cucumbers 

Stewed  summer  squash 

Green  peas,  pressed  through  a 
sieve 

A  little  pulp  of  sweet  corn,  with- 
out the  husk  of  the  grains 

Oysters,    stewed   and   in   soup 

An   occasional  baked  apple 

Stewed  prunes 

Prune  souffle 

Prune  jelly 

Vegetable  jellies 

Guava  jelly 


AVOID 


All  fried  foods 

Sweets 

Severe  acids 

All  underground  and  coarse  veg- 
etables, as  cabbage,  onions, 
turnips 

Hot  breads 

Pastry 

Uncooked  vegetables,  as  let- 
tuce,  celery 

Uncooked  fruits 


Coarse  cereals 

Condiments 

Highly-seasoned     sauces     and 

soups 
Rich  dishes 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 
Sea  foods,  except  oysters 
All  salt  foods 
Old  peas,  beans  and  lentils 
Fruit  jellies,  except  guava 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE    SICK 


481 


INTESTINAL  INDIGESTION 


MAY 

Beef,    broiled,    boiled,    baked    or 

roasted 
Mutton,  broiled,   boiled,  baked  or 

roasted 
Chicken,  broiled,  boiled,  baked  or 

roasted 
Birds 
Venison 
White-fleshed   fish,   broiled   or 

boiled 
Eggs,         soft  -  boiled,         steamed, 

poached ;  yolks  and  hard-boiled, 

pressed     through     a     sieve     on 

milk  toast 
Sweetbreads,  creamed  or  broiled 
Olive  oil,  a  little 
Butter,  a  little 

Whole  wheat  bread,  well  baked 
Bread  sticks;  mush  bread 
Boiled  rice 
Rice  pudding 
Cup  custard;  junket 
Soft  custards 
Koumys 


EAT 

]^lodified  milk 

Orange  juice 

Prunes,  dates  or  figs,  stewed  with- 
out sugar 

Lettuce 

Celery 

Cream  soups,  as  spinach,  celery,  or 
lettuce 

Carefully-cooked   cauliflower 

Roquefort  or  other  ripe  cheese  in 
small  quantities 

The  early  spring  mushrooms 

New  turnips,  cooked  below  boiling- 
point  in  unsalted  water,  served 
with  cream  sauce 

Stewed  cucumbers 

Stewed  squash 

Baked  bananas,  cream,  horseradish 
sauce 

Very  young  peas,  pressed  through 
a  sieve 

Cress,    chicory,    endive,    lettuce 

A  cup  of  cofifee,  alone,  once  a  day 

Very  weak  tea 


AVOID 


Boiled  coffee 
Boiled  tea 
All  sweets 
Fried  foods 
White  bread 
Crackers 
Cakes 

Small  acid  fruits 
Pork  in  all  forms 
Veal 
Turkey 
Duck 

Cooked  cabbage 

Starchy  foods  and  sweets  in  gen- 
eral 
31 


Beets 

Corn,  green 

Potatoes 

Pickles 

Spiced  foods 

Gelatin  desserts 

Red  or  dark  fish 

Salt  foods 

All  the  Crustacea 

Clams 

Oysters 

Iced  water 

Acid  drinks 

Flavored  soda  water 


482 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR    THE   SICK 


ACUTE  INTESTINAL  CATARRH 


MAY  EAT 


Modified  milk,  without  milk  sugar 

Albuminized  water 

Gelatinized  water 

Junket 

Vegetable  gelatin  with  fruit  juice 

Soft-cooked  eggs 

Eggs  and  milk 

Meat  cake 

Broiled  chops 

Meat  broths,  with  dry  albumin 

Predigested  gruels 

Aleuronat  wafers 

Almond  wafers 

Zwieback 


Tea 

Leban 

Koumys,  occasionally 

Strained  gruels 

Meat  juice 

An  occasional  bit  of  toast 

Grape  juice 

Strained  orange  juice 

Apple  juice 

Blackberry  toast 

Elderberry  jelly 

Huckleberry  jelly 

Very  ripe  peaches 

Fruit  gelose 


MUST  AVOID 


All  vegetable  foods 

Coarse  cereals 

Fruits,  except  those  mentioned 

All   acid   foods,   as   pickles,   etc. 

Highly-seasoned  meat  soups 

Bread 

Coflfee 


All   fats  and  fatty  foods 

Puddings 

Pies 

Cakes 

Rich  desserts 

Sauces 

Sea  foods 


ULCER   IN   THE   DUODENUM 


MAY    EAT 


White   of  egg  and  water 

White  of  egg  in  whey 

Modified  milk 

Meiggs'  food 

Barley  water  and  milk 

German  food  gruel 

"Ye  perfect  food" 


Rice   water   and   milk 

Milk  and  vichy 

Albuminized  milk 

Mutton  broth  with  barley,  strained 

Cocoa  from  the  nibs 

Weak  tea 


MRS.   RORER'S  diet  FOR  THE   SICK 


483 


During  Convalescence 


Rice  purees 

Hard  toast 

Milk  soups 

Orange  and  grape  juice 

Finely-chopped  or 

scraped  beef 

Leban 

Broiled  chop 

Matzoon 

Soup  a  la  Reine 

Koumys 

Beef  panada 

Clabber 

Pulled  bread 

A  little  honey 

Swedish  bread 

Occasionally  tender  heart  of  let- 

Pilot bread 

tuce,  with  French  dressing 

AVOID 

All  vegetable  food: 

s 

Gruels 

Fruits    in    general, 

except 

fruit 

Cereals 

juice 

Pork 

Sweets 

Veal 

Fatty  and  starchy  : 

foods 

Crustacea 

All  sour  foods 

Oysters 

Raw  vegetables 

Clams 

CHRONIC  CONSTIPATION 
MAY    EAT 


Portuguese  soup 

Oatmeal  broth 

Cream  of  carrot  soup 

Veal  broth 

Coffee,     with     scalded     milk,     no 

sugar,  alone  in  early  morning 
Well-cooked  cereals 
Steamed  figs 
Dates 

Baked  apples 
Plums,    very    ripe    and    without 

skins 
Grape  fruit 
Orange  juice 
Grape  juice 
Apple  juice 
Toasted     shredded     wheat    and 

milk 


Bran  mush 

Oatmeal  mush 

Wheatlet 

All    topground    green    vegetables, 

carefully  cooked 
Raw  cabbage  salad 
Lettuce 
Cress 
Endive 
Chickory 
Celery 
Celery    and    apple,    with    French 

dressing 
Stewed  macaroni  without  cheese 
Baked  potato 
Baked  pumpkin 
Stewed  squash 
Nut  foods  in  place  of  meat 


484 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


MAY    EAT— Continued 


Buttermilk 

Leban 

Koumys 

Matzoon 

Zoolak 

Kefir 

Broiled  white  fish 

Raw   scraped   apple,   at  night 

Grated  turnip,  with  salt,  at  night 

Stewed  grated  carrot 

Milk,  with  milk  sugar  added 

CarefuUv-cooked  spinach 

Kale 

Asparagus  tips 

Young  peas 

Bran  bread 

Graham  bread 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Brown  bread 

Corn  bread 


Roman  meal  gems 

Gelatin   desserts 

^^egetable   gelatin   desserts 

Brown  Betty 

Bread   and  milk  pudding 

Fig  panada 

Chicken 

Lamb 

Mutton 

Chopped  meat  cakes 

Broiled  steak 

Stewed  veal 

Sweetbreads 

Tripe 

Sliced      tomato,      with      cocoanut 

cream 
Green  vegetable  salads 
Fruit  salads,  French  dressing 
An  abundance  of  water 


AVOID 


Milk  with  meals 

Cheese  and  cheese  preparations 

All  fried  foods 

Pies 

Cakes 

Preserves 

Tea 

Soft  foods  in  general 


Coffee   and    chocolate    with    sugar 

Stewed  fruit  with  meals 

Pickles 

White  bread 

Mashed  potatoes 

Fried  potatoes 

Beef  tea 

Consomme 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


485 


APPENDICITIS 


MAY  EAT,  in  Early  Stages 


Milk  and  cream 

Modified  milk,  witli  double  quan- 
tity of  sugar  of  milk 

Meiggs'  food 

Egg  and  milk 

Junket 

Fruit  juices,  especially  orange 
and  apple  juice 


Prune  pulp 

Prunes,    steamed,   without   skins 

Grape   fruit 

Baked  apple 

Apple  sauce 

Cranberry  jelly 

All  fruit  jellies  not  too  sweet 

Coffee,  if  allowable 


Later 


Whole  wheat  bread,  well  but- 
tered and  masticated  thor- 
oughly 

Cornmeal  souffle 

Baked  potato 

Milk  soups 

Carefully-cooked,   strained   cereals 

Spinach 

Puree  of  green  peas 

Asparagus  tips  with  French 
dressing 

Sliced  tomato  without  seeds 

Puree  of  tomato 

Stewed  cucumbers 


Stewed  squash  ■, 

Nut  roll 

Almond  and  apple  pudding 

Eggs,     poached,     steamed,     and 

hard-boiled  yolks 
Artichokes 
Jerusalem  artichokes 
Cauliflower 
Puree  of  sorrel 
Stewed  rhubard 

Boiled  mutton,  beef  and  chicken 
White  fish,  broiled  or  boiled 
Game 


AVOID 


All  bulk  foods 

Skins  of  fruit  and  vegetables 

Pork 

Veal 

All  fried  foods 

Lobsters,  crabs,  clams  and  oysters 

Mashed  potatoes 

Boiled  cabbage 

Underground  coarse  vegetables, 

as  turnips 
All  complicated  sweets 


Toast,  either  dry,  buttered  or  milk 

toast 
Seeds  of  small  fruits 
String  beans 
Pickles  of  all  kinds 
Condiments 
White  bread 
Soft   drinks 
Lemonade 
Cocoa 
Chocolate 
Tea 


486 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


CHRONIC  DIARRHCEA 


MAY    EAT 


Predigested  milk 

Modified  milk,  without  milk  sugar 

Blackberry  cordial 

Elderberry  toast 

Blackberry  toast 

Mutton    broth,    with    barley    and 

rice 
Browned  rice  gruel 
German  flour  and  milk 
Barley  gruel 


Toasted  crackers 
Zweiback 
Hard,   dry  toast 
Weak  tea 
Mulled  port  wine 
Port  wine  whey 
Claret  whey 
Fresh  grape  juice 
Concord  grapes 
Soft,    ripe   peaches 


followed  later  with  milk  soups,  hard  crackers,  lamb  chops,  boiled 
minced  mutton,  Cream  of  Wheat,  well  cooked  and  thoroughly 
masticated;  a  little  boiled  rice,  and  an  occasional  baked  potato,  as 
the   patient   grows   better. 


AVOID 

Variety  at  meals 

Geese 

All  vegetable  foods,  except  baked 

Turkeys 

potato  and  boiled  rice 

Pies 

All  uncooked  vegetables 

Cakes 

All  fried  foods 

Puddings 

Coffee 

Prunes 

All   the   Crustacea,   oysters,   clams 

Figs 

and  fish 

Dates 

Soft  breads 

Pears 

Rich  sauces 

Rhubarb 

Soups 

Strawberries 

Pork 

Raspberries 

Veal 

Currants 

Bacon 

Citrus  fruits 

Ducks 

MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


487 


ACUTE  DYSENTERY 


MAY  EAT,  in 

Modified    milk 

Modified  milk  with  albumin 

Gelose  with  brandy 

Meiggs'  food 

Modified   milk,    without    sugar   of 

milk 
Mutton  broth,  boiled  with  rice  or 

barley,   and    strained 
Dry  toast 
Zwieback 

Water  crackers,  well  masticated 
Boiled  rice 


the  E^rly  Stages 

Browned  rice  gruel 

Arrowroot  gruel 

"Ye  perfect  food" 

German   food  gruel 

Blackberry  jelly  water 

Blackberry  drink 

Blackberry  juice 

Grape  juice 

A   few   ripe   blackberries,   without 

cores 
Very  ripe  peaches 


MAY  EAT,  When  Convalescing 

Broiled,  boiled  or  roasted  mutton      Water  crackers 
White  fish,  broiled 


Baked  potato 

Boiled  rice 

Cream  of  Wheat 

Farina 

Eggs,  soft 

Raw  eggs 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Junket 

Occasionally  tapioca,  cup  custards, 

soft  custards 
Zweiback 
Pilot  bread 


Hard  toast 

White  bread,  without  lard 

Tea 

Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 

White  of  egg  on  orange  juice 

Dark,   ripe   grapes,   without   seeds 

or  skins 
Very  ripe  peaches 
Toast  water 
Blackberry  dishes 
Elderberry  jelly 
Guava  jelly 
Orange  marmalade 


AVOID 


All  coarse  vegetables 

Bran  bread 

Cereals 

Fruits,  except  those  mentioned 

Fats  and  fatty  foods 

Coffee 

Beef 

Pork 

Veal 


Chocolate 

Cocoa 

Raw   vegetables 

Gelatin 

Sweets,  pastries  and  preserves 

Turkey 

Duck 

Goose 


488 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


DIET  IN  HEMORRHOIDS 


MAY    EAT 


Baked  potatoes 

Grated  and  stewed  carrots 

Carefully-cooked  spinach 

Cauliflower 

Young  sweet  peas 

All     green     vegetable     salads — 

especially    string    bean    salad 
Onions,    carefully    boiled,    baked, 

made  into  soup 
Cereals,  well  cooked 
Graham  bread 
Unleavened  bread 
Corn  bread 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Nut  milk 

Vegetable  gelatin  dishes 
Leban 
Koumys 
Matzoon 


Buttermilk 

Clabber 

Broiled  and  roasted  beef 

Mutton 

Chicken 

Duck 

Turkey 

All  fresh  fruits 

Dates 

Figs 

Prunes,   cooked  without  sugar 

Fruit  juices 

Tomatoes,  raw  or  baked 

Eggs 

Butter 

Cream 

Cocoanut  cream 

Kefir 

An  abundance  of  water 


AVOID 


All  fried  foods 

Pork 

Veal 

Fat  meats 

Fruits  with  seeds 

Rhubarb 

Pickles 

Sour  dishes 

Asparagus 

Boiled  cabbage 

Old  beans,  peas  and  lentils 


Cheese 

All  spiced  dishes 

Alcoholic  beverages  unless  ordered 

Strong  tea 

Rich  sauces 

Meat  soups 

Puddings 

Pies 

Cakes 

Candies 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


489 


PERITONITIS 


MAY  EAT,  in  Early  Stages 


Modified  milk 

White  of  egg  beaten  with  water 
Strained  mutton  broth 
Chicken  tea 
Chicken  jelly- 
Beef  jelly- 


Veal  and  lamb  broth,  strained 
Port  wine  whey- 
Junket  whey- 
Gelatin  w^ater 
Toast  water 
Arrowroot  gruel  and  milk 


Followed  by 


Strained  gruels 

Milk  and  barley  water 

Koumys 

IMatzoon 

Bonnyclabber 

Buttermilk 


Bartholow's  Food 
Beef  panada 
Gelatin  bouillon 
Bouillon  a  la   Colbert 
Semi-solid  beef 
Eggs 


Scraped  meat  cake 

Broiled  chop 

Stewed  tripe 

Oyster  soup 

Oatmeal  broth,  with   mutton 

Cornmeal  broth,  with  mutton 

Sweetbreads 

Chicken  souffle 

Chicken  pufT 

Chicken,  in  potato  cases 


Later 

Golden  chicken 
Ceylon  chicken 
Baked  potato 
Boiled   rice 
Stewed  prunes 
Baked  apple 
Fruit  juices 
Toast,     hardtack 
fingers 


or     cocoanut 


AVOID,  for  a  Long  Time 


Excessive  fats 

Starchy  foods 

Mashed  potatoes 

All  underground  vegetables 

Coarse  vegetables,   as  kale   and 

cabbage 
Condiments 


All  highly-seasoned  meats, 

soups  and  sauces 
Curd    of   milk,    unless    especially 

treated 
Raw    fruits,    except    orange    juice 

and  grape  fruit 
Sour  foods 
Raw  vegetables 


490 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


OBESITY 


MAY   EAT 


Clear  meat  and  vegetable  soups 

Meat  broths,  strained 

Meats  in  jelly 

Chicken  tea 

Chicken  jelly 

Chicken  in  jelly 

Broiled,  boiled  and  baked  beef, 
mutton  and  chicken;  occasion- 
ally veal 

Broiled  chipped  beef 

White-fleshed  fish 

Eggs,   lightly  cooked 

Tender  green  vegetables,  as 
cooked  cucumbers,  squash, 
string  beans 

Lettuce,  chicory,  celery,  endive 
and  raw  cabbage,  with  lemon 
juice  and  a  little    oil 

Stewed  turnips 

Spinach 

Kale 

Asparagus 

Onions 

Cauliflower 

Brussels  sprouts 

Dandelions 

Sour  dock 

Oysters,  raw,  broiled  and  boiled 

Oyster  bouillon 

Clam  broth 


Bellevue  bouillon 

Artichokes 

Olives 

Tomatoes 

Fruit  juices,  without  sugar 

Raw  fruits,  without  sugar 

Very  little  stale  bread 

Cocoanut  fingers 

Almond  wafers 

Aleuronat  gems 

Gluten  gems 

Junket  from  skimmed  milk 

Buttermilk  occasionally 

Ripe    cheese,    as    parmesan    and 

schmierkase 
Hazel  nuts  and  cob  nuts 
Soy  preparations 
Coffee,  without  sugar  and  cream 
Clear  weak  tea 
One     glass     of    water    between 

meals 
Oranges 
Grape  fruit 
Ripe  peaches 
Baked   apple,    without   sugar   and 

cream 
Currants 
Raspberries 
Blackberries 


AVOID 


Milk  soups 

Butter 

Cream 

Olive    oil,    except    a    little    on 

green  vegetables 
Sea  foods,  except  white  fish 
Salt  foods 


Pork 
Veal 

All  made  meat  dishes 
Rich  sauces  and  soups 
Potatoes,    sweet    and    white 
Macaroni 
Cereals 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


491 


AVOID— Continued 


Rice,  except  occasionally 

Parsnips 

Beets 

Corn 

All  sweet  dishes  and  candies 

Malt  and  alcoholic  Hquors,  un- 
less ordered 

All  sweet  wines,  including  cham- 
pagne 

Pickles 


Bacon 

Breads  in  general 

Duck 

Goose 

Liver  and  kidneys 

Dates  and  figs 

Pears 

Chocolate  and  cocoa 

Water  in  large  quantities 


DIET  FOR  LEANNESS 


MAY 

EAT 

Cream  soups 

Macaroni 

Broiled  and  boiled  beef 

Hominy  and  hominy  grits 

Mutton 

Well-cooked  cereals,  with  cream 

Turkey 

Salads 

Chicken 

Butter  and  cream 

Game 

Olive  oil 

Breakfast   bacon 

Cocoanut   cream 

Good  white  bread,  well  baked 

Nuts    as    pecans,    black    walnuts, 

Baked  potatoes 

pinons,  a  few  almonds  and  pea- 

Asparagus 

nuts 

Onions 

Sweet  fruits 

Cauliflower 

Light  cream  desserts 

Rice 

Plenty  of  cool,  pure  water 

AVOID 

All   bulk   foods,   as   cabbage,   tur- 

Cakes 

nips,  kale 

Rich  sauces 

Clear  soups 

Liver  and  kidneys 

Sea  foods,  with  the  exception  of 

Tripe 

white-fleshed  fish  and  oysters 

Pork 

Candies 

Veal 

All  salt  meats 

Pickles 

Pies 

Fried  foods 

Puddings 

Tea  and  coffee  with  meals 

492 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


GOUT 


MAY    EAT 


All  forms  of  hard  bread 
Milk  soups,  without  butter 
Clam  broth 
Bellevue  bouillon 
Skimmed  milk 

Roquefort    cheese,    small    quantity- 
Eggs,  occasionally 
Bjoiled  bacon 

Chopped  meat  cakes,  broiled 
Farinaceous  foods  and  cereals 
Rice 

Puree   of   lentils 
Sago  and  fruit 
Tapioca  and  fruit 
Strawberries,   if  they  agree 
Young  peas 


French  canned  peas 

String  beans 

Celery 

Stewed  turnips 

White  potatoes,  occasionally 

Okra 

Artichokes,  French  and  Jerusalem 

Stewed  cucumbers 

Light  salads,  little  oil  and  plenty 

of  lemon  juice 
Stewed  summer  squash 
Cauliflower 
Kohl-rabi 
Baked  eggplant 
Lettuce,  cress,  endive 


AVOID 


Meats  in  general ;  pork,  veal  and 

salt  meats  in  particular 
All     appetizers,     as     anchovies, 

caviar,    herring    and    herring 

roe 
All     warmed-over     meats     and 

entrees 
Fat  foods  in  general 
All  fresh  hot  breads 
Buckwheat  cakes 
Pastries,  preserves  and  candies 
All  sweet  drinks 
Jams  and  jellies 
Melons 
Peaches 
Plums 
Nectarines 


Apricots 

Grapes 

Figs 

Bananas 

Prunes 

All   sour  foods   and  condiments 

Pickles  and  spiced  dishes 

Indigestible   foods,   as  mushrooms 

Cheese 

Such  green  vegetables  as,  radishes, 
asparagus,  rhubarb,  spinach,  to- 
matoes, garden  cress,  beets, 
parsnips,  salsify  and  yellow 
turnips,  because  they  are  dense ; 
boiled  cabbage,  onions,  baked 
beans 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


493 


RHEUMATISM 


The  Anaemic  Rheumatics  May  Eat 


Whole  milk,  with  cream 

Modified  milk 

Koumys 

Leban 

Matzoon 

Buttermilk 

Wheat  germ  food 

Oatmeal 

Stewed  veal 

Eggs 

Eggs   in   milk 

White  of  egg  and  milk 

Hard-boiled  yolks  on  milk  toast 

Milk  toast 

Puree  of  lentils 

Nut  soups 


Peanut  souffle 

Boiled  rice 

Stewed  macaroni 

Hard  bread 

Vegetable  soups 

Vegetable  broth 

Milk  soups 

Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 

Baked  apples 

Orange   juices 

Grape  fruit 

Almond  croquettes 

Boiled  or  stewed  chestnuts 

Vegetable  broth 

Soup  Crecy 


AVOID 


All  fried  foods 

Preserves 

Jellies 

Soft  breads 

Hot  breads 

Red  meats 

Pork 

Veal,  fried  or  baked 

Poultry,     except    white 

chicken 
Pies 


meat    of 


Cakes 

Puddings 

Candies 

Tea   and   coffee,   with   sugar   and 

cream 
Prunes 
Figs 
Dates 

Coarse  vegetables 
Potatoes 


494 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


RHEUMATISM 


Cream  of  Wheat, 
Shredded  wheat 
Farina 
Tapioca 
Sago 

Banana  mush 
Soy  bean  mush 
Hard  toast 
Skimmed  milk 


The  Obese  May  Eat 

with  milk 


Gluten  biscuits 

Swedish  bread 

Ship  biscuits 

Pilot  bread 

Bent's  water  crackers 

Milk  toast 

Toasted  crackers,  with  milk 

White  of  egg  and  milk 


Later 


Puree  of  rice 

Soup  a  la  Reine 

Puree  of  old  beans 

Puree  of  green  peas 

Stewed  macaroni 

Boiled  rice 

An  occasional  baked  potato 

Yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs 

White  of  egg  and  milk 

Orange  juice 

Grape  juice 

Apple  juice 


Lemonade 

Baked    apple,    occasionally,    with- 
out sugar 
Blackberries 

Blackberry  jam,   without   seeds 
Currant  juice  on  raspberries 
A  little  stewed  veal 
Broiled  white  meat  of  chicken 
Nut  foods 
Peanut  souffle 
Gruels 


Nearing  Recovery,   Add 


A  little  well-cooked  spinach 

Raw  celery 

Stewed  celery 

Tender  lettuce,  Romaine,  endive, 
dandelions,  with  French  dress- 
ing 


Apple    and    celery,    with    French 

dressing 
Broiled  oysters 
A  bit  of  broiled  fish 
Lamb  chop 


Carbonated  water  and  vichy 

milk 
Orange  Juice  and  white  of  egg 


At  All  Times 

with 


Orange  juice  and  plain  water 
Grape  juice 
Apple  juice 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


495 


AVOID 


All  meat  soups 

Meat  broths 

Meat  jellies 

Red  meats 

Pork 

Roasted  and  fried  veal 

Poultry,  except  a  little  chicken 

Potatoes 


All  sweets 

Sauces 

Highly-seasoned  dishes 

Entrees 

Preserves 

Pickles 

Coarse  vegetables 

Tea  and  coffee 


CHRONIC  RHEUMATISM 


MAY    EAT 


All  farinaceous  foods 

Shredded  wheat 

Farina 

Oatmeal 

Rolled  wheat 

Barley 

Cornmeal  mush 

Cornmeal   gems 

Stale  bread 

Swedish  bread 

An  occasional  gluten  biscuit 

Broiled  white  fish 


Eggs 

Spinach 

Stewed  cucumbers 

Squash 

Kale 

Brussels  sprouts 

String  beans 

Lima  beans 

Soy  bean  souffle 

Soy  bean  gems 

Soy  bean  soup 

Stewed  veal  occasionally 


If  the  Patient  is  Anaemic,  Add 

Koumys,  leban,  matzoon,  egg  and  milk 


AVOID 

The  same  as  in  Acute  Rheumatism. 


496 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR    THE   SICK 


BILIOUSNESS 


MAY    EAT 


Clam  broth 

Oyster  bouillon 

Nut  milks 

Leban 

Koumys 

Clabber 

Buttermilk 

Dandelions 

All  tender  green  vegetables,  care- 
fully cooked  without  fat 

Delicate  green  salads,  with  French 
dressing 

Tender  celery 

Fruit  juices 

Apples 

Oranges 

Grape  fruit 

Strawberries 

Raspberries 

Prunes 

Figs 


Grapes 

Spinach 

Kohl-rabi 

Stewed  cucumbers 

Summer  squash 

Young  peas 

Water  cress 

Watermelon 

Nut  dishes 

Broiled  or  roasted  beef,  mutton 
and  chicken 

Sweetbreads  and  tripe 

Eggs  occasionally 

Junket 

IMilk  and  vichy 

Lemonade 

Raspberry  vinegar 

Blackberry  vinegar 

Plenty  of  water 

A  little  black  cofifee  before  break- 
fast 


AVOID 


Fatty  foods 

Pies,  cakes  and  puddings 

Sweet  dishes 

Candy 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Pears ;  peaches 

Cantaloupe 

Potatoes 

All  spices 

Pepper 

Salt  in  quantities 

All  fried  foods 

Veal;  pork;  sausages 

Hot  breads 

Buckwheat  cakes 

Crustacea 

Old  peas  and  beans 

Alcoholic  and  malt  liquors 


Tomatoes ;  turnips 

Beets ;  carrots 

Sweet  potatoes 

Cabbage ;  cauliflower 

Brussels  sprouts 

Kale 

Pickles 

Rich  sauces  and  soups 

All  salt  foods 

All  dried  fruits 

The  internal  organs,  as  liver,  kid- 
neys 

Cereals 

Such  oily  dishes,  as  sardines, 
canned  salmon;  in  fact  all  fish 
should  be  avoided 

Corn  breads 

Tea  and  coffee  with  meals 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


497 


CATARRHAL  JAUNDICE 


MAY    EAT 

Clam  broth  Leban 

Oyster  bouillon  Matzoon 

Chicken  tea  Zoolak 

Chicken  jelly  Fruit     juices, 
Strained  mutton  broth  waters 

Junket  whey  Lemonade 

White  of  egg,  shaken  in  water  Lemon  "squash 

White  of  egg  in  whey  Orangeade 

Buttermilk  Nut  milks 


with     efTervescinj 


In  Convalescence 


Milk  toast  from  skimmed  milk 
Beef  broth 
Beef  panada 
Broiled  chop 
Soup  a  la  Reine 


Zwieback 

Clear  coffee  the  first  thing  in  th 

morning 
Stewed   cucumbers 
Boiled  summer  squash 


Raw   fruit   alone,   not   with  meals      Raw  tomato 


AVOID 


Sweets 

Fats 

Fried  foods 

Indigestible  meats 

Eggs 

Pork 


Veal 

Bacon 

Crustacea 

Mollusks 

Vegetable  foods  in  general 

Tea,  coffee  and  chocolate 


32 


498 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


CIRRHOSIS 


Modified  milk 

Junket  whey 

Milk  and  barley  water 

Milk  and  rice  water 

White  of  egg  and  water 

White  of  egg  and  whey 

Grape  juice 


MAY 

without  cream 


EAT 

Orange  juice 

Apple  juice 

Koumys 

Leban 

Matzoon 

Zoolak 

Kefir 


AVOID 

Everything    except    the    articles    mentioned 
until  a  change  is  ordered  by  the  physician 


the    preceding   list, 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


499 


GALL  STONES 


MAY  EAT 


Coffee  early  in  the  morning 

Tea   in   the   middle   of   the    after- 
noon, without  food 

Lettuce,     cress,     cabbage,     with 
French   dressing 

Brussels  sprouts 

Acid  fruits 

White  bread 

Unleavened  bread 

Gluten  biscuits 

Cocoanut  sticks 

Fruit  gelose 

Baked  potatoes 

Potatoes  mashed  and  baked 

Lemonade 

Orangeade 

Effervescing  waters 

Plain  water  in  abundance 


An  occasional  nut  dish 
Almond  milk 
Leban 
Koumys 
Buttermilk 
Clabber _ 

Albuminized  milk 
Albuminized  whey 
Orange  juice  and  white  of  egg 
Apple  juice  and  white  of  egg 
Baked  apples 
Strawberries 

Strained  currant  juice,  with  effer- 
vescing waters 
Grape  juice 
Grapes 
A  little  stewed  veal  and  lamb 


AVOID 


Whole  wheat  bread 

Cereals 

Spinach 

Sorrel 

Old  peas  and  beans 

Lentils 

Carrots 

Yolks  of  eggs 

All  fish 

Meats  in  general 

Calves'  brains 

Sweetbreads 

Tripe 

Liver,  kidneys 


Underground  vegetables 
All     fruits,     except     those     men- 
tioned 
Peaches 
Bananas 
Figs 
Dates 
Raisins 
Prunes 
Pies 
Cakes 
Puddings 
Fried  foods 
Hot  breads 


500 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


SICK  HEADACHE 


MAY    EAT 


BREAKFAST 

One  cup  of  clear  coffee,   or 
The  juice  of  two  oranges,  or 
A  grape  fruit,  or 
A    saucer    of    prunes,    without 

sugar,  or 

10.30 
A    glass    of   zoolak,   or   buttermilk,   or  koumys,   or   clabber  or 

skimmed    sweet    milk 


A  mellow  sour  apple,  well  mas- 
ticated 

Each  must  be  taken   alone, 
without  other  food 


12.30 


A  bit  of  white-fleshed  fish,  or 
Chicken,  boiled  or  broiled,  or 
Boiled   calf's   head,    with    lemon 

juice;  or 
Boiled    calf's    feet    with    lemon 

juice;  or 


Breads  allowable 
Gluten  biscuit,  stale  bread,  whole 
wheat    bread,    Boston    brown 
bread 
Drink  pure  water  between   meals 


Fruit  juices,  without  sugar, 
served  with : 

Asparagus,  spinach,  cress,  dan- 
delions, endive,  cauliflower, 
kohl-rabi,  stewed  cucumbers, 
summer  squash,  string  beans 
without  fat,  or  stewed  tender 
celer}^ 

Eat  acid  fruits  with  meat,   rather 

than  bread 
Strawberries,  oranges,  grape  fruit 

and    water    ices    allowable    now 

and  then 


AVOID 


Tea,    coffee    and    chocolate    with 

meals 
Soups  at  the  beginning  of  meals 
Pork 
Veal 
Turkey- 
Goose 
Game 

Red  meats,  except  occasionally 
Rich  sauces 
Puddings 
Pies 
Cakes 


Sweets 

Cabbage,  cooked  and  raw 

Kale 

Peppers 

Carrots,   except  grated,  raw 

Sweetbreads 

Tripe 

Liver 

Sea  foods,  except  white  fish  and 

oysters 
Kidneys 
Starchy    foods,    as    potatoes,    rice 

and  macaroni 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


501 


AVOID— Continued 


Fresh   white  bread 

Hot  breads 

Sour  dishes 

Pickles 

Salads   with   mayonnaise   dressing 

Tomatoes 


Old  peas,  beans  and  lentils 
Sweet  fruits 
Fried  foods 
Fatty  foods 
Ice  creams 


URIC  ACID  DIATHESIS 

MAY    EAT 


Cream  soups 

White-fleshed     fish,     broiled    or 

boiled 
An  occasional  bit  of  chicken 
Soup  a  la  Reine 

Puree  of  lentils,  peas  and  beans 
Vegetable  gelatins,  unsweetened 
Very  little  butter 
Dishes  made  from  white  of  egg 
Coffee,    cocoa,    chocolate,    broma, 

alkathrepta,     racahout,     without 

sugar 
Skimmed  milk 
Modified  milk 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Oatmeal  bread 
Unleavened  bread 
Crisp  crackers 
Well-cooked  cereals 


Rice   without   sugar 

Macaroni    and    spaghetti,    without 

cheese 
Gluten  mush 
Gluten  bread 

An  occasional  aleuronat  gem 
Soups,   maigre 
Fresh  green  vegetables 
Peas 

Lima  beans 

Tender  hearts   of  lettuce 
Young  celery 
Baked  potato 
Globe  artichokes 
Stewed  turnips 
Jerusalem  artichokes 
Fruits  without  sugar 
Fruit  juices 


AVOID 


All  sweets 

Red  meats 

Sauces 

Meat  soups 

Yolks  of  eggs 

Fat 

Pork 

Veal 

All    pink-fleshed    fish,    Crustacea, 

oysters,  clams 
Rhubarb 
Gooseberries 
Strawberries 


Grapes 
Pears 
Dates 
Figs 
Raisins 
Prunes 
Currants 

Coarse  vegetables 
Cheese 

Milk,  except  in  cofTee  and  cocoa 
Sour  milk  dishes,  leban  and  kou- 
mys 


502 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


ALBUMINURIA 


MAY    EAT 


Water  gruels,  especially  cornmeal 

gruel 
Skimmed  milk 

Modified  milk,  without  cream 
Buttermilk 

Skimmed  milk  koumys 
Fruit  juices 
Carefully-cooked     fruits,     without 

sugar 
Cream  soups 

Rice  and  rice  preparations 
Cereals  with  milk 


Skimmed  milk  toast 

Gluten  toast,  without  butter 

Baked  apple,  occasionally 

Blancmange 

Vegetable  gelatin   preparations 

Stale  breads 

Cocoanut  fingers 

Gluten  biscuits 

Unleavened  bread 

Whole   wheat  bread 

Corn  breads 


Later 

Eggs  may  be  added,  but  butchers'  meats  must  be  wholly  ex- 
cluded for  a  long  while.  Crisp  crackers  may  now  and  then  be 
substituted  for  bread.  All  topground  vegetables  are  admissible, 
except  boiled  cabbage  and  onions. 


AVOID 

The  same  things  that  you  would  avoid  in  Nephritis. 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


603 


FUNCTIONAL  ALBUMINURIA  IN 
CHILDREN 


MAY    EAT 


Milk 

Milk  and  barley  water 
Arrowroot  milk  gruel 
Farina  milk  gruel 


German  flour  gruel 

Meiggs'  food 

Barley  and  rice  gruel 


Later 


Hard-boiled     yolk     of     egg     over 

milk  toast 
Milk    soups 
Nut  soups 
Fruit  juices 

Carefully-cooked  cereals 
Boiled  rice 
Rice  pudding 
Puree  of  lentil  meal 
Carefully-cooked   spinach 
Cooked  cress 
Tender  cauliflower 


Cooked   celery 

Tender  lettuce,  with  French  dress- 
ing 

Apples,   raw   and   baked 

Fruit  gelose 

Sour  milk  foods,  as  zoolak,  mat- 
zoon  and  buttermilk 

Verj^  ripe  small  fruits 

Stale  bread 

Whole   wheat   bread 

Nut  bread 

Baked   potato,   occasionally 


Meats  and  meat  soups 

Sea  food 

White   of   egg 

Fried  foods 

All  sour  foods,  as  pickles 


AVOID 

Sweet    dishes,    as    pastry, 
preserves  and  candies 


cakes, 


Old   peas,   beans   and   lentils,    ex- 
cept puree  of  lentil  meal 


Adults  who  have  this  disease  may  add  to  the  preceding  list  a 
little  chopped  white  meat  of  chicken,  a  bit  of  broiled  white-fleshed 
fish,  and  occasionally  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs  grated  over  milk 
toast. 


504 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR   THE    SICK 


CHRONIC  BRIGHT'S  DISEASE 


MAY  EAT,  following  the  Milk  Diet 


Milk  toast 

Milk  gruels 

Cream  soups 

Carefully-made   nut   dishes 

An  occasional  puree  of  lentils 

Golden  toast 

Occasionally  boiled  white   fish 

Chicken  timbale 

Soup  a  la  Reine 

Topground  vegetables 

Baked  potato 


Cereals 
Buttermilk 

Skimmed  milk  clabber 
Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 
Fruits  cooked  without  sugar 
Dry  bread 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Corn  bread 

Light  green  vegetable  salads 
Weak  chocolate  and  cocoa ;  alka- 
threpta,  broma  and  racahout 


AVOID 


All  meats 

Fish 

Crustacea 

Oysters 

Clams 

Coarse  vegetables 

All  meat  soups 

Eggs,  unless  ordered 

Hot  breads 

Fresh  white  bread 

Tea 


Coffee,  unless  ordered 

All  sweet  dishes 

Pickles 

Spiced  foods 

Rich  sauces 

Pastry 

Cakes 

Preserves 

Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Rhubarb 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE   SICK 


605 


ACUTE  NEPHRITIS 


MAY 


Milk  sipped  slowly- 
Alkaline  waters 
Effervescing  waters 
Lemonade 
Lemon  squash 
Imperial  drink 


EAT 

Modified  milk 
Koumys 
Buttermilk 
Meiggs'  food 
Cornmeal  gruel 


If  Edema  is  Present 


Reduce  the  liquids  Boiled     rice,    pressed    through    a 

Farina,  well  cooked,  without   salt  sieve,    with    cream,    no    salt    or 

Cream  of  Wheat  sugar 

Two    ounces    of    dry    toast,    with  four  ounces  of  cream 

If  Diarrhoea  Occurs  Give 


Browned  rice  gruel 
twice  a  day 

If  Constipation 

Buttermilk 

Koumys 

Leban,  and  an  ounce  of  cream  at 
each  feeding 

Sanitas   almond  meal   soup 

Nut  milks 

When    solid   foods   are   indicated: 
Chicken  timbale 
Milk  toast  with  cream 
Farina  pudding;  blancmange 
Tender     green     peas,     pressed 

through  a  sieve 
Rice 


Evans'  tea  gruel 

Occurs  Give 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Tender   stewed  celery 

Dark  grapes,   w^ithout  skin   and 

seeds 
A     half     dozen     blanched,     un- 

roasted   almonds 
Baked   apples 
Apple  juice 
Orange  juice 
Grape  juice 
Bartholow's  food 
Carefully-cooked   prunes 
Gluten  biscuits 


Red  meats 

Rich  soups  and  sauces 

Meat  soups 

Sweets ;  pastry 

Pies;  puddings 

Spiced  dishes;  pickles 

Tea ;  coffee 

Sour  salads 

Fried  foods 


AVOID 

Sea  foods ;  salt  foods 
Coarse  vegetables 
Hot  fresh  breads 
New  beets 
Sweet   corn 
Raw  cucumbers 
Cantaloupes 
Mushrooms 
Cheese 


606  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

CHRONIC  NEPHRITIS 


MAY   EAT 

Milk 

Milk   and   barley   water 

Milk  and  rice  water 

Modified  milk 

Milk  gruels,  strained 

Later 

Milk  soups 
Toast 

Water  crackers 

Later 

Light  white  meats  Very   young   green   peas,   pressed 

Broiled  white-fleshed  fish  through  a  sieve 

Freshly  killed   game  Tender  young  corn 

Cauliflower  Fruits  and  fruit  juices 


AVOID 

All  raw  vegetables       ~  Red  meats 

Salads  with  mayonnaise  All  fried  foods 

Old  peas,  beans  and  lentils  Sweets 

Mushrooms  Rich  sauces 

String  beans  Meat  soups 

Asparagus  Hot  breads 


MRS.    RORER'S    DIET    FOR   THE    SICK 


507 


OXALURIA 


MAY    EAT 


White  meat  of  chicken  and  lamb 
White-fleshed      fish,      broiled     or 

boiled 
Stale  white  bread 
Crisp  crackers 
Gluten  biscuits 
Orange  juice 
A    half    pint    of    hot    water,    one 

hour  before  each  meal 
Soft  water   between   meals 
Rice 

Whole  wheat  bread 
Rye  bread 

Shredded  wheat  biscuit 
Oatmeal 
Meiggs'  food 


Cornmeal  water  gruel 
Prunes 

Vegetable  jelly  desserts 
Nut  dishes 

Milk  toast,  without  butter 
Dry  toast,  with  a  very  little  but- 
ter 
Arrowroot  gruel 
Imported  endive 
New  beets 
String  beans 
Tender  lettuce 
Stewed  cucumbers 
Green  peas 
Weak  tea 
Cocoa 


AVOID 


Strong  tea 

Strong  coffee 

Chocolate 

Carbonated  water 

Tomatoes 

Onions 

Spinach 

Cabbage 

Kohl-rabi 

Brussel  sprouts 

Cauliflower 

Sorrel 

Fresh  green  peppers 

Rhubarb 

Citrus  fruits 


Apples 

Pears 

Strawberries 

Cranberries 

Currants 

Cress 

Liver 

Kidney 

Sweetbreads 

Tripe 

Salt  foods 

Meat  soups 

Gelatin  dishes  of  all  kinds 

All  rich  and  indigestible  foods 


508 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE   SICK 


CALCULI,  RENAL 


MAY    EAT 


Rice 

Baked   potato 

Nut  purees 

Nut  dishes  in  general 

Almond  milk 

Stale  breads 

Hominy 

Hominy  grits 

Stewed  cucumber 

Squash 

Sweet  fresh  corn 

Celery 


String  beans 

Peas 

Cauliflower 

Cornmeal   mush 

Blancmange 

Eggs,   occasionally 

Light    salads,    with    a    little    olive 

oil  and  lemon  juice 
Fruits,  cooked  without  sugar 
Fresh  fruits 
Cream  soups 
Boiled  white  fish 


AVOID 


Red  meats 

Pork 

Veal 

Pink-fleshed  fish 

Sweetbreads 

Liver 

Brains 

Tripe 

All  salt  meats  and  fish 

All  highly-seasoned  dishes 

Spiced  dishes 

Butter 

Bacon 

Rhubarb 

Carrots 

Spinach 

Sorrel 


Cabbage 

Cress 

Brussels   sprouts 

Parsley 

Meat   soups 

All  fatty  foods 

Sweets 

Pie 

Cake 

All  cereals  except  farina  and 
Cream  of  Wheat 

Sour  foods,  like  pickles 

All  small  fruits,  as  raspberries, 
strawberries,  currants,  blackber- 
ries, cherries  and  plums,  unless 
ordered  by  a  physician 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


509 


DIABETES 


MAY    EAT 


Cream  of  turnip 
Cream  of  oyster 
Soups : 

Clear  meat  soups 

Tomato  broth 

Clam  broth 

Oyster  broth 

Chicken  broth,  with  celery 

Fish: 

Fresh  white-fleshed  fish,  broiled, 

boiled  or  planked 
Oysters,  in  small  quantities 
Terrapin 

Meats : 

Beef,  mutton,  poultry  and  game, 

broiled,  baked  or  stewed 
Calves'  sweetbreads 
Tripe 
Boiled  calves'  heads 

Sauce : 
Cream,  egg  and 
Tomato  without  thickening 

Eggs : 

Eggs   in   all   ways,   except   fried 
or  hard  boiled 
Milk: 

Skimmed  milk 

Skimmed  milk  junket 

Cheese  in  small  quantity 
Vegetables : 

Celery 

Shaved  raw  cabbage 

Carefully-boiled     cucumbers, 
without  sauce 

Cauliflower 

Broiled   fresh   mushrooms 

Cress 

Lettuce 


Chicory 

French    artichokes,    with    butter 

sauce 
Spinach 
Raw.  tomatoes 
Cymlins 

Breads : 

Almond  wafers 

Almond  bread 

Gluten  bread,  made  from  eighty 

percent,  gluten  flour 
Gluten  gems 
Aleuronat  gems 
Aleuronat  zweiback 
Soy  gems 
Bran  loaf 
Bran  wafers 
Eighty  percent,  gluten  biscuits 

Fruits : 
Oranges 

Lemons 

Grape  fruit 

In  mild  cases,  peaches 

Desserts : 
Cup  custard 
Almonds 
Brazilian  nuts 

Beverages : 

Clear  weak  tea  and  coffee 
Plain  and  aerated  waters 

Fats. 

A    little    olive    oil,    with    lemon 

juice,  on  lettuce 
Cocoanut  butter  may  be  used  on 

vegetables 
A  little  unsalted,  perfectly  fresh 

butter  may  be  taken  once  a 

day 


510 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


AVOID 


All  warmed-over  meat  dishes 
All   highly-seasoned  soups 
Milk  soups  with  thickening 
Salt  fish 
Lobster 
Crabs 
Shrimps 

Pink-fleshed  fish 
Clams 
Scallops 

Veal    and   pork,   with   the    excep- 
tion of  broiled  bacon 
Liver  and  kidneys 
Potatoes 
Parsnips 
Carrots 
Peas 
Salsify 
Old  Peas 
Beans 


Lentils 

Sweet  corn     ■ 

Asparagus 

Boiled  cabbage 

Canned  mushrooms 

Radishes 

Raw  cucumbers 

Winter  squash 

Sweet  potatoes 

Yams 

Breads  and  all  cereals 

Boiled  coffee 

Cocoa 

Chocolate 

Wines 

Liquors 

Beer 

All  fruits,  except  those  mentioned 

All  sweets,  pastries  and  puddings 


MRS.    RORER'S    diet    FOR    THE    SICK 


511 


FOODS   ADMISSIBLE    FOR   CHILDREN 


FROM    THREE    TO    FOUR 


MAY    EAT 


Milk  and  milk  foods 

Milk  gruels 

Milk  soups 

Buttermilk 

]\Iatzoon 

Leban 

Clabber 

Junket  and  junket  preparations 

Well-cooked  cereals 

Vegetable      gelatins      with      fruit 

juices 
Fresh   fruits   and   fruit  juices 
Nut      preparations      made      from 

ground  nuts 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Occasionally  corn  bread 
Now  and  then,  stale  white  bread 
Carefully-cooked      chicken,      beef, 

lamb  and  white-fleshed  fish 
Warm  custards 
Occasionally,  ice  cream 


Tender     green     vegetables,     with 

French   dressing 
Baked  potatoes 
Potatoes,  mashed  and  browned  in 

the  oven 
Eggs,  lightly  cooked 
Occasionally,  soft  boiled  onions 
Summer  squash 
Cauliflower 
Stewed  celery 

Prunes,    stewed   without   sugar 
Sterilized  dates 
Baked  and  stewed  bananas 
An       occasional       mutton       chop, 

broiled 
Rice  and  rice  preparations 
Occasionally,       carefully-stewed 

macaroni 
Simple  desserts,  as  blancmange, 

rice  pudding,  fruit  gelatins,  cup 

custards,    soft    custards,    dishes 

made  from  fruits 


AVOID 


All  sweet  made  dishes 

Fried  foods 

Meat  soups 

All  hot  fats 

Highly-seasoned  foods 

Fat  meats 

Gravies 

Sea  foods,  except  white  fish 

Bread  and  butter  and  sugar 

Cakes 

Butter  highly  salted 

Preserves 

Undercooked  cereals 

Pastry 

512 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


FROM    FOUR    TO    TEN 


BREAKFAST 

Cream  of  Wheat  Stewed  prunes 

Farina  Stewed  figs 

Hominy  grits  Chopped  dates 

Cornmeal  mush  Whole    wheat   bread,   well   but- 

Oatmeal  tered 

Rolled  wheat  Milk  or  cream,  according  to  the 

Shredded   wheat  cereal 

Puffed  rice  Baked  apples 

Corn  flakes  Baked  bananas 


DINNER 


Puree  of  peas,  beans,  lentils  and 

peanuts 
Baked  potatoes 
Boiled  rice 

Carefully-stewed  macaroni 
Boiled     chestnuts,     with    cream 

sauce 
Occasionally     chopped     white 

meat  of  chicken 
Soup  a  la  Reine 
Chicken  boudins 
A  little  chopped  mutton  cake 
Clopps 
An   occasional    piece   of   broiled 

white  fish 
Eggs  a  la  Martin 
Poached  eggs 
Eggs   Cardoze 
Eggs  Jefferson 
Vegetables : 

Stewed  cucumbers 
Young  peas 


Green    corn,    pressed    from    the 

cob 
Summer  squash 
Carefully-cooked   spinach 
Tender     lettuce,     with     French 

dressing 
Cooked  cress 
Cooked  kale 
Stewed  celery 
Stewed  grated  carrots 
Stewed      turnips      with      cream 

sauce 
Desserts : 

Junket  and  junket  preparations 
Tapioca    and    sago,    with    fruit 

juice 
Cup  custards 
Soft  custards 
Floating  island 
Vegetable     gelatins     with     fruit 

juice 


Rice  pudding  and  toast 
Poached  eggs  on  toast 
Beauregard  eggs 
Cereals 
Milk  toast 
Golden  toast 
Junkets  and  toast 
Milk  soups   and  toast 


SUPPER 

Whole  wheat  bread  and  butter 

Toasted  crackers  and  butter 

Milk  crackers 

Toasted   pilot   bread,   with  milk 

Cornmeal  mush  and  milk 

Leban 

Buttermilk  and  brown  bread 


MRS.    RORER'S    diet    FOR    THE    SICK 


613 


AVOID 


Strong  meat  soups 

Rich  sauces 

Stewed    fruits   with   sugar 

All  coarse  vegetables 

All  fried  foods 

Pickles 

All  complicated  sweets,  like  cakes, 

pies,  preserves  and  puddings 
Fruits  and  cream 
Crustacea 
Pink-fleshed  fish 
Oysters 
Clams 
Tea 


Coffee 

Chocolate 

Cocoa 

All  red  meats 

Raw   nuts,    unless  ground 

Candies 

Bread  and  sugar 

Cookies 

Sweet,  crackers 

Foods    between    meals,    except 

fruits 
Lemonade 
Soda  waters 
All  soft  drinks 


MARASMUS 


MAY    EAT 


Cream 

Olive  oil 

Cocoanut  cream 

Modified  milk,  with  cream 

Orange  juice 

Cream  and  barley  water 


Cream  and  plain  water 
Meiggs'  food 

Barley  water  and  top  milk 
Barley  water,  milk  and  cream 
Rice  water,  milk  and  cream 


33 


514  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 


MEASLES 

MAY   EAT,    During  the   First   Three   Days 

Milk  and  hot  water,  half  and  half      Warm  water,   with  a  little  sugar 
Hot  milk  and  barley  water  and  cream 

Whey  and  grape  juice 

Later,  When  the  Appetite  Appears,  Give 

Milk  soups  Cream  of  Wheat 

Milk  toast  Thirst  may  be  allayed  by  weak 

Farina  tea,   clover   tea,  or  hot  water 

The  top  of  a  shredded  wheat  bis-          with  sugar  and  milk 


cuit,  with  milk 


When   Convalescing,    Give 


Cereals  and  milk,  with  the  excep-       Fruit  and  fruit  juices 

tion  of  oatmeal  Baked  potato,  carefully  mashed 

Cream  soups  Plain  boiled  rice,  with  milk 

Cup  custards  Potato  souffle 

Blancmange  Potato  timbale 

Junket  Rice  dumplings 

Egg  junket  Rice  cream 

Eggs,  lightly  cooked  Rice  pudding 
Plum  porridge 

AVOID 

All  meat  dishes  Preserves 

Meat  soups  Ice  cream 

Sauces  All  cold  dishes 

Gravies  Sea  foods 

Cakes  Hot  breads 

Pies  '                        Coarse  vegetables 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


515 


CHOREA 


MAY    EAT 


Eggs  and  egg  preparations 
Milk    and    milk   preparations, 

cepting  koiimys 
Cream 
Broths 
Cream  soups 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Cup   custards 
Soft  custards 
Fruit  juices 


Vegetable    gelatin,    flavored    with 
ex-  fresh  fruit 

Carefully-made  nut  foods 

Now  and   then  a  piece   of   white 

meat-  of  stewed  chicken 
An     occasional     lamb     chop,     but 

never    at    the    same    meal    with 

eggs  or  milk 
All     carefully-cooked     topground 

vegetables 


AVOID 


All  sweets 

Highly-seasoned  made-over  dishes 

Coarse  vegetables 

Pickles 

Red  meats 

Bulk  foods 

Tea 


Coffee 

Chocolate 

Puddings 

Pies ;  cakes 

Such  raw  vegetables  as  cucumbers, 

cabbage,  or  the  outside  stalks  of 

celery 


516 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


Modified  milk 
Eskay's  food 
Albuminized  milk 
Cream   and  whey- 
Arrowroot  gruel 
Meiggs'  food 
German  flour  gruel 
Pineapple  .juice 


DIPHTHERIA 

MAY    EAT 


Mutton  tea 
Vegetable  bouillon 
"Ye  perfect  food  " 
Cream,  eggs  and  beef 
Cornmeal    gruel 
Eggs  and  whey 
Plum   porridge 
Beef  meal 


Milk 

Milk  soups 
Mutton  broth 
"Ye  perfect  food" 
Semi-solid  beef 
Beef  gruel 


MUMPS 

MAY    EAT 

Egg  and  milk 

Cream  soups,  and  such  milk  foods 
as  kefir,  buttermilk,  almond 
milk,  albuminized  milk,  plum 
porridge,  arrowroot  milk  and 
milk  gruels 


WHOOPING  COUGH 


MAY    EAT 


Milk 

Milk  and  barley  water 

Milk  and  white  of  egg 

Gelatinized  milk 

Milk,  rum  and  isinglass 

Eggnog 

Egg  soup 

Chestnut  soup 

Warm  cup  custard 

Soft  custard 

Floating  island 

Well-cooked  cereals 


Junket 

Buttermilk 

Milk  toast 

Milk  toast  with  hard  boiled  yolk 

grated  over 
Egg  flip 

Chicken  broth,  with  rice 
Soup  a  la  Reine 
Strained  mutton  broth 
Fruit  juices 

Lemon  and  orange  Irish  moss 
Fruit   gelose 


AVOID,   During  the   Severity  of  the   Disease 

All    solid    foods    and    fruits,    except  orange  and  lemon  juice 


MRS.    RORER'S    diet    FOR    THE   SICK 


517 


ENURESIS 


MAY    EAT 


Eggs,  simply  cooked 
Well-cooked     cereals,     with    milk 

or  cream 
Dry  toast 
Miik  toast 
Stewed  prunes 
Stewed  figs 
Baked  bananas 
Milk  and  milk  preparations 
Carefully-cooked  chicken 
White-fleshed  fish 
Boiled  rice 
Baked  potato 
Young  peas 
Spinach 


Sweet  corn 
Very  young  turnips 
Tender  celery 
Fruit  tapiocas 
Blancmange 
Custards 
Fruit  gelose 
Whipped  cream 
Zwieback 
Toasted  rusk 
light  crackers 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Gluten  bread 

A     few     ground     nuts,     between 
bread  and  butter 


AVOID,  at  All  Times 


Tea 

Coffee 

Spiced  foods 
Red  meats 
Sour  foods 
Candies 
Cakes 

Rich  puddings 
Pies 


Pork 

Veal 

Fried  foods 

All  meat  soups 

Hot  breads  ■ 

Bran  breads 

Coarse  vegetables 

Eating  between  meals 

Liquid  foods  after  four  o'clock 


518 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


DIET  FOR  THE  AGED 


MAY 

Vegetable  soups 

Milk  soups 

Meat   broth 

Purees  of  peas,  beans  and  lentils 

Celery  and  oatmeal  broth 

An    occasional    piece    of    broiled 

white  fish 
Klopps 
Boudins 

Mutton  casserole 
Chicken  timbale 
Golden  chicken 
Salisbury  steak 
Lamb 

Broiled  chicken 
Stewed  tripe 
Mutton  pats 
Sweetbread 
German  chicken  puff 
Chicken   souffle 
Ceylon   chicken 
Minced  chicken  on  toast 
Eggs,    except   fried 
Milk  and  milk  preparations 
Junket;   egg  junket 
Cocoa  junket;  frozen  junket 
Koumys  ;  leban  ;  kefir 
Kefir,  with  egg 
Buttermilk 
Blancmange 
Milk  jelly 
Occasionally  gruels 
Occasionally  ice  cream 
Peanut  wafers 
Peanut  soup 
Pifion  butter 
Mock  candy 
Fruits   and   fruit  juices 
Baked  apples 

Apples   in  all   ways,   except  fried 
Orange  juice 


EAT 

Ambrosia 

Baked  bananas 

Fruit  toasts 

Ceylon  pudding 

Caramel   custards 

Cocoanut  custards 

Rice  potato 

Baked  potato 

Creamed   potatoes 

Potato  pufiF;  potato  puree 

Boiled  rice ;  steamed  rice 

Rice  pudding 

Hominy  grits 

A  little  green  corn 

Carefully-stewed    spaghetti 

Occasionally  baked  sweet  potato 

Stewed   pumpkin 

Pumpkin  custard 

Young  peas 

Stewed  cucumbers ;  stewed  squash 

Occasionally  tomato,  if  admissible 

Cauliflower 

Kohl-rabi 

Grated  carrots,  stewed 

Stewed  celery 

Tender    lettuce    and    cress,    with 

French  dressing 
A  little  fruit  jelly 
Toast 

Whole  wheat  bread 
Pulled  bread 
Rusk 

Swedish  sheets 
Peptic  bread 
Nut  loaf 
Oatmeal  gems 
Rice  gems ;  cornmeal  gems 
Crisp  crackers 
Cereals 
Coffee,  tea  and  chocolate  between 

meals 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE   SICK 


519 


AVOID 


Pork 
VeaJ 

Pink-fleshed  fish 

Rich  sauces 

Meat  soups 

Strong  tea  and  coffee 

Thick  chocolate,   except  at  night, 

taken  alone 
All  coarse  vegetables 
Boiled  cabbage 
Baked  beans 
Pea  pudding 
Parsnips 

Greens  boiled  with  meat 
Preserves 
Pies 
Cakes 

Heavy  puddings 
Pickles 
Vinegar,  except  very  little 


Candies 

Tomatoes  in  general 
Eggplant 
Stuffed  peppers 
Entrees 
Soft  breads 

Hot    breads,    except    those    men- 
tioned 
Mashed  potatoes  and  gravy 
Fruits  and  cream 
All  fried  foods 
Breads   with   lard 
Such  dishes  as  pepper  mangoes 
Sweet  pickles 
Spiced  foods 
Oysters 
Clams 
Crustacea 
Stimulating  meat  soups 


520 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


FEEDING  IN  FEVER 


MAY    EAT 


Milk 

Milk  and  barley  or  rice  water 

Strained  milk  gruels 

Strained  plum  porridge 

Koumys 

Matzoon 

Leban 

Zoolak 

Junket 

Frozen  cream 

Milk  and  albumin 


Nut  milk,  strained 

Fruit  juices,  strained 

Beef  tea 

Beef  essence 

Restorative  beef  tea 

Nutritive  beef  tea 

Beef  tea  congealed  with  vegetable 

gelatin 
Vegetable  gelatin  in  fruit  juices 
Chicken      tea,      solidified      with 

vegetable  gelatin 


When  Conveilescing,  Add 


Eggs  and  milk 
Beef  panada 
Cream  soups 
Soup  a  la  Reine 
Broiled  sweetbread 


Creamed   sweetbread 

Baked  potato 

Milk  toast 

Eggs,  coddled  or  poached 


AVOID 

All  solid  foods,  unless  ordered  by  a  physician 


MRS.    RORER'S    diet    FOR    THE   SICK 


5^1 


TYPHOID  FEVER 


MAY 


Milk;  milk  and  barley  water 

Milk  and  rice  water 

Modified  milk 

Peptonized  milk 

Koumys ;  Zoolak 

White  of  egg  and  water 

Beef  teas 

Beef  extract ;  beef  essence 

Carefully-strained    broth 

Fruit  juices,   strained 


EAT 

White  of  egg,  served  on  orange 
juice 

Beef  tea  and  nutritive  beef  tea, 
solidified  with  vegetable  gela- 
tin 

Chicken  broth,  strained,  solidi- 
fied with  vegetable  gelatin 

Lemon  and  orange  vegetable 
gelatin 

Tamarind  and  lemon  whey 


If  Vomiting  Occurs 

Add  lime  water  to  the  milk  Increase  the  fruit  juices 

Stop  beef  tea 

If  Diarrhoea  Appears 

Use  ground   rice  gruel   and   milk,       Ground  rice  gruel  and  milk,  pep- 
strained  tonized 
Toast    water,    strained,    to    allay  thirst 

Convalescing 


Milk  toast 

Beef  panada 

Beef  juice  on  French  bread 

Yolk   of  hard   boiled   egg,   grated 

over  milk  toast 
Baked  mashed  banana,  with  cream 
Broiled  bird 

Carefully-made  cream  soups 
Potato  timbale 
Pumpkin  timbale 


Potato  souffle ;   stuffed  potatO' 
Broiled   sweetbread 
Coddled  or  poached  eggs 
Broiled  chop 
Scraped  beef  cake 
Soup  a  la  Reine 
Floating  island ;  cup  custard 
Cocoa;  racahout 
Well-cooked  farina  and  cream 
Golden  nog;  egg  cordial 


AVOID,  in  the  Early  Stages 

All  solid  foods,  unless  ordered  by  a  physician 

AVOID,  During  Convalescence 


Coarse  vegetables 

Cereals  with  husk 

Whole  wheat  and  brown  bread 

Hot  breads 

Complicated  soups  and  sauces 


Raw  fruits,  unless   ripe  and  soft 
Sweets 
Pickles 

Sea   foods,    except  white-fleshed 
fish 


522 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR   THE   SICK 


DENGUE  FEVER 

List  of  foods  the  same  as  for  ordinary  fever  cases 


MALARIAL  FEVER 

MAY  EAT,  the  First  Two  Days 

Yolk  of  egg,  shaken  in  a  half  pint  of  barley  water,  every  two  hours 

Next   Three    Days 

White  of  Ggg  in  a  half  pint  of  water,   alternated   every   two   hours 
with  milk  and  lime  water 

Later 

Milk,  koumys,   zoolak,   matzoon,   buttermilk,    nut    milks,    and    fruit 
juices,  at  alternate  feedings 


Gruels 
Green   peas 
Spinach 
Dandelions 
Cooked  cauliflower 
Stewed  cucumbers 
Summer  squash 
Baked  potato 
Boiled  rice 
White-fleshed  fish 
Chops 
Scraped  meat  cake 


All  coarse  vegetables 

Fatty  foods 

Sweets 

Tea 

Coffee 

Chocolate 

Fried  foods 

Hot  breads 


Later 

White  meat  of  chicken 

Eggs,  softly  cooked 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Brown  bread 

Pilot  bread 

Gluten  gems 

Aleuronat  gems 

Well-cooked  oatmeal,  with  milk 

Farina 

Barley 

Rye  mush 

AVOID 

Preserves 
Pies 
Cakes 
Puddings 

Mixtures  of  egg  and  milk,  as  des- 
serts 
Tomatoes 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


533 


SCARLET  FEVER 

MAY  EAT,  in  the  First  Stages  of  the   Disease 

Peptonized  milk  Junket 


Milk  and  barley  water 

Milk  gruels 

Koumys 

Matzoon 

Zoolak 


Junket  with  cream 
Frozen  orange  juice 
Frozen  grape  juice 
Fruit  j-uices 


Later 

Milk  toast  Carefully-stewed    macaroni 

Well-cooked  cereals,  with  milk  "Ye  perfect  food" 

Baked  potato  Meiggs'  gruel 

Boiled  rice  Lentil  flour  soup 

Orangeade,  orange  juice  and  lemonade  throughout  the  disease 


AVOID 


Meats,  meat  soups  and  meat  ex- 
tracts 
Sea  foods 
White  of  egg 
Old  peas,  beans  and  lentils 


Coarse  vegetable  foods 

Sweets 

Pickles 

Rich  soups  and  sauces 


YELLOW  FEVER 


May  Try 


Albuminized  water 
Lime  water  and  milk 
Bicarbonate  of  soda  and  water 


Bicarbonate  of  soda  and  milk 

Whey 

Whey  in  white  of  egg 


AVOID 

All     meat     preparations     in     hot       Sweets  of  every  kind 

climates  All   solid  foods   until  the  patient 

Sugar  is  on  the  road  to  recovery 


524 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


SMALLPOX 


MAY  EAT,  When  the  Appetite  Appears 

Milk  and  milk  preparations  Well-cooked     Cream     of 

Milk  soups  and  farina,  with  milk 

Nut  milks  Zoolak 

Egg  and  milk  Matzoon 

Egg  flip  Koumys 

Water  gruels,  strained 


Wheat 


Later,  When  the  Fever  Subsides 


A  baked  potato 

Milk  toast 

Yolk    of    Qgg    grated 

toast 
Milk  preparations 
Lightly-cooked  eggs 
White  bread 


Pilot  bread 

An  occasional  cup  custard 
over    milk       Tapioca  puddings 
Tapioca  with  fruit 
Vegetable  gelatin  with  fruit  juices 
Lemon    and    orangeade,    between 
feedings 


During   Convalescence 


Broiled  chop 
White  meat  of  chicken 
Broiled  sweetbreads 
Well-cooked    cereals,    with 

and  cream 
Rice  puddings 
Cup  custards 


Junkets 

Whole  wheat  bread  in  the  place 

of  white 
milk      Baked  potato 
Boiled  rice 

Carefully-stewed  macaroni 
Carefully-cooked  hominy  grits 


Meats 
Meat  soups 
Coarse  vegetables 
Brown  bread 
Rich  sauces 


AVOID 


All    complicated    dishes,    as    pies 

and  cakes 
Bread  made  with  sugar  and  lard 
All  fried  foods 
All  made- over  dishes 


MRS.    RORER'S    diet    FOR    THE    SICK 


535 


ECZEMA   IN   CHILDREN 


MAY    EAT 


Soups  made  from  milk  and  green 

vegetables 
Ladies'  cabbage 
Spinach 

Carefully-cooked  peas 
Stewed  cucumbers 
Summer  squash 
Carrots,  carefully  cooked 
Whole  wheat  bread,  without  lard 
Unleavened  bread 
Zweiback 
Crackers 

Occasionally  brown  bread 
Modified  milk 
Cream  of  Wheat 
Farina 
Shredded  wheat 


Toasted  corn  flakes 

Butter,  in  moderation 

Baked  apples 

Stewed    apples,    with    very    little 

sugar 
Grapes 
Fruit  juices 
Skimmed  milk  . 
Buttermilk 
Koumys 
Leban 
Clabber 
Schmierkase 
Eggs,  occasionally 
Lettuce,    cress,    and    light    green 

vegetables,  with  a  little  olive  oil 

and  lernon  juice 


AVOID 


Tea,  coffee,  chocolate  and  cocoa 

Fats  in  excess 

Sweets 

Pastries,  cakes  and  puddings 

Starchy  foods 

Pickles 

Fried  foods 

Food  containing  lard 

Salt  foods 

Liquors,   both  malt  and  alcoholic 

Cambric  tea 

All  highly-seasoned  foods 


Underground  and  coarse  vegeta- 
bles 

Cereals 

All  fish,  the  Crustacea,  oysters  and 
clams 

Pork 

Veal 

Small  fruits,  with  the  exception  of 
blackberries 

Pears 

Cantaloupes 


526 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


NETTLE  RASH 


MAY    EAT 


Mutton 

Chicken 

Cream  soups 

Fruits,  except  strawberries,  pears 
and  plums 

Orange  juice 

Fruit  desserts,  with  tapioca  or 
arrowroot 

An  occasional  baked  potato 

Boiled  rice 

Topground  green  vegetables 

Green  salads,  with  French  dress- 
ing 

Orange  salad 

Grape  fruit  salad 


Whole  wheat  bread,  well  buttered 
Pilot  bread 
Swedish  bread 
Toast 

Brown  bread 
Graham  bread 
Gluten  bread,  occasionally 
Puree  of  lentils 
Puree  of  peas 
Nut  foods 

Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 
Milk  toast 

Light  egg  dishes,  especially  those 
made  from  hard-boiled  yolks 


AVOID 


All  coarse  vegetables 

Mashed  and  fried  potatoes 

Boiled  cabbage 

Kale 

Pork 

Veal 

Lobsters 

Crabs 

Fish 

Oysters  and  clams 

Pickles  and  foods  in  vinegar 

Rich  sauces 

Mayonnaise 


All  meat  soups 

Fried  foods  in  general 

Pies 

Puddings 

Cakes 

Candies 

Sugar 

Tea 

Coffee 

Chocolate 

Cocoa  and  cocoa  preparations 

Entrees 

Strawberries,  pears,  plums 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


527 


ACNE 


MAY    EAT 


Broiled  lamb 

Carefully-cooked  chicken 

Beef  occasionally 

Eggs 

Skimmed  milk 

Buttermilk 

Leban 

Koumys 

Matzoon 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Brown  bread 

Unleavened  bread 

Boiled  rice 

Cream  of  Wheat 

Farina,  with  milk 

Stewed  macaroni 

A  little  cheese 


Eggs,  except  fried 

Fruits  and  fruit  juices 

Gelose   with    fruits   and    skimmed 

milk 
Lemon,  orange  and  grape  gelatin, 

with  very  little  sugar 
Game,  carefully  cooked 
Mutton  broth 
Chicken  broth 
Noodle  soup 
Occasionally  nut  loaf 
Zweiback 
Virginia  wafers 
Maryland   biscuit 
All  fruits,  except  strawberries  and 

currants 
Prune  dishes 


AVOID 


Sea   foods 

Fried  foods  and  fats 

Pies,  cakes  and  puddings 

Hot  breakfast  breads 

Syrup 

Pork 

Veal 

Smoked  and  salted  meats 

Tea,  coffee  and  chocolate 

Fish,  Crustacea,  mollusks 

Fresh  American  cheese 


Cream 

Gravies 

Rich  soups 

White  bread 

Coarse     vegetables,     as     turnips, 

beets,  sweet  potatoes,  pumpkin 
White  potatoes,  except  occasionally 
Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 
Jellies  and  preserves 
Bacon 
All  alcoholic  and  malt  beverages 


528 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


ALCOHOLISM 

May  eat,  from  four  to  eight  days :  Predigested  foods,  if 
necessary,  followed  by  orange  juice,  beef  tea  with  a  drop  of 
tabasco,  and  the  following  list : 


Clam  broth 
Beef  tea 
Egg  broth 
Vegetable  broth 
Koumys 
Buttermilk 
Leban 
Matzoon 
Zoolak 
Eggnog 

Albuminized  milk 
Fresh  fruits 
Orange  juice 
Grape  juice 
Grape  fruit 


Almond  milk 

Cocoanut  milk 

Cocoanut  cream 

Tiger's  broth 

Egg  flip 

Gruels  with  dry  toast 

Milk  toast 

Pulled  bread 

Hard  dry  bread 

Whole  wheat  bread,  toasted 

Pilot  bread 

Crisp  wafers,  without  sugar 

Twice     a     day    six     almonds, 

blanched,  not  toasted 
Nut  milks 


AVOID 


Meats   in   general,   pork  and   veal 

in  particular 
Fish 
Oysters 
Lobsters 
Crabs 

Fried  foods 
All  highly-seasoned  foods 


Cheese,  both  new  and  old 
Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 
Hot  breads 
Sweets  in  general ;    pastry  and 

cake  in  particular 
Pickles  of  all  kinds 
Tea  and  coffee  with  foods 
Chocolate 


After  Eight  Days,  May  Eat 


Scraped  beef  cake 

Carefully-stewed  mutton 

Broiled  chicken 

Beef  broths 

Cream  soups 

Boiled  rice 

All  forms  of  dry,  hard  bread 

Stewed  macaroni 

Young  green  peas 


Tender  lettuce,  with  French  dress- 
ing, lemon  juice  always  in  place 
of  vinegar 

Fresh  fruits 

Fruit  juices 

Carefully-prepared  nut  dishes  in 
place  of  meat 

Eggs  and  milk 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


529 


AVOID,  for  All  Time 

All  highly-seasoned  dishes  Pickles 

Cold  dishes  Underground  vegetables 

Iced  water  Coarse  topground  vegetables 

Tea  and  coffee  with  foods  Clear  soups 

Chocolate 


DELIRIUM  TREMENS 

Diet  list  is  the  same  as  in  Alcoholism 


CANCER 

MAY    EAT 


Farina 

Cream  of  Wheat 

An     occasional    shredded    wheat 
biscuit 

Puffed  rice 
■'Boiled  rice 
Baked  potato 
Stewed  macaroni 
Spinach 
Green    peas,    pressed    through    a 

sieve 
Very  young  string  beans 
Boiled    cucumber,    with    cream 

sauce 
Boiled  squash,  with  sauce  Hollan- 

daise 
Cauliflower 

Kohl-rabi,  with  cream  sauce 
Ariichokes 
Globe  artichokes 


Very  tender  celery 

Hearts     of     lettuce ;     corn     salad 

{ValeriancUa     olitoria,     Poll,); 

imported  endive;  native  endive; 

chicory ;  all  with  French  dress- 
ing 
Desserts : 

Fruit  tapiocas 

Tapioca  with  fruit  juices 

Sago 

Rice  pudding 

Cup  custard 

Soft  custard 

Mock  charlotte 

Blancmange 

Vegetable  gelatin  desserts 

Any  of  the  various  nut  prepara- 
tions in   small   quantities 

Junket  whey,  once  or  twice  a 
week 


All  red  meats 
Oatmeal 
Rolled  wheat 
Barley 
Baked  beans 
Coarse  vegetables 
34 


AVOID 

All    underground    vegetables,    ex- 
cept carrots  and  potatoes 
All  fried  foods 
All  made  dishes 
Sweets 
Strong  tea,  coffee  and  chocolate 


530 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


EXOPHTHALMIC  GOITER 


MAY    EAT 


Modified  milk 

Eskay's  food 

Leban 

Koumys 

Matzoon 

Kefir 

Buttermilk 

Milk 

Plum  porridge 

Milk  soups 

Junket 

Almond  milk  with  isinglass 

Milk  and  lime  water 

Gelatinized  milk 

Arrowroot  and  milk 

Meiggs'  food 

Lentil  milk  gruel 

"Ye  perfect  food" 


Cornmeal  gruel,  with  milk 

Schmierkase 

Prunes,   dates,  figs;   alone   in   the 

morning,   or   at   night 
Sweetbreads,    broiled,    boiled    or 

stewed 
White  meat  of  chicken 
Light  topground  vegetables 
An  occasional  baked  potato 
Unleavened  bread 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Crackers 
Pilot  bread 
Eggs,  if  they  agree 
Puree  of  lentils 
Revalenta  Arabica 
Oranges  and  grape  fruit 
Cream,  butter  and  olive  oil 


AVOID 


Tea 

Coffee 

All  red  meats 
Pickles 
Spices 
Salt   foods 
Fish 
Lobsters 
Crabs 

Underground    and    coarse    vege- 
tables 
Oatmeal 
Mashed  potatoes 


Fried  foods 

Sweets 

Chocolate 

Cocoa 

Pears 

Raw  apples 

White  breads 

Soft  breads 

Alcoholic  and  malt  liquors 

Lemonade 

Effervescing  waters 

Mineral  waters  of  all  kinds 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


531 


LOCOMOTOR  ATAXIA 


MAY    EAT 


Poached  eggs  on  bacon 

Boiled    eggs,    with    well-buttered 

bread 
Broiled  bacon,  with  whole   wheat 

bread 
Wheat   germ  cereal,   well   cooked, 

with  cream 
Farina  and  cream 
Cream  of  Wheat,  with  cream 
Two  broiled  chops,  with  one  corn 

gem 
Broiled      young      chicken,      with 

pulled   bread 
Puree    of    lentils,    baked    potato, 

and    well-buttered    bread,     fol- 
lowed by  cup  custard 
Boiled,   baked   or   broiled    mutton 

or  lamb 
Stewed  chicken 
Plain  omelets 
Omelets,    garnished   with    oysters, 

peas,  or  with  tomato  sauce 
Nut  roll 

Beef  cakes,  broiled 
Baked  potatoes 


Boiled  rice 

Spaghetti  stewed  in  stock 

Cucumbers     or     squash,     stuffed 

with  meat 
Young  green  peas 
Young  tender  lima  beans 
Artichokes 
Very  young  carrots 
Spinach 
Cauliflower 
Cress 
Lettuce 
Tender  celery 
Fresh  fruits 
Bread  and  milk 
Toasted  rusk  and  milk 
Eggs  and  milk,  with  pulled  bread 
Cream  soups  and  bread 
Broth  with  rice  or  barley 
Well-cooked  cereals 
Milk  toast 

Any  of  the  milk  preparations 
Buttermilk  and  brown  bread 
Leban,    with    a    little    honey    and 

toast 


532 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


EPILEPSY 


MAY    EAT 


Chicken  occasionally 

Broiled  white-fleshed  fish 

Eggs  and  egg  dishes 

Milk  and  milk  preparations 

Dishes  made  from  old  peas,  beans 

and  lentils 
Baked  and  boiled  potatoes 
Boiled  rice 

Macaroni    or    spaghetti 
Boiled     chestnuts     in     chestnut 

season 
New  green  peas 
New   green    corn,   pressed   from 

the  cob 
Stewed  squash 
Stewed  pumpkin 
Spinach 
Cauliflower 
Celery 
Grated   carrots,   cooked   in   water, 

cream  added,  as  a  puree 


Stewed  onions 

Lettuce 

Cress 

Endive 

Fresh  fruits,  with  the  exception  of 

pears  and  cantaloupes 
Prunes 
Prune  dishes 
Well-cooked  cereals 
Tapioca  and  fruit 
Tapioca  custards 
Whole  wheat  bread 
Stale  bread 
Crackers 
Wafers 
Toast 
Milk  toast 

Toasted  rusks  and  milk 
Mush  bread 
Corn  bread  occasionally 


Red  meats 

Salt  foods 

Coarse  vegetables 

Pork 

Veal 

Goose 

Duck 


AVOID 

Rabbit 

Watermelon 

Hot  breads 

Tea 

Coffee 

Chocolate 

Pickles 


MRS.    RORER'S    diet    FOR    THE    SICK  533 


ERYSIPELAS 


MAY  EAT 

Arrowroot  gruel  Milk  and  vichy  water 

Barley  and  rice  water,  with  milk  Orange  juice 

All  kinds  of  infants'  foods  Grape  juice 

Milk  and  white  of  egg  Apple  juice 
Nut  milks 

Followed  by 

Carefully-cooked  farina    ,  Coddled  eggs 

Cream  of  Wheat  Junket 

Well-baked  whole  wheat  bread  Koumys 

Milk  toast  Leban 

Egg  toast  Matzoon 

Later 

Broiled  chop  Cress 

Broiled  chicken  Lettuce 

Boiled  rice  Grape  fruit 

Baked  potato  Baked  apple 

Carefully-cooked  spinach  Sliced  orange 


AVOID 

All  sweets  Red  meats 

Fried  foods  Fish 

Excessive  fatty  foods  Oysters 

Butter,  except  in  moderation  Clams 

Thick  cream  Crustacea 

Devonshire  cream  Desserts  in  general 


534  MRS.  rorer's  diet  for  the  sick 

INSOMNIA 

MAY    EAT 
BREAKFAST,  IN  BED 


Carefully-cooked    cereals, 

with 

Toast  and  butter,  or 

milk  or  cream 

Toast  and  milk 

10 

.30 

Buttermilk 

Plain  milk 

Zoolak 

DINNER,    12.30 

Boiled,     baked    or 

broiled    beef, 

Rorer  beef  cake 

mutton,  chicken 

Broiled  white-fleshed  fish 

Sweetbreads 

Baked  potato 

Tripe 

Boiled  rice 

Boudins 

Spinach 

CIopps 

Cauliflower 

Mutton  en  casserole 

Asparagus 

Mutton  pats 

Tender  celery 

Mutton  cakes 

Lettuce 

Almond  mutton  or 

beef  cake 

Endive,  with  French  dressing 

SUPPER,    6  O'CLOCK 

A  half  pint  of  chocolate  or  cocoa.  Cream  of  Wheat 

with  a  piece  of  toast  Gluten  mush  and  milk 

Buttermilk  Well-made  cornmeal  mush 

Koumys  Poached  eggs 

Zoolak  Milk  toast 

Junket  Dry  toast  and  milk 
Milk  gruels 

AT   BED-TIME 

Six  ounces  of  hot  milk,  sipped  slowly 

AVOID 

All  fried  foods  Pears 

Sweets  Fruits  stewed  with  sugar 

Coarse  vegetables  Preserves 

Hot  breads  Cake 

Irregular  eating  between  meals  Hot   toast  with   butter 

Heavy  foods  after  the  dinner  Spiritous   and  malt   liquors,   un- 
AU  sea  foods,  except  white-fleshed  less  ordered  by  a  physician 

fish  and  oysters  Tea,  cofifee  and  chocolate 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE  SICK 


535 


ACUTE  MENINGITIS 


MAY  E^AT,  Following  Rectal  Feeding 


Milk,  diluted  one-third  water 
Junket  whey 
Lemon  whey- 
Nut  milks 
Orange  juice 
Grape  juice 

Orange  juice  and  white  of  egg 
Meiggs'  food 
Vegetable  gelatin  water 
Vegetable  gelatin  milk 


Brazilian  nut  milk 

Cocoanut  milk  and  white  of  egg 

Eskay's  food 

Arrowroot  gruel  and  milk 

Rennet  whey 

Predigested  foods 

Peptonized  milk 

Peptonized  milk  lemonade 

Peptonized  milk  with   cereals 

Panopepton  jelly  with  orange 


INDEX 


PART  ONE— DISEASES 


A 

Acne,   150 

Acute    Dysentery,    69 
Gastritis   54 
Intestinal    Catarrh,  61 
Nephritis,  99 
Addison's  Disease,   168 
A  Few  Golden  Rules  for 

Mothers    of    Bottle-fed    Babies.   114 
A   Few    Golden   Rules   for   the   Ordinary 

Dyspeptic,  46 
After   the   Weaning,   122 
Age,   Diet   Changes  With,    137 
Diet  in   Relation  to,    137 
Aged,    Diet   Suited  to,   139 
Albuminuria,  95 

Functional,  in  Children,  96 
Alcoholic    Liquors    in 

Urinary   Diseases,   92 
Alcoholism,   154 

Chronic.    156 
Complications    in,    154 
Delirium   Tremens,    159 
Vomiting  in,   154 
Ansemia  (Chlorosis),  40 
Pernicious,   39 
Anaemic  Girl,  Directions  for  Feeding,  40 
Anesthetics,  Diet  After,    169 
Aneurism,    36 

Flatulency  in.   36 
Angina   Pectoris,   34 

Flatulency   in,  34 
Apoplexy,   37 
Appendicitis,   66 

Constipation    in.    66 
Appetite.    13 

Perverted    in    Pregnancy,    110 
Artificial   Feeding  of  Infants,   116 
Asthma,   21 

Menu  for.   22 
Ataxia,    Locomotor.    164 
Atonic   Dyspepsia,   50 
A  Word  to  the  Wise,  9 

B 

Babies,  Bottle-fed, 

Rules  for  Feeding,  114 

(637) 


Bath,  The,  13 
Biliousness,  85 
Bottle-fed    Babies. 

Rules  for   Feeding,   114 
Bright'"s   Disease,    Chronic,  97 


Calculi,  102 
Cancer,  161 
Catarrh,  Acute  Intestinal.  61 

Chronic    Intestinal,   62 
Catarrhal  Jaundice.  87 

Fasting  in,  87 
Children.   Diet  for  Older,   126 

Eczema  in,   153 
Chlorosis.   40 
Chorea.    133 
Chronic  Alcoholism,   156 

Bright's  Disease,  97 
Constipation,   63 
Constipation.   Causes   of,   63 
Diarrhoea,    68 
Gastritis.    55 
Intestinal   Catarrh,  62 
Intestinal   Diarrhoea, 

Constipation  in,   68 
Rheumatism,  84 
Cirrhosis,   88 

of  Liver,  88 
Coffee  in  Obesity,  L^se  of,  74 
Combinations  Suited  to  the  Aged,    139 
Complications  in  Alcoholism,   154 
Constipation,   Chronic,   63 

Chronic.   Causes  of,  63 
Dont's   for.    64 
in   Appendicitis,    66 
in    Chronic  Diarrhoea,   68 
in  Heart  Disease,  31 
in   Nephritis,    99 
in   Pregnancy,    110 
Things   to    Do   for 
Recovery,   64 
Contents,  3 

Convalescent   Diabetics,   Menu  for,   107 
Convalescing  Typhoid,   144 
Cutaneous  Disorders,  149 


538 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


Delirium  Tremens,   159 
Dengue  Fever,  145 
Diabetes,  103 

Menu  for  Convalescents,  107 
Menu  in,   104 
Diarrhoea,   Chronic,  68 

in  Nephritis,  99 
in  Typhoid  Fever,  143 
Diet  After  Anesthetic,   169 
for  Leanness,   Tl 
for  Older  Children,   126 
for  the   Aged,    139 
in  Hemorrhoids,  71 
in  Relation  to  Age,  137 
Dilatation  of  Stomach  in  Dyspepsia,  49 
Diphtheria,   134 
Diseases    of    the    Heart,    30 
of  the  Skin,   149 
of  the  Stomach,  45 
of  Urinary   System,    91 
Duodenum,  Ulcer  of,  62 
Dysentery,  Acute,  69 
Dyspepsia,  Atonic,  50 

Classes  of,  45 

Dilatation  of  Stomach  in,  49 
Fasting  in,  45 
Hunger  in,  51 
Morbid   Conditions   in,    52 
Nervous,  52 
With    Flatulency,    49 
Dyspeptics,  Golden  Rules  for,  46 


Eczema.    152 

in   Children,   153 
Edema  in   Heart  Disease,  31 
Enuresis,   136 
Epilepsy,    165 
Erysipelas,    166 

Exercise  and  Fresh  air  in  Anaemia,  42 
Exophthalmic    Goiter,    163 


Fads,  in  Pregnancy,   111 
Fasting  in  Catarrhal  Jaundice,' 87 

in  Dyspepsia,  45 
Fatty  Liver,   87 
Feeding  After  Weaning,   122 

Bottle-fed  Babies,  Rules  for,   114 

in   Fever,   141 

of  Infants,  116 

the  Anaemic  Girl, 

Directions  for,   40 

the  Insane,   160 

the  Sick,  Rules  for,  15 


Fever,  Dengue,  145 

Feeding   in,    141 
Malarial,    145 
Scarlet,    145 
Typhoid,  142 
Yellow,   147 
Flatulency    in    Aneurism,    Z6 

in  Angina  Pectoris,  34 
in  Dyspepsia,   49 
in  Typhoid   Fever,    142 
Foreword,   7 

Fresh  Air  and   Exercise  in  Anaemia,   41 
Functional  Albuminuria  in  Children,  96 


Gall  Stones,   88 

Gastric  Ulcer,   Rectal   Feeding  in,   57 

Gastritis,   Acute,   54 

Chronic,    55 
Goiter,    Exophthalmic,    163 
Golden   Rules  for  Dvspeptics,  46 
Gout,  19 

Use  of  ^yine  in,  80 
Gymnastics  in   Obesity,  74 

H 

Haemorrhagica   Purpura,    147 
Heart,  Constipation  in  Disease  of,  31 
Diseases  of,   30 
Edema   in    Disease   of,    31 
Palpitation  of,   30 
Senile,   32 
Hemorrhoids,   Diet  in,   71 
Hungry   Dyspepsia,  51 
Hydrochloric  Acid,, 

Excess   of,    in    Dyspepsia,    48 
Lack  of,  in  Dyspepsia,  46 
Hysteria  in  Pregnancy,   110 


Indigestion,  59 

Intestinal,  59 
in  Typhoid  Fever,   142 
Infant  Feeding, 

Gordon  Walker  Table  for,  119 
Infants,   Artificial  Feeding  of,   116 

Feeding  of,   116 
Insane,   Diet  for  the,    160 
Insomnia,   167 

Intestinal  Catarrh,  Acute,  61 
Chronic,  62 


Jaundice,  Catarrhal,  87 

Fasting  in  Catarrhal,  87 


MRS.    RORER'S  diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


539 


Leanness,  Diet  for,  J7 
Liver,   Cirrhosis  of,  88 

Troubles,   85 
Locomotor  Ataxia,   164 
Lunches  for  School  Children,   127 

M 

Malarial   Fever,    145 
Malnutrition   in   Marasmus,    132 
Marasmus,    132 

Causes   of,   132 
Measles,   133 

Menus  for  Diabetics,   104 
Milk  Feeding,  Partial,   121 
Milk,  how  to  Modify,   117 
Modified  Milk,  117 
Morbid  Conditions  in  Dyspepsia,  52 
Mumps,  135 

N 

Nephritis,  99 

Acute,  99 

Constipation  in,  99 

Diarrhcea  in,   99 
Nervous  Dyspepsia,  52 
Nettle  Rash,   Urticaria,   149 


Obesity,  73 

Gymnastics  in,  74 
Use  of  Coffee  in,  74 

Older  Children,  Diet  for,   126 

Oxaluria,  101 


Palpitation  of  Heart,  30 

Partial  Milk  Feeding,  121 

Peritonitis,   72 

Pernicious  Anaemia,  39 

Perverted  Appetite  in   Pregnancy,    110 

Pneumonia,   29 

Pregnancy,    110 

Constipation   in,   110 

Fads  in,  111 

Hysteria  in,  110 

Perverted    Appetite    in,    110 

Vomiting  in,   110 
Puerperal,  113 
Purpura  Haemorrhagica,    147 


Quinzy,    30 


Rectal   Feeding  in  Gastric  Ulcer,  57 
Relation  of  Diet  to  Age,   137 


Rheumatism,  81 

Chronic,  84 
Classes  of,  81 

Rules  for  Dyspeptics,  46 

for  Feeding  Sick,   15 


Scarlet   Fever,    145 

School  Children,  Lunches  for,   127 

Senile  Heart,   32 

Sick  Headache,  90 

Sick,   Rules  for  Feeding,   15 

Skin,  Diseases  of  the,  149 

Sleeplessness   (Insomnia),   167 

Smallpox,    148 

Starch    Liver,    87 

Stomach,  Dilatation  of,  in  Dyspepsia,    49 

Ulcer  of,  57 
Stones,  Gall,  88 

T 

Table   for    Infant    Feeding, 

Gordon  Walker,   119 
The  Insane,   160 
To  Modify  Milk,   117 
Tonsilitis,   29 

Top  Milk  in   Infant  Feeding,  118 
Tuberculosis,  25 
Typhoid  Fever,   142 

Feeding  in   Convalescence,   144 

u 

Ulcer,   Gastric,  57 

of  the  Duodenum,  62 

of  the  Stomach,  57 
Uric  Acid   Diathesis,   92 

in  Children,  93 
Urinary  System,  Diseases  of,  91 
Urticaria,  Nettle  Rash,  149 
Use  of  Coffee  in  Obesity,  74 


Vomiting,  after  Anesthetics,   169 

in  Addison's    Disease,    168 

in  Alcoholism,  154 

in  Pregnancy,   110 

in  Whooping  Cough,  135 

in  Yellow  Fever,  147 

w 

Walker,  Gordon,  Table  for 

Infant  Feeding,    119 
Weaning,   Food  After,   122 
Whooping  Cough,   135 
Wine,  L'se  of  in  Gout,  80 


Yellow  Fever,   147 

Vomiting  in,    147 


540 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


PART   TWO— RECIPES 


A  Few  Desserts,  434 
A  Group  of 

Green  or  Succulent  Vegetables,  315 
Starchy  Vegetables,   287 

Also    Containing 
Sugar,    301 
Succulent    Vegetables    containing    a 

little   Starch   and  Sugar,   304 
Succulent  Vegetables  for  Salads,  341 
Vegetables    Containing    Nitrogenous 

Matter  Without  Sugar,  314 
Vegetables  Containing  Sugar  and  no 
Starch   or  Nitrogen,   306 
Akoll,  Biscuits,    175 
A  la  Colbert  Bouillon,  192 
A  la  Creme  Potatoes,  290 

Spinach,  332 
A  la  Imperatrice,   Peaches,  400 

Rice,  293 
A  la  Martin  Eggs,  276 
AlaPoulette,  Celery,  324 

Chestnuts,  415 
Cucumbers,  325 
Sauce,  236 
A  la  Reine,  Soup,  197 
A  la  Royal,  Soup,  184 
A  la  Zouave,  Apple,  366 
Albuminized  Milk,  248 
Whey,  256 
Albumin  Pineapple  Dessert,  438 
Aleuronat,  175 

Gems,  354 
Muffins,  354 
Mush,  354 
Alimentation,  Colonic,  Enemose  for,  267 
Almond  and  Fig  Toast,  385 
Biscuits,  413 
Bitter,  Junket,  273 
Butter,  413 
Cake,  413 
Croquettes,  414 
Meat  Cake,  218 
Milk,  414 

Milk  with  Isinglass,  247 
Pudding.  413 
Wafers,  412 
Almonds,   412 

and  Milk,  414 
Bitter,,  412 
Blanched,  412 
Salted,  413 
Ambrosia,  417 


Analysis,   Comparative  of  Grains,  355 
Analysis  of  Whey,   270 
Animal  Foods,  208 
Apple  a  la  Zouave,  366 

and  Cranberry  Sauce,  378 

Fluff.  367 

Juice.  366 

Lemon,   367 

Omelet,  368 

Salad,   370 

Sauce,    236.    367 

Marlborough,  367 
Scalloped,  368 
Snow,  367 
Sponge,  368 
Tapioca,  365 
AA'ater,  444 

with  Quince  Jelly,   369 
Apples,  364 

Baked,  364 
Coddled,  365 
Frosted,  369 
Grilled,  368 
Pan  Baked,  365 
Smothered,  365 
Stewed,  366 
Yorkshire,   369 
Apricot  Puree,  370 
Souffle,  371 
Toast,  371 
Apricots,  370 
Arrowroot,  297 

Gruel,  255 
Jelly,  249 
Milk,  249 
Milk  Gruel,  250 
Artichokes,  Boiled,  316 

Globe  or  French,  316 
Jerusalem.  317 
Mock,  333 
with  Cream.  317 
Artificial  Milk,  244 
Asthma,  Onions  in  Treatment  of,  329 
A  Soup  Crecy,  197 
Asparagus,  317 

Boiled,  318 
Soup,  Cream  of,  203 
Asses'  Milk,  247 


B 


Baked  Apples,  364 
Bananas,  372 
Beef,  219 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet    FOR    THE   SICK 


541 


Baked  Beef  Tea,  187 

Cranberries,  378 
Macaroni,  299" 
Meats,  180 

Onions  No.  1  and  No.  2,  328 
Panned  Apples,  365 
Peaches,  399 
Pear,  403 
Potatoes,  290 
Prunes,  407 
Sweetbreads,  226 
Sweet  Potato,  301 
Balls,  Potato,  291 
Banana  Charlotte,  373 
Cream,  437 
Mush,  372 
Pufif,  373 
Souffle,  372 
Bananas,  371 

Baked,  372 
Scalloped,  372 
Stewed,  373 
Barley,  358 

Gruel,  251 
in  Beef  Broth,  190 
Jelly,  251 
Water,  443 
Bartholow's  Food,  189 

Restorative  Soup  for 
Invalids,  188 
Bean  Flour  Soup,  201 
Lima,  Souffle,  312 
Rolls,  Soy,  312 
Souffle,  311 
Soup,  Dried,  200 
Soy,   312 
Beans,  Lima,  311 

Puree  of  Dried,  310 
String,   Boiled,  305 
Beauregard  Eggs,  280 
Beech  Nuts,  414 
Beef,  215 

and  Oats,   192 
Boiled,  219 
Broth,  190 

with  Barley,  190 
with  Sago,   190 
Cooked  in  Tomato,  216 
Essence,   188 
Extract,  Homemade,  188 
Gruel,  192 
How  to  Roast,  219 
Jelly,  Quick,  425 
Juice,  189 
Meal,  176 
Panada,  190 


Beef,    Peptonized,   264 
Pudding,   220 
Semi-solid,   192 
Turkish,  220 
Beefsteak,  Broiled,  215 

Broiled  on  a  Gas  Stove,  216 
in  a  Paper  Bag,  217 
Pan   Broiled,  216 
Beef  Tea,  185 

Baked,  187 
Nutritive,   186 
Quick,   185 
.     Restorative,   187 
Savory,   185 
Stimulating,   186 
Bellevue  Bouillon,  214 
Beverages  and  Water  Gruels,  443 
Bilberries,  391 
Birds,  Broiled,  229 
Biscuits,  Almond,  413 
Bran,  348 
Maryland,  353 
Purgative,   349 
Quick,  351 
Bisque  of  Oyster,  207 
Bitter  Almond  Junket,  273 
Bitter  Almonds,  412 
Blackberryade,  376 
Blackberry  Bounce,  377 
Brandy,  376 

Cordial  No.  1  and  No.  2,  375 
Fluff,  374 
Gruel,  252 
Jelly,  374 
Juice,  376 
Mush,  374 
Shrub,   374 
Syrup,  374 
Vinegar,  375 
Blackberries,  373 
Black  Currant  Gruel,  252 

Jelly  Water,  448 
Black  Currants,  380 
Blanched  Almonds,  412 
Blancmange,  249 

Racahout,  458 
Blueberries,  391 
Boiled  Artichokes,  316 
Asparagus,  318 
Beef,  219 

Brussels  Sprouts,  321 
Cauliflower,  320 
Chestnuts,  415 
Coffee,  453 
Corn  in  Husks,  307 
Fish,  210 
Kohl-Rabi,  322 
Okra,  327 


542 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


Boiled  Onions,  328 

for  Asthmatics,  329 
Oysters,  213 

Peas  in  Turnip  Cups,  307 
Pigeon,  235 

Rice,  Composition  of,  292 
Spinach,  332 
String  Beans,  305 
Turnips,  331 
Boned  Squabs,  235 
Botanical  Classification  of  our 

Common  Vegetables,  283 
Boudins,  220 
Bouillon,  191 

a  la  Colbert,  192 
Bellevue,  214 
Clam,  213 
Double,  191 
Hot  Panopepton,  269 
Jelly,    191 

Oyster.  No.   1  and  No.  2,  212 
Bounce,  Blackberry,  377 
Bran   Biscuits,   348 
Broth,  196 
Cakes,  349 
Flour,   to    Make,  347 
Loaf  or  Gems,  348 
Sheet,  348 
Sticks,  348 
Water,  447 
Brandy,  Apple,  369 

Blackberry,  376 
Peach,  402 

with  Milk  and  Eggs,  246 
Bread,  Bran  Loaf,  348 
Gluten.  353 
Graham.  344 
Making,  342 
Passover,  347 
Peptic,  350 
Pulled,  345 

School   Luncheon,    350 
Sticks,  345 

Twentieth  Century,  342 
Unleavened,  346 
White,  343 

with  Homemade  Yeast,  344 
Breakfast  Cakes,   Soy,   313 

Spaghetti,  299 
Broiled  Beefsteak,  215 
Birds,   229 

Canvasback  Duck,  234 
Chicken,  229 
Chicken  in  Oven,  229 
Chops,  222 
Fish,  211 

Mutton  Chops,  222 
Oysters,  Plain,  212 


Broiled  Sweetbreads,  226 

Tripe,  222 
Broilin.g  in  Oven,  229 

on  Gas  Stove,  216 
Broth,  Beef,  190 

Beef  with  Sago,  190 

Bran,   196 

Celery,  202 

Chicken,   196 

Chicken  with  Green  Peas,  197 

Clam,   214 

Clam,  with  Whipped  Cream,  214 

Combination,   197 

Mutton,  194 

Mutton  and  Cornmeal,  195 

Mutton  and  Oatmeal,   194 

Mutton  with  Zweiback,    194 

Oatmeal,  202 

Tomato,  200 

\'eal.   No.   1  and  No.  2,   195 

\'eal,  with  Egg,   195 

Vegetable,   200 
Broths,  190 

Browned  Rice  Flour  Gruel,  254 
Brown  Sauce,  236 
Brussels    Sprouts.    321 
Butter,  Almond,  413 
Peanut,  418 
Piiion,  419 
Buttermilk,  Mulled,  258 


Cabbage,  318 

German,   319 
Ladies',  319 
Raw,  319 
Rolls,  319 
Cake,  Almond,  413 
Cakes,  Bran,  349 
:Mutton,  223 

Mutton  with  Mushrooms,  224 
Soy  Breakfast,  313 
Calves'  Foot  Jelly,  425 
Candy,  Mock,  421 
Canned  Peas,  306 
Canvasback  Duck,  Broiled,  234 
Caramel  Custard,  No.   1,  435 
Caramel    Custard,    No.    2,    436 

Milk,  242 
Caramels,  Fig,  385 
Carbonated  Water  with  Peptonized 

Milk,  260 
Cardinal  Soup,  198 
Cardoon,  322 
Cardose  Eggs,  281 
Carrots,  322 

a  la  Poulette,  322 
in  Turnip  Cups,  32^ 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE    SICK 


543 


Carrots,  Old,  323 

Pickled,    223 
Soup,  Cream  of,  204 
Stewed,  323 
Cassava,  297 
Casserole,  Mutton,  224 
Caudle,  279 
Cauliflower,  320 

Boiled,  320 
Celeriac,  325 
Celery,  323 

a  la  Poulette,  324 
Broth,  202 
Creamed,  324 
Fringed,  324 
Preparation  of,  324 
Sauce,  239 

Soup,  Cream  of,  203 
Stewed.  324 
Cereal  Foods,  355 

Cereals,  Comparative  Analysis  of,  355 
with  Peptonized  Milk,  263 
Cooked,  Ready  for  Serving,  360 
Ceylon  Chicken,  233 
Pudding,  434 
Changing  Taste  of  Milk,  242 
Charlotte,  Banana,  373 
Cheese,  Nut,  420 
Cherry  Cordial,  Wild,  449 

Juice,  377 
Cherries,   377 
Chestnut  Soup,  198 
Chestnuts,  414 

a  la  Poulette,  415 
Boiled,  415 
Water,  421 

with  Whipped  Cream,  415 
Chicken  Broth,  196 

with  Green  Peas,  197 
Ceylon,  233 

Cooked  in  Paper  Bag,  230 
Egg  Soup,  198 
Fricassee,  231 
Golden,  232 
in  Potato  Cases,  232 
Jelly,     426 
Jugged,  234 
Minced  on  Toast,  232 
Panned,  230 
Puft,  German,  231 
Souffle,  231 
Timbale,  233 
Chickens,  Broiled,  229 

How  to  Draw,  228 
How  to  Select,  228 
Chickory,  336 
Chocolate,  455 

Mexican,  457 


Chocolate  Syrup,  456 

to  Make,  456 
Chopped  Meat,  Panned,  218 
Chop^  in  a  Paper  Bag,  223 
Mutton,  Broiled,  222 
Christophines,  326 
Cider,  Pineapple,  404 
Cinnamon  Milk.  243 

Tea,  447 
Clam  Bouillon,  213 
Broth,  214 

with  Whipped  Cream,  214 
Classes,  of  Nuts,  411 
Classification  of  Vegetables 

Botanical,  283 
Clear   Soup  with  Bread  Blocks,   184 
Clotted  Cream,  257 
Cocktail,   Orange,  395 
Cocoa,  457 

from  the  Nibs,  457 
Iced,  457 
Junket,  272 
Cocoanut,  415 

Ambrosia,  417 
and  Tomato,  416 
Cream,  416 
Cream  Sauce,  439 
Custard,  416,  434 
Milk,  416 
Sauce,  439 
Souffle,    434 
Coddled  Apple,  365 

Eggs,  274 
Coffee,  451 

as  Flavoring,  453 
Boiled,  453 
Frozen,  454 
Ice  Cream,  441,  454 
Iced,  455 
Jelly,  428,  454 
Junket,  272 
Mousse,  454 
Perfect  Cup,  452 
Sherbet,  454 
Velvet  Cream,  454 
Cold  Peach  Souffle,  399 
Cold  Process,  259 

for  Peptonizing   Milk,   259 
Collards,  321 

Colonic  Alimentation,   Enemose   for,   267 
Combination  Broth,  197 
Combinations  for  Mayonnaise,  341 
Common  Pumpkin,   302 
Common  Vegetables,  Botanical 

Classification  of,  283 
Comparative  Analysis  of  Grains,  355 
Comparative  Tables  of  Fruit  Juices,  363 
Composition  of  Shelled  Peanuts,  417 


544 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE    SICK 


Composition  of  Skimmed  Milk,  242 
Compote  of  Orange,  395 

Pear,  404 
Condiments,  240 
Consomme,   193 

Italian,  193 
Cookery,  Methods  of,  180 
Cordial,  Blackberry,  No.  1  and  No.  2,  375 
Egg,  277 
Elderberry,   382 
Panopepton,  269 
to  Serve,  375 
Wild  Cherry,  449 
Corn   Boiled  in  the  Husks,  307 

Dodgers,   352 
Cornmeal  and  Mutton  Broth,   195 

Gruel,    254 
Corn  Salad  or  Lambs*  Lettuce,  336 
Soup,  Cream  of,  204 
Sweet,   307 
Sweet,  Stewed,  308 
Cottage   Cheese  with   Noodles,  300 
Crackers,  Fruit  and  Nut,  420 
Cranberryade,   Frozen,    379 
Cranberry   and  Apple  Sauce,   378 
Gelatin,  427 
Jelly,   378 
Sauce,  238,  378 
Cranberries,  378 

Baked,  378 
Cream,   Banana,  437 
Clotted,  257 
Cocoanut,  416 
Eggs  and  Beef,  207 
Jelly   for   Diabetics,  429 
Jelly,   Spanish,  430 
Peach,  437 
Pineapple,  437 
Sauce    No.    1,    236 
Sauce    No.    2,    237 
Sauce,   Cocoanut,  439 
Sauce.   Nut,  440 
to  Whip,  257 
\'elvet,   257 

Whipped,  with  Clam  Broth,  214 
of  Asparagus,  203 
Carrot.   204 
Celery,   203 
Corn,  204 
Green   Peas,  204 
Oyster,  206 
Potato,  205 
Split  Peas,  205 
Turnip,  206 
Creamed  Celery,  324 

Potatoes,  289 
Prunes,  408 


Creamed   Rice,    295 

Spaghetti,  299 
Sweetbreads,   226 

Crecy   Soup,    197 

Crescent  Soup,  203 

Cress,  Garden,  337 
Water.   338 

Croquettes,   Almond,  414 

Crustacea,  The,  209 

Cucumbers,   325 

a  la  Poulette,  325 
Raw,  325 

Cure,   Grape,  386 

Currant  Shrub,  380 

Currants,  379 

and   Raspberries,   380 
Black,   380 
Frosted,  379 

Custard,  Caramel,  435 
Cocoanut,  434 
Pumpkin,    303 
Sauce.   Soft.  439 

Custards,   Marlborough,   437 


Dandelion,   335 
Date  Gems  for  Children.   382 
Muffin.    381 
Mush,  381 
Sandwiches,  381 
Dates.  380 

Stuffed,   381 
Desserts,  434 
Diabetics,   Jellies   for,    424 
Diazyme   Essence.   264 
Dicotyledons,   283 
Digestibility   of  Eggs,   274 
Foods,   178 
Milk.  241 
Digestion,    Partial,    of    Farinaceous 

Foods  at  Table,  264 
Directions   for   the  Use   of  Laibose,   261 
Dishes   Flavored   with    Coffee,   453 
Dodgers,   Corn,   352 
Double  Bouillon,   191 

Soup,    192 
Dressing,    French,    340 

ISIayonnaise.   340 
Dried   Bean   Soup,   200 

Beans,  Puree  of,  310 
Figs,   384 
Fruit  Juices,    363 
Nuttrose,  176 
Pea  Soup,  201 
Peas,  Puree  of.  309 
Peas,   Meat  Substitute,  310 
Drink,   Gelose,  433 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


545 


Drinks,   Fruit,    395 

Dry   Panned   Oysters,   212 

Rice,   Composition  of,  292 
Duck,   Canvasback.   Broiled,  234 
Dumplings,  Peach.  401 
Rice,  294 


Edible  Weeds,   334 
Effervescing  Water, 

With   Peptonized   :\rilk,   260 
Egg  Albumin,   Dried,   176 

and  Chicken   Soup,   198 
and  Mulled  Wine,  279 
and   Sherry,   279 
and  Whey,  278 
Beauregard,    280 
Cordial,  277 
Egyptian,   280 
Flip,   277 
Hard-boiled,   279 
Junket,  272 
Lemonade.   279,  444 
Eggnog,   278 

French,  278 
Golden,   278 
Eggplant   (Aubergines),   326 
Egg  Punch,   278 
Sauce,  237 
with   Kefir,  246 
with  Veal  Broth,   195 
Eggs,   274 

a  la  Martin,  276 
and  Beef,   Creamed,  207 
and  Milk  with  Brandy,  246 
Cardoze,  281 
Coddled,  274 
Digestibility  of,  274 
Egyptian,  280 
Fluffed,  276 
French  Poached,   276 
Hungary,  275 
Poached,   275 
Shirred,  275 
Snow,  277 

To  Ascertain  Freshness,  274 
Uses  of,  274 
Virginia,  275 
Egyptian  Eggs,  280 
Rice,  294 
Elderberry  Cordial,   382 
Juice,  383 
Toast,    382 
Wine,   383 
Elderberries,  382 
Endive,  336 

Imported,  337 

35 


Enemose,  for  Colonic  Alimentation,  267 
English  Orange  Squash,  396 
Essence,  Beef,  188 

Diazyme,  264 

of  Pepsin,  269 
Evans's  Tea  Gruel,  448 
Extractum  Pancreatis,  264 

F 

Faircliild's  Peptonizing  Tubes,  260 
1-^airy  Toast,  385 
Farina.  359 

Blancmange.  250 
Milk  Gruel,  250 
Porridge,  359 
Souffle,  360 
Farinacious  Foods,  Partial 

Digestion,   264 
Fever  Drink,  Old-fashioned,  446 
Fig  Caramels,  385 
Sandwiches,  386 
Toast,  385 
Figs,  383 

and  Almonds  on  Toast,  385 
Dry,  384 
Fresh,  384 
Steamed,  384 
Stewed,  384 
File  Powder,  Gumbo,  286 
Fingers,    Whole  Wheat,   347 
Fish,  210 

Boiled,   210 
Broiled,  211 
Gelatin,  423 
in  a  Paper  Bag,  212 
Planked,  211 
Flavorings,  Plants  Used  for,  285 
Flaxseed  Tea,  446 
Flip,  Egg,  277 

Floating   Island,   French,  435 
Float,   Orange.   398 
Flour,   Aleuronat,    175 

Bran,  How  to  :\Iake,  347 
Gluten,  173 
Gruel,  German,  250 
Rice,  Browned  Gruel,  254 
Fluff,  Apple,  367 

Blackberry,  374 
Fluffed  Eggs,  276 
Flummery,  Huckleberry,  392 
Food,  Bartholow's,   189 
Meiggs',  251 
Panopepton,  267 
"Ye  Perfect,"  253 
Foods,  267 

Animal,  208 
Cereal,  355 
Digestibility  of,  17§ 


546 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


Foods,  Farinaceous,  Partial 
Digestion  of,  264 
Proprietary,   173 
French  Artichokes,  316 
Dressing,  340 
Eggnog,  278 
Floating  Island,  435 
Poached  Eggs,  276 
Fresh  Figs,  384 

Fruit  Juices,  363 
Grape  Drink,  448 
Grape  Jelly.  388 
Grape  Juice  No.  1,  387 
Grape  Juice  No.  2,  388 
Strawberry  Juice,  410 
Freshness  of  Eggs,  How  to 

Ascertain,   274 
Fricassee,  Chicken,  231 
Fringed  Celery,   324 
Frosted  Apple,  369 

Currants,  379 
Frozen  Coffee,  454 

Cranberryade,   379 
Junket,  273 
Orange  Juice,  396 
Peach,  400 
Fruit  Crackers,  420 
Drinks,  395 
Gelose.  432 
Gems,  352 
Jelly,  Plain,  429 
Juice  Sauce,  440 
Juices,  363 

Meringue  with  Oatmeal,  357 
Fruits,  361 

for  Salads,  341 


Garden  Cress  or  Pepper  Grass,  337 
Gelatin,  423 

Commercial,  423 
Cranberry,   427 
Jellies,  423 
Vegetable,  423 
Water.  446 
Gelatinized  Milk.  248 
Gelose,  431 

Drink,  433 
Fruit,  432 

How  to  Prepare,  431 
Orange,  No.   1   and  No.  2,  432 
Pineapple,  432 
Restorative,  433 
Gems,  351 

Aleuronat,   354 
Bran,  348 
Date,  382 
Fruit,  352 


Gems,  Oatmeal,  352 
Rice,  351 
Soy  Bean,  312 

Whole  Wheat,  Unleavened,  347 
German  Cabbage,  319 

Chicken  Puff,  231 
Flour  Gruel,  250 
Puffs  or  Popovers,  352 
Germ,  \\'lieat,  356 

Wheat  Cereals,  358 
Wheat  Porridge,  358 
Globe  or  French  Artichokes,  316 
Gluten   Bread  from  Moist  Gluten,  353 
Flour,  173 
Loaf,  353 

Moist,  Bread  Made  From,  353 
Mush,  360 
Golden  Chicken,  232 
Nog.  278 
Toast,  280 
Gooseberry  Sauce,  238 
Graham  Bread,  344 
Grains,  Comparative  Analysis  of,  355 
Grape  Cure,   386 

Drink,  Fresh,  448 
Grape  Fruit  and  Shaddock,  390 
for  Luncheon,   391 
How  to  Serve,  390 
in  the  Half  Shell,  390 
Salad,  391 
Grape  Jam,  388 
jellv,  388 
Jelly,  Quick,  428 
Juice,  387 

Juice  with  Sugar,  387 
Juice  with  Whey,  272 
Sorbet,  442 
Squash,  448 
Toast,  389 
Water  Ice.  389 
Grapes,  386 

Raw,  to  Serve,  387 
Grass,  Pepper,  337 
Grated  Pineapple,  405 
Green  or  Succulent  \'egetables, 

List  of,  315 
Green  Pea  Soup,  Cream  of,  204 

Peas  with  Chicken   Broth,   197 
Peas,  Young,  306 
Vegetables,   Boiled,   180 
Griddled  Oysters,  213 
Grilled  Apples,    368 
Gruel,  Arrowroot,  255 

Arrowroot  Milk,  250 
Barley,  251 
Beef,   192 
Blackberry,  252 
Black  Currant,  252 
Cornmeal,  254 


MRS.    RORER'S  diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


647 


Gruel,  Evans's  Tea,  4-48 

Farina  Milk,  250 

German  Flour,  250 

Gum  and  Milk.  254 

Lentil  Milk,  253 

Meiggs',  255 

Milk,  Peptonized,  263 

Peptonized,  260 

Rice,  252 

Rice  Flour,  Browned,  254 

Scorched  Rice,  253 
Gruels,  Water,  443 
Gum   and    Milk    Gruel,    254 
Gum  Arabic  Water,  447 
Gumbo  File   Powder,   286 

H 

Hard-boiled  Eggs,   279 
Homemade   Beef    Extract.    188 
Pemmican,  218 
Yeast,   343 
Hominy,  295 

Grits,  How  to  Cook,  295 
Jelly,   295 
Honey   and   Peaches,   402 

Pear,   403 
Horseradish,    326 
Hot  Milk,   Peptonized,  263 
Panopepton,   268 
Panopepton    Bouillon,   269 
Peach  Toddy,  402 
Peptonized  Milk,  263 
Toddy,  Peach,  402 
Huckleberry   Flummery,    392 

Juice,    392 
Huckleberries,    Blueberries, 

Whortleberries    or    Bilberries,    391 
Hungary  Eggs,  275 


Ice  Cream,  441 

Coffee,  441,  454 
Peach,  401 
Ice  Creams  and  Sorbets,  441 
Iced  Cocoa,  457 
Coffee,  455 
Panopepton,  267 
Peach  on  Toast,  400 
Tea,  450 
Imperial  Water,  448 
Imported   Endive,    337 
Individual   Recipes  for  Sauces,   236 
In   Place  of  Meat  for  Children,  310 
Irish  Moss  Jelly  No.   1   and  No.  2,  427 

Water,  445 
Isinglass  and  Almond  Milk.  247 
Jelly,   428 
Rum  and  Milk,  246 


Italian   Consomme,    193 
Pastes,  298 
Spaghetti,   299 


Tarn,   Grape,   388 
Jefferson   Eggs,  281 
Jellies,  Gelatin,  423 
Gelose,  431 
Meat,   423 
Jelly,   Apple  and   Quince,   369 

Arrowroot,  249 

Barley,  251 

Blackberry,  374 

Bouillon,   191 

Calves'    Foot,   425 

Chicken,  426 

Coffee,   428,  454 

Cranberry,   378 

Cream,  for  Diabetics,  429 

For    Diabetics   and   Obese,   424 

Fresh   Grape,   388 

Hominy,   295 

Irish  Moss,  427 

Isinglass,  428 

Lemon,    423 

Milk,   249 

Orange,  397,  424 

Panopepton,   268 

Peptonized  Milk,  262 

Plain    with    Fruit,   429 

Port  Wine,   429 

Prune,  408 

Quick  Beef,  425 

Quick   Grape,   428 

Quince,  409 

Quince  and  Apple,  369 

Spanish   Cream,  430 

Tapioca,   438 

Water,    447 

Water,    Black   Currant,   448 

White  Wine,   425 

Wine,  424 

Wine  and  Orange,  428 
Jerusalem  Artichokes,   317 

With  Cream,  317 
Jugged  Chicken,  234 
Juice,  Apple,   366 

Beef,    189 

Blackberry,   376 

Cherry,   377 

Elderberry,   383 

Fresh   Grape,    387 

Fresh  Strawberry,  410 

•Fruit,  Sauce,  440 

Grape,  387 


548 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


Juice,  Huckleberry,  392 
Lemon,  393 
Orange,   Frozen,   396 
Plum,   406 
Junket,   271 

and  Whey,   270 

Bitter  Almond,  273 

Cocoa,    272 

Coffee.    272 

Egg,  272 

Semi-solid  Milk,  Frozen,  211 

Strawberry,  273 

Vanilla,   273 


K 


Kale,    321 
Kefir,  245 

^^'^th  Egg,  246 

Klopps,  224 
Kohl-Rabi.  321 
Koumys,  245 


Ladies'   Cabbage,  319 
Laibose,  260 

A  Food,  267 
Formulas  for,  261 
Uses  of,   261 
Lamb's  Lettuce,   336 

Quarters,   334 
Larded  Ouail,  234 
Leban.   245 
Leeks.  329 
Leguminos.T,    309 
Lemonade   No.    1   and   No.  2,  444 
Egg,    279,  444 
Peptonized   Milk,  263 
Lemon    Apple,  367 
Jelly.  423 

Jelly  for  Diabetic  and  Obese,  424 
Sorbet,  441 
Squash,   445 
^^^^ey,   256 
Lemons  and   Limes,   392 
Lentil  Milk  Gruel,  253 
Soup,    201 
Soup,  Quick,  311 
Lentils.   Puree  of,    198,  310 
Lettuce,   ZZI 

Lamb's,   336 
Stewed,   337 
Limeade,  445 
Lima    Beans,    311 
Lima  Bean  Souffle,  312 
Lime  Water,  447 

and  Milk,  248 


Limes  and  Lemons,  392 
Linseed  or  Flaxseed  Tea,  446 
Liver,  227 
Loaf.   Bran,    348 

Gluten,   353 

Nut,  350 
Luncheon   Bread,  School.   350 

Grape   Fruit   for,    391 

M 

Macaroni,    Baked.   299 
Maigre  Soups,  200 
Maitre.d'Hotel,  237 
Making   Bread,   342 
:\raltose,  173 

Malt  with    Rice  Pudding,   437 
Mangoes,    393 

ITow  to  Serve,  393 
Marlborough   .\pple  Sauce.   367 

Custards.   437 
Marrow.   Vegetable,    326 
Maryland  Biscuits,  353 
:Mashed    Potatoes.    288 
Turnips,   333 
Mate,   458 

Mayonnaise   Combinations,   341 
Dressing.    340 
Dressing,    White,    340 
Measurements.    178 
I^Ieat    Cake.    Almond.    218 

The    Rorer.    218 
Meat    Substitute.    Dried    Peas,   310 
:\reats.  208.  215 

for  Salalds,  341 
Salt,  221 

The  Second   Cooking  of,   220 
Meiggs'   Food,   251 
Gruel.   255 
Modified  Milk,  244 
Melted    Butter   Sauce,   237 
Meringue,   Fruit,   with  Oatmeal,   357 

Rice,    294 
Methods  of  Cookery,    180 
Mexican    Chocolate,    457 
Milk,  241 

Albuminized,   248 

Almond,  414 

Almond,    with    Isinglass,    247 

and  Almonds,  414 

and  Lime  Water,  248 

Arrowroot,  249 

Artificial,  244 

Asses'    247 

Caramel,    242 

Cinnamon,    243 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET    FOR    THE   SICK 


549 


Milk,  Cocoanut,  416 

Composition    of    Skimmed,    242 
Digestibility   of,   241 
Eggs    and    Brandy,    246 
Gelatinized,   248 
Gruel,    Peptonized,  260 
and  Gum  Gruel,  254 
Jelly,  249 

Jelly,    Peptonized,    262 
Lemonade,  Peptonized,  263 
Mixed   Nut,  420 
Modified   (Meiggs'),  244 
Pasteurization  of,  243 
Peptonized,    Cold    Process,    259 
Peptonized,  Quick  Process,  259 
Peptonized,    Partially,    259 
Peptonized,    Recipes    for 

Preparation,    259 
Peptonized,    with    Carbonated 

Water,    260 
Peptonized,  with  Cereals,  263 
Peptonized,   with   Effervescing 

Water,  260 
Pine  Nut,  419 
Punch,  248 

Punch,  Peptonized,  262 
Rasin,  242 

Rum  and  Isinglass,   246 
Semi-solid  Junket,  270 
Soup,  207 
Soups,  203 

Specially  Peptonized,  261 
Sterilization  of,  243 
Tiger's.  247 

to  Change  Taste  of,  242 
Minced  Chicken  on  Toast,  232 
Mint,  335 

Sorbet,  442 
Mixed  Nut  Milk,  420 
Mock  Artichokes,  333 

Candy,  421 
Modifications  of  Milk  and  Whey,  271 
Modified  Milk   (Meiggs'),  244 
Monocotyledons,  284 
Moss,  Irish,  Jelly,  427 
Mousse,  Coffee,  454 
Mufiins,  Aleuronat,  354 

Date,  381 
Mulled  Buttermilk,  258 
Port  Wine,  256 
Wine  and  Egg,  279 
Mush,   Aleuronat,   354 
Banana,  372 
Blackberry,  374 
Date,  381 
Gluten.  360 
Rye,  358 
Mushrooms  with  Mutton  Cakes,  224 


Mustard,  338 
Mutton,  222 

and  Cornmeal   Broth,  195 

and  Oatmeal  Broth,  194 

Broth,  194 

with  Zweiback,   194 

Cakes,  223 

Cake  with  Mushrooms,  224 

Casserole,  224 

Pats,  223 

Tea,  194 

N 

Nectarines  and  Peaches,  398 
Nectar,   Welsh,  449 
Nitrogenous   \"egetables,   314 
Noodles,  300 

with  Cottage  Cheese,  300 
Nut  and  Fruit  Crackers,  420 
Cheese,  420 
Cream  Sauces,  440 
Loaf,  350 
Milk,  Pine,  419 
Souffle,  420 
Nuts,  411 

Classes  of,  411 
Uses  for,  422 
Nutritive  Value  of  Fruit  Juices,  363 

Beef  Tea,  186 
Nuttrose,  Dried,  176 


Oatmeal  and  Mutton  Broth,  194 

Broth,  202 

Gems,  352 

Rolled,  357 

Scotch,  356 

Water,  443 

with  Fruit  Meringue,  357 
Oats,  356 

and  Beef,  192 
Obese,   Tellies  for,  424 
Okra,  327 

and  Tomatoes,  327 
Boiled,  Z21 
Soup,  198 
Old  Carrots,  323 
Old-fashioned  Fever  Drink,  446 
Omelet,  Apple,  368 

Souffle,  436 
Onions,  327 

Baked,  No.   1  and  No.  2,   328 

Boiled,  328 

in  Asthma,  329 

Spanish,  Stuffed,  329 

Spring  Scullions,  329 
I    Orangeade,  395 


550 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE    SICK 


Orange  and  Wine  Jelly,  428 
Cocktail,  395 
Compote,  395 
Float,  398 

Gelose  No.  1  and  No.  2,  432 
Jelly,  397,  424 
Juice,  Frozen,  396 
Peel  Tea,  446 
Salad,  398 

Sauce  and  Venison,  235 
Sorbet,   396,  442 
Souffle,  397,  430 
Souffle  Pudding,  397,  436 
Sponge,  396 
Squash,  395 
Squash,  English,  396 
Whip,  398 

with  Panopepton  Jelly,  268 
Oranges,  394 

To  Serve  in   Glass  Dish,   394 
in   Half  Shell,  394 
in  Skin,  394 
Orgeat,  247 
Oyster,  Bisque  of,  207 

Bouillon    No.    1    and   No.    2,    212 
Soup.   Cream  of,  206 
Oysters,  Boiled,  213 

Dry  Panned,  212 
Griddled,  213 
Peptonized.  265 
Plain  Broiled,  212 
and  Tripe,  222 


Panada,  Beef,   190 

Tous-les-Mois,  298 
Pan  Broiling,  216 
Pancreatis  Extractum,  264 
Panned  Baked  Apples,  365 
Chicken,  230 
Chopped  Meat,  218 
Oysters,  Dry,  212 
Panopepton  Bouillon — Hot,  269 

Cordial.  269 

Food  for  the  Sick,  267 

Hot,  268 

Iced,  267 

in  \'arious  Ways,  267 

Jelly,  268 

Jelly  with  Orange,  268 

with  Whey,  269 
Parsley,  335 
Parsnips,  304 
Partial   Digestion   of    Farinaceous   Foods 

at  the  Table,  264 
Partially  Peptonized  Milk,  259 
Passover  Bread,  347 
Pastes,  Italian,  298 
Pasteurizing  Milk,  243 


Pats,  Mutton,  223 
Peach  Brandy,  402 
Cream,  437 
Dumpling,  401 
Ice  Cream,  401 
Pudding,  401 
Puff,  401 
Puree,  399 
Souffle,  Cold,  399 
Syllabub,  402 
Tapioca,  400 
Toast,  401 
Peaches  a  la  Imperatrice,  400 
and  Honey,  402 
and  Nectarines,  398 
Baked,  399 
Frozen,  400 
Iced  on  Toast,  400 
Raw,  399 
Sliced,  399 
Stewed,  400 
Peanut  Butter,  418 
Soup,  418 
Wafers,  417 
Peanuts,  417 

Composition  of,  417 
Pear  Honey,  403 
Pears,  403 

Baked.  403 
Compote  of,  404 
Stewed,  403 
Pea  Soup,  Dried,  201 
Peas,  Boiled,  in  Turnip  Cups,  307 
Canned,  306 

Dried,  as  Meat  Substitute,  310 
Green,  306 
Puree  of  Dried,   309 
Pemmican,  Homemade,  218 
Pepper  Grass,   3i7 
Peppers.  329 

Stuffed.-  No.    1   and   No.    2,    330 
Pepsin.  Essence  of,  269 
Peptic  Bread,  350 
Peptonized,   Beef.  264 
Gruel.  260 
Milk,  260 

Hot,  263 

Cold  Process,  259 
Gruel,  263 
Jelly,  262 
Lemonade.  263 
Punch,  262 
Recipes  for 

Preparation,  259 
Warm  Process,  260 
with   Carbonated  or   Ef- 
fervescing   Waters,    260 
with  Cereals,  263 
Oysters,  265 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


551 


Peptonizing  Tubes,  Fairchild's,  260 
Perfect  Cup  of  Coffee,  452 
Pernicious  Vomiting,  214 
Pickled  Carrots,  323 
Pigeon,  Boiled,  235 
Pineapple,  404 
Pineappleade,  404 
Pineapple  Albumin   Dessert,   438 
Cider,  404 
Cream,  437 
Gelose,  432 
Grated,  405 
Shrub,  405 
Sorbet,  442 
Pine  Nut  Milk,  419 
Pine  Nuts,  418 
Pinon  Butter,  419 
Pifions  or  Pine  Nuts,  418 
Pistachio  Nut,  419 
Plain  Broiled  Oysters,  212 
Jelly  with  Fruit,  429 
Pudding  Sauce,  439 
Planked    Fish,    211 
Planking,    181 

Plants  Used  as  Flavorings,  285 
Plum  Juice,  406 

Porridge,  248 
Plums,  405 
Poached  Eggs,  275 

French,  276 
Poke  Shoots,  334 
Popovers,  German,  352 
Porridge,    Farina,    359 

Germ  Wheat,  358 
Plum,  248 
Portuguese  Soup,  185 
Port  Wine  Jelly,  429 

Mulled,  256 
Posset,  256 
Potato  Balls,  291 

Cases,  with  Chicken,  232 
Puff,  289 
Puree,  291 
Roses,  289 
Souffle.  290 
Soup,  Cream  of,  205 
Timbale,  289 
Potatoes,  287 

a  la  Creme,  290 
Baked,  290 
Boiled,  288 
Composition  of,  287 
Creamed,  289 
Mashed,  288 
Riced,  288 
Stuffed,  291 
Poultry  and  Game,  228 
Powder,  Racahout,  457 


Preparation  of  Celery,  324 

of  Junket  and  Whey,  270 
of  Peptonized  Milk,  259 
of  Whey  and  Junket,  270 
Preparing  Sweetbreads,  225 
Proprietary  Foods,   173 
Proteins,  Soluble,   270 
Prune  Cream,  408 
Jelly,  408 
Pulp,  407 
Souffle,  407 
Prunelles,  408 
Prunes,-406 

and  Rice,  407 
Baked,  407 
Puffed,  407 
Queen,  408 
Stewed,  407 
Pudding,  Almond,  413 
Beef,  220 
Ceylon,  434 

Orange  Souffle,   397,  436 
Peach.   401 
Rice,  293 

Rice  with  Malt,  437 
Sauce,  439 
Sauce,   Plain,  439 
Snow,  429 
Puff,  Banana,   373 

German  Chicken,  231 
Peach,  401 
Puffed  Potatoes,  289 

Prunes,  407 
Puffs,  German,  352 
Rennet,    258 
Pulled  Bread,  345 
Pulp,  Prune,  407 
Pumpkin,  Boiled,  302 
Custard,  303 
Timbale,  302 
Punch,   Egg,  278 
Milk,  248 
Puree  of  Apricots,  370 

Dried  Beans,  310 
Dried  Peas,  309 
Lentils,  198,  310 
Peaches,  399 
Potato,  291 
Rice,  199 
Purgative  Biscuits,  349 
Purse,  Shepherds',  335 
Purslane,  334 


Quail,  Larded,  233 
Queen  Prunes,  408 
Quick  Beef  Jelly,  425 
Tea,  185 


552 


MRS.    RORER  S   DIET   FOR   THE   SICK 


Quick  Biscuits,   351 

Grape  Jelly,  428 

Lentil  Soup,  311 

Process  for  Peptonizing  Milk,  259 
Quince  Jelly,  409 

with  Apples,  369 
Quinces,  408 


Rabbit  Soup,  199 
Racahout  Blancmange,  458 
How  to  Make,  458 
Powder,  457 
Radishes,  330 
Raisin  Milk,  242 
Raisins,  389 

and  Rice,  390 
Stewed,  389 
Raspberries  and  Currants,  380 
Raw  Blackberries,  373 
Blueberries,    391 
Cabbage,  319 
Cucumbers,  325 
Grapes,  How  to  Serve,  387 
Peaches,  399 
Plums,  406 
Tomatoes,  331 
Recipes  for  Sauces,   Individual,   236 
for  the  Preparation  of 

Peptonized   Milk,   259 
Rennet  Puffs,  258 
Whey,  255 
Restorative  Beef  Tea,   187 
Gelose,  433 
Soup,  Bartholow's  for 
Invalids,   188 
Rhubarb,  409 
Rice,  291 

a  la  Imperatrice,  293 
and   Prunes,   407 
Raisins,  390 
Boiled,   Composition  of,  292 
Composition   of,   292 
Cream,   295 

Dry,   Composition  of,  292 
Dumpling,  294 
Egyptian,  294 

Flour  Gruel,  Browned,  254 
Gems,  351 
Gruel,  252 
How  to  Boil,  293 
Meringue,  294 
Potato,   288 
Pudding,  293 
Pudding  with   Malt,  437 
Puree  of,   199 
Steamed,  293 
Water,  443 


Roast  Beef,  How  to,  219 
Roborat,  176 
Rolled  Oatmeal,  357 

Wheat,  357 
Rolls,  Cabbage,  319 
Soy  Bean,  312 
Roman  Meal,  175 
Rorer  Meat  Cake,  218 
Roses,  Potato,  289 
Rum,  Milk  and  Isinglass,  246 
Rusks,  345 
Rye,  358 

Mush,  358 


Sabayon  Sauce,  439 
Saccharin,  175 
Sago,  297 

in  Beef  Broth,   190 
Salad,  Apple,  370 
Corn,  336 

Dressing,  French,  340 
Dressing,  Mayonnaise,  340 
Grape  Fruit,  391 
Orange,  398 
Plants,  336 
Salads,  339 

Fruits    for,    341 
Meats  for,  341 
Vegetables  for,  341 
Salisbury  Steak,  217 
Salsify,   3U4 

with  Cream  Sauce,  304 
Salted  Almonds,  413 
Salt  Meats,  221 
Sandwiches,  Date,  381 

Fig,  386 
Sauce  a  la  Poulette,  236 
Apple,  238,  367 
Brown,  236 
Celery,  239 
Cocoanut,  439 
Cocoanut  Cream,  439 
Cranberry,  238,  378 
Cream,   No.    1  and  No.  2,  236 
Egg,  237 
Fruit  Juice,  440 
Gooseberry,  238 
Marlborough  Apple,  Zdl 
Melted  Butter,  217 
Nut  Cream,  440 
Plain  Pudding,  439 
Sabayon,  439 
Soft  Custard,  439 
Tomato,  238 
Sauces,  236 

Pudding,  439 
Savory  Beef  Tea,  185 
Savoy,  320 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


55^ 


Scalloped  Apple,  368 

Banana,  372 
Schmierkase,  258 
School  Luncheon  Bread,  350 
Scorched  Rice  Gruel,  253 
Scotch  Oatmeal,  356 
Scullions  or  Spring  Onions,   329 
Second  Cooking  of  Meats,  220 
Selecting  Chickens,  228 
Semi-solid  Beef,  192 

Milk  Junket,  270 
Shaddock,  to  Serve,  391 
Shaddocks  with  Grape  Fruit,  390 
Sheet,  Bran,  348 
Sheets,  Swedish,  349 
Shepherds'  Purse,  335 
Sherbet,  Coffee,  454 
Sherry  and  Egg,  279 
Shirred  Eggs,  275 
Shoots,  Poke,  334 
Shrub,  Blackberry,  374 

Currant,  380 

Pineapple,  405 
Skimmed  Milk,  242 
Slaw,  Cold,  320 
Sliced  Peaches,  399 
Slippery  Elm  Tea,   445 
Smothered  Apples,  365 
Snow,  Apple,  367 
Eggs,  277 
Pudding,   429 
Soft  Custard  Sauce,  439 
Soluble  Proteins,  270 
Somatose.   176 
Sorbet,  Grape,  442 

Lemon,  441 

Mint,  442 

Orange,  396,  442 

Pineapple,  442 
Sorbets,  441 
Sorrel,  334 
Souari  Nut,  419 
Souffle,  Apricot,  371 

Banana,  372 

Bean,  311 

Chicken,  231 

Cocoanut,    434 

Cold  Peach,  399 

Farina,   360 

Xut,  420 

Omelet,  436 

Orange,  397,  430 

Potato,   290 

Prune,   407 

Pudding,   Orange,   397 

Wheat  Germ,  359 
Soup  a  la  Reine,  197 
a  la  Royal,  184 
Bartholow's  Restorative,   188 


Soup,  Bean,  Dried,  200 
Bean  Flour,  201 
Cardinal,  198 
Chestnut.   198 
Chicken  Egg,  198 
Clear  with  Bread  Blocks,  184 
Crecy,   197 
Crescent.    203 
Double,   192 
Dried  Bean,  200 
Dried  Pea,  201 
Lentil,  201 
Milk,  207 
Okra,  198 
Peanut,  418 
Portuguese,   185 
Quick  Lentil,  311 
Rabbit,  199 
Spinach,   206 
Stock,   183 
Velvet,  204 
Soups,   182 

Maigre,  200 
Milk,  203 
Sourdock,   334 
Soy  Bean,   The,  312 
Gems,  312 
Rolls,   312 
Wafers,  313 
Soy  Breakfast  Cakes,  313 

Gems,  312 
Spaghetti,   Breakfast,  299 
Creamed,  299 
Italian  Fashion,  299 
with  Tomato,  299 
Spanish  Cream,  430 

Onions,  Stuffed,  329 
Specially  Peptonized  Milk,  261 
Spinach,   332 

a  la  Creme,  332 
Boiled,  332 
Soup,  206 
Split  Pea  Soup,  Cream  of,  205 
Sponge,  Apple,  368 

Orange,  396 
Spring  Onions,  Scullions,  329 
Sprouts,   Brussels,  321 
Squabs,  Boned,  235 
Squash,  Grape,  448 
Lemon,  445 
Orange,  395 
Orange,  English,  396 
Summer,  326 
Winter,  302 
Stachys,   332 
Steak,  Beef,   Broiled,  215 

Pan  Broiled,  216 
in  Paper  Bag,  217 
Salisbury,  217 


554 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet    FOR   THE    SICK 


Steamed  Figs,  384 
Rice,  293 
Sterilizing  Milk,  243 
Stewed  Apples,  366 
Bananas,  373 
Celery,  324 
Figs,  384 
Lettuce,  337 
Old  Carrots,  323 
Peach,  400 
Pears,  403 
Prunes,  407 
Raisins,  389 
Sweet  Corn,  308 
Tripe,  221 
Sticks,  Bran,  348 
Bread.  345 
Stimulating  Beef  Tea,   186 
Stock   fSoup).   183 
Strawberry  Juice,  Fresh,  410 

Junket,  273 
Strawberries,  409 

in   Orange  Juice.   410 
String    Beans,    305 
StuflFed   Dates,   381 

Peppers,    No.    1    and   No.   2,   330 
Potatoes.   291 
Spanish   Onions,   329 
Succulent  \'egetables,  304 
Sugar  in  Starchy  Vegetables,  301 
Summer   Squash,    326 
Swedish    Sheets,    349 
Sweetbreads,  225 

Baked.  226 
Broiled.  226 
Creamed.    226 
in  Jelly.  226 
Sweet  Com.   307 

Stewed.  308 
Sweet   Potato.   301 

Baked.  301 
Twice  Baked,  301 
Syllabub.    Peach.   402 
Syrup,  Blackberry,  374 
Chocolate.  456 


Table   of  Grain   Analysis,    355 
Tamarind  Water,  444 
Whey,  256 
Tapioca,  297 

Apple,  365 

Jelly.  438 

Peach.  400 
Taro,  296 

Taste  of  Milk,  How  to  Change,  242 
Tea,  449 

Cinnamon,  447 


Tea,  Flaxseed,  446 

Gruel,    Evans's,  448 
Iced,   450 
Linseed,  446 
Mutton,  194 
Orange   Peel,  446 
Slippery   Elm,  445 
Tiger's   Milk.   247 
Timbale,   Chicken.  233 
Potato.    289 
Pumpkin.  302 
Wheat   Germ.    359 
Toast,   Almond  and    Fig.   385 
Apricot,  371 
Elderberrv,   382 
Fairv.  385 
Fig,   385 

Fig  and  Almond,  385 
Golden,  280 
Grape.  389 
Iced    Peach,  400 
Peach,   401 
Water.   443 
Toddy,  Hot  Peach.  402 
Tomato    Broth.   200 
Sauce.  238 
With    Cocoanut.   416 
Tomatoes.  331 

Raw.    331 
With    Okra.   327 
Tous-Les-Mois,  298 

Panada,  298 
Tripe,  221 

Broiled,  222 
and  Oysters,  222 
Stewed.    221 
Turki<;h   Beef,  220 
Turnip  Cups  with   Peas,  307 
Soup,  Cream  of,  206 
Turnips.    331 

Boiled.   331 
Mashed.    333 
Twentieth    Century    Bread,   342 
Twice  Baked  Sweet  Potato,  301 

u 

Unleavened   Bread,  346 

Gems.  Whole  Wheat,  347 
Whole  Wheat   Gems,  347 
Use  of  Laibose,   261 

Plants   for   Flavorings,   285 
Uses   of  Eggs,   274 
Nuts,  422 


Vanilla  Junket,   273 
Various   Ways   of    Preparing 
Panopepton,  267 


MRS.    RORER^S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


555 


Veal,  225 

Broth  No.   1   and   No.   2,    195 
With   Egg,  195 
Vegetable  Broth,  200 

Gelatin    (Gelose)    Jellies,   431 
Marrow,   326 
Vegetables,  282 

Classes  of,  282 
for  Salads,  341 
Green,    Boiled,    180 
Starchy,  287 
Starchy,    Containing 

Sugar,  301 
Succulent,  304 
Without    Starch,    306 
Velvet   Cream,  257 

Coffee.  454 
Soup.  204 
Venison  with   Orange  Sauce,   235 
Vinegar,   Blackberry,    375 
Virginia  Eggs,   275 

Wafers,    352 
Vomiting,    Pernicious,   to   Allay,   214 

w 

Wafers,   Almond.  412 
Peanut,  417 
Soy   Bean,   313 
Virginia,  352 
Warm   Process   for 

Peptonizing  Milk,  260 
Water  Chestnuts,  421 

Cress.    338 
Water   Ice.    Grape,    389 
Weeds,   Edible.  334 
Welsh  Nectar,  449 
Wheat  Fingers.  Whole,  347 
Germ,  356 

Cereals,  358 
Porridge,  358 
Souffle.  359 
Timbale,  359 
Rolled,   357 
Whey,  271 

Albuminized,  256 
Analysis  of,   270 


Whey    and   Milk  Modifications,  271 
and    Egg.   278 
and  Junket,  270 

and  Junket.   How    to    Make,    271 
Lemon.   256 
Modifications,    271 
Rennet.   255 
Tamarind,  256 
Wine,  255 

With  Grape  Juice,  272 
Panopepton,  269 
Whip,-  Orange.   398 
Whipped    Cream   with    Chestnuts,   415 

With  Cam   Broth,  214 
White   Bread.   343 

Mayonnaise,  340 
Wine  Jelly,  425 
Whole  Wheat   Fingers,  347 

Gems,  Unleavened,  347 
Whortleberries.    391 
Wild   Cherry   Cordial,   449 
Wine  and  Orange,  Jelly,  428 
Elderberry,   383 
Jelly.  424 
Port.   429 
Port,   Mulled,   256 
Whey,   255 
White.   425 
Winter  Squash,  302 


Yams.   296 

Yeast,    Bread    With    Homemade,    344 

Homemade,  343 
"Ye   Perfect   Food."  253 
Yorkshire  Apple,   369 
Young  Green  Peas,  306 

Lima   Beans,  311 

Sweet   Corn,   307 


Zouave,   Apple  a  la,   366 
Zweiback,  346 

Slices,  346 

With  Mutton  Broth,  194 


556 


MRS.    RORER  S    DIET    FOR    THE    SICK 


PART   THREE 
PHYSICIANS'  READY   REFERENCE   LIST 


Acid,    Excess    of    Hydrochloric,    472 

Acne,  527 

Acute   Dysentery,   487 

Gastritis.   478 

Intestinal   Catarrh,   482 

Meningitis,   535 

Nephritis,  505 
Ag-ed,  Foods  for,  518 
Albuminuria,  502 

Functional,  in   Children,   503 
Alcoholism,  528 
Anaemia,  469 

Pernicious,  469 
in    Rheumatism,   493 
Angina   Pectoris,   466 
Aneurism,  467 
Apoplexy,  468 
Appendicitis,    485 
Asthma,  461 
.\taxia,   Locomotor,   531 
Atonic   Dyspepsia,  475 

B 

Biliousness,  496 

Bright's   Disease,    Chronic,    504 


Calculi,   Renal.   508 

Cancer,    529 

Catarrh.    Acute    Intestinal,   482 

Catarrhal  Jaundice,  497 

Chlorosis,  469 

Children.    Eczema   in,   525 

Foods  for,  5 1 1 
Chorea.   515 
Chronic   Bright's  Disease,  504 

Constipation,    483 

Diarrhoea,  486 

Gastritis,   479 

Nephritis,    506 

Rheumatism,  495 
Cirrhosis,  498 
Constipation.   Chronic.  483 
Consumption,  462 
Cough,  Whooping.  516 


D 

Delirium  Tremens,   529 
Dengue  Fever,  522 


Diabetes.  509 
Diarrhoea,    Chronic,  486 
Diathesis,   L'ric  Acid.   501 
Dilatation   of  Stomach,   473 
Diphtheria.   516 
Duodenal    Clcrr.    4S2 
Dysentery,   Acute,  487 
Dyspepsia,    Atonic,   475 

Hungry,   476 

Nervous,   477 

With   Flatulency,  474 


Eczema  in  Children,  525 
Enuresis,  517 
Epilepsy.   532 
Erysipelas.   533 
Exophthalmic  Goiter,   530 


Feeding  in   Fever,   520 
Fever,   Dengue,  522 

Feeding  in.   520 

Malarial,   522 

Scarlet,   523 

Typhoid,    521 

Yellow.  523 
Flatulency  in    Dyspepsia,  474 
Foods,  for  Children,  511 

for  the  Aged,  518 
Functional  Albuminuria  in  Children,    503 


Gall   Stones.  499 

Gastric    Disturbances.   471 

Gastritis.    Acute,   478 

Chronic,    479 
Goiter.    Exophthalmic,    530 
Gout,  492 

H 

Headache,  Sick,  500 
Heart.   Senile,   465 
Hemorrhoids,  488 
Hungry  Dyspepsia.  476 
Hydrochloric    Acid,    Excess  of,    472 
too   Little,  471 


MRS.    RORER'S   diet   FOR   THE   SICK 


557 


Indigestion,    Intesrinal,   481 
Insomnia,   534 

Intestinal    Catarrh,    Acute.   482 
Indigestion.  481 


Jaundice,    Catarrhal,  497 

L 

Leanness,   491 
Locomotor  Ataxia,  531 


M 

Malarial  Fever,  522 
Marasmus,   513 
Measles,  514 
Meningitis,  Acute,   535 
Mumps,  516 

N 

Nephritis,   Acute,   505 

Chronic,  506 
Nervous  Dyspepsia,  477 
Nettle  Rash,   526 


Obesity,   490 
Oxaluria,    507 


Pectoris,  Angina,  466 
Pernicious  Anaemia,  469 
Peritonitis,   489 
Pneumonia,   463 
Pulmonary   Consumption,  462 
Purpura  Haemorrhagica,  470 


Ouinzv,  465 


Rash.  Nettle.  526 

Renal  Calculi,  508 

Rheumatism,  494 

Anaemic,  493 
Chronic,   495 


Scarlet   Fever,   523 

Senile  Heart,   465 

Sick  Headache,  500 

Smallpox,  524 

Stomach,   Dilatation  of.  473 

Ulcer  of,  480 
Stones.   Call,   499 


Tonsilitis,    464 
Tremens,   Delirium,  529 
Tuberculosis,  462 
Typhoid   Fever,  521 


u 

Ulcer  of  Duodenum,  482 

of  Stomach.  480 
Uric  Acid   Diathesis,  501 


w 

Whooping  Cough,   516 


Yellow  Fever,  523 


SOME  OTHER  BOOKS 
Published  by 

Arnold  and  Company 


Mrs.  Rorer^s 
NEW  Cook  Book 

A  big  book  of  731  pages,  abundantly  illustrated.  Its 
bigness  is  no  criterion  of  its  goodness.  The  fact  that 
it  is  the  best  work  of  the  best  years  of  Mrs.  Rorer's 
life ;  that  it  is  a  complete  new  book  telling  of  the  things 
one  needs  to  know  about  cooking,  living,  health,  and 
the  easiest  and  best  way  of  housekeeping — these  are 
what  make  for  goodness,  and  place  this  book  far  in 
advance  of  any  other  of  a  like  nature. 

The  New  Cook  Book  covers  all  departments  of 
cookery.  A  masterly  exposition  of  each  subject  is 
given,  followed  by  recipes  for  the  proper  preparation, 
cooking  and  serving  of  the  various  kinds  of  foods. 
There  are  over  1500  recipes  in  the  book. 

The  illustrations  are  an  important  feature.  One 
set  of  pictures  shows  the  proper  dressing  of  the  table 
during  a  course  dinner.  Then  there  is  a  complete  set 
showing  the  method  of  carving  meats,  poultry,  game, 
etc. ;  and  many  others  illustrating  special  features  of 
the  book. 

Large  12mo,  731  pages,  profusely  and  beautifully 

illustrated ;  bound  in  cloth,  $2.00  net ; 

by  mail,  $2.20 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
Philadelphia  Cook  Book 

This  is  the  standard  book  of  Mrs.  Rorer's  that  has 
been  before  the  pubhc  for  a  number  of  years.  It  has 
no  connection  with  Mrs.  Rorer's  New  Cook  Book. 
Each  book  is  independent  of  the  other,  and  the  posses- 
sion of  one  forms  no  reason  for  doing  without  the 
other. 

The  Philadelphia  Cook  Book  is  full  of  good  things, 
and,  like  all  of  Mrs.  Rorer's  works,  is  eminently  prac- 
tical. It  is  a  standard  of  excellence,  in  that  it  is 
full  of  the  brightest  things  in  cookery ;  the  recipes 
are  absolutely  reliable,  and  the  general  instructions 
to  housekeepers  of  the  most  helpful  and  necessary 
character. 

Nearly  all  cook  books  assume  some  knowledge  and 
experience  on  the  part  of  those  who  use  them,  but  Mrs. 
Rorer  makes  her  explanations  so  clear,  and  gives  such 
definite  directions,  as  to  quantities,  that  the  beginner 
has  no  difficulty  in  successfully  accomplishing  all  the 
book  calls  for.  Then  there  are  frequent  hints  as  to 
the  proper  use  of  left-overs,  how  to  market,  and,  in 
many  ways,  information  is  given  that  is  alike  useful  to 
the  experienced  cook  as  to  the  tyro  in  matters  culinary. 

The  book  is  full  of  choice  recipes,  every  one  of 
which  has  been  successfully  tested  by  Mrs.  Rorer  and 
found  to  come  out  right.  This  alone  is  of  incalculable 
benefit  and  ought  to  commend  the  book  to  the  favorable 
consideration  of  e.very  housekeeper. 

The  use  of  this  book  in  the  home  means  better 
health,  better  living,  economy  in  the  use  of  food,  and 
a  consequent  saving  in  dollars  and  cents. 

12mo,  nearly  600    pages,  with  portrait  of  author; 
bound  in  cloth,  $1.00  net;  by  mail,  $1.15 


Mrs.  Rorer^s 

Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat 

Substitutes 

This  hook  has  a  twofold  object: 

1.  To  show  the  value  of  vegetables  in  their  relation  to 
diet  and  health,  how  to  prepare,  cook  and  serve 
them,  what  to  eat  under  certain  conditions  of  health, 
and  thus  have  them  perform  their  proper  work. 

2.  To  give  to  the  prudent  housewife  a  knowledge  of 
combinations  of  foods  in  the  shape  of  toothsome 
recipes  to  take  the  place  of  meat,  or  as  we  call 
them — Meat  Substitutes. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  we  all  know  too  little 
about  the  value  of  vegetables  as  food.  We  eat  them 
because  they  are  palatable,  not  realizing  their  immense 
importance  as  body  builders.  Here  they  are  classified, 
and  thus  made  to  give  us  a  right  idea  of  their  use. 

Then  as  to  ^leat  Substitutes.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  be  a  vegetarian  to  desire  a  change  from  a  meat  diet. 
There  are  health  reasons  often  demanding  abstention 
from  meats ;  or  economy  may  be  an  impelling  motive ; 
or  a  desire  for  change  and  variety  in  the  daily  bill  of 
fare  may  be  warrant  enough.  However  we  look  at  it 
here  is  the  wonder  book  to  point  the  way  to  better  and 
healthier  living. 

There   is   an   abundance  of  the   choicest  and   most 
palatable  recipes,  and  they  are  given  in  such  a  manner, 
that  if  the  directions  are  followed,  the  results  are  sure. 
f  You  cannot  make  mistakes. 

I2mo,  clothj  $1.50  net ;  by  mail,  $1.65 


Mrs,  Rorer*s 

Ice  Creams,  Water  Ices 

Frozen  Puddings,  etc. 

Together  with 

Refreshments 
for  all  Social  Affairs 

The  above  title  is  very  suggestive  and  alluring.  The 
book  itself  is  a  storehouse  of  the  best  and  finest  things 
that  can  be  invented  to  satisfy  the  appetite.  It  is  a 
great  boon  to  housewives  everywhere.  To  have  at 
their  command  the  knowledge  and  facilities  for  making 
all  kinds  of  Frozen  Sweets  at  a  small  fraction  of  the 
cost  of  buying  such  things  is  a  great  satisfaction. 

Philadelphia  Ice  Creams  are  noted  the  world  over 
for  their  wonderful  quality,  their  smoothness  and  rich- 
ness. And  nowhere  else  can  you  get  them.  Even 
Paris  bows  to  the  Quaker  City.  Well,  here  are  the 
famous  Philadelphia  Ice  Creams  at  your  service. 

Then  there  are  Neapolitan  Ice  Creams,  Ice  Creams 
from  Condensed  Milk,  Frozen  Puddings  and  Desserts, 
Water  Ices,  Sorbets,  Sherbets,  Frozen  Fruits,  Frappe, 
Parfait,  Mousse,  and  Sauces  for  Ice  Creams. 

The  Department  of  Refreshments  for  Social  Affairs 
is  just  what  is  wanted  day  by  day.  There  are  delight- 
ful ways  of  preparing  famous  dishes  for  guest  occa- 
sions. Wonderful  methods  for  Sweetbreads,  Shell  Fish 
Dishes,  Poultry  and  Game,  Soups,  Cold  Dishes,  Salads, 
Sandwiches  and  Suggestions  for  Church  Suppers. 

12mo,  cloth,  75  cents  net;  by  mail  80  cents 


-     Mrs.  Rorer's 

Canning  and  Preserving 

The  only  book  on  the  subject  worth  the  name.  In 
it  Mrs.  Rorer  discusses  at  length  the  canning  and  pre- 
serving of  fruits  and  vegetables,  with  the  kindred 
subjects  of  marmalades,  butters,  fruit  jellies  and  syrups, 
drying  and  pickling.  The  recipes  are  clearly  and  simply 
given.  In  the  new  edition  now  presented,  the  author 
has  brought  the  book  up  to  date,  and  has  included 
many  new,  rare  and  original  recipes  that  have  been 
accumulating  since  the  book;  was  first  introduced.  It 
has  always  been  a  favorite  book  with  the  public,  and 
now  it  will  be  doubly  welcome. 

N9U)  Edition  :  revised  and  rewritten,  with 
the  addition  of  much  new  matter 

12mo,  cloth,  75  cents  net;  by  mail,  80  cents 

Mrs,  Rorer's 
My  Best  250  Recipes 

It  would  be  strange  indeed  if,  out  of  the  multitude 
of  recipes  Mrs.  Rorer  has  invented  and  used  during 
her  long  career  as  a  teacher,  wTiter  and  lecturer,  she 
did  not  have  some  that  appealed  to  her  more  strongly 
than  others.  She  has  gathered  these  together,  classi- 
fying them  under  their  different  heads.  There  are  Best 
20  Soups;  Best  20  Fish  Recipes;  Best  20  Meats;  Best 
20  Salads ;  Best  20  Desserts ;  Best  20  Sauces,  Vegeta- 
bles, Fruit  Preserves,  Luncheon  Dishes,  Ices,  Summer 
Recipes,  Left  Overs,  Game  and  Poultry,  Breads  and 
Biscuits,  etc. 

12mo,  cloth,  75  cents  net;  by  mail,  80  cents 


Mrs,  Rorer's  New  Salads 

For  Dinners,  Luncheons,  Suppers  and  Receptions. 
With  a  group  of  Odd  Salads  and  some  Ceylon  Salads. 

A  salad  made  from  a  succulent  green  vegetable  and 
French  dressing,  should  be  seen  on  the  dinner  table 
in  every  well-regulated  household  three  hundred  and 
sixty-five  times  a  year.  These  green  vegetables  contain 
the  salts  necessary  to  the  well  being  of  our  blood ;  the 
oil  is  an  easily-digested  form  of  fatty  matter ;  the  lemon 
juice  gives  us  sufficient  acid;  therefore  simple  salads 
are  exceedingly  wholesome. 

During  the  summer,  the  dinner  salad  may  be  com- 
posed of  any  well-cooked  green  vegetable,  served  with 
a  French  dressing;  string  beans,  cauliflower,  a  mixture 
of  peas,  turnips,  carrots  and  new  beets,  boiled  radishes, 
cucumbers,  tomatoes,  uncooked  cabbage,  and  cooked 
spinach.  In  the  winter  serve  celer)',  lettuce,  endive  and 
chicory. 

New  Edition  :  revised  and  rewrittenf  with 
the  addition  of  much  new  matter 

12mo,  cloth,  75  cents  net;  by  mail,  80  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's  Dainties 

Possibly  no  part  of  the  daily  bill  of  fare  so  taxes 
the  ingenuity  of  the  housewife  as  the  dessert,  that  final 
touch  to  the  meal  that  lingers  in  the  palate  like  a  bene- 
diction. We  tire  of  constant  repetitions  of  familiar 
things.  We  want  variety.  Why  not  have  it  when 
there  are  so  many  ways  and  means  of  gratifying  our 
tastes.  Mrs.  Rorer  lias  given  here  a  number  of  choice 
things  covering  quite  a  range  of  possibilities. 

New  Edition  :  revised  and  rewritten,  with 
the  addition  of  much  new  matter 

I2mo,  cloth,  75  cents  net;  by  mail,  80  cents 


Mrs,  Rorer*s  Sandwiches 

Of  all  the  useful  and  dependable  articles  of  food, 
commend  us  to  the  Sandwich.  Nothing  in  the  whole 
range  of  foods  presents  such  a  wonderful  opportunity 
for  variety.  The  sandwich  is  the  handy  thing  for 
suppers,  teas,  social  calls,  school  lunch  baskets,  picnics — 
but  where  can  you  not  use  it  to  advantage  and  enjoy- 
ment ?  In  this  book  Mrs.  Rorer  has  given  a  lot  of  new, 
original  recipes,  with  some  very  odd  ones.  She  has 
drawn  upon  her  wonderful  knowledge  and  inventive 
faculty  and  the  result  is  a  bewildering  array  of  delect- 
able sandwiches. 

New  Edition  :  revined  and  rewritten,  with 
the  addition  of  much  new  matter 

12mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 

Mrs.  Rorer 's 

How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish 

It  is  wonderful  the  amount  of  pleasure  and  satis- 
faction that  can  be  had  with  a  Chafing  Dish.  Few 
people  know  how  to  use  one  successfully,  although  the 
art  is  easily  acquired.  This  book,  for  instance,  gives 
the  proper  directions  for  making  hosts  of  good  things, 
and  if  they  are  followed  implicitly,  the  most  inexperi- 
enced person  can  be  sure  of  results.  It  is  a  handy 
thing  in  an  emergency,  and  it  forms  a  delightful  adjunct 
to  a  supper  or  dinner.  Guests  are  always  interested  in 
watching  the  evolution  of  some  delectable  dish,  and 
the  head  of  the  table  has  a  chance  to  show  his  or 
her  skill. 

New  Edition:  revised  and  rewritten,  with 
the  addition  of  much  new  matter 

12mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer^s 
Many  Ways  for  Cooking  Eggs 

Did  you  ever  reflect  what  an  important  part  eggs 
play  in  our  domestic  economy  ?  When  from  any  reason 
other  things  fail,  the  perplexed  housewife  knows  she 
can  do  something  to  tide  over  her  difficulties  by  the 
use  of  eggs.  But  how  many  know  the  great  possibilities 
that  lie  in  an  o^gg — the  very  many  ways  of  cooking  and 
preparing  them  for  the  table?  To  many,  boiled,  fried, 
poached  and  scrambled  form  the  limit  of  their  knowl- 
edge. But  get  this  book  and  you'll  be  surprised  at  the 
feast  in  store  for  you.  You'll  also  find  recipes  for 
delectable  Egg  Sauces. 

12mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 

Mrs.  Rorer*s 
Made-Over  Dishes 

How  to  transform  the  left  overs  into  palatable  and 
wholesome    dishes.      With    many    new    and    valuable 
recipes. 
We  quote  from  the  author's  introduction : 

"Economical  marketing  does  not  mean  the  purchase 
of  inferior  articles  at  a  cheap  price,  but  of  a  small 
quantity  of  the  best  materials  found  in  the  market; 
these  materials  to  be  wisely  and  economically  used. 
Small  quantity  and  no  waste,  just  enough  and  not  a 
piece  too  much,  is  a  good  rule  to  remember.  In  roasts 
and  steaks,  however,  there  will  be,  in  spite  of  careful 
buying,  bits  left  over,  that  if  economically  used,  may 
be  converted  into  palatable,  sightly  and  wholesome 
dishes  for  the  next  day's  lunch  or  supper. 

12mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net;  by  mail,  55  cents 


Mrs,  Rorer's 
Every  Day  Menu  Book 

In  the  course  of  her  teaching  and  editorial  work, 
there  have  come  to  Mrs."  Rorer  frequent  requests  for 
a  book  that  will  provide  a  daily  bill  of  fare,  one  that 
will  be  at  once  rational,  its  directions  easy  of  accom- 
plishment, and  give  an  excellent  variety.  Hence  this 
Menu  Book. 

It  contains  a  menu  for  every  meal  in  the  year, 
systematically  arranged  by  months  and  days ;  menus  for 
special  occasions,  such  as  holidays,  weddings,  luncheons, 
teas,  etc. ;  illustrations  of  decorated  tables  for  various 
social  events,  with  appropriate  menus ;  menus  arranged 
for  the  seasons  both  as  to  food  and  decorations;  a 
department  of  menus  without  meats.  A  fine  volume 
that  ought   to   commend   itself  to   every  housekeeper. 

12mo,  300  pages,  handsomely  illustrated;  bound  in 
cloth  $1.50  net;  by  mail,  $1.65 

Mrs.  Rorer^s 

CakeSy  Icings  and  Fillings 

Every  one  is  interested  in  the  cake  problem.  There 
is  possibly  no  item  in  the  home  bill  of  fare  on  which 
a  woman  prides  herself  as  the  ability  to  make  a  good 
cake.  But  how  to  add  variety  to  the  goodness  ?  Here's 
the  book  to  help.  Contains  a  large  number  of  enticing 
and  valuable  recipes  for  cakes  of  all  sorts  and  condi- 
tions. Some  need  filHng,  some  need  icing — well,  here 
you  have  all  the  necessary  information.  Best  of  all, 
there  is  no  fear  as  to  results.  Follow  the  directions 
and  your  cake  is  bound  to  come  out  right. 

12mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net;  by  mail,  55  cents 


Mrs,  Rorer*s 

Hot  Weather  Dishes 

Its  name  tells  the  whole  story.  It  is  the  only  book 
of  the  kind  published.  Hot  weather  seems  to  suspend 
the  inventive  faculty  of  even  the  best  housekeepers, 
and  at  a  season  when  the  appetite  needs  every  help 
and  encouragement,  this  book  will  be  found  of  the 
greatest  use. 

12  mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 

Mrs,  Rorer's 

Home  Candy  Making 

A  veritable  book  of  sweets,  full  of  choice  recipes, 
with  complete  instructions  for  making  the  many  deli- 
cacies that  delight  bqth  young  and  old.  It  is  the  result 
of  careful  practice  in  teaching  beginners  how  to  make 
attractive  and  wholesome  varieties  of  home-made 
candies.  The  excellence  of  the  recipes  consists  in  their 
simplicity  and  faithfulness  to  details. 

12mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net;  by  mail,  55  cents 

Mrs.  Rorer*s 
Bread  and  Bread-Making 

The  object  of  this  book  is  two-fold.  First,  to  give 
in  a  concise  and  easily-managed  form  a  set  of  recipes 
used  in  every  household  every  day.  Secondly,  to  point 
out  the  reasons  why  failures  so  often  occur,  even  with 
perfect  recipes,  and  how  to  guard  against  them. 

l2mo,  cloth,  50  cents  net ;  by  mail,  55  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's  Quick  Soups 
New  JVays  for  Oysters 

These  two  books  were  written  in  response  to 
requests  for  information  on  the  subjects.  Designed  to 
meet  the  special  wants  of  a  numerous  class  of  house- 
keepers who  are  given  to  entertaining,  and  are  so  often 
at  loss  to  know  what  and  how  to  prepare  for  their 
guests.     The   housekeeper  will   find  them   very  handy 

24mo,  cloth,  25  cents  net ;  by  mail,  30  cents 

Household  Accounts 

A  simple  method  of  recording  the  daily  expenses 
of  the  family.  The  book  contains  ruled  pages,  syste- 
matically and  simply  divided  into  spaces  in  which  are 
kept  the  purchases  for  each  day  of  milk,  butter,  eggs, 
meat,  groceries,  vegetables,  etc.  The  daily  expenses 
total  up  for  the  months,  and  the  months  for  the  year. 
There  are  other  forms  for  recording  expenses  of  help, 
light,  heat  and  general  household  expenditures  in  table 
and  bed  linens,  china  and  kitchen  utensils,  etc. 

Manilla  boards,  25  cents  net ;  by  mail  30  cents 

CakeSy  Cake  Decorations 
and  Desserts 

By  Charles  H.  King.  The  author  tells  his  meth- 
ods in  his  own  practical  way,  and  gives  abundant 
recipes.  The  book  is  illustrated  by  engravings  of 
numerous  decorated  pieces,  and  has  a  silhouette  chart 

12mo,  cloth,  $1.00  net;  by  mail,  $1.15 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  06378  134  6 


