7  C°NG 
o 


0«  G 


AO, 


!TX  715 
.N51585 
1906 
Copy  1 


We  mean  that  each  season's  assemblage  of 
Dry  Goods  in  our  store  shall  strengthen  our 
reputation.  That  of  giving  Most  for  the 
Money.  Every  Department  receives  some- 
thing new,  nearly  every  day  of  the  year. 

THE  BUSY  STORE 

J.  R.  Jones'  Sons  &  Co. 

 ESTABLISHED  1872   


OFFICE  PHONE  278  RESIDENCE  PHONE   I  I O 

E-  W.  &  W.  M.  De  YOE, 

INSURANCE  and  REAL  ESTATE 

MONEY  TO  LOAN  ON  APPROVED  REAL  ESTATE  SECURITY 


■A  03  AND   IOS  SOUTH  BURDICK  ST. 


KALAMAZOO,  MICH. 


E.  M.  KENNEDY 

DRUGGIST 

104  WEST  MAIN  STREET 

PHONE  319 

PRESCRIPTION  TRADE 

a  specialty  KALAMAZOO,  MICH.. 

EVERYTHING   GOOD    TO  EAT 

 AT  

SCH  BID'S 

GROCERIES,  MEATS,  FRUITS  AND 
 FRESH  VEGETABLES  

KALAMAZOO  LAUNDRY  COMPANY 

WILL  HAVE  IN  ITS  NEW  BUILDING  ONE  OF  THE  FINEST 

WATER  SOFTENING  PLANTS 

IN  THE  COUNTRY 


LOOK,  WATCH  AND  WAIT 

FOR  THE  OPENING 


SHOW  CONSTANTLY  EVERY 
DAY  IN  THE  YEAR,  COMPLETE 
STOCK  OF 

Seasonable  and  Reliable  Merchandise 

AT  PRICES  TO  MEET  THE 
KEENEST  COMPETION  ANY- 
WHERE        *         *  # 

QilmoFe  Bros.  SSSg! 

V_yV  Jl  J  Kalamazoo*  -  Michigan 

The  Rigkt  Kind  of  Fuel 

MUST  BE  USED  OR  THE  BEST  RECIPE 
IN  THIS  BOOK  WILL  PROVE  AN  UTTER 
FAILURE  WHEN    PUT   TO   THE  TEST 


CLEAN  COAL  (No  Clinkers) 

WELL  SEASONED  WOOD  (No  Sputtering  ) 

THAT'S  THE  KIND  3  ^ 


HARRIS  y  PRATT 

Phone  No  9 


PHONE  42 


DONALD    O.  BOUDEMAN 

GENERAL  INSURANCE 

UO,   112   WEST   SOUTH  STREET 
"'ABSOLUTE  RELIABILITY"  KALAMAZOO 

THE  CARYL  BOOK  \  MUSIC  STORE 

504  West  Main  Street 


Make  a  Specialty  of 
SCHOOL  BOOKS,  STATIONERY  and  PERIODICALS 


Call  for  our  Catalogue  of 
MAGAZINES  at  CUT  RATES 


NEW  LOCATION  OPPOSITE  BAPTIST  CHURCH 

VAN  BOCHOVE 

"THE  FLORIST" 

SELLS    EVERYTHING    IN  FLOWERS 

 at  

141      SOUTH    BURDICK  STREET 


GEORGE  FULLER 


LIVERY, 
BOARDING  AND 
SALES  STABLES 


TELEPHONE  275      ^       130  S.  PITCHER  ST. 

L.  H.  BORGER,  MANAGER 


"MOTHER'S  BREAD"  ,s«o™"AN 

•  It  is  the  kind  of  ammunition  that  preserves  life,  instead  of 

destroying  it.  There  is  health  in  every  atom,  because  it  is 
made  of  the  very  best  wheat,  sugar,  lard  and  pure  milk. 
It  is  baked  in  such  a  manner  as  to  work  no  harm  to  the 
digestion.  People  who  eat  "Mother's  Bread"  and  Witwer's 
Cakes  and  Pastries  enjoy  good  living.  Special  orders 
taken  for  parties,  receptions  and  large  gatherings.  :-: 

THE  WITWER   BAKING  CO. 


CORNER  CHURCH  AND  ELEANOR  STREETS      ^      KALAN  AZOO,  NICH . 


F.  W.  RUSSELL 


 WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALER  IN   

Window  Jhades,  Window  Glass,  Room 
Mouldings,  Wall  Paper,  Paints,  Oils  and 
Varnishes  :-: 


208=210  North   Burdick  Street 

KALAMAZOO,  MICH 


THE  MUTOtL  BENEFIT 
LIFE    INSTOJINQ1  COMPANY 


S autli west^ra  Michigan 


g@4  Browne  Block 


E.  J.  PHELPS,  Pres.  M.  J.  BIGELOW,  Vice-Pres. 

A.  S.  WHITE,  2nd  Vice-Pres.  H.  den  BLEYKER,  Cashier 

L.  M.  PHELPS,  Asst.  Cashier  W.  L.  OTIS, Asst.  Cashier 

SAVINGS  BOOKS  ISSUED  DRAWING  INTEREST 

Che  Kalamazoo  national  Bank 

Kalamazoo,  Michigan 

CAPITAL,  $200,000.00  SURPLUS,  $105,000.00 


DIRECTORS 


H.   B.  OSBORN,  M.  J.  BIGELOW,  M .   D.   WOODFORD,  W.  B.  MILHAM 

H.   H.    EYERARD,       A.  S.  WHITE,     J.   DEN    BLEYKER,     J.   W.  THOMPSON 
E.   J.   PHELPS.  J.  T.   UPJOHN.  E.   B.  DESENBERG 


For  Stylish  and  Up-to-Date 
SUITS,  CLOAKS,  FURS,  SKIRTS,  WAISTS 

&    CALL  ON  J* 

^     N.  BLOCK  ^ 

109  >ORTI1  BU R DICK 

THE  POPULAR  PRICE   CLOAK  &  SUIT  STORE 


CHAS.  S.  CAMPBELL,  Pres.  EDWARD  WOODBURY,  Yice-pres. 

ALBERT  HENRY.  Cashier 

THE  MICHIGAN  NATIONAL  BANK 

KALAMAZOO,  MICHIGAN 


CAPITAL,  $100,000.00  SURPLUS,  $100,000.00 


DIRECTORS 

E.  WOCDBURY,  A.   M .  STEARNS,  I.   A.  RANSOM,  JAS.  F.  GI LMORE' 

JOHN   W.   T  A  Y  LOR,  C.  S.  CAMPBELL,  F.   M.  HODGE 


WE  ISSUE  SAVINGS  BOOKS  DRAWING  INTEREST 


COWLBBCK 


SELLS  NLCE  THINGS  THA  T  MEN 
WE  A  R — HA  TS,  CLOTHES  AND 
MENS  EURMSH/NGS 


F.  A.  COWLBECK 

106  WEST  MAIN  STREET 


Your  INSURANCE  Business 
Is  Respectfully  Solicited  by 


E.  S.  RANKIN 

FIRST  CLASS  RELIABLE  COMPANIES 
PERSONAL  AND  CAREFUL  ATTENTION 

MAIN  and  BURDICK  STS.  PW  301 


STYLE  QUALITY 

AMERICAN  BEAUTY  CORSETS 

  FOR    ALL  WOMEN   

AT  ALL  LEADING  STORES 

ALL  FIGURES  $1.00  to  $5.00 

KALAMAZOO  CORSET  CO. 

EXCLUSIVE  MAKERS 


=THE  WORLD  FAMOUS= 

KNOX  HATS 

,  FOR  WOMEN  = 


JSTJETV  ^TOR  K 


GILMORE  BROS. 

Sole  Agents  for  Kalamazoo 

^Puritan  *  Corsets* 

*  *    ARB  COMFORTABLE   *  * 

All  Women  lUear  Corsets 

Jill  ttlomen  Want  to  be  Comfortable 

most  momen  are,  Because  tbey  Ulear 


^Puritan  *  Corsets* 


THIS  SPACE  IS  SOLD  TO  THE 

GENERAL  GAS  LIGHT  CO. 
Manufacturers  of  GAS  ARC  LAMPS 

KALAMAZOO,  MICHIGAN 


Ihling-Cone  Furniture  Co. 

223-225  East  Main  Street 

Everything  New  nnd  Up-to-Date  in 

FURNITURE,  RUGS,  CARPETS. 
DRAPERIES,  CROCKERY,  TOYS 

A  Visit  to  Our  Five  Room  Furnished  Flat  will  be 
one  of  pleasure  and  profit.  You  are  always  wel- 
come whether  you  purchase  or  not. 


ALL  THE  LATEST  NOVELTIES  IN 
DRY  GOODS,  CLOAKS  and  CARPETS  at 

W.  W.  OLIN  &  SON'S 

Immense  Stocks      Lowest  Prices 
Do  JVot  Dxiy  a  Furnace 

until  you  see 

THE  ROUND 
OAK 

Cor.  Main  and  Church  Streets 

John   Van  Male 


COLUMBIAN  ELECTRIC 
CQMPANY=  

ESTIMATES  GIVEN  ON  ALL  KINDS  OF  ELECTRICAL  WORK 
EVERYTHING  ELECTRICAL 

113  SOUTH  ROSE  STREET 

HENRY  M    DESENBERG,  Mqr  PHONE  953  KALAMAZOO 

 FOR  

SILKS,    DRESS    GOODS,  TRIMMINGS 

AND  ALL  KINDS  OF 

DR.  Y  GOODS  GO  DIRECT  To 

=  BRUEN'S= 

PHONE  1969 

A.  ROSENFARB 

NEW  YORK  FASHIONABLE  LADIES'  TAILOR 


ROOM  306-307 
O'BRIEN  BLOCK 


KALAMAZOO 


ESTABLISHED  1884 


„Mh?  (fitly  National  lank... 

italamazmi,  iltriftgan 

CAPITAL,  $100,000.00  SURPLUS  AND  UNDIVIDED 

PROFITS,  $125,000.00 


OFFICERS 

E.  C.  DAYTON,  Pres.  C.  A   PECK,  Yice-Pres. 

W.  R.  BEEBE,  Cashier  H.  W.  PARKER,  Asst.  Cashier 


DIRECTORS 

W.  S.  DEWING,     GEO.   E.  BARDEEN,     J.   L.  SEBRING,     H.   B.  HOY  T,     C.  A.  PECK 
O.  M.   ALLEN,  SR.     G.   L,  GI LKEY,      E.  C.   DAYTON,      DALLAS  BOUDEMAN 


IT  IS  OUR  BUSINESS 

To  keep  a  large  line  of  kitchen  utensils  and 
specialties  for  all  receipts  given  in  this  book. 
We  can  supply  your  wants.        &  & 

NEW  STORE,  NEW  GOODS. 

STAR  BARGAIN  HOUSE 

118  West   Main  Street 


A.  GL  Hurtle 

DEALER  IN 

Hatrijea,  Stamottfts,  ^Utueruiar?  anil  (Elnrktf 

RICH  CUT  GLASS,  TABLE  CUTLERY 
BRONZE  GOODS  AND  WEDDING  GIFTS 


\Z\  Wtzt  Main  $L 


2Calamazfl0,  Mid}. 


A  Good  Cook 

REQUIRES  GOOD  MATERIALS 

A  good  Correspondent  requires  the  best  of 
stationery.  Crane's  Papers  as  manufactured 
by  Geo.  B.  Hurd  &  Co.  represents  all  that 
is  best  in  fine  stationery.  For  quality, 
fashionableness  and  correctness  in  style 
they  are  unequaled.  Be  sure  and  ask  for 
HurcTs.  We  are  the  exclusive  Kalamazoo 
dealers.  v^; 

Ihling  Bros.  &  Everard 


STATIONERS  AT  RETAIL 


CORNER  MAIN  and  EDWARD  STS. 


KALAMAZOO 


U^unTteB^ 


POPULAR  ELECTRIC 


LINE 


Operated  between  Kalamazoo  and  Jackson — passing- 
through  Galesburg,  Augusta,  Battle  Creek,  Marshall, 
Albion  and  Parma.  Interurban  cars  leave  Kalamazoo  at 
5  A.  M.  and  every  45  minutes  thereafter  until  10:15  P.  M. 
The  only  line  to  reach  the  beautiful  summer  resorts  of 
Gull  Lake  and  Goguac  Lake.  Fast  limited  cars  operate 
between  Battle  Creek  and  Jackson  every  two  hours  by  the 
third  rail  system,  which  is  pronounced  by  all  a  most 
delightful  ride.  For  information  regarding  special  party 
cars  inquire  of  the  local  agent  or  communicate  with 

C.  W.  WEBSTER,  G.  F.  &  P.  A. 

BATTLE  CREEK.  MICH. 


117  South  Bur&iek  St. 

4MAIO0 

Get  your  Baking  Powder  from 

US,  ours  is 

strictly  pure 

and  made  from  Pure  Cream  of 

Tartar  and 

Bicarbonate 

of  Soda.             *  « 

• 

TRY  IT 


PRICE  40c  PER  ROUND 


P.  H.   LOEFFLER,  DRUGGIST 

319  NORTH  BURDICK  ST, 


Investments  Bonds  Stocks 


BUILDER  OF  MODERN  HOMES 

Plans  and  Superintendence  Furnished  by  Our  Own  Competent  Architect 


Rooms  Nos.  101-104-  Pratt  Bldgr. 
Cor.  Portagre  and  Main  Sts 


KALAMAZOO 


...REBURN'S  DRUG  STORE... 

"THE   PERFUME  STORE" 

OUR  MALTESE  CROSS  OLIVE  OIL  is  un- 
excelled in  quality.  J> 
Please  ask  for  our  booklet  of  Receipts  on  Salad 
Dressings.  J>  J>  J> 

We  manufacture  and  sell  the  Best  Extracts  of 
VANILLA  and  LEMON.  J>  J. 

<— v!'—  BEST  QUALITY  OF  ALL  KINDS  OF  SPICES  * 

CHASE  BLOCK!       ^       "We  Deliver"  PHONE  539 

We  Solicit  the  Patronage  of  all  Good  Cooks 
Who  Appreciate  High  Grade  Teas  and  Coffees 

IMPERIAL  TEA  CO. 

Phone  182  ^  148  SOUTH  BURDICK  ST. 


^HINCKLEY  &  CORNELL^ 

FIRE  INSURANCE 

N.   E.   CORNER   MAIN  AND  ROSE  STS.  KALAMAZOO.  MICH. 


I 


New  Crumbs 

of  Comfort 


A  Cook  Book:  Compiled  by  ttie 
Ladies  of  St  Luke's  Chtircti, 
Kalamazoo,  Michigan. 


?•*  A  few  strong  instincts  and  a  few  plain  rules." 

"The  turn  pike  road  to  people's  hearts,  I  find, 
Lies  through  their  mouths,  or  1  mistake  mankind." 


Kalamazoo  Publishing  Co.,  Printers 
1  9  O  6 

2 


Library  of  Congress 


Rev.  Roger  Hanson  Peters 

Rector 


2010  497347 


PREFACE. 


¥N  SCATTERING  these  "crumbs  of  comfort"  among 
*  our  friends,  we  beg  to  say  that  it  has  not  been  the  design 
of  the  committee  to  give  a  complete  cook  book,  full  in  all 
departments,  (There  are  so  many  such  books  published 
by  professionals,  that  almost  every  lady  is  supplied).  Our 
only  aim  has  been  to  secure  a  limited  number  of  known 
and  approved  rules,  the  majority  of  which,  besides  their 
own  excellence,  will  have  the  added  flavor  of  pleasant 
memories. 

For  a  few  only  of  these  recipes  do  we  claim  original- 
ity] they  are  simply  commended  as  being  favorites  in  use 
by  the  ladies  whose  names  are  attached  to  them, — names 
which  suggest  friends  good  and  tried  as  the  recipes  them- 
selves. 

The  assurance  is  felt  that  if  the  recipes  herein  recom- 
mended are  conscientiously  followed,  the  result  cannot 
fail  to  confirm  the  established  repute  in  which  Kalamazoo 
cooking  is  justly  held.  And  so  we  send  it  forth,  com- 
mending it  to  the  favor  which  we  hope  it  will  receive  at 
the  hands  of  the  public : 

Preface  to  Second  Edition. 

Four  years  ago  our  little  book,  Crumbs  of  Comfort, 
was  "launched  on  the  uncertain  sea  of  chance."  Into  al- 
most every  State  in  the  Union  has  it  found  its  way,  cheer- 
ing and  making  happy  many  homes  by  its  coming. 

The  supply  has  long  since  been  exhausted,  and  at  the 
earnest  solicitation  of  its  many  friends  we  send  forth  the 
second  edition,  revised  and  enlarged,  and  we  trust  worthy 
an  honored  place  in  the  homes  into  which  it  may  find  its 
way. 

Preface  to  Third  Edition. 

It  is  now  fourteen  years  since  the  second  edition  of 
our  little  cook  book  was  offered  to  its  patrons,  old  and 
new. 


PREFACE 


During  all  these  years  it  has  been  a  friend  "tried  and 
true/5  in  many  homes,  in  many  states.  The  edition  was 
long  ago  exhausted,  the  copies  having  in  many  instances 
become  completely  worn  out  through  daily  use.  and  the 
call  for  new  books  has  become  too  vigorous  to  go  longer 
unheeded. 

We  now  send  out  our  third  edition,  revised  and 
brought  up  to  date,  bespeaking  for  this  old  friend  in 
fresh  attire  the  same  cordial  reception  which  has  been  ac- 
corded its  predecessors. 

"We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art. 

We  may  live  without  conscience, 
We  may  live  without  heart ; 

We  may  live  without  friends. 
We  may  live  without  books. 

But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

He  may  live  without  books, 

What  is  knowledge  but  grieving? 
He  may  live  without  hope. 

What  is  hope  but  deceiving? 
He  may  live  without  love. 

What  is  passion  but  pining? 
But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining ?" 


HOW  TO  SET  A  TABLE  AND  SERVE  A  MEAL. 

Many  books  have  been  written  on  the  subjects  of 
table  setting  and  the  serving  of  meals,  but  they  are  usually 
too  elaborate  for  the  use  of  an  average  family,  where  one, 
or  at  most,  two  maids  are  kept.  This  article  will  en- 
deavor to  embody  a  few  general  rules  applicable  alike  to 
the  "general  girl."  and  the  maid  whose  work  is  what  is 
known  as  "second  work." 

In  setting  a  table,  ones  first  care  should  be.  that  the 
husher  cloth  is  smoothly  and  tightly  drawn  over  the 
table — it  is  best  to  pin  it  box-like  over  the  corners:  or  on 


PREFACE 


'21 


a  round  table  it  should  be  fastened  by  tapes,  tying  diagon- 
ally opposite  corners  together.  (By  far  the  best  "husher" 
is  the  asbestos  pad  which  can  be  procured  in  both  square 
and  round  shapes,  with  as  many  separate  additional 
leaves  as  one  cares  for).  Then  be  sure  the  cloth  is  fresh, 
smoothly  laid  and  straight.  If  carving  cloths  are  used 
See  that  their  folds  are  straight  with  the  folds  of  the 
table  cloth. 

Lay  the  silver  straight,  placing  knives  with  sharp 
edge  towards  the  plate,  bowls  of  spoons  and  tines  of  forks 
should  be  turned  up.  All  silver  is  laid  in  the  order  in 
which  it  is  to  be  used,  starting  from  the  outside ;  forks  ac 
the  left  and  knives  and  spoons  at  the  right.  Water  and 
wine  glasses  at  the  right  of  plate,  bread  and  butter  plates 
and  napkins  at  the  left.  Carvers  and  silver  for  serving 
should  be  laid  out  on  a  side  table,  to  be  placed  on  the 
table  as  needed.    Also  dessert  plates. 

The  other  appointments  of  the  table  vary  somewhat 
in  individual  households,  as  to  arrangement,  and  are  nor 
amenable  to  any  fixed  rule. 

In  serving  an  ordinary  family  dinner  of  three  or  four 
courses,  the  soup  may  be  served  in  the  kitchen  and  placed 
on  the  table  before  announcing  the  meal.  After  the  soup 
is  removed,  the  hot  plates  should  be  brought  in,  and  set 
before  the  one  who  carves,  then  bring  the  meat,  then  vege 
tables.  Bread,  relishes,  etc.,  should  be  ready  in  pantrv 
for  passing. 

Remember,  plates  should  be  handed  and  removed 
from  the  right  side.  Dishes  passed,  are  offered  at  the  left 
side.  In  clearing  this  course  remove  first  the  plates,  tak- 
ing one  at  a  time  ;  place  it  on  small  tray,  and  except  at 
formal  dinners,  the  small  vegetable  dish,  if  any,  may  be 
placed  quietly  upon  the  large  plate,  taking  butter  plate 
in  other  hand.  Repeat  this  for  each  person,  then  remove 
vegetables,  bread,  etc.,  removing  meat  platter  last.  A 
salad,  if  served  at  table,  is  usually  placed  before  the  mis- 
tress. Observe  same  directions  in  handing  and  remov  ng, 
as  with  other  courses,  remembering  at  all  times  never  to 
reach  across  in  front  of  a  person  for  any  purpose.  As, 


22 


PREFACE 


when  taking  a  plate  from  the  right,  step  around -to  left 
side  to  remove  butter  plate.  After  the  salad  course  is  re- 
moved, clear  the  table  of  everything  except  the  dessert  sil- 
ver and  centerpiece,  using  tray  for  all  small  articles  such 
as  salts  and  peppers,  unused  silver,  etc.  With  a  plate 
and  scraper,  carefully  remove  all  crumbs.  (At  luncheon, 
when  bare  table  is  used  with  doylies,  use  a  folded  napkin 
instead  of  scraper).    Then  serve  the  dessert. 

All  dining  room  service  should  be  as  noiseless  as  pos 
sible  and  the  clatter  of  dishes  in  the  pantry  avoided. 

A  good  waitress  does  not  need  to  be  reminded  to  re- 
plenish glasses  or  pass  anything  a  second  time;  she  will 
be  watchful  and  relieve  the  mistress  of  all  care  in  those 
matters,  especially  if  there  be  guests  at  table. 

A  waitress  must  always  present  a  neat  appearance. 
Even  the  general  maid,  who  cooks  her  meal  as  well  a.s 
serves  it,  can,  by  a  little  care  and  forethought,  always 
have  a  fre£h  white  apron  and  a  tidy  neck  and  wrist  dress- 
ing. To  that  end,  half  sleeves  with  elastic  at  wrists  and 
elbows,  and  large  bib  aprons  for  kitchen  use,  save  many 
soiled  cuffs  and  spotted  aprons.  M.  H.  P. 


TABLE  OF  ABBREVIATIONS. 


Tsp — teaspoonful. 
Tbsp — tablespoonf  ul . 
Ssp — saltspoonful. 
Hp — heaping. 
C— cupful. 


qt — quart, 
pt — pint, 
lb — pound, 
oz — ounce, 
m — minute. 


TABLE  OF  MEASURES  AND  WEIGHTS. 


4  ssp — 1  tsp. 

3  tsp — 1  tbsp. 

4  tbsp — liquid — *4  c. 


4  c  flour — 1  lb. 

2  c  solid  butter— 1  lb. 

2  c  gran,  sugar — 1  lb. 

3  c  meal — 1  lb. 

1  hp.  tbsp  butter — 2  oz. 
8  qt — 1  peck. 

4  qt — 1  gallon. 


2  gills — 1  c. 
2  c— 1  pt. 
2  pt— 1  qt. 


PREFACE 


23 


FISH,  BAKED. 

Halibut,  salmon,  bass,  bluefish,  shad — 1  hour. 
Trout,  pickerel,  white  fish — y2  hour.  :  1 

VEGETABLES  (Boil.) 

Young  peas,  canned  tomatoes,  green  corn,  asparagus, 
spinach,  Brussels  sprouts,  15  to  20  minutes. 

Rice,  potatoes,  macaroni,  summer  squash,  celery, 
cauliflower,  young  cabbage,  peas,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Young  turnips,  young  beets,  young  parsnips,  toma- 
toes, baked  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  onions,  cabbage,  30 
to  45  minutes. 

String  beans,  shell  beans,  oyster  plant,  winter  squash, 
45  to  60  minutes. 

Winter  vegetables,  1  to  2  hours,  old  beets  for  ever. 

MEATS— ROASTING  OR  BAKING. 


Beef  ribs  or  sirloin,  rare,  per  lb  10  minutes 

Beef  ribs  or  sirloin,  well  done,  \  er  lb  12  minutes 

Beef,  ribs  or  sirloin,  boned  and  rolled,  per  lb.  .12  minutes 

Round  of  beef,  boned  and  rolled,  per  lb  15  minutes 

Mutton,  leg,  rare,  per  lb  10  minutes 

Mutton,  leg,  well,  done,  per  lb  15  minutes 

Mutton,  loin,  rare,  per  lb.  10  minutes 

Mutton,  shouldei!,.  stuffed,  per  lb  15  minutes 

Mutton,  saddle,  rare,  per  lb  10  minutes 

Lamb,  well  done,  per  lb  ,  15  minutes 

Veal,  well  done,  per  lb  20  minutes 

Pork,  well  done,  per  lb  30  minutes 

Turkey,  well  done,  per  lb  15  minutes 

Fowls,  per  lb  20  minutes 

Ohicken,  per  lb  15  minutes 

Goose,  per  lb  18  minutes 

Venison,  per  3b  15  minutes 

Fillet,  hot  oven,  per  lb  30  minutes 

Puck,  tame  entire  time  45  to  GO  minutes 


Duck,  wild,  very  hot  oven.  .  .  .entire  time  15  to  30  minutes 


24 


PREFACE 


Partridge  entire  time  30  to  40  minutes 

Grouse,  wild   .entire  time,  30  minutes 

Pigeons  entire  time,  30  minuter 

Braised  meat  entire  time,3  to  4  hours 

Liver,  whole  2  hours 

Boiling. 

Mutton,  per  lb   .15  minutes 

Potted  beef,  per  lb.  . .  .30  to  35  minutes 

Corned  beef,  per  lb  30  minutes 

Ham,  per  lb.  18  to  20  minutes 

Broiling. 

Steak,  1  inch  thick  ,.'.8  to  .10  minutes 

Mutton  Chops,  French   .8  minutes 

Mutton  Chops,  English  10  minutes 

Spring  Chicken  20  minutes 

Quail  . ,  .8  to  10  minutes 

Squabs  10  to  15  minutes 

Trout   .15  to  25  minutes 

Small  fish   .5  to  10  minutes 


FISH— BOILED. 

Halibut  and  salmon,  per  lb   15  minutes 

Bluefish  and  bass,  per  lb.  10  minutes 

Cod  and  haddock,  per  lb   8  minutes 


TABLE  FOB  COOKING  CEREALS. 


Kind. 

Quality. 

Water.  Time. 

Rolled  oats,  A  vena  

,1c 

2 

c 

i/2hr 

Rice  

 1  c 

2 

c 

%  to  1  hr 

Steam  Cooked  Wheats  

. . . .1  c 

1% 

c 

25m 

Wheatlet,  Wheatena,  Wheat 

Germ  

,  lc 

4 

c 

i/2  hr 

Coarse  Oatmeal  

,1c 

4 

c 

2  hr 

Fine  Hominv  

1  c 

1 

c 

1  to  1V2  hr 

Coarse  Hominy  

.  .  .1  c 

5 

c 

2  to  5  hr 

K.  P.  M.  L.  S. 


SOUPS. 


Mrs.  Garleton's  Bouillon. 

8  lbs.  chopped  beef. 
6  qts  water. 

Let  it  boil  an  hour,  then  skim  and  add  6  cloves,  3  bay 
leaves,  1-2  an  onion,  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne. 

Boil  two  and  one-half  hours  longer,  then  strain  and 
set  away  to  cool. 

Next  day  clear  it  of  fat,  add  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs  ;  let  boil  up  and  strain  through  old  linen. 

Should  be  perfectly  clear  and  golden  in  color. 

To  Color  Soups. 

Soups  may  be  colored  a  rich  amber  by  adding  a 
small  quantity  of  burnt  sugar. 

Brown  Bean  Soup. 

One  pint  of  beans  (black  turtle)  soaked  over  night. 
In  the  morning  put  on  stove  with  three  quarts  of 
water  and  boil  slowlv  four  hours ;  boil  with  beans  a  beet 
bone ;  when  beans  are  soft,  strain  through  sieve  and  if  too 
thick  add  a  little  of  the  water  the  beans  were  cooked  in. 
To  this  add  a  bit  of  cloves,  very  little  mace,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste  and  half  a  tumbler  of  claret.  Put  back  in  the 
kettle  and  heat.  When  ready  to  serve  add  slices  of  lemon 
and  thick  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg.    Serve  very  hot. 

MRS.  L.  B.  HEARD. 

Potage  Volute. 
1  qt  of  stock, 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  beaten  light, 
1  cup  of  cream, 
1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
]  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  well  blended. 


26 


SOUPS 


After  blending  the  flour  and  butter,  add  the  stock 
and  cook.  Beat  eggs  very  light,  pour  on  the  cream  and 
add  to  stock.  Cook  just  long  enough  to  heat  up,  and 
when  you  serve  it  add  a  teaspoonful  of  whipped  cream  on 
top.   *  MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

Queen  Soup. 

4  or  5  lbs.  of  veal  or  chicken, 

1  tablespoon  of  salt,  4  or  5  qts.  of  w^ater, 

1  white  turnip, 

2  white  onions, 

3  blades  of  blanched  celery,  a  bag  of  sweet  herbs. 
Strain  the  night  before  using,  and  put  to  soak  a  tea- 
cup of  pearl  tapioca.  Add  to  the  stock  the  next  day  and 
simmer  until  clear.  Add  a  pint  of  cream  just  before 
serving,  but  don't  allow  it  to  boil.  Use  white  pepper,  and 
blanch  the  veal  before  cooking. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

White  Soup. 

Set  away  until  cold  the  water  in  which  a  leg  of  mut- 
ton has  been  boiled.  Take  off  all  the  fat,  which  will  rise 
to  the  top. 

Put  on  the  fire  with  a  small  piece  of  mace  and  half  a 
small  onion  cut  fine. 

When  the  onion  is  tender,  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
with  which  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  has  been  braided,  salt, 
add  from  a  pint  to  a  quart  of  milk,  and  boil  up  once. 

MRS.  T.  P.  SHELDON. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Prepare  the  stock  and  when  cold  remove  the  fat 
which  will  rise  to  the  top.    Add  to  the  stock, 
1  quart  of  tomatoes, 

1  or  2  potatoes, 

2  or  3  onions, 
2  carrots. 


SOUPS 


27 


Celery  stalks  or  1-2  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed,  salt 
pepper,  cloves,  and  when  nearly  done  add  a  heaping  table 
spoon  of  rice. 

Boil  until  vegetables  are  thoroughly  done. 

Strain  or  not  as  preferred. 

This  should  make  two  quarts  of  soup. 

FRANCES  C.  VANWYCK. 

Cream  of  Baltimore  Soup. 

Take  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  cover  with  water,  add  one 
onion.  Tie  in  a  bag,  2  blades  of  parsley,  2  bay  leaves,  1 
blade  of  mace,  2  cloves  and  boil  with  the  meat.  Cook  un- 
til you  have  a  pint  and  a  half  of  stock.  One  tablespoon 
butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  creamed.  Add  stock  when 
thickened,  then  add  1  pint  cream  and  1  egg. 

Serve  with  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream  on  top. 

MRS.  ELLA  SMITH-LEWIS. 

"Sudden  Call"  Soap. 

While  one  quart  of  milk  is  heating  in  double  boiler, 
put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  stew  pan,  when  it  boils, 
(but  not  browns)  add  two  level  tablespoons  flour,  salt, 
pepper,  and  celery  salt  to  taste.  Add  this  to  the  hot 
milk. 

Take  a  can  of  salmon,  remove  all  bone  and  skin  and 
drain  well  ;  mince  fine  and  add  to  the  thickened  milk. 
Boil  up  once  and  serve  immediatelv.    Very  good. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Corn  Soup. 

Grate  the  grain  from  12  ears  of  corn,  and  scrape  them 
to  get  the  milk.  Let  it  boil  30  to  40  minutes,  then  add  2 
quarts  of  new  milk,  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  one  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  rubbed  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour; 
pep]>er  and  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  in  the  tureen, 
pour  the  soup  over,  boiling,  stirring  all  the  time. 

B.  DUDGEON. 


SOUPS 


Cream  Tomato  Soup. 

1  can  tomatoes. 

2  quarts  milk. 
Butter  to  taste. 

1  teaspoon  saleratus. 
Put  milk  and  tomatoes  on  in  separate  pans.  When 
tomatoes  are  hot,  strain :  add  saleratus  to  milk  and  pour 
in  tomatoes  ;  season  to  taste. 

MRS.  J.  J.  GRIFFITHS. 

White  Bean  Soup. 

One  quart  of  white  beans,  soaked  over  night;  in  the 
morning  add  two  or  more  quarts  of  water  and  two  pounds 
of  beef,  without  fat,  12  large  tomatoes  or  one  quart  can, 
one  large  onion,  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  celery  seed;  boil 
slowly  till  the  beans  are  thoroughly  cooked,  then  strain 
through  a  wire  sieve  until  only  the  skins  are  left.  If  too 
thick  reduce  with  hot  water.  M.  H.  DeYOE. 

Black  Bean  Soup. 

One  quart  black  beans,  covered  with  water  and 
soaked  over  night;  boil  till  soft  with  2  pounds  of  beef, 
pepper  and  salt,  good  sized  onion  with  3  cloves  in  it,  a 
little  lemon  peel;  strain  through  a  wire  sieve.  Put  two 
hard  boiled  eggs,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  wineglass  of 
sherry  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  soup  over  it. 

F.  C.  VAN  WYCK. 

Black  Bean  Soup. 

Soak  one  pint  of  black  beans  over  night;  add  in  the 
morning  4  to  6  quarts  of  water,  a  beef  bone  or  steak,  1  tea- 
spoon of  whole  cloves^  1  onion,  1  carrot  ;  boil  four  hours, 
strain,  then  add  1  lemon  and  1  hard  boiled  egg  cut  in 
slices.    A  glass  of  wine  improves  it. 

MRS.  J.  M.  EDWARDS. 


SOUPS 


Lobster  Soup. 

One  quart  of  milk ;  let  come  to  a  scalding  point,  with 
a  blade  of  mace  and  two  whole  cloves.  I  large  spoon  of 
butter  and  one  of  flour,  beaten  together  to  a  perfect  cream, 
then  pour  the  hot  milk  slowly  over  it,  stirring  till  per- 
fectly smooth ;  return  to  double  boiler  and  cook  a  minute 
or  two,  stirring  to  prevent  lumping;  then  put  in  the 
finely  chopped  meat  of  a  large  lobster.  Season  with  a 
little  grated  onion,  red  pepper  and  salt. 

MRS.  L.  B.  HEARD. 

Oyster  Bisque. 

1  pt.  of  oysters, 

1  pt.  milk, 

1  tbsp.  of  butter, 

1  tbsp.  flour. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Drain  oysters  free  from  their  liquor,  adding  sufficient 
cold  water  to  make  1  cup  of  liquid.  Chop  oysters  fine. 
Bring  the  oyster  liquor  to  a  boil.  Skim,  add  the  chopped 
oysters  and  simmer  10  minutes.  Scald  milk,  rub  buttet- 
and  flour  together  until  smooth,  add  to  the  milk  and  stir 
until  it  thickens.  Add  the  beaten  yolk  of  the  egg  to  the 
milk,  take  at  once  from  the  fire  and  mix  with  oysters  and 
their  liquor.    Season  and  serve  at  once. 

MRS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 

Green  Pea  Soup. 

Cover  1  quart  of  peas  (or  1  can)  with  hot  water,  boil 
with  y2  onion  until  they  mash  easily,  then  add  1  pt.  hoi 
water  after  the  peas  have  been  strained.  Cook  together 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  of  flour,  until  smooth,  but  nor 
brown.  Then  add  the  peas  and  1  cup  of  milk  and  1  cup 
of  cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  come  to  a 
boil  and  it  is  ready  to  serve;  1  cup  of  whipped  cream  add 
ed  just  when  served  greatly  improves  it. 

MRS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 


30 


SOUPS 


Celery  Soup. 

3  cups  celery  cut  in  small  pieces, 

1  pt.  boiling  water, 

2  1-2  cups  of  milk, 
1  sliced  onion, 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter, 
1-4  cup  flour, 
Salt  and  pepper. 

Cook  celery  in  boiling  water  until  soft,  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Scald  milk  with  the  onion,  remove  onion 
and  add  milk  to  celery.  Thicken  with  butter  and  flour 
rubbed  together. 

K.  P.  M.  T.  S. 

Croutons. 

Cut  stale  bread  in  slices  a  little  thicker  than  for  the 
tabl£.  butter  evenly  on  both  sides,  cut  in  dice,  place  in 
shallow  pan  and  brown  in  oven,  stirring  often  and  watch- 
ing lest  they  get  too  brown.  M.  R.  P. 

Mutton  Beef  Broth— For  the  Sick. 

1  1-2  lbs.  mutton  knee,  or  piece  having  bone  and  little 
fat.  washed  and  scraped  and  with  fat  removed,  put  on 
back  of  stove  in  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  1-2  tablespoon 
salt.  Let  cook  slowly,  covered.  With  this  put  1-2  lb. 
round  steak  with  all  fat  and  tendon  removed.  Add  1 
smal]  stalk  celery.  When  cooked  down  to  1  pint,  or  such 
a  matter,  add  1  small  bay  leaf,  2  whole  cloves  and  a  small 
dash  of  pepper.  Let  cool  and  skim  off  the  fat.  A  little 
of  the  jelly,  say  2  tablespoonfuls  added  to  2  of  water 
makes  a  very  nourishing  broth.    Xo  fat  for  typhoid  fever. 

ROSE  B.  XISBET. 

Potato  Soup. 

4  large  potatoes. 
1  large  onion. 

Boil  in  two  quarts  of  water  till  soft.    Press  through 


SOUPS 


31 


a  sieve  and  add  1  pint  sweet  milk,  a  little  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  and  boil  again. 

MARY  F.  KELLOGG. 
Noodles. 

3  eggs, 

1  pint  flour, 

1  teaspoon  salt. 
Sift  flour  and  salt  together,  beat  eggs  and  mix  with 
flour  into  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  very  thin  and  dry  one  hour. 
When  dry  sprinkle  with  flour,  fold  or  roll  and  cut  into 
fine  shreds.  Drop  into  stew.  Cover  tightly  and  cook  ten 
minutes. 


FISH  AXD  OYSTERS 


Baked  White  Fish. 

Cleanse  and  bone  a  white  fish  weighing  from  2  to  3 
pounds.  Stuff  it  with  a  dressing  made  as  follows :  One 
loaf  of  bread,  y2  pint  rich  milk  (part  cream),  1  teacup 
butter.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  little  minced 
onion.  Heat  the  milk  enough  to  melt  the  butter  and  pour 
over  crusty  parts  first,  then  add  soft  bread.  Tie  the  fish 
with  cord,  and  put  it  in  baking  pan  with  1  small  cup 
milk.  Bake  about  y2  hour  or  until  done.  Before  taking 
from  pan,  remove  skin  from  upper  side.  Then  flop  the 
fish  onto  the  hot  platter  and  remove  the  skin  from  other 
side.  Serve  with  melted  butter  poured  over  and  garnish 
with  parslev. 

MRS.  C.  A.  PECK. 

Planked  White  Fish. 

Take  a  hardwood  plank  of  well  seasoned  maple  or 
oak  about  1  1-2  feet  long.  10  or  12  inches  wide  and  2 
inches  thick.  Pour  boiling  water  over  it  before  using, 
until  heated  through.  Split  the  fish  open,  bone,  season 
well,  lay  upon  the  plank  and  bake.  If  the  fish  seems  too 
dry.  slices  of  salt  pork  may  be  placed  upon  the  fish  while 
baking.  The  fish  should  be  served  on  the  plank  which 
may  be  garnished  with  rock  salt  or  sprigs  of  parsley. 
The  plank  gives  a  peculiar  delicious  flavor  which  distin- 
guishes it  from  fish  baked  in  the  ordinary  way.  Before 
serving  cover  fish  with  maitre  de  hotel  sauce. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Planks  can  be  bought  at  the  "Fair"  in  Chicago  for, 
from  fifteen  cents  up,  according  to  size.  They  are  oval  in 
shape  and  very  nice. 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


33 


Turcot. 

Take  a  whitefish,  steam  till  tender,  take  out  bone& 
and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt. 

For  dressing,  heat  pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with  V4 
pound  of  flour.  When  cool,  add  2  eggs,  *4  pound  butter 
and  season  with  onion  and  parsley  (very  little  of  each). 

Put  in  baking  dish  a  layer  of  fish,  then  a  layer  of 
sauce,  till  full ;  cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake 
half  hour. 

Canned  salmon  may  be  used  with  good  results. 

MISS  HATTIE  SMITH. 

Turbot. 

Four  pounds  fine  white  fish,  steam  until  done,  bone 
it.  Take  1  quart  milk,  y±  pound  flour,  little  thyme  or 
sage,  salt  and  pepper,  3  slices  of  a  large  onion.  Cook 
over  a  kettle  of  water  until  it  comes  to  a  thick  cream,  then 
add  14  pound  butter  and  2  eggs;  put  in  a  large  baking- 
dish  a  layer  of  fish,  salt  and  pepper,  then  the  filling,  until 
the  dish  is  full,  putting  filling  on  top ;  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  cheese  if  preferred.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  y2  hour.    One  large  dish  will  serve  15  or  20. 

H.  L.  KELLOGG. 

Salmon  Loaf. 

1  can  salmon, 
V2  cup  cracker  crumbs, 
V2  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  egg. 

Mould  in  a  loaf,  put  in  a  bag  and  steam  y2  hour 
When  cold,  peel  off  the  bag  and  cut  in  slices. 

MRS.  IMOGENE  ARNOLD. 

Salmon  Dressing. 

The  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
2-3  cup  of  oil, 

red  pepper,  salt  and  mustard  to  taste, 

3 


o4 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


The  juice  of  3  lemons, 
and  last  of  all  1  cup  of  thick  cream. 
Be  sure  to  put  the  cream  in  last.    Just  before  send- 
ing to  the  table  add  1  or  2  cucumbers  chopped  fine. 

MRS.  JOHN  DUDGEON. 

Salmon  Croquettes. 

Take  equal  parts  of  canned  salmon  (after  draining  off 
the  oil)  and  mashed  potatoes;  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, dip  in  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  butter 
or  drop  in  hot  lard. 

MARIA  H.  DeYOE. 

Salmon  Loaf,  with  Sauce. 

Drain  the  juice  from  one  can  of  salmon.  Pick  out 
all  the  bones  and  skin,  and  chop  it  very  fine.  Add  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  y2  cup  of  stale  bread 
crumbs,  14  CUP  °f  melted  butter,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  pinch  of  red  pepper,  a  teaspoon  of  minced  parsley. 
When  all  is  well  mixed,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  half  an  hour- 
Turn  onto  a  platter  and  serve  with  a  sauce.  To  a 
rounding  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  the  same  of  flour 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Then  turn  in  1  cup  of  hot  milk 
and  the  liquor  drained  from  the  salmon.  Cook  three  min 
utes.  Add  1  beaten  egg,  and  cook  one  minute.  Turn 
over  the  loaf.  MRS.  C.  A.  VAN  DEUSEN. 

To  Open  a  Lobster. 

Separate  the  tail  from  the  body  and  shake  out  the 
'torn-ally"  and  also  the  "coral,"  if  there  is  any,  upon  a 
plate.  Then,  by  drawing  the  body  from  the  shell  with  the 
thumb,  and  pressing  the  part  near  the  head  against  the 
shell  with  the  first  and  second  finger,  you  will  free  it 
from  the  stomach  or  "lady."  Now  split  the  lobster 
through  the  center  and,  with  a  fork,  pick  the  meat  from 
the  joints.  Cut  the  under  side  of  the  tail  shell  open  and 
take  out  the  meat  without  breaking.    On  the  upper  part 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


35 


of  that  end  of  this  meat  which  joined  the  body  is  a  small 
piece  of  flesh,  which  should  be  lifted ;  and  a  strip  of  meal 
attached  to  it  should  be  turned  back  to  the  extreme  end 
of  the  tail.  This  will  uncover  a  little  vein,  running  the 
entire  length,  which  must  be  removed.  Sometimes  this 
vein  is  dark  and  sometimes  as  light  as  the  meat  itself.  It 
and  the  stomach  are  the  only  parts  not  eatable.  The 
piece  that  covered  vein  should  be  returned  to  place.  Hold 
the  claws  on  edge  on  a  thick  board  and  strike  hard  with 
a  hammer  until  the  shell  cracks.  Draw  apart  and  take 
out  meat.  MISS.  PARLOA. 

Lobster  Farci. 

2  large  live  lobsters. 

Put  in  boiling  water,  to  which  there  has  been  added 
one-half  pint  vinegar,  two  dozen  pepper  corns  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  cook  thirty  minutes.  Cool,  cur 
lengthwise  and  take  out  meat  being  careful  to  save  shells. 
Put  in  a  sauce  pan  2  ounces  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of 
chopped  onion,  stir  and  cook  awhile ;  add  pint  of  chicken 
stock,  then  lobster  meat  with  two  handfuls  of  bread 
crumbs.  Season  with  salt,  white  and  red  pepper,  grated 
nutmeg  and  let  boil  five  minutes,  stirring;  add  4  well 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Mix  well  and  boil  2  minutes  longer. 
Finish  with  juice  of  lemon  and  chopped  parsley.  Fill  the 
shells  with  the  above  and  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  top, 
with  small  bits  of  butter  and  bake  ten  minutes. 

To  prepare  shells,  trim  out  the  under  side  of  tail  shel! 
cut  the  body  shell  through  the  middle  lengthwise,  making 
two  shells ;  with  a  pair  of  scissors  cut  out  one  side  of  the 
claws,  shaping  shell  so  as  to  hold  meat.    Five  shells  can 
thus  be  obtained  from  one  lobster. 

WINIFRED  SEBRING  CLARK. 

Soft  Shell  Crabs. 

Lift  the  shell  at  both  sides  and  remove  the  sprongy 
substance  found  on  the  back.    Then  pull  off  the  "apron" 


36 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


which  will  be  found  on  the  under  side,  and  to  which  is 
attached  a  substance  like  that  removed  from  the  back. 

Now  wipe  the  crabs,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  boiling  fat  from  eight 
to  ten  minutes  according  to  size  of  the  crabs.  Serve  with 
Tartare  sauce. 

WINIFRED  SEEKING  CLARK. 

Broiled  Crabs. 

Clean  crabs,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Drop  into  boiling  water  for  one  minute,  take  up  and  broil 
over  hot  fire  for  eight  minutes.  Serve  with  maitre  d'hotei 
butter,  or  Tartare  sauce. 

WINIFRED  SEEKING  CLARK. 

Oyster  Pie. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  crust  as  follows : 
1  cup  flour, 

1  scant  half  cup  of  butter, 

1  teaspoonful  Brown's  Brownie  Baking  Powder- 
Milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  crust  which  roll  one  inch 
thick  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cream  one  pint  of  fine  oysters  and  while  hot  put  be- 
tween the  layers  of  crust  which  are  formed  by  splitting 
the  same  on  coming  from  the  oven.  Serve  hot  with  a 
dressing  such  as  you  used  to  cream  the  oysters. 

MINNIE  FRANCES  BROWN. 

Creamed  Oysters. 

1  quart  oysters, 

2  tablespoons  of  butter,  browned  in  spider. 
Heat  oysters  in  butter  three  minutes;  add  3  table- 
spoons of  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  mixed  with  milk  or 
water ;  beat  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  stir  in  eggs  after  you  take 
from  the  stove.    Serve  on  buttered  toast  or  patties. 

MRS,  L.  J.  HALE. 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


37 


Boiled  Oysters. 
Select  the  largest  oysters  that  can  be  obtained  and 
lay  separately  between  napkin  until  dry.  Have  ready  a 
hot  gridiron  well  rubbed  with  butter  and  turn  them  as 
they  brown.  Heat  and  keep  very  hot,  a  dish  in  which  has 
been  put  2  small  tablespoons  of  butter,  dusted  with  cay 
enne  pepper.  Place  the  oysters  in  this  when  done  and 
send  to  the  table  as  soon  as  possible. 

FRANCES  C.  VAN  WYCK. 

Oyster  Patties. 

Two  ounces  butter, 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour, 

y2  pint  sweet  cream, 

3  dozen  count  oysters, 

pepper  and  salt. 
Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the  flour,  boil  the  cream  and 
stir  it  in.    Cook  the  oysters  in  their  own  broth  till  they 
are  just  cooked  through,  skim  off  the  froth  and  add  to  the 
cream  sauce,  and  fill  the  crusts. 

MRS.  B.  C.  AVERY. 

Oyster  Cocktail. 
y2  dozen  fresh  oysters,  small,  and  free  from  all  shells. 
Drop  them  into  a  wine  glass  with  a  little  of  the  strained 
liquor.    Add  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  3  drops  of  To 
basco  sauce,  1  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  sauce  and  i 
dessertspoonful  tomato  catsup.    Stir  well  and  serve. 

Sardine  Canapes. 
Rub  sardines,  from  which  all  the  bones  have  beea 
removed,  to  a  paste  with  a  small  quantity  of  creamed 
butter;  season  with  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  little 
cayenne.  Spread  circular  pieces  of  toasted  bread  with 
this  mixture,  placing  in  the  center  of  each  piece,  a  stuffei 
olive  made  by  removing  the  pit  and  filling  its  place  with 
sardine  mixture.  Around  each,  arrange  a  border  of  finely 
chopped  whites  of  hard  boiled  eirgs. 

MRS.  J.  F.  COWGTLL. 


38 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


Redgeree  of  Fish. 

To  %  pint  of  picked  up,  cooked  fish,  broken  into 
flakes  and  all  bones  and  skin  removed,  allow  1  gill  of  cold 
boiled  rice,  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  2  oz.  butter,  salt  and  a  lit- 
tle cayenne.  Have  rice  and  eggs  ready  over  night,  melt 
butter  in  a  sauce  pan  and  put  in  fish,  rice,  the  whites  of 
eggs  cut  in  small  dice,  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  all,  over  the 
fire  until  very  hot,  then  pour  it  on  a  hot  dish.  Put  yolks 
through  a  ricer  over  the  surface.    Serve  hot. 

MRS.  J.  D.  BURNS. 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 


Roast  Beef. 

The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  sirloin  and  rib 
pieces.  When  roasting  in  an  oven  dash  a  cup  of  hot 
water  over  the  meat;  this  checks  the  escape  of  the  juice. 
Baste  frequently  with  salt  and  water  and  the  drippings. 
If  your  fire  is  hot,  allow  twelve  minutes  to  the  pound  if 
you  like  the  beef  rare,  more  if  you  prefer  it  well  done. 
Thicken  the  gravy  with  browned  flour,  after  turning  off 
most  of  the  grease. 

Taken  from  a  Lincoln,  Nebraska,  cook  book. 

Yorkshire  Pudding. 

4  eggs  beaten  very  light, 
a  pinch  of  salt, 

12  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 

1  pint  of  milk. 
Beat  part  of  the  flour  with  the  eggs  and  add  the  rest 
of  the  flour  and  milk  gradually.  Bake  under  meat  and 
pour  into  a  dripping  pan  about  half  an  hour  before  the 
meat  is  done.  May  be  baked  without  meat  by  putting  2 
or  3  good  tablespoonfuls  of  dripping  in  the  pan.  and 
when  hot,  pour  in  the  batter.  Serve  with  maple  syrup 
when  desired.  MRS.  WOODBRIDGE* 

A  Good  Veal  Stew. 

Take  a  knuckle  or  shank  of  veal,  cut  the  meat  from 
bones  and  set  aside.  Put  the  bones  well  cracked,  on  stove 
in  about  2  quarts  cold  water.  Let  boil  as  long  as  possible, 
(about  2  hours).  Before  you  wish  to  serve,  put  a  libera) 
tablespoon  butter  in  sauce  pan,  let  it  melt  (not  brown), 
then  add  1  large  onion  chopped  fine,  next  the  pieces  of 
meat,  then  add  salt,  black  pepper,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper, 
8  cloves,  8  juniper  berries.  2  bay  leaves,  a  small  blade  of 


40 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME 


niace.  Cover  closely  and  let  simmer  15  minutes,  tlien 
turn  meat  and  after  another  15  minutes  add  1  pint  liquor 
taken  from  the  bones.  Half  an  hour  before  serving,  strain 
all  the  liquor  from  bones  and  put  with  meat,  add  juice  of 
1  lemon.  If  the  water  boils  away  too  fast  add  more  to 
bones  as  needed.  Serve  with  dumplings,  or  thicken  the 
stew  with  flour  wet  in  cold  water. 

MRS.  JAMES  FRASER 

Veal  Loaf. 

1V2  pound  veal, 
y2  dozen  Boston  crackers, 
iy2  pounds  round  steak, 
3  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter, 

3  teaspoons  of  salt, 

1  teaspoon  of  pepper, 

1  cup  boiling  water. 
Chop  meat  very  fine  and  roll  the  crackers,  mix  ali  the 
ingredients  and  mold  into  a  loaf.    Bake  in  moderate  oven, 
two  and  a  half  hours. 

MRS.  ALLEN  C.  FRTNK 
Veal  Loaf. 

Boil  2  pounds  of  veal  three  hours  or  until  tender, 
with  about  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  liquor  down  to 
a  cup  full.  When  meat  is  cold,  put  through  a  chopper, 
stir  in  the  liquor,  and  teaspoon  grated  onion,  y4  teaspoon 
ground  cloves,  paprica  or  cayenne  to  taste.  Dip  mold  in 
cold  water  and  lay  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs  and  sliced 
stuffed  olives  in  the  bottom,  then  put  in  the  meat,  press 
down  and  let  stand  on  ice  about  3  hours. 

MRS.  W.  H.  BROWN. 

Boast  Chicken. 

If  the  fowl  is  young,  stuff,  slice  some  bacon  and 
spread  over  the  legs  and  wings,  grease  the  dripping  pan 
before  putting  the  chicken  in.    Have  the  oven  hot  at  first. 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME 


4^ 


For  dressing;  soak  the  bread  in  milk  or  cold  water,  then 
chop  1  small  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  y2  teaspoon 
of  thyme  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Baste  often  and 
turn  over  when  about  half  done.    Bake  from  %  to  1  hour. 

MRS.  M.  B.  WESTNEDGE. 

Chicken  a  la  Baltimore. 

Cut  up  a  plump,  year-old  chicken,  rub  with  one  heap 
ing  teaspoon  of  salt  and  14  saltspoon  of  pepper,  dip  in 
flour,  egg  and  crumbs,  place  in  a  wTell-greased  pan  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  tender,  basting  several  times. 
Arrange  on  a  hot  platter,  pour  over  the  cream  sauce  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

Cream  Sauce. 

Melt  3  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour 
and  pour  in  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  two 
cupfuls  of  rich  milk.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

MRS.  EUGENE  COOK. 

Chestnut  Dressing  for  Turkey  or  Duck. 

For  a  turkey,  boil  3  qts.  of  chestnuts  with  a  little  salt 
until  tender.    Hull  while  warm,  grind  in  a  meat  chopper 
add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a  little  cream  and  yolk  of 
one  egg.  MRS.  J.  H.  BROWN. 

Crown  Roast  of  Lamb. 

Have  your  butcher  cut  a  loin  of  spring  lamb.  French 
the  chops  without  separating,  and  form  into  a  crown; 
that  is,  the  rib  bones  standing  erect.  Fold  a  strip  of  cloth 
over  the  ribs  to  protect  from  scorching.  Roast  from  one 
and  a  half  to  two  hours.  Fill  the  center  of  the  crown 
with  riced  potato.  Arrange  French  peas  and  sprigs  of 
parsley  around  the  base.  Serve  witli  mint  jelly  or  mint 
sauce.  WINIFRED  SEEKING  CLARK. 


42 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME 


Salt  Tongue. 

Soak  over  night.  Put  in  cold  water  and  boil  from 
five  to  six  hours.  Throw  into  cold  water  and  peel  off  the 
;skin. 

Fresh  Tongue. 

Put  into  boiling  water  to  cover,  with  two  tablespoon  - 
fuls  of  salt.  Cook  from  five  to  six  hours.  Skin  the  same 
as  salt  tongue. 

Baked  Ham. 

Wash  a  medium  sized  ham  and  soak  in  cold  water  24 
hours.  Put  over  to  boil  in  cold  water.  After  boiling  an 
hour,  pour  off  water  and  add  fresh  hot  water.  Boil  until 
you  can  pull  out  the  little  bones.  Skin  it  while  hot,  care 
fully,  so  as  not  to  break  the  fat.  Put  in  the  baking  pan  ; 
take  two  cups  sugar,  and  2-3  cup  claret.  Rub  the  sugar 
into  the  ham,  alternating  with  the  claret.  Put  2-3  cup 
water  in  the  pan,  stick  the  ham  full  of  cloves,  and  bake  it 
for  one  hour,  (after  it  is  hot),  basting  slowly  and  thor- 
oughlv.    Old  Baltimore  recipe. 

MRS.  OHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Beef  Loaf. 

2%  lbs.  of  the  round  of  beef,  and  14  lb-  °f  fat  salt 
pork  put  twice  through  the  grinder ;  3  eggs  well  beaten,  14 
teaspoon  of  red  pepper,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  y2  medium 
sized  onion,  grated,  2  or  3  teaspoons  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  2  teaspoons  of  pepper  sauce,  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley, 6  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs.  Make  into  a  roll,  and 
steam  2  hours.  Then  put  in  the  oven  until  a  nice  brown, 
about  20  minutes.    Can  be  served  either  hot  or  cold. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY 

Sausage. 

1  pound  of  lean  pork  with  just  a  little  fat,  1  even  tsp. 
of  salt,  y2  teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  1  even  teaspoon  of 
powdered  sage  leaves  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME 


43 


Prepared  Ham  b  urg. 

1  pound  of  Hamburg  steak, 
1  egg, 

y2  teaspoon  powdered  sage, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Mix  all  ingredients  together  thoroughly.    Form  into 
steak.    Fry  quickly  and  serve  hot.    Garnish  with  pars- 
ley. MRS.  G.  S.  HARRINGTON. 

Mock  Duck. 

One  slice  of  round  steak,  with  dressing,  same  as  for 
chicken.    Spread  over  steak,  roll  and  tie,  then  bake. 

MRS.  JOEL  WATERBURY. 

Roast  Wild  Duck. 

Place  on  rack  in  dripping  pan.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Cover  breast  with  two  thin  slices  of  fat  salt 
pork,  %  cup  of  water  in  pan.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes  in 
a  very  hot  oven,  basting  every  five  minutes  with  fat  in 
pan.    Serve  with  orange  or  olive  sauce. 

Broiled  Partridge  or  Quail. 

Split  the  bird  down  the  back.    Wipe  with  a  damp 
towel.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  rub  thickly  with 
soft  butter,  and  dredge  with  flour.    Broil  partridge  20 
minutes,  quail  ten  minutes,  over  hot  fire.    Serve  on  but 
tered  toast,  garnishing  with  parsley. 

MRS.  ROBERT  EDDY,  Bay  City. 

Roast  Partridge. 

Clean  and  wash  the  bird.  Lard  the  breast  and  legs. 
Run  a  small  skewer  into  the  legs  and  through  the  tail. 
Tie  firmly  with  twine.  Dredge  with  salt,  and  rub  the 
breast  with  soft  butter;  then  dredge  thickly  with  flour. 
Put  a  small  onion  into  the  body  of  the  bird.  Roast  in  a 
quick  oven  twenty  minutes,  if  to  be  rare;  if  wished  better 


44 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME 


done  thirty  minutes.  When  done  place  on  a  hot  platter 
on  which  has  been  spread  bread  sauce.  Garnish  with 
parsley, 

Roast  Quail. 

The  directions  are  the  same  as  for  partridge  except 
that  quail  cooks  in  fifteen  minutes. 

Venison  Cutlets. 

Clean  and  trim  slices  of  venison  cut  from  loin. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  brush  over  with  melted 
butter  or  olive  oil  and  roll  in  soft  stale  bread  crumbs. 
Place  in  broiler  and  broil  five  minutes;  or  saute  with 
butter.    Serve  with  Port  wine  sauce. 

HELEN  A.  SEEKING. 

Rabbit  Friccasee. 

Joint  2  carefully  dressed  rabbits,and  place  in  a  large 
dish  of  cold  water  with  a  handful  of  salt.  Soak  for  2 
hours.  Remove  and  rinse  with  fresh  water,  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  kettle  with  strips  of  salt  pork  (about  y±  of  a  lb.) . 
When  it  is  fried  brown,  slice  on  it  a  large  onion  and  toss 
till  light  brown.  Now  add  the  jointed  rabbit  and  stir  til] 
all  are  seared  over;  then  add  1  qt.  of  boiling  water,  1  tsp. 
salt  and  a  pinch  of  red  pepper.  Place  on  the  back  of  the 
range  and  simmer  gently  for  2  hours,  or  until  perfectly 
tender.  Take  up  on  a  large  buttered  platter,  thicken  and 
strain  the  gravy  to  serve  separately.  Garnish  with  wedges 
of  lemon  and  parsley.  Serve  with  currant  jelly.  This  is 
an  excellent  and  economical  dish  in  early  winter  when 
rabbits  are  in  good  condition. 

FLORENCE  S.  WATTLES. 


VEGETABLES. 


Blue  Grass  Corn  Pudding. 

For  quart  pan  size:  12  ears  corn;  split  corn  down 
the  grain  (do  not  cut  grains  off  cobb),  then  scrape;  mix 
well  with  corn ;  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  lump  butter,  size  egg, 
y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  just  a  little  sugar,  pepper  to  taste, 
1  pint  sweet  milk.  In  medium  hot  oven,  cook  25  minutes 
Xtill  tar>  of  pnddinar  is  well  brown).    Serve  as  vegetable 

ROGER  HANSON  PETERS. 

Escalloped  Potatoes. 

Pell  and  slice  potatoes  thin  as  for  frying.  Butter  an 
•earthen  dish,  put  in  layer  of  potatoes,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  butter,  a  bit  of  onion  chopped  fine,  then  an 
other  layer  with  the  seasoning.  Continue  until  dish  is 
filled.  Just  before  putting  in  oven  pour  over  a  cup  of 
milk  or  cream.    Bake  %  of  an  hour. 

MRS.  J.  F.  COWGILL. 

Stuffed  Potatoes. 

Take  large  potatoes,  bake  until  soft,  cut  a  slice 
lengthwise  off  of  each  potato ;  scrape  out  the  inside  very 
carefully  so  as  not  to  break  the  skin,  and  set  aside  the 
empty  cases;  mash  the  inside  very  smoothly,  working  into 
it  while  hot  some  butter  and  cream,  about  a  teaspoon  of 
each  for  every  potato;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  with 
a  good  pinch  of  cheese,  grated,  for  each  potato;  work  all 
very  soft  with  cream  and  put  into  a  sauce  pan  to  heat, 
stirring  hard  to  prevent  burning;  when  scalding  hot,  stir 
in  one  well-beaten  egg  for  six  large  potatoes;  boil  up 
once;  fill  the  skins  with  the  mixture  and  return  them  to 
the  oven  to  brown.  WINIFRED  S.  CLARK. 


46 


VEGETABLES 


Saratoga  Chips. 

Peel  good  sized  potatoes,  slice  them  as  evenly  as  pos- 
sible, drop  them  into  iced,  or  very  cold  water.  Have  a 
kettle  of  hot  lard.  Put  a  few  at  a  time  into  a  towTel  to 
dry  the  moisture  out  of  them.  Then  drop  into  the  hot 
lard.  Stir  occasionally ;  when  light  brown  skim  out ;  they 
will  be  crisp  and  not  greasv.  Sprinkle  salt  over  while 
hot.  MKS.  L.  J.  HALE. 

Stuffed  Potatoes. 

Select  potatoes  of  equal  size  and  shape,  wash  them 
well  and  bake ;  while  they  are  still  hot,  cut  off  the  top  of 
each  and  wTith  spoon  scoop  out  the  potato,  leaving  the 
skin  unbroken.  Mash  and  season  the  potatoes,  using 
a  little  hot  milk,  and  beating  it  well  to  make  it  light;  fill 
the  skins  with  the  mashed  potato,  letting  it  rise  a  little 
above  the  top  of  the  skin ;  place  a  piece  of  butter  on  the 
top  of  each  and  put  them  in  the  oven  to  get  well  heated 
and  to  slightly  brown  the  top. 

MKS.  ALLEN  C.  FKINK. 

Lenda's  Potatoes  an  Gratin. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes  sliced  rather  thin,  a  quart  of 
cream  sauce,  grated  cheese,  salt.  Put  in  layers  in  baking 
dish,  first  potatoes,  then  cream  sauce,  then  grated  cheese, 
ending  with  cheese.  Be  generous  with  the  cheese,  and 
use  a  little  paprica  or  cayenne  on  cheese  layers.  Bake 
20  minutes,  M.  H.  P. 

Macaroni  and  Tomato. 

Put  macaroni  on  stove,  and  boil  y2  hour  in  boiling 
salt  and  water.  Then  drain  and  put  in  cold  water  for  a 
short  time.  Cream  4  tbsp.  of  butter  and  2  of  flour  and 
cook  thoroughly;  be  careful  not  to  burn  it.  Boil  1  qt. 
(or  can)  of  tomatoes  and  strain,  add  soda  the  size 
of  a  pea,  then  add  tomatoes  to  the  butter  and  flour. 
Butter  baking  dish  well  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs; 


VEGETABLES 


47 


put  in  layer  of  macaroni,  then  dressing  and  so  on,  adding 
a  little  salt  and  cayenne  with  each  layer  Cover  top 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bake. 

MRS.  A.  K.  ED\  rARDS. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

Cut  fresh  tomatoes  in  thick  slices.  Dip  each  slice  in 
beaten  egg,  then  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  ten  minutes 
(five  minutes  for  each  side)  in  butter.  After  removing 
slices  from  the  frying  pan,  stir  into  what  is  left  one 
tablespoon  of  flour  moistened  in  milk.  Add  little  milk 
or  cream.  When  it  is  cooked  to  consistency  of  cream 
sauce  pour  over  tomatoes. 

Stewed  Mushrooms. 

Peel  fresh  mushrooms.  Put  butter  in  sauce  pan  and 
let  it  get  hot.  Put  mushrooms  in  and  stir  till  they  be- 
come tender.  Add  more  butter  as  needed.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Remove  mushrooms.  To  the  mixture 
in  the  saucepan  add  one  cup  of  cream  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour.  Let  simmer,  stir  to  make  a  smooth  sauce.  Place 
mushrooms  on  slices  of  toast  and  pour  over  them  the 
cream  sauce.  MRS.  FRANK  AUSTIN. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Select  large  firm  tomatoes,  do  not  remove  the  skins; 
cut  a  small  slice  off  the  stem  end,  and  scoop  out  the  in- 
side. Fill  them  with  a  stuffing  made  as  follows :  Put  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan ;  when  hot  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  onion  chopped  fine.  Let  it  color  slight- 
ly; then  add  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  any  minced 
meat,  chicken  or  livers,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  pars 
ley,  one  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  the  pulp  taken  from  the 
tomatoes,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper,  and  also  an  egg  if  desired.  Stir  it  over 
the  fire  until  it  is  consistent.  Dust  the  inside  of  the 
tomatoes  with  sail:  and  pepper,  and  fill  them,  letting  the 


48 


VEGETABLES 


stuffing  rise  half  an  inch  above  the  tomato,  and  place  a 
piece  of  butter  on  it.  The  above  amount  of  stuffing  is 
enough  for  eight  tomatoes.  Cut  slices  of  bread  one-half 
inch  thick  into  circles  the  size  of  the  tomatoes ;  dip  them 
quickly  in  water,  and  place  in  a  baking  pan.  Place  a 
tomato  on  each  piece  of  bread,  and  bake  in  oven  about 
fifteen  minutes  or  until  the  stuffing  is  browned.  A  brown 
sauce  may  be  served  with  this  dish.  The  meat  may  be 
omitted  from  the  stuffing,  if  desired.  If  convenient,  it  is^ 
better  to  use  oil  instead  of  butter  with  tomatoes. 

MRS.  ALLEN  C.  FRINK. 

Hot  Slaw. 

Slice  the  cabbage  as  you  would  for  cold  slaw.  Put 
in  an  iron  spider  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  cover  with  water 
and  cover  the  spider  tightly.  When  partly  done,  add 
piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  sprinkling  of  flour. 
Then  cook  until  tender.  Just  before  serving,  take  the 
yolk  of  one  egg,  beaten,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  of 
sugar,  and  a  little  vinegar,  mix  all  together  and  stir  into 
the  cabbage.    Cook  a  minute  to  set  the  egg  and  serve. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

A  Cabbage  Relish. 

Chop  as  much  white  cabbage  as  you  wish  for  a  meal, 
also,  enough  fresh  red  peppers  to  season  and  give  a  little 
color.    Moisten  with  white  wine  vinegar  and  add  some 
black  peppercorns,  white  mustard  seed  and  whole  all 
spice. 

A  fine  relish  to  serve  with  cooked  oysters.  It  must 
be  served  very  cold. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

Boiled  Cabbage. 

Remove  outer  leaves.  Cut  cabbage  into  quarters  and 
put  in  kettle  nearly  full  of  boiling  salted  water,  with  14 
teaspoon  soda.  Boil  20  minutes  uncovered.  Drain  and 
cover  again  with  boiling  water.    Roil  20  minutes  longer 


VEGETABLES 


49 


or  till  tender.  Drain.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
pour  y2  cup  heated  vinegar  over  it  or  add  1  tablespoon 
butter,  omitting  vinegar. 

MRS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 

Scalloped  Cabbage. 

Chop  boiled  cabbage  fine.  Put  a  layer  in  baking 
dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  it  a 
layer  of  white  sauce.  Repeat  till  dish  is  full,  having 
sauce  for  top  layer.  Cover  top  with  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  till  brown.  "  NELLIE  M.  EDWARDS. 

Swedish  Cabbage. 

Slice  the  cabbage  into  thin  shreds  as  for  cold  slaw*, 
cook  it  in  a  generous  amount  of  rapidly  boiling  water  for 
fifteen  minutes,  then  drain  off  the  water;  cover  it  with 
milk;  add  salt,  pepper  and  a  bit  of  mace,  and  cook  until  . 
tender,  and  until  the  milk  has  boiled  away  so  that  it  onlj 
moistens  the  cabbage.    Add  a  piece  of  butter  and  serve. 

MRS.  ALLEN  C.  FRINK. 

Corn  Fritters. 

Six  ears  corn, 

2  eggs  well  beaten, 

y2  cup  milk,  ; 
1  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 
Pinch  of  salt, 

Flour  enough  to  bind  together. 
Grate  the  ears  and  with  the  back  of  a  knife  press  out 
the  pulp,  leaving  the  hulls  on  the  cob,  cook  on  griddle  as 
you  do  batter  cakes.  MRS.  ALLEN  C.  FRINK. 

E scalloped  Apples. 

Peel  and  slice  tender  apples.  Put  a  layer  of  apples, 
sliced,  in  a  baking  dish,  with  sugar  and  bits  of  butter, 
another  layer  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Rake  cov- 
ered for  %  of  an  hour — 15  or  20  minutes  longer  uncov- 
ered until  brown.  SUSAN  J.  COBB. 


VEGETABLES 


Rice  Croquettes. 

Boil  the  rice  and  milk  together  until  quite  tender. 
While  hot  beat  in  1  raw  egg,  little  parsley,  y2  teaspoon 
of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Dip  in  egg  and 
cracker  crumbs  and  drop  in  hot  lard.  y2  cup  of  rice 
makes  about  a  dozen  croquettes. 

WILLIAMINA  H.  DeYOE. 

Hominy  Souffle. 

1  cup  cold  boiled  hominy, 
3  eggs,  well  beaten, 
1  pt.  sweet  milk, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  butter. 
Mash  hominy,  add  eggs  and  milk,  then  butter  and 
baking  powder.    Bake  in  hot  oven  about  20  minutes. 

ELISABETH  V.  IRISH. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers. 

Remove  tops,  seeds  and  veins  of  green  peppers.  Fill 
with  mixture  of  asparagus  tips,  sweetbreads  (parboiled 
and  chopped),  and  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  butter. 
Salt.  Fasten  on  tops  with  to  A iipicks  and  steam  twenty 
minutes.  Remove  tops,  add  bread  crumbs  and  brown  in 
oven.    Serve  at  once  with  the  following  sauce: 

y2  cup  butter, 

1  saltspoon  of  salt, 

14  saltspoon  of  cayenne, 

Yolks  of  2  eggs, 

Juice  of  y2  lemon, 

y2  cup  boiling  water. 
Rub  butter  to  cream,  add  yolks,  one  at  a  time  anl 
beat  well ;  then  add  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  About 
five  minutes  before  serving,  add  boiling  water.  Place  in 
sauce  pan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  rapidly  till  sauce 
thickens.  It  should  be  smooth,  like  custard,  and  served 
at  once  as  it  curdles  if  it  stands. 

BERTHA  FLEMING  GEILFUSS. 


VEGETABLES 


51 


Hominy  and  Corn  Fritters. 

1  pint  corn  or  hot  boiled  hominy, 

2  eggs, 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  flour,  thin  with  a  very  little  cold 

milk. 

When  the  mixture  is  cold,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder ;  mix  thoroughly. 

Drop  a  tablespoonful  into  deep  hot  fat  and  fry  a 
delicate  brown  like  doughnuts. 

ROSE  B.  NISBET. 

Spaghetti — Italian  Style. 

Take  3  moderately  fat  pork  chops  from  the  loin, 
fry  slowly  until  very  brown,  add  1  can  tomatoes,  1  me- 
dium onion,  sliced,  y2  clove  of  garlic;  cover  and  simmer 
slowly  until  meat  is  in  bits;  put  through  a  coarse  sieve 
forcing  meat  through  also.  This  will  take  from  3  to  4 
hours  to  cook.  For  the  spaghetti,  have  on  the  stove  a 
kettle  containing  4  qts.  rapidly  boiling  water,  slightly 
salted;  break  the  spaghetti  in  1%  inch  pieces  and  drop 
in  slowly  so  as  not  to  stop  the  boiling ;  boil  at  a  galloping 
rate  until  tender,  from  20  to  35  minutes,  according  to 
brand  and  age;  pour  into  a  sieve  and  pour  on  abundance 
of  cold  water  to  prevent  it  sticking  together;  season  the 
tomato  mixture  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  spa- 
ghetti ;  when  very  hot,  turn  into  serving  dish  and  sprinkle 
with  grated  parmesan  cheese,  or  put  in  ramekins ;  sprinkle 
with  cheese  and  brown  in  oven. 

MRS.  WM.  E.  HILL. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. 

Break  macaroni  into  small  pieces  and  put  into  boil- 
ing water  with  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  until  tender 
and  drain. 

Tut  a  layer  of  macaroni  and  then  a  layer  of  grated 
cheese  and  so  on  until  dish  is  filled.  Pour  over  the  whole 
a  cream  sauce  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake 
until  well  browned.    Use  sharp  cheese  for  this  dish. 

MRS.  HARRY  BUSH. 


52 


VEGETABLES 


Potato  Croquettes. 

1  pt.  hot  mashed  potato, 
1  tbsp.  of  butter, 
y2  tsp.  salt, 

Y2  tbsp.  of  minced  onion, 

1  tbsp.  minced  parsley, 

Cayenne  and  black  pepper  to  taste, 

Yolks  of  1  or  2  eggs. 
Mix  all  but  the  egg  and  beat  till  very  light.  When 
slightly  cool,  add  beaten  egg;  shape  into  balls;  roll  first 
in  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  dip  in  egg  slightly  beaten  with 
1  tbsp.  of  water ;  roll  again  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat, 
hot  enough  to  brown  a  piece  of  bread  in  40  seconds.  Drain 
on  brown  paper.    Serve  hot.  K.  M.  T.  S. 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES. 


Chicken  Salad  for  Fifty. 

Six  chickens,  using  only  the  white  meat,  second  joints 
and  the  olives  in  backs.  Four  pounds  sweetbreads,  about: 
a  pound  of  pecan  meats  broken,  6  heads  celery  and  what 
aspic  jelly  can  be  made  from  stock  in  which  chicken 
was  cooked.  Cut  up  chicken  about  four  hours  before 
serving  time,  and  pour  over  a  marinade  made  in  propor- 
tion of  tablespoon  oil  to  three  of  vinegar.  When  ready 
to  mix,  drain  the  chicken  thoroughly  and  proceed  as 
usual.  The  aspic  should  be  cut  in  cubes  and  mixed  light- 
ly through,  just  at  the  last,  reserving  about  a  quarter  of 
it  for  garnish.  Use  cooked  mayonnaise  made  with  but- 
ter and  thinned  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Nut  Salad. 

Allow  1  lb.  of  walnuts  to  a  head  of  lettuce.  Crack 
nuts  so  as  to  keep  the  halves  unbroken;  turn  boiling 
water  over  them,  let  stand  for  5  minutes  and  remove 
skins.  Wipe  dry  and  when  cold,  arrange  on  the  lettuce 
which  has  been  washed  and  crisped  in  cold  water.  Pour 
over  them  a  mayonnaise  dressing  or  French  dressing  if 
preferred.  MRS.  J.  F.  COWGILL. 

Manhattan  Mousse  Salad. 

Mix  together  one  teaspoon  ground  mustard,  two  tea 
spoons  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  powdered  sugar, 
a  little  cayenne,  one  teaspoon  melted  butter,  yolk  of  on«i 
egg,  one-third  cup  vinegar,  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cook 
in  double  boiler,  until  well  thickened,  stirring  constantly; 
remove  from  fire  and  add  one-third  tablespoon  granulated 
gelatine  soaked  in  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  water. 
Let  it  get  cold  but  not  set.    Season  highly,  with  salt,  cay- 


54 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES 


enne  and  lemon  juice,  two  small  cups  of  cold  flaked  fish ; 
add  to  the  prepared  mixture  half  a  cup  of  cream, 
whipped.  Turn  into  individual  molds  and  chill.  Serve 
in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves  with  a  small  spoonful  of  may- 
onnaise and  a  garnish  of  triangles  of  lemon  and  stars  of 
pickled  beets.  M.  H.  P. 

Grape  Fruit  and  English  Walnut  Salad. 

Take  out  the  sections,  being  careful  to  remove  all  the 
wThite,  bitter  skins.  To  1  qt.  grape  fruit,  after  it  is  pre- 
pared, add  1  pt.  of  English  walnuts. 

Serve  with  lettuce  and  a  French  dressing  made  of 
lemon  in  the  proportion  of  3  tablespoons  of  oil  to  1  of 
lemon  juice. 

Vegetable  Salad. 
Four  large  tomatoes,  2  medium  sized  cucumbers  and 
1  bunch  of  young  onions ;  slice  all  and  mix  together. 
Cover  thoroughly  with  French  dressing  and  serve  very 
cold  on  lettuce  or  endive. 

Asparagus  Salad. 

Boiled  asparagus  is  frequently  served  cold  on  lettuce 
with  a  plain  French  salad  dressing. 

Banana  Salad. 

Have  ready  one  cup  full  of  ground  nut  meats.  Either 
peanuts  or  English  walnuts  are  good.  Peel  six  firm 
bananas.  Eoll  in  the  ground  nut  meats,  place  on  lettuce 
leaves  and  dress  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  or,  have  nut 
meats  ready  and  then  peel  six  firm  bananas;  roll  the 
bananas  in  mayonnaise  dressing  and  then  roll  in  nut 
meats,  serving  on  lettuce  leaves. 

MRS.  WM.  E.  HILL. 

■    Potato  Salad. 

Boil  six  large  potatoes,  chop  a  coffee-cupful  of  celery 
very  fine,  using  only  the  white  stalks.  Fill  the  salal 
bowl  with  alternate  layers  of  potato,  sliced  very  thin,  the 
chopped  celery  and  dressing.  To  make  the  dressing,  take 
3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  each  of  sugar,  oil  and  salt,  a  scant 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES 


55 


tablespoonful  of  mustard,  a  cup  of  milk  and  1  of  vinegar 
Stir  oil,  salt,  mustard  and  sugar  in  a  bowl  until  smooth, 
add  the  eggs  and  beat  well ;  then  add  the  vinegar  and 
finally  the  milk.    Put  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  it  thickens  like  custard. 

MISS  MARIE  JONES. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Slice  firm  ripe  tomatoes,  over  which  put  French 
dressing,  made  thick  with  finely  chopped  onion  and  pars 
ley.  MRS.  J.  K.  WAGNER. 

Cherry  Salad. 

Use  large  black  or  sweet  white  cherries.  Remove 
pits  carefully  and  in  their  place  put  a  whole  hazelnut  or 
half  pecan  nut.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing, or  French  dressing. 

MRS.  JOSEPH  H.  BROWN. 

Sweet  Bread  Salad. 

In  preparing  salad  for  six  persons  cook  one  pair  of 
sweetbreads  in  water  to  which  is  added  a  slice  of  onion 
and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  After  simmering  for 
twenty  minutes  drop  in  cold  water  until  chilled,  dry  and 
dice  with  a  silver  knife.  Pare  two  cucumbers,  dice  them 
and  let  drain.  Whip  one  cupful  of  thick  sweet  cream  to 
a  solid  froth.  Gradually  beat  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
lemon  juice,  adding  salt  and  cayenne  to  season  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  thick  mayonnaise.  Mix  meat,  cucum 
bers  and  half  of  the  dressing,  using  the  remainder  of  the 
latter  for  garnishing.  Serve  in  cups  made  of  blanched 
lettuce  leaves.    Pass  cheese  straws  with  the  salad. 

M.  EL  P. 

Fruit  Salad. 

3  Greening  or  Northern  Spy  apples, 
3  oranges, 
3  bananas, 


56 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES 


1  can  sliced  pineapple, 
y2  pound  white  grapes, 
1  cup  nut  meats. 
Cut  fruit  in  small  pieces,  add  y2  cup  sugar  and  let 
stand  until  ready  to  serve;  pour  off  juice  that  forms  and 
add  1  cup  salad  dressing  and  1  cup  of  cream,  whipped. 

MRS.  FRANK  W.  RUSSELL. 

Shrimp  Salad. 

To  1  pt.  of  shrimps,  add  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  4  small 
cucumber  pickles,  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  as  many  olives 
cut  in  bits;  break  shrimps  into  small  pieces,  mix  all  well, 
place  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  pour  over  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing.   Garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  into  quarters. 

MRS.  H.  F.  BADGER. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Five  volks, 

1  tablespoon  salt. 

y2  tablespoon  mustard, 

Pinch  of  red  pepper  and  paprika, 

1  tablespoon  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  flour, 
Y2  cup  vinegar, 

1  cup  milk, 

1  lump  butter. 

Mix  drv  ingredients.  Scald  milk,  add  flour  and 
yolks.  ESTHER  G.  TYLOR, 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

2  tsp.  mustard, 
1  tsp.  salt, 

Pinch  cayenne  pepper, 
Butter  size  of  an  egg, 
4  eggs, 

1-3  cup  vinegar  and  fill  it  up  with  water. 
Stir  mustard,  salt,  pepper  and  butter  together,  add 
yolks  of  eggs,  vinegar,  and  the  whites  slightly  beaten 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES 


57 


Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  then  whip  with  egg 
beater.    When  used,  thin  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  J.  DAVIDSON  BURNS. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing.  (Oil.) 
Chill  all  materials  thoroughly.  Place  the  mixing 
bowl  in  a  pan  of  ice  water,  especially  if  the  room  be 
warm.  If  this  is  done,  mayonnaise  will  curdle  but  sel- 
dom, if  at  all.  To  the  yolk  of  an  egg  add  a  pinch  of  cay- 
enne and  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  sugar,  and  mus- 
tard. With  a  Dover  egg  beater,  beat  into  this  one  cup 
of  olive  oil,  drop  by  drop,  and  two  tablespoons  of  lemon 
juice,  the  same  way.  If  in  spite  of  care  it  curdles,  chill 
thoroughly  by  putting  as  large  a  piece  of  ice  into  the  bowl 
as  possible.  Take  out  as  soon  as  chilled,  and  beat  again. 
Before  using  add  whipped  cream. 

French  Salad  Dressing. 
3  tbsp.  of  oil, 
1  of  vinegar, 

1  saltspoon  of  salt, 

y2  a  saltspoon  of  pepper. 
Put  the  salt  and  pepper  in  a  cup  and  add  1  tbsp.  of 
oil.  When  thoroughly  mixed  add  remainder  of  the  oil 
and  the  vinegar.  If  flavor  of  onion  is  liked,  2  or  3  drops 
of  onion  juice  can  be  added.  Also,  tarragon  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice  may  be  substituted  for  the  vinegar.  Beat 
thoroughly  with  Dover  egg  beater.  M.  H.  P. 

Aspic  Jelly. 

V/2  pts.  clear  stock,  (beef,  chicken  or  veal), 

Y2  box  gelatine, 

White  of  1  egg, 

%  cup  cold  water, 

Salt, 

2  cloves, 

1  sliced  onion, 
12  pepper  corns, 
1  stalk  celery. 
Soak  gelatine  2  hours  in  the  V2  cup  cold  water.  Then 


58 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES 


put  on  stove  with  other  ingredients,  the  white  of  the  egg 
being  beaten  with  1  spoonful  of  the  cold  stock.  Let  come 
to  a  boil  and  set  back  on  stove,  where  it  will  just  simmer 
for  20  minutes.  Strain  through  a  napkin;  turn  into  a 
dish  and  put  awav  to  harden.  When  cold,  skim  off  all  the 
fat.  MBS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 

Olive  Sandwiches. 
Scald  stone  and  chop  to  a  fine  pulp  one  dozen  large 
olives.    Drain  as  dry  as  possible,  mix  with  y2  a  cup  of 
mavonnaise  dressing  and  use  as  filling;  between  thin  slices 
of  white  bread.  MBS.  GEOBGE  McDONALD. 

Peanut  Sandwiches.    (No.  1.) 
Chop  freshly  roasted  peanuts  very  fine;  then  pound 
them  in  a  mortar  until  smooth  ;  season  with  salt  and 
moisten  with  thick  cream. 

Peanut  Sandwiches.    (No.  2.) 
Mix  the  prepared  peanuts  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Butter  thin  slices  of  bread;  spread  one  slice  with  the 
peanut  mixture,  the  other  with  shredded  lettuce  and  press 
the  two  together. 

WILLIAMINA  H.  DeYOE. 

Sandwiches. 

Cucumbers  make  an  excellent  filling.  Peel,  chill, 
dry  and  chop  fine.  Press  out  all  the  liquid  possible  ov 
the  bread  will  become  soaked  with  the  juice.  Put  a  let- 
tuce leaf  on  a  buttered  slice  of  bread ;  spread  it  with  the 
minced  cucumber ;  spread  that  with  mayonnaise  and  cover 
with  another  thin  buttered  slice.  Salt  should  not  be  for- 
gotten. 

Nasturtiums  flowers  are  a  spicy  filling  for  thin  sand- 
wiches.   Spread  a  little  mavonnaise  dressing  on  each. 

WILLIAMINA  H.  DeYOE. 

Cavaire  Sandwich  Rolls. 

To  each  two  tablespoons  of  cavaire,  add  ten  drops  of 
onion  juice,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and  mix  thor- 
oughly together. 

Bemove  the  crust  from  a  fresh,  moist  loaf  of  bread, 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES 


59 


cut  in  thin  slices;  spread  each  slice  very  delicately  with 
butter  and  the  cavaire  mixture ;  roll  up  in  form  of  a  roll, 
and  tie  with  ribbon  one-fourth  of  an  inch  wide,  or  pin 
with  a  Chinese  toothpick. 

The  bread  should  not  be  more  than  twelve  hours  old. 

If  the  bread  is  not  sufficiently  moist  to  roll,  wrap  the 
loaf  when  taken  from  the  oven  in  a  damp  cloth  and  then 
in  a  drv  one,  and  keep  in  this  wav  until  ready  to  use. 

WILLI  AMINA  H.  DeYOE. 

Green  Pepper  Sandwiches. 
Tak  »  3  green  peppers  and  3  or  4  little  spring  onions 
and  ch  p  as  fine  as  possible.  Spread  a  very  little  bit  with 
a  spri  \kling  of  salt  on  the  buttered  bread;  then  spread 
mavonnaise  dressing  over  that.  The  pepper  seeds  are  to 
be  taken  out.  MRS.  W.  S.  DEWING. 

Sardines  for  Sandwiches. 

Drain  sardines  from  oil,  remove  skin  (by  rubbing 
from  tail  to  head),  and  bone. 

ROSE  B.  NISBET. 

Prussian  Sandwich. 
Spread  wafers  with  thin  slices  of  cream  cheese;  cover 
with  chopped  olives,  mixed  with  mayonnaise.    Place  a 
wafer  over  each  and  press  together. 

MRS.  F.  PAGENSTECHER. 

Nut  Sandwich. 

Mix  equal  parts  of  grated  Swiss  cheese  and  chopped 
English  walnut  meats;  season  with  salt  and  cayenne. 
Spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread,  slightly  buttered. 

MRS.  F.  PAGENSTECHER. 

Egg  Sandwich. 

Chop  finely  the  whites  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  force  the 
yolks  through  a  sieve  or  potato  ricer;  mix  the  yolks  and 
whites;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  moisten  with  may 
onnaise  or  cream  salad  dressing. 

MRS.  J.  F.  OOWGILL. 


MEAT,  GAME  AND  FISH  SAUCES. 


Tomato  Sauce. 

To  serve  with  hot  boiled  tongue : 
1  pt.  stewed  tomatoes, 
1  sliced  onion, 
1  bay  leaf, 
1  sprig  of  parsley, 
1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
Salt  and  pepper. 

Cook  tomatoes,  onion,  bay  leaf  and  parsley  15  min- 
utes, then  strain.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  while  cook- 
ing, add  tomatoes  slowly.    Cook  until  smooth  and  glossy. 

If  tomatoes  are  very  acid,  add  a  speck  of  soda. 

MRS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 

Bread  Sauce  for  Game. 

2  cupfuls  of  milk, 

1  cupful  of  dried  bread  crumbs, 
14  of  an  onion, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Dash  of  salt  and  pepper. 

Dry  the  bread  in  a  warm  oven,  and  roll  into  rather 
coarse  crumbs.  Sift ;  and  put  the  fine  crumbs  which  come 
through,  about  1-3  of  a  cupful,  on  to  boil  with  the  milk 
and  onion.  Boil  ten  minutes,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  the  seasoning.  Skim  out  the  onion.  Fry  the 
coarse  crumbs  a  light  brown  in  the  remaining  butter.  Stir 
over  a  hot  fire  two  minutes;  take  care  not  to  burn. 
Cover  breasts  of  birds  with  these  and  serve  sauce  poured 
around  the  birds. 

Port  Wine  Sauce  for  Game. 

y2  tumbler  of  currant  jelly, 
y2  tumbler  of  port  wine, 


MEAT,  GAME  AND  FISH  SAUCES 


61 


y2  tumbler  of  stock, 

y2  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice, 

4  cloves  and  a  speck  of  cayenne. 
Simmer  the  cloves  and  stock  together  half  an  hour. 
Strain  on  the  other  ingredients,  and  let  all  melt  together. 
Part  of  the  gravy  from  the  game  may  be  added  to  it. 

Maitre  d' Hotel  Butter. 

In  one  cupful  of  good  butter  work  one  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped 
parsley,  with  a  little  salt  and  white  pepper. 

Pack  into  a  small  jar  ;  cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place 
It  is  useful  to  put  on  chops,  steaks,  cutlets,  or  with 
potatoes. 

Orange  Sauce  (for  Cold  Meats.) 

Rub  the  rind  of  two  sweet  oranges  upon  three  or  four 
lumps  of  sugar.  Mix  with  them  a  wineglassful  of  port, 
or  claret,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  dissolved  red  currant 
jelly,  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thin  strips  of  orange  rind.  This 
sauce,  if  bottled  and  corked,  will  keep  for  some  time. 
Time,  five  or  six  minutes  to  dissolve  the  jelly.  (Very 
nice). 

Olive  Sauce. 

Soat  one  and  one-half  dozen  Queen  olives  in  hot 
water  for  20  minutes.  Put  into  a  sauce  pan  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  when  it  is  melted  add  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  chopped  carrot  and  onion.  When  they 
are  lightly  browned,  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  and  keep  stirring  until  all  are  thoroughly  browned. 
Then  gradually  add  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  brown 
stock,  a  blade  of  mace,  one  clove,  a  bay  leaf,  and  salt  and 
pepper.  Cover  and  let  the  sauce  simmer  for  twenty  min- 
utes. Meanwhile  pare  each  olive  from  the  stone  in  one 
long,  spiral  piece.    Let  the  olives  boil  in  a  little  water  ten 


62 


MEAT,  GAME  AND  FISH  SAUCES 


minutes ;  then  drain  them  and  drop  them  into  the  strained 
sauce.    Heat  it  to  boiling  point  and  serve. 

This  sauce  is  good  for  roast  duck,  beeksteak  and 
many  entrees. 

Mint  Jelly  to  Serve  With  Spring  Lamb. 

Wash  and  dry  two  bunches  of  mint  and  steep  in  1  pt 
boiling  water.  Soak  1  box  Knox  gelatine  in  %  pt.  cold 
water  until  soft.  Add  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  cup  sugar  : 
pour  over  this  the  boiling  mint  water.  Stir  until  thor- 
oughly dissolved.  Strain  and  turn  into  molds.  It  taken 
at  least  4  or  5  hours  to  form,  and  it  is  a  good  plan  to  make 
jellv  the  dav  before.  A  little  fresh  mint  as  a  garnish  im- 
proves the  dish.  MRS.  JOSEPH  H.  BROWN. 

Mint  Jelly  Sandwich. 

For  serving  with  a  lamb  entree  instead  of  a  mint 
sandwich.  Bread  may  be  spread  with  butter,  and  then; 
on  one  slice  of  each  sandwich  spread  a  thin  layer  of  mint 
jelly.  This  is  rather  more  delicate  than  the  sandw'ch 
made  bv  adding  chopped  mint  kaves  to  the  butter. 

M.  H.  P. 

White  Sauce. 

1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

2  tablespoon  of  flour, 

1  cup  of  milk. 

Cream  butter  and  flour.  Stir  milk  in  slowly.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  To  3  lbs.  of  veal  make  4  times  this 
amount  for  croquettes. 

MRS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 

Mixed  Mustard. 

(Use  Colinan's  mustard;  comes  in  tin  boxes). 

2  heaping  tsp.  mustard. 

Pour  enough  boiling  water  to  make  smooth.  Rub 
in  1  even  tsp.  of  sugar,  1  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  3  tbsp.  vin- 
egar, and  if  too  thick  put  in  a  little  more  water.  Cook 
until  it  thickens  up  well.  MRS.  W.  H.  BROWN. 


MEAT,  GAME  AND  FISH  SAUCES 


63 


Hollandaise  Sauce, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  butter,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  speck  of  cayenne,  half  a  cupfui 
of  boiling  water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the 
butter  to  a  cream;  then  add  the  yolks,  one  by  one,  the 
lemon  juice,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  the  bowl  in  which 
these  are  mixed  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Beat 
with  an  egg  beater  until  the  sauce  begins  to  thicken,  add 
the  boiling  water,  beating  all  the  time.  When  like  a 
soft  custard  it  is  done.  The  sauce  should  be  poured 
around  meat  or  fish  when  it  is  on  the  platter. 


ENTREES  AND  CHEESE. 


Bread  and  Milk  Omelet. 
Into  a  large  coffee  cup,  break  pieces  of  slightly  stale 
baker's  bread  till  lightly  filled,  then  pour  on  ssweo+  milk, 
as  much  as  it  will  hold,  and  leave  it  a  few  minutes  to 
soak.  Break  3  eggs  into  a  bowl ;  beat  lightly ;  add  bread 
and  milk,  mixing  smooth  with  the  back  of  a  spoon;  slight 
seasoning  of  salt.  Put  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  hot 
frying  pan,  and  when  it  melts  turn  in  the  omeleL  As 
soon  as  it  begins  to  set,  place  the  pan  in  the  oven  to  fin- 
ish the  cooking.  Have  ready  1  cupful  of  any  cold  meat, 
finely  chopped,  well  seasoned,  moistened  with  gravy  ;  r 
water,  and  heated.  Take  pan  from  the  oven  and  place  on 
front  of  range.  While  the  omelet  browns,  spread  one- 
half  of  it  with  the  hot  meat.  Turn  the  other  half  over 
upon  it  with  a  broad  bladed  knife;  slip  upon  a  hci  platter 
and  serve  at  once.  FLORENCE  B.  WATTLES. 

Curried  Eggs. 
Boil  Y2  doz.  eggs  until  the  yolks  are  well  done;  re- 
move the  shells  and  halve  the  eggs.  Make  a  rich  cream 
sauce,  adding  to  it  1  tsp.  of  curry  powder.  Pour  over 
eggs  in  a  baking  dish  and  set  in  the  oven  until  lightly 
browned.  A  little  onion  juice  mav  be  added  to  the  cream 
sauce,  ELIZABETH  Y.  IRISH. 

Creamed  Eggs. 
6  hard  boiled  eggs. 
y2  pt.  milk. 

1  rounding  tablespoon  butter. 
1  rounding  tablespoon  flour. 
Level  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 
y2  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  white  pepper. 
Quarter  the  eggs;  be  careful  not  to  loosen  the  yolks 
from  the  whites.    Place  butter  over  fire;  add  flour  and 
milk  and  salt  and  eggs.    Do  not  stir.    Add  parslev. 

MRS.  C.  C.  PACKARD. 


ENTREES  AND  CHEESE 


65 


A  Luncheon,  or  Supper  Dish. 

Of  Baker's  bread  cut  slices  thicker  than  to  serve  at 
table;  toast  a  nice  ~broicn,  and  butter  on  both  sides;  line 
a  pudding  baking  dish,  bottom  and  sides,  then  take  1  qt. 
of  good  milk,  4  eggs  well  beaten,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  to- 
gether and  pour  into  the  dish  over  the  bread,  and  place  a 
layer  of  buttered  toast  over  the  top.  Then  place  in  heated 
oven  just  long  enough  to  set  the  eggs. 

MRS.  C.  A.  VAN  DEUSEN. 

Earn  Puff. 

Scald  1  pt.  of  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  %  cup  butter. 
When  melted,  add  a  smooth  thickening  made  of  1  cup 
sifted  flour,  mixed  with  cold  milk.  Stir  until  smooth. 
Take  from  fire;  let  cool,  then  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of 
eight  eggs.  Then  fold  in  the  whites  well  beaten,  salt,  iy2 
cups  finelv  chopped  ham.  Bake  in  dish  standing  in  a  pan 
of  water/  MRS.  W.  H.  BROWN. 

Hash. 

Cook  one  half  a  minced  onion  in  a  tablespoon  *ul  of 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  stir  into  it  equal  parts  of 
chopped  beef,  corned  or  fresh,  and  potato,  boiled  .:nd 
chopped.  Moisten  with  gravy  or  soup  stock.  Season  with 
celery  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  Worces- 
tershire sauce  and  serve  hot. 

WINIFRED  CLARK 

Egg  Cutlets. 

3  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped,  not  fine, 
1  cup  milk, 

Half  teaspoon  onion  juice, 

14  teaspoon  pepper ;  salt  to  taste, 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley, 
Rub  to  a  paste:    2  heaping  tablespoons  flour,  1  heap- 
ing tablespoon  butter,  add  milk,  beat  for  a  minute,  ndd 
eggs,  etc. 


66 


ENTREES  AND  CHEESE 


Spread  on  a  greased  platter  half  inch  deep.  Put  on 
ice.  Make  into  cutlets.  Dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs, 
fry,  and  serve  with  cream  sauce  and  peas. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD 

Chicken  Sentinel. 

2  cups  cold  shredded  chicken, 

V-k  g^en  pepper, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

14  ripe  red  pepper, 

1  hard  boiled  egg,  chopped. 

Mix  with  rich  cream  sauce,  and  put  in  baking  dish. 
Cover  with  mashed  potato,  beaten  light,  with  butter, 
cream,  and  white  of  egg.  Brown  in  oven.  Serve  with 
poached  eggs  on  top  from  which  the  whites  have  been 
trimmed.  BERTHA  FLEMING  GEILFUSS. 

Eggs,  with  Cheese. 

5  eggs, 

2  heaping  tbsp.  dry  grated  cheese, 
Parmesan  is  good  for  this, 

1  tbsp.  butter, 

Half  teaspoonful  salt, 

A  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 
Beat  the  eggs  light;  add  the  cheese,  the  salt  and  pep- 
per.   Have  the  butter  melted  in  the  blazer;  turn  in  the 
eggs,  and  stir  until  thick  and  smooth.    Serve  on  toast  or 
crackers  HELEN  A.  SEEKING 

Cheese  Ramekins. 

Put  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  one  gill  of  milk  on 
the  fire  to  boil.  Then  put  in  four  teaspoons  of  grated 
cheese,  a  little  piece  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Stir 
till  cheese  is  dissolved,  then  remove  from  fire.  Bear  two 
eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Stir  the  yolks  into 
the  mixture,  then  the  whites.  Bake  about  fifteen  min- 
utes. MRS.  W.  A.  COLEMAN. 


ENTREES  AND  CHEESE 


67 


Cheese  Omelet. 

Four  four  persons : 

4  eggs,  beaten  separately, 

2  tbsp.  of  grated  cheese, 

y2  tsp.  salt, 

*4  tsp.  red  pepper, 

1  cup  milk. 

Mix  eggs  after  they  are  thoroughly  beaten,  sprink- 
ling in  the  cheese  as  you  mix.  Add  salt  and  pepper  m 
same  way;  then  milk,  and  bake  in  very  hot  oven  in  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish  for  15  minutes. 

ELIZABETH  V.  IRISH. 

Cheese  Balls,  with  Nuts. 

Take  one  package  of  Philadelphia  cream  cheese,  roll 
into  balls  size  of  large  marble;  press  between  halves  of 
English  walnuts.    Nice  to  serve  with  a  salad. 

ROSE  B.  NISBET. 

Cheese  is  used  to  call  forth  the  juices  of  the  stomach 
and  get  it  ready  for  food.  It  also  takes  the  taste  of  oMter 
dishes  from  the  mouth. 

ROSE  B.  NISBET. 
Cheese  Balls. 

Take  Neuchatel  or  Philadelphia  cream  cheese  mix 
with  a  little  sweet  cream  if  not  moist  enouglr,  salt  and 
add  chopped  hickory  nut  meats  or  English  walnuts  Roll 
in  small  balls,  and  just  before  serving  roll  in  parsley  chop- 
ped verv  fine.    To  be  served  with  salad. 

MRS.  C.  W  DEWING 

Cheese  Balls. 

Whip  white  of  one  egg  very  stiff,  add  a  pinch  euch  of 
salt,  red  pepper  and  dry  mustard;  add  sufficient  gratei 
cheese  to  make  into  little  balls.  Fry  a  golden  brown,  in 
hot  deep  lard,  and  serve  at  once  with  salad. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALI). 


68 


ENTREES  AND  CHEESE 


Cheese  Straw*. 

%  cup  of  butter, 
14  cup  lard, 
1  cup  flour, 

cup  cold  water. 
Mix  as  for  pie-crust,  and  then  add  2  cups  of  grated 
cheese,  seasoned  with  red  pepper  and  salt  to  tast?  Mix 
well,  roll  out  thin,  and  cut  in  narrow  strips;  bakr-  in  a 
quick  oven.  HELEN  B.  PATTISON. 

Tinibale  Shells. 

Mix  %  of  a  cup  of  flour  with  y2  teaspoon  of  .salt ;  add 
2-3  cup  of  milk  and  one  egg,  well  beaten;  when  very 
smooth,  add  one  tablespoon  of  oil;  dip  hot  timbale  iron  in 
this  batter,  and  fry  the  mixture  which  clings  to  the  iron 
in  hot  lard. 

To  Clean  Sweetbreads. 

Carefully  pull  off  all  the  tough  and  fibrous  skin. 
Place  them  in  a  dish  of  cold  water  for  ten  minutes  or 
more,  and  then  they  are  ready  to  be  boiled.  They  must 
always  be  boiled  twenty  minutes,  no  matter  what  the 
mode  of  cooking  is  to  be. 

Chicken  TerrxpVn 

Boil  one  large  chicken  until  tender;  cut  into  small 
pieces,  as  for  salad,  using  the  white  meat  only.  Melt  in  a 
double  boiler  half  of  a  pound  of  butter,  adding  to  it  3  ta- 
blespoons of  flour.  To  this  add  1  quart  of  hot  cream, 
gradually.  Then  stir  in  the  chicken  and  mashed  yolks 
of  3  hard  boiled  eggs.  Add  red  pepper  to  taste;  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  chopped  fine,  and  three  or  four  truffles, 
chopped  fine,  or  just  sliced.  Add  just  before  serving  a 
half  tumbler  of  sherrv  wine. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

Creamed  Chicken. 

One  chicken  of  4%  lt>s-  or  two  of  3  lbs.  each,  two 
sweetbreads,  one  can  mushrooms.    Boil    chicken  and 


ENTREES  AND  CHEESE 


69 


sweetbreads;  when  cold,  cut  up  as  for  salad;  cut  mush- 
rooms in  four  pieces. 

In  double  boiler,  put  one  quart  cream;  take  four 
large  tablespoons  butter,  melt  and  stir  in  five  even  table- 
spoons flour,  add  this  to  cream  when  hot,  stirring  until  it 
thickens;  flavor  with  one  small  teaspoon  grated  onion, 
little  nutmeg,  red  pepper  and  salt.  Put  chicken  and  in- 
gredients together,  then  add  sweetbreads  and  mushrooms : 
put  into  baking  dish  and  bake  20  minutes.  Serves  16  per- 
sons. MRS.  R.  ARTHUR  STONE 

Cream  Sweetbread. 

Always  get  calves  sweetbreads ;  put  in  cold  salt  water 
and  soak  1  hour.  Then  pour  boiling  water  over  them  and 
boil  about  20  minutes.  Put  again  in  cold  water  for  5 
minutes  and  remove  all  the  skin.  Cut  or  pick  into  small 
pieces;  make  a  cream  sauce  and  stir  them  into  it.  Sea- 
son to  taste.  Pour  into  shells ;  sprinkle  with  crumbs :  put 
a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each.  Bake  until  brown  Use 
porcelain  or  granite  to  cook  in,  and  a  silver  knife  to  cut 
them  with. — L.  N.  Cook  Book. 

Meat  Loaf. 

Three  pounds  of  beefsteak  or  veal,  chopped  fine,  3 
eggs,  6  rolled  crackers;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter.  Make  into  a  roll;  put  in  a  pan  with  a  little  hot 
water,  and  bake  1%  hours;  baste  often  while  baking. 
Slice  cold  for  tea.  MRS.  H.  F.  SEVERENS. 

Meat  Souffle. 

A  splendid  way  to  use  scraps  of  cold  beef,  ham  or 
fowl,  which  have  been  boiled,  fried,  or  roasted.  Make  1 
cup  of  cream  sauce,  as  for  croquettes  or  macaroni ;  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
or  celery  tops  and  1  ounce  of  chopped  onion.  Stir  into 
this  sauce  1  cup  of  chopped  meat  or  fowl ;  when  well 
mixed,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  cook  one  minute 
and  set  away  to  cool ;  then  stir  in  the  whites,  beaten  to  a 


70 


ENTREES  AND  CHEESE 


stiff  froth;  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  20  minutes. 
Serve  plain  for  tea,  or  with  mushroom  dressing  for  din- 
ner.— Taken  from  Old  Book. 

Curry  of  Meat. 

Take  pieces  of  any  tender  cooked  meat,  steak  or  cold 
lamb,  mutton,  or  veal;  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in  a 
frying  pan  with  about  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Stir  until 
thoroughly  heated,  then  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour;  stir 
until  smooth,  then  add  a  scant  teacup  of  hot  water,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  add  about  half  a  teaspoon  of 
currie  powder ;  let  it  simmer  about  ten  minutes,  then  add 
six  drops  of  "kitchen  boquet,"  and  serve  hot. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Take  large  oysters,  dip  in  flour,  then  egg,  then 
cracker.    Fry  in  plentv  of  lard  and  butter. 

MRS.  ARNOLD. 

Chicken  for  Supper. 

Boil  two  chickens  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  until 
the  meat  separates  easily  from  the  bones ;  pick  it  all  off, 
cut  it  rather  fine,  and  season  it  well  with  pepper  and  salt, 
Now  put  in  a  mold  (a  bowl  or  oval  pan  will  answer)  some 
slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  then  a  layer  of  chicken,  next 
more  eggs,  (always  putting  the  best  slices  of  egg  at  the 
sides  and  bottom  of  the  mold,  and  the  broken  pieces 
through  the  chicken).  Boil  down  the  water  in  which  the 
chicken  was  boiled,  until  there  is  a  pint  left,  adding  to  it 
when  done  a  large  pinch  of  gelatine  which  has  been  dis- 
solved in  a  little  cold  water.  Season  this  gracy  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  it  over  the  chicken.  It 
will  sink  through,  forming  a  jelly  around  it.  Let  it  stand 
on  ice  until  perfectly  cold ;  turn  it  out  on  a  dish  and  gar- 
nish with  bleached  celery  leaves.  It  is  to  be  sliced  at 
table.    Delicious  served  with  cucumber  dressing. 

MRS.  L.  C.  CHAPIN. 


ENTREES  AND  CHEESE 


71 


Eggs  Benedictine. 

Poach  eggs  and  lay  on  thin  slices  of  toast;  seasor 
with  salt?  pepper  and  butter.  Serve  with  a  cream  dressing, 
the  same  as  you  make  for  Lobster  Newberg,  adding  one 
tablespoon  of  Benedictine  instead  of  sherry. 

MRS.  CHAS.  BUSH. 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 

Bread  Made  in  the  Bread  Maker. 
3  qts.  and  y2  pt.  of  sifted  flour — (measure  after 

sifting). 

1  pint  milk, 

1  pint  water, 

1  tablespoon  lard, 

1  tablespoon  salt, 

3  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  Fleiscliman's  compressed  yeast  cake. 
Scald  the  milk ;  into  it  put  salt,  sugar  and  lard.  Add 
warm  water,  and  set  this  all  to  one  side  to  dissolve  and 
cool.  When  luke  warm,  take  out  one-half  cup  of  mixture, 
and  in  this  liquid,  thoroughly  dissolve  the  yeast  cake. 
Turn  all  the  liquids  in  the  bread  maker  first,  then  add 
flour,  and  turn  the  crank  from  three  to  five  minutes.  Re- 
move crank,  put  on  cover,  and  cover  warm  all  over.  Set 
away  in  a  warm  place  and  leave  until  morning. 

In  the  morning  turn  dough  out  on  floured  board,  cut 
in  three  equal  pieces,  and  put  in  greased  bread  pans.  Let 
rise  to  the  top  of  pan,  and  then  bake  one  hour. 

This  recipe  calls  for  a  Universal  Bread  Maker  and  Al- 
bion Winter  Wheat  Flour.  Other  flour  can  be  used,  but 
the  quantitv  would  need  varying. 

MRS." FRANK  COWLBECK. 

Yeast  Bread. 

5y2  cups  water,  luke  warm, 
1  tablespoon  lard, 

1  tablespoon  salt, 

2  tablespoons  sugar, 
1  yeast  cake. 

If  Magic  or  Yeast  Foam  is  used,  set  sponge  over 
night,  knead  in  the  morning;  let  stand  until  light;  make 
into  loaves;  when  light  enough,  bake  three-quarters  of  an 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


73 


liour  in  moderate  oven.  If  Compressed  yeast  is  used,  mix: 
in  morning.    This  will  make  5  loaves. 

MRS.  W.  L.  BROWNELL. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits. 

4  cups  flour, 
1/2  cup  butter, 
1  teaspoon  salt, 

3  scant  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Sift  baking  powder  in  flour ;  have  butter  warm ;  add 
milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough ;  pat  it  with  the  hands ; 
do  not  use  rolling  pin.    Do  not  let  biscuits  touch  each 
other.    Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

MRS.  FRANK  W.  RUSSELL. 

Bread  Sticks. 

1  quart  of  flour, 

1  large  tablespoon  butter, 

1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  pint  of  milk  warmed, 

Whites  of  three  (3)  eggs, 

1  large  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
%  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water. 
Whip  eggs,  and  melt  butter. 

MRS.  JAMES  DEWING. 

Raised  Biscuits. 

Make  a  sponge  of  1  pt.  of  flour, 

y2  pt.  of  tepid  water, 

%  cake  of  Compressed  yeast. 
Add  to  this  a  large  cupful  of  lard  and  butter,  which 
melt  and  pour  into  batter,  and  beat  well;  also  one  egg 
and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  beaten  together. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Add  enough  flour  to  make 
a  soft  dough;  knead  well;  put  in  pan  to  raise  and  when 
light,  either  roll  or  work  into  cakes,  and  let  rise  again. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.  This  quantity  will  make  three 
dozen  or  more.  MRS.  ANNA  ALLEY. 


74 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


Swedish  Rolls, 

Scald  1  pint  of  milk;  pour  over  y2  cup  of  butter,  V2 
cup  sugar,  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  When  cool,  add  1 
Fleiscknian's  yeast  cake,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  a 
small  quantity  of  luke  warm  water.  Then  add  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  iy2  doz.  cardamon  seeds,  ground  fine,  and 
between  five  and  six  cups  of  flour;  knead.  Let  rise  over 
night;  knead  again;  shape  and  let  rise  in  tins.  Bake  20 
minutes.  MRS.  CHARLES  BUSH. 

Brown  Bread. 

2  cups  sweet  milk  (or  sour), 

1  teaspoon  soda, 

2  cups  Graham  flour, 
1  cup  white  flour, 
Molasses  to  taste, 

A  pinch  of  salt. 
When  using  sour  milk,  make  a  thicker  batter  than 
with  sweet.  MRS.  G.  S.  HARRINGTON. 

Brown  Bread. 

1  cup  sour  milk, 

2  cups  graham  flour, 
%  cup  wheat  flour, 
Y2  cup  molasses,  . 

1  tablespoonful  brown  sugar, 
Half  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  large  teaspoonful  soda. 

Steam  two  hours.  MRS.  RALPH  McCOY. 

Brown  Bread. 

2  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  brown  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
y2  cup  molasses, 
1V2  cup  sour  milk, 
Butter  size  of  a  walnut, 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


75 


Graham  and  white  flour,  half  and  half. 
Put  flour  in  carefully.    About  iy2  cups  of  each, 

MRS.  FRANK  A.  NASON. 

Brown  Bread. 

y2  cup  molasses, 

iy2  cup  sour  milk, 

3  cups  sifted  graham  flour, 

1  teaspoon  soda  (heaping), 

Salt.  MRS.  H.  C,  BRUCE. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread. 

1  cup  sour  milk, 

Scant  half  cup  molasses, 

2  tablespoons  brown  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  large  teaspoon  soda, 

2  cups  Graham  flour, 
%  cup  wheat  flour. 

Steam  two  and  a  half  hours,  then  bake  half  an  hour, 
a  slow  oven.    Use  coffee  cup  in  measuring. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Brown  Bread. 

3  cups  whole  wheat  flour, 
1  cup  white  flour, 

V-2  cup  sugar, 
y2  cup  molasses, 
1  tablespoon  lard, 

4  cups  buttermilk, 

4  teaspoons  salaratus, 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Bake  in  slow  oxen;  1  •  >  cup  of  raisins  improves  it. 

MRS.  M.  B;  WESTNEDGE. 

Short  Cake. 

2  cups  flour, 

*>  teaspoons  baking  powder, 


76 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


y2  cup  butter. 
Mix  with  sweet  milk;  roll  in  two  sheets  and  butter 
before  putting  together.    Bake  in  biscuit  tins. 

MKS.  W.  S.  DEWING. 

Cinnamon  Bread. 

In  the  morning  take  a  pt.  of  bread  dough ;  add  to  this 
2  tbsp.  sugar,  yolks  2  eggs,  1  tbsp.  of  butter,  3  tbsp.  of 
milk ;  add  flour,  and  let  it  rise  to  twice  its  size.  Then  roll 
out  and  put  in  a  buttered  tin.  Spread  with  melted  buttei 
and  a  cup  of  brown  sugar;  sprinkle  well  with  ground 
cinnamon.  ROSE  B.  NISBET. 

Corn  Bread — (Hoosier). 

Beat  2  eggs  very  light ;  mix  with  1  pt.  of  sour  milk ; 
add  teaspoonful  soda;  1  pt.  corn  meal;  1  tablespoonful 
melted  butter.  ROSE  B.  NISBET. 

Corn  Bread. 

1  cup  sifted  flour, 

1  cup  yellow  meal, 

Y2  cup  granulated  sugar, 
Salt, 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  mixed 
through  flour,  etc.,  very  thoroughly, 

2  eggs,  broken  in  cups. 
Stir  with  fork  enough  to  break  yolk ;  finish  filling  this 
cup  with  sweet  milk;  stir  this  into  the  flour,  etc.  Melt 
piece  of  butter  size  of  large  egg  (hen's)  ;  add  this  last. 
Mix  thoroughly;  that  is,  enough  to  blend  all  the  ingre- 
dients.   Bake  in  slow  oven,  as  corn  meal  burns  easily. 

DR.  CLARA  DARR,  Portland,  Oregon." 

Corn  Cake. 

2  cups  of  flour  (pastry), 
%  cup  corn  meal, 

Y2  cup  of  sugar, 

3  teaspoonfuls  Brown's  Brownie  Baking  Powder, 


BREAD   HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


77 


2  eggs, 

1  tablespoonful  butter  (melted), 
A  pinch  of  salt. 
Mix  all  dry  ingredients  together  first,  and  then  add 
milk  enough  to  make  the  consistency  of  cake  batter.  Ix 
will  take  about  one  cup  of  milk. 

MRS.  DENNISON  BROWN. 

Beaten  Biscuits. 

3  pts.  flour, 

1  large  granite  spoonful  of  lard, 

1  teaspoon  salt. 
Rub  lard  into  flour  until  well  mixed.  Take  %  pt.  of 
water  and  stir  in  quickly  with  the  hand,  until  it  is  a  stiff 
dough;  beat  it  until  it  is  smooth  (%  an  hour),  with  the 
rolling  pin;  divide  into  small  pieces,  with  a  knife,  and 
work  into  biscuits  with  the  hand.  Roll  each  piece  %  inch 
thick;  make  prints  of  thumb  in  the  center.  Prick  with 
a  fork.    Bake  in  quick  oven  %  of  an  hour. 

ROSE  B.  NISBET. 

Spanish  Buns. 

1  whole  egg, 
Yolks  of  two  eggs, 
%  of  a  cup  of  butter, 

2  cups  of  light  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 

3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
1  tablespoon  of  spices, 

Enough  flour  to  make  quite  thick. 
Bake  in  patty  pans.     Frost  with  whites  of  2  eggs, 
brown  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon. 

MRS.  C.  W.  WILSON. 

Pulled  Bread. 
Fresh  bread  dough,  made  into  straids  and  baked  like 
ordinary  bread.    When  cool,  it  is  torn  apart  into  irregu- 
lar peices;  returned  to  the  oven  and  baked  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  until  crisp.    To  be  served  hot. 

JULIET  SEBRTNG  HUNTER. 


78 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


Virginia  Spoon  Bread. 

3  tbsp.  sifted  corn  meal, 
3  eggs,  well  beaten, 
1  small  tsp.  soda, 
1  pt.  sour  milk, 

Or  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 
1  pt.  sweet  milk, 
1  tbsp.  butter, 
1  tsp.  salt. 

Beat  the  egg;  add  y2  milk,  then  meal.  Dissolve  soda 
in  boiling  water,  (%  cup)  ;  stir  well  and  add  remainder 
of  milk  with  the  butter.    Bake  in  quick  oven  y2  hour. 

ELISABETH  V.  IRISH. 


Muffins. 

.   1  egg, 

1  tablespoonful  sugar, 
1  cup  sweet  milk, 
iy2  cups  flour, 

3  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
Bake  fifteen  minutes. 

MRS.  ED.  CHASE. 

Baked  Brown  Bread. 

y2  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
Butter  size  of  an  egg, 

1  egg, 

2  tablespoonfuls  inolasses, 

2  cups  of  sour  milk, 

1  large  teaspoonful  soda, 
Pinch  of  salt, 

3  cups  Graham  flour, 
y2  cup  corn  meal, 

2  cups  white  flour,  mixed. 
Bake  about  thirty  minutes. 

MRS.  ED.  CHASE. 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


79 


Blueberry  Muffins. 

1  quart  box  berries, 
iy2  cups  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  sugar, 

2  eggs, 

1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
A  little  salt, 

Flour  enough  to  make  quite  a  thick  muffin  batter. 
Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

MISS  HELEN  SNOOK. 


Bye  Muffins. 

1  pint  sour  milk, 

1  small  teaspoon ful  soda, 

y2  cup  butter, 

4  eggs, 

Half  cup  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  white  flour. 
When  mixed,  add  enough  rye  flour  to  make  it  stiff 
and  drop  from  spoon  into  tins. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDOXALD. 


Breakfast  Muffins. 

Fill  muffin  pans  half  full  of  the  light  sponge,  which 
has  been  set  the  night  before.  Bake  about  20  minutes  in 
a  quick  oven.  SUSAN  J.  COBB. 


Waffles, 

1  pint  flour,  sifted, 
1  pint  milk, 
Pinch  salt, 
1  cup  melted  butter, 
3  eggs,  beaten  separately, 
Add  yolks,  then  whites, 
Last  of  all,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Beat  vigorously  and  serve  with  melted  butter. 

MRS.  F.  F.  ROWE. 


80 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


Waffles. 

The  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
1  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
y2  cup  of  melted  butter, 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  flour  enough  to 

make  a  thin  batter.  M.  H.  DeYOE. 

Southern  Waffles. 

Sift  1  pint  of  flour  with  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  add 
1  pint  thick  sour  milk;  1  tablespoonful  of  sour  cream  is 
an  improvement.  Beat  long  and  hard  till  very  smooth; 
then  add  2  tablespoons  of  melted  lard,  and  1  well-beaten 
egg  and  beat  again.  Just  before  frying,  add  1  teaspoon 
of  soda,  dissolved  in  warm  water;  the  irons  should  be 
very  hot  and  well  greased.    Serve  w^ith  maple  svrup. 

FLORENCE  S.  WATTLES. 

Wheat  Gems. 

2  cups  flour, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  cup  sweet  milk, 
Pinch  of  salt, 

1  egg, 

Nearly  y2  cup  butter. 
Put  in  gem-irons  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

MARIA  H.  DeYOE. 

Gems. 

2  cups  sifted  flour, 

2  slightly  rounding  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
Scant  teaspoon  salt. 
Sift  all  together. 
iy8  cup  milk. 

Pour  at  once  into  the  drv  ingredients.  Bake  15  min- 
utes. MRS.  C  C.  PACKARD. 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


81 


Excellent  Pop-Overt 

1  pint  flour, 

1  pint  milk, 

1  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  teaspoonful  sugar, 

3  eggs. 

Pop-overs  should  always  be  baked  in  stone  or  earthen- 
ware cups  that  come  for  the  purpose,  the  former  being  by 
far  the  better.  Have  a  dozen  cups  buttered  and  arranged 
in  an  old  dripping  pan.  Put  the  sifted  flour,  sugar  and 
salt  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Beat  the  eggs  until  very  light, 
then  add  the  milk  to  them.  Pour  this  mixture  on  the 
flour,  only  half  of  it  at  first,  and  beat  until  the  batter  is 
smooth  and  light,  say  for  about  5  minutes.  Pour  the 
batter  into  the  cups  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for 
50  minutes.  They  should,  when  done,  have  increased  to 
four  times  their  original  size. 

If  only  6  pop-overs  are  wanted  use  half  of  all  the 
other  materials  and  take  two  small  eggs. 

Very  large  coffee  cups  will  answer  the  purpose. 

MRS.  M.  H.  BURNHAM. 

Pop  over  or  Milton  Muffins. 

1  egg, 

1  pt.  sweet  milk, 

1  pt.  flour, 

y2  teaspoon  salt. 
Beat  eggs  light ;  add  part  of  milk,  all  the  flour ;  then 
the  rest  of  milk.    Bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  in  but- 
tered rings  or  gem  pans.    Serve  hot.    These  can  be  made 
of  Graham  flour.  MRS.  JAMES  FRASER. 

Spanish  Buns. 

1  pint  of  flour, 

1  pint  of  sugar, 

4  eggs, 

1  cup  butter, 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 


82 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


1  tablespoon  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon, 

2  teaspoons  cream  tartar, 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

Cut  in  squares  and  frost.        MRS.  SHELMIRE. 

Blueberry  Tea  Cake. 

3  cups  of  fresh  blueberries, 

2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
1  cup  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
2y2  cups  of  flour, 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
And  2  eggs  beaten  very  light, 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

Quick  Coffee  Cake. 

Sift  together,  twice,  one  cup  of  flour, 

y2  cup  of  cornstarch, 

1-3  cup  of  sugar, 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 

y2  teaspoon  of  salt, 

Y2  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon. 
Mix  to  a  soft  dough,  with  a  half  cup  of  milk,  into 
which  has  been  stirred  one  well  beaten  egg;  then  add  2 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter.    Spread  into  shallow  pan 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  mixed  with  ground  cinnamon. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

Fine  Pancakes. 

iy2  cups  sour  milk, 
iy2  cups  sweet  milk, 

1  egg  (beaten  well)  , 
%  tsp.  soda, 

2  tsp.  baking  powder. 
Enough  flour  for  a  good  batter. 

MRS.  HARRY  C.  HOWARD. 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC 


83 


White  Flour  Griddle  Cakes. 
Take  one  quart  of  sour  cream,  sweeten  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda;  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt;  beat 
three  eggs  very  light,  and  add  them  with  enough  flour  To 
make  batter  stiff  as  one  wants  it. 

LAURA  R.  WAGNER. 

Corn  Meal  Pancakes. 

1  pt.  meal, 

2  heaping  tablespoons  flour, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  egg, 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 

Salt  and  enough  milk  for  a  nice  batter. 

HELEN  B.  PATTISON. 

Fried  Com  Mush. 

Put  a  quart  of  water  on  the  stove  to  boil.  Stir  a  pint 
of  cold  milk  with  one  pint  of  cornmeal  and  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  When  the  water  boils,  pour  in  the  mixture  grad 
ually,  stirring  all  well  together.  Let  it  boil  for  y2  hour, 
stirring  often  to  prevent  it  from  burning.  When  cold,  it 
is  sliced,  each  slice  dipped  in  beaten  eggs  (salted),  and 
bread  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fried  in  boiling  hot  lard. 
One  should  trv  this,  to  know  the  superioritv  in  the  man 
ner  of  cooking.  MRS.  M.  H.  BURNHAM. 

Wheat  Gems. 

2  cups  flour, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
y2  cup  sugar, 
1  egg, 

A  small  piece  of  butter, 
1  cup  sweet  milk, 

A  pinch  of  salt.       MRS.  J.  M.  EDWARDS. 


84 


BREAD,  HOT  BREADS,  ETC. 


Waffles. 

4  eggs,  beaten  separately, 

y2  cup  butter, 

1  quart  of  sweet  milk, 

1  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder, 

A  little  salt, 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  little  thicker  than  for 
pan  cakes. 

Have  waffle  iron  hot  and  oiled. 

MRS.  IRWIN  SIMPSON. 

Excellent  Johnny  Cake. 

1  cup  sweet  milk, 

2  cups  wheat  flour, 

1  of  corn  meal, 

Little  less  than  y2  cup  butter, 

3  eggs, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 

i/2  cup  sugar.  MRS.  EDDY. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

Take  as  much  skimmed  sweet  milk  as  you  wish,  and 
into  this  stir  the  buckwheat,  enough  to  make  a  thin  bat- 
ter; add  a  little  salt,  and  just  before  baking  add  a  little 
more  buckwheat,  into  which  has  been  sifted  some  baking 
powder ;  about  a  teaspoonful  to  each  cup  of  buckwheat. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 


CAKE,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS. 

Scripture  Cake. 

1  cup  of  Judges,  5th  Chap.,  25th  Verse, 

Sy2  cups  of  I.  Kings,  4th  Chap.,  22nd  Verse, 

2y2  cups  of  Jeremiah,  6th  Chap.,  20th  Verse, 

1  cup  of  Genesis,  24th  Chap.,  17th  Verse, 
6  cups  of  Isiah,  10th  Chap.,  14th  Verse, 

2  cups  of  II.  Samuel,  16th  Chap.,  1st  Verse, 

2  cups  of  Nahum,  3rd  Chap.,  12th  Verse, 

1  tablespoon  of  I.  Samuel,  14th  Chap.,  25th  Verse, 
Season  to  taste  with  II.  Chronicles,  9th  Chap.,  9th 
Verse, 

A  pinch  of  Leviticus,  2nd  Chap.,  13th  Verse, 

3  teaspoons  of  Amos,  4th  Chap.,  5th  Verse, 
1  cup  of  Genesis,  43rd  Chap.,  11th  Verse. 

Follow  Solomon's  advice  for  making  a  good  boy  and 
you  will  have  a  good  cake. 

Proverbs,  23rd  Chap.,  14th  Verse. 

Scotch  Cake. 
1  lb.  of  sugar, 
%  lb.  of  butter, 
1  lb.  flour, 

9  eggs, 

Wine  glass  of  brandy, 
Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon. 
1  lb.  of  raisins, 
Nutmeg  to  taste. 

FRANCES  C,  VAN  WYCK. 

Pound  Cake. 

1  lb.  sugar, 

1  lb.  flour, 

14  oz.  of  butter, 

10  eggs,  beaten  separately, 
Citron  or  raisins,  if  wished. 

MRS.  J.  M.  ED\VARDS. 


86 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


Harrison  Cake. 

1  cup  butter, 

2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  molasses, 
iy2  cups  sweet  milk, 

5  cups  flour, 

3  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  cup  raisins, 
Spices  to  taste. 

MRS.  J.  M.  EDWARDS. 

Drop  Cakes. 

1  small  cup  sugar, 

1  rounded  tablespoonful  butter, 

iy2  cups  flour  (small), 

y2  cup  milk, 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 
Yolks  of  three  eggs, 
Flavor  to  taste, 

Cream  well  the  butter  and  sugar. 

MRS.  RALPH  McCOY. 

Spice  Cake. 

3  cups  light  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  butter, 

6  whole  eggs, 

1  cup  sour  milk, 

2  teaspoons  soda, 

1  teaspoon  cloves, 

2  teaspoons  of  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  of  nutmeg, 

5  cups  flour, 
1  lb.  raisins, 
1  lb.  currants. 
This  makes  two  loaves.    Bake  1  hour  in  moderate 
oven.  .     MRS.  FRANK  W.  RUSSELL. 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


87 


Graham  Spice  Cakes 

1  egg, 

1  cup  of  brown  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  shortening, 
y2  teaspoon  salt, 

Y2  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
Nutmeg  to  taste, 
y2  cup  currants, 

2-3  cup  sour  milk,  in  which  is  dissolved  y2  tea 
spoon  soda, 

Graham  flour  to  make  stiff  as  cake  dough. 
Bake  in  muffin  tins. 

MRS.  ROBERT  T.  VAN  DEUSEN. 

Blaeberry  Cake. 
y2  cup  of  sugar, 

1  tsp.  butter,  beaten  well,  with  sugar, 

2  eggs, 

1  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  large  cup  of  berries, 

3  cups  flour, 

iy2  tsp.  baking  powder, 
Pinch  of  salt. 

MRS.  ALLEN  C.  FRINK. 
Lemon  Cake. 

3  cups  flour, 

4  eggs, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
2-3  cup  of  butter, 

2  cups  of  sugar, 
y2  cup  of  milk, 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar.    Beat  eggs  separately ;  fold 
:n  whites  at  the  last.    Line  tins  with  buttered  paper. 

MRS.  W.  H.  BROWN. 


88 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


Spice  Cake. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar, 
2-3  cup  of  butter  and  lard, 

1  cup  of  molasses, 

2  eggs, 

3  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
Nutmeg, 

y2  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  cup  chopped  raisins, 
1  level  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

MRS.  FRANK  MILHAM. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake. 

2  eggs, 

1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  flour, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
%  cup  of  boiling  water. 
First  beat  the  eggs  light,  then  add  sugar,  flour,  and 
the  water  the  last  thing.    Bake  in  a  good  sized  shallow 
pan.    Spread  with  jelly  and  roll  while  warm. 

MRS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 

Reception  Cakes. 

1  cup  of  sugar, 
%  cup  butter, 
XA  cup  water, 
%  cup  milk, 
1%  cups  flour, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

3  eggs, 

%  cup  chopped  English  walnut  meats, 
Flavor  with  %  teaspoon  vanilla  and  14  lemon. 
Bake  in  small  gem  tins,  and  put  frosting  on  top. 

MRS.  GEORGE  H.  CORNELL. 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


89 


Blueberry  Cake 

%  CUP  °f  butter, 

1-  3  cup  of  sugar, 

1  egg, 

2  2-3  cups  of  flour, 

4  tsp,  baking  powder, 
y2  tsp.  salt, 
1  cup  milk, 
1  cup  berries. 

Cream  butter;  add  gradually  sugar  and  egg,  well 
beaten;  mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt; 
reserve  y±  cup  flour  to  be  mixed  with  berries,  added  last ; 
add  the  remainder  alternating  with  milk. 

CHRISTINA  L.  BURNS. 

Dark  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar, 

%  cup  butter,  creamed  together, 

2  eggs, 

1  cup  molasses, 

2  scant  teaspoons  soda  in  molasses, 
1  cup  cold  coffee,  or  water, 

1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice, 
1  cup  raisins, 
2y2  cups  of  flour. 

MISS  HATTIE  SMITH. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar, 
y2  cup  butter, 

2-  3  cup  milk, 

21/  curs  of  flour, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Whites  of  4  eggs, 

Rake  in  layers  a^d  cool. 

Filling. 
1  cup  of  sour  cream, 
1  cup  powdered  sugar, 


90 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


1  cup  of  freshly  grated  coeoanut, 

Whip  together  till  thick,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

Spread  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 

Pound  Cake. 

7  ounces  of  flour, 

8  ounces  of  sugar, 
6  ounces  of  butter, 
4  eggs, 

y2  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 
Juice  of  %  lemon  and  rind, 
A  little  nutmeg, 
Bake  in  gem  pans. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDOXALD. 

Fruit  Cakes. 

1  small  cup  sugar, 

2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately, 
1  cup  sweet  milk, 

Butter  and  lard  mixed,  size  of  walnut. 
Flour,  about  3y2  cups, 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
Xutmeg  to  flayor, 

Yolks,  sugar  and  shortening  well  creamed, 
Add  stiff  whites,  milk  and  flour. 
Roll  soft.  MRS.  GEORGE  McDOXALD. 

Old-fashioned  Indiana  Pound  Cake. 
1  lb.  sugar, 
y2  cup  butter, 

9  eggs, 

3  cups  flour,  into  which  put  1  tsp.  baking  pow- 
der, 

Flayor  to  taste. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten 
light ;  then  flour,  and  lastly,  the  beaten  whites. 

ROSE  B.  XISBET. 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


91 


Wedding  Cake. 

2  coffee  cups  sugar, 
1%  coffee  cups  butter, 
4  coffee  cups  flour, 

10  eggs, 

1  pint  New  Orleans  molasses 
G  pounds  raisins, 
4  pounds  currants, 

3  pounds  citron, 
1  quart  brandy, 

1  teacupful  cinnamon, 
8  nutmegs, 

1  tablespoonful  extract  bitter  almonds, 
1  tablespoonful  extract  lemon, 
Y2  teaspoonful  soda.  (Original). 

MRS.  J.  B.  DANIELS. 

Devil  Cake 

1  cup  sugar, 

y2  cup  sweet  milk, 

i/2  cup  grated  chocolate* 
Put  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  re- 
move and  let  cool. 

One-half  cup  brown  sugar,  y2  CUP  butter,  creamed, 
then  drop  in  yolks  of  3  eggs;  beat  in  y2  cup  sweet  milk, 
and  one  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Before 
adding  flour,  stir  in  first  part  of  recipe,  then  stir  in  2 
cups  of  flour  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in  old-fash 
ioned  square  tins.    Makes  two  loaves. 

Filling. 

Make  a  boiled  frosting  with  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  '1 
cups  of  sugar,  and  y2  cup  water.    Cook  sugar  and  water 
until  it  hairs ;  then  stir  into  the  well  beaten  whites  slow 
ly.    Take  a  part  of  this  frosting  and  add  1  cup  of  English 
walnuts  and  5  cent's  worth  of  dates,  both  chopped  fine 
Use  remainder  of  frosting  on  top  of  cake. 

MRS.  H.  D. 


92 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


Orange  Cake.    {Without  Butter.) 
2  cups  sugar, 
V-2  cup  cold  water, 
yolks  of  5  eggs, 
Whites  of  two, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange, 
2y2  cups  sifted  flour, 
2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  3  layers  and  put  together  with  boiled  frost 
ing,  flavored  with  orange. 

MRS.  EUGENE  COOK. 

Cream  Cake. 
1  cup  sour  cream, 

1  cup  sugar, 

2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately, 
2  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  a  few  drops  of 

water, 

Season  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla. 

MRS.  HENRY  BUSH 

Currant  or  Blueberry  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar, 
y2  cup  butter, 
Y2  cup  milk, 

2  cups  flour, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Stir  in  a  pint  of  either  currants  or  blueberries,  and 
bake  in  large  shallow  pan. 

MRS.  HENRY  BUSH. 

Molasses  Cake. 

1  cup  molasses, 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites,  beaten  separately, 
y2  cup  butter,  (scant),  beat  to  a  cream, 
iy2  cups  flour, 

y2  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Stir  well  and  season  well  with  cinnamon. 

MRS.  HARRY  BUSH. 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS  93 
Fruit  Cake. 

10  eggs, 

2  lbs.  very  dark  sugar, 

1  lb.  butter, 

3  lbs.  raisins, 

2  lbs.  currants, 

1  lb.  citron, 

2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon, 
1  tablespoonful  cloves, 

1  tablespoonful  mace, 

2  nutmegs, 

1  wine  glass  brandy, 
1  teaspoonful  soda, 
About  4  cups  of  flour. 

M.  E.  POMEROY. 

Rebecca  Cake. 

y2  cup  butter, 
1  cup  sugar, 
1  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  pint  flour, 
1  egg, 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  or  2  of  baking  powder. 
For  a  change,  a  cup  of  raisins  or  of  English  currants, 
or  a  mixture  of  both,  may  be  added,  or  an  addition  of 
sliced  citron.  BELLE  CHAPIN. 

Eggless  Cake. 

1%  cups  of  sugar, 

V2  CUP  of  butter, 

1  cup  of  sour  milk, 

1  teaspoon  of  soda, 

y2  teaspoon  of  cinnamon, 

y2  teaspoon  of  nutmeg, 

1  cup  of  chopped  raisins, 

3  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

MRS.  R.  H.  BUCKHOUT. 


94 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


White  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar, 
iy2  cups  flour, 
y2  cup  butter, 
Whites  of  3  eggs, 
y2  cup  of  milk, 

2  large  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
Flavor  to  taste. 

This  recipe  is  nice  to  use  for  cocoanut  balls. 

MRS.  WILLIS  N.  POMEROY. 

Small  Pound  Cakes. 

7  ounces  of  flour, 
6  ounces  of  butter, 

8  ounces  of  sugar, 

4  eggs  and  a  level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 
The  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon  and  the  grated  rind, 
A  little  nutmeg. 
Bake  in  gem  tins. 

MRS.  J.  DAVIDSON  BURNS. 

Devil's  Food  Cake. 
Cook  1  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  of  grated  chocolate, 
y2  cup  sweet  milk. 
When  thoroughly  dissolved,  set  aside  to  cool.  Cream 
1  cup  of  brown  sugar  with  y2  cup  of  butter;  add  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  y2  cup  milk.    Beat  in  2  cups 
sifted  flour  with  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.    Lastly,  beat  in 
cold  chocolate  mixture  and  bake. 

Chocolate  Filling,  (Frosting.) 
1  cup  sugar, 
1  egg, 

Butter  size  of  a  walnut, 

1  square  of  shaved  chocolate, 

3  tablespoons  cream  or  milk. 

Stir  all  together,  cook  slowly  until  it  begins  to  get 
thick.  Take  off  and  beat  hard.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  vanil- 
la before  beating.  HELEN  A.  SEEKING. 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


95 


English  Bread  Cake. 

1  cup  of  sponge, 

y2  cup  butter, 

1  small  teaspoon  salt, 

1  small  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  English  currants, 

1  cup  milk. 

Mix;  let  rise  slowly;  knead  down  three  times;  put 
into  loaves,  when  light.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  %  hour. 

MRS.  W.  L.  BROWNELL. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. 

1  cupful  of  sugar, 
3  eggs, 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water, 
iy2  teacupfuls  of  flour, 

V/2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  sifted 
through  the  flour. 

It  should  be  very  thin  when  poured  into  the  pan.  and 
about  half  an  inch  thick,  when  done.  Let  it  get  perfectly 
cold.  j 

Beat  one  pint  of  thickest  sweet  cream  until  it  looks 
like  ice  cream.    Make  very  sweet  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Blanche  and  chop  a  pound  of  soft  shelled  almonds ; 
stir  into  the  cream,  and  spread  very  thick  between  the 
layers.    Frost.  MRS.  IMOGENE  ARNOLD. 

Sour  Cream  Cake. 

%  cup  butter, 

2  cups  sugar, 

3  cups  flour, 

4  eggs, 

1  cupful  milk, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Filling. 

Y2  pt.  sour  cream, 

6  oz.  blanched  almonds, 


96 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


4  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
Yolks  of  1  egg,  mixed  with  sugar, 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  flavored  with  vanilla. 
Put  a  little  rose  water  in  almonds,  after  rolling  them, 
then  add  the  eggs.  MRS.  A.  L.  ZWISLER. 

Delicious  Cake. 

2  cups  XXXX  sugar, 
1  cup  butter, 

1  cup  sweet  milk, 

3  eggs, 

3  cups  of  flour. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the  yolks  and 
then  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  %  teaspoonful 
of  soda  into  the  milk,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar  into  the  flour.    (Boiled  frosting). 

MRS.  IMOGENS  ARNOLD. 

Bride's  Loaf. 

Cream  %  cupful  of  butter ;  add  1  cupful  of  sugar  and 
*  cream  again;  add  1%  cupfuls  flour,  1  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  y2  teaspoon  almond  extract,  %  pound  chipped 
v  citron,  whites  of  5  eggs,  stiffly  beaten ;  fold  in  last  thing. 
.Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    Boiled  frosting  for  icing. 

MRS.  IMOGENE  ARNOLD. 

Nut  Patty  Cakes. 

1  cup  of  butter, 

2  cups  of  sugar, 

4  eggs, 

1  cup  of  sour  milk, 

1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the  milk, 

3  cups  of  flour, 

1  level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in  the  flour, 
Salt  and  vanilla. 
Mix  in  hickory  or  walnut  meats.    Stir  well ;  drop  in 
pattv  tins  and  bake  in  medium  oven. 

P.  Mcl.  M. 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


97 


Brownies. 

2  eggs, 

1  scant  cup  granulated  sugar, 
y2  cup  melted  butter, 
V2  cup  sifted  flour, 
2  squares  chocolate,  melted, 

V2  cup  finely  chopped  English  walnuts. 
Bake  in  greased  tin,  spreading  batter  very  thin.  Cut 
when  baked,  one  inch  wide,  and  three  inches  long.  Espe- 
cially nice  for  five  o'clock  tea. 

BLANCHE  STREETER  BUSH. 

Sponge  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar, 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  beaten  together, 

3  tablespoonfuls  cold  water, 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder  in  iy2  cups 
sifted  flour. 

Mix  well;  then  add  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten 
Flavor  with  teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  vanilla. 

MRS.  A.  J.  CURTISS. 

Sponge  Cake. 

4  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separate, 
1  cup  of  sugar, 

1  level  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  in  whites 
of  eggs,  when  half  beaten, 

1  teaspoonful  of  extract, 
SA  CUP  of  flour. 
Fold  the  flour  in,  and  do  not  stir. 

FLORENCE  MYERS. 

Orange  Sponge  Cake. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  thick,  then  add  gradually 
1  cup  of  sifted  granulated  sugar.  Beat  five  minutes. 
Mix  and  sift  together  1  s<  ant  cup  flour,  iy2  tablespoons 
corn  starch,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  add  to  the  first  mixture.    Beat  the  4  whites  stiff, 

5 


98 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


and  add  very  lightly  with  1  teaspoon  extract  of  orange. 
Bake  35  minutes  in  shallow  pan.  Frost  with  boiled  icing, 
flavored  with  fresh  orange. 

FLORENCE  S.  WATTLES. 

Water  Sponge  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar, 
2  cups  flour, 
5  eggs, 

y2  cup  cold  water, 

2  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder. 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar,  then  gradually  a  id 
cold  water;  then  half  of  the  stiffly  beaten  whites;  then 
half  flour;  then  remainder  of  the  whites  and  flour,  and 
lastly,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

MRS.  JAMES  DEWING. 

Caramel  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar, 

%  cup  butter, 

y2  cup  sweet  milk 

1%  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla, 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

Filling. 

1  cup  sweet  cream, 
iy2  cups  brown  sugar, 
1  teaspoonful  butter. 
Boil  40  minutes;  put  between  lavers  and  on  top. 

MRS.  GEORGE  F.  KIDDER. 

Bread  Cake. 

3  cups  of  light  dough. 
3  cups  of  sugar, 

1  scant  cup  of  butter, 
1  cup  of  raisins, 


CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


99 


3  eggs, 

y2  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water, 

A  little  nutmeg,  cloves  and  cinnamon. 

this  rise  same  as  bread  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

MRS.  A.  J.  MILLS. 


FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS. 


Mocha  Frosting. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar, 
y2  cup  butter,  (scant), 
2  tablespoons  strong  coffee, 
4  teaspoons  cocoa, 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

BLANCHE  STBEETEK  BUSH. 

Fig  Filling. 

1  lb.  figs,  chopped  fine, 

2  tumblers  sugar, 
1  pint  wine. 

Cook  in  double  boiler  till  thick,  like  jelly.  This  is 
enough  for  two  cakes  of  3  layers  each. 

MARY  H.  PECK. 

White  Cream  Caramel  Filling. 

3  cups  of  white  sugar, 

iy2  cups  of  thick,  sweet  cream, 

4  tablespoons  of  sweet  butter, 

1  teacup  of  almonds,  blanched  and  grated. 
Flavor  with  extract  of  almond.    Stir  well  together* 
;md  boil  till  it  is  thick.    Take  off  the  fire,  and  let  it  stand 
for  a  few  minutes.    Beat  till  it  is  thick,  and  spread  on 
cakes. 

Butternut  Filling. 

To  whites  of  2  eggs,  add  y2  CUP  chopped  butternuts^ 
and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Whip  the  whites  and  sugar  first, 
then  add  the  nuts.    Spread  between  the  layers. 


FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


101 


Lemon  Jelly. 

Two  good-sized  apples,  pared  and  grated,  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  and  1  well-beaten 
egg.  Boil  until  it  jellies,  stirring  continually.  Wheu 
cool,  spread  between  the  layers.  Frost. 

Boiled  Frosting. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar, 
1-3  cup  water, 

1  salt  spoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Mix  together;  heat  gradually  and  boil,  without  stir- 
ring, until  the  syrup  will  thread  when  dropped  from  a 
fork.  Pour  gradually  on  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  beat 
mg  constantly  until  thick  enough  to  spread.  Flavor  with 
i  teaspoonful  vanilla.  If  not  beaten  long  enough,  it  will 
run  when  spreading ;  if  beaten  too  long,  it  will  not  spread 
smoothly.  In  the  latter  case,  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water- 
may  be  added. 

Beaten  Frosting. 

White  of  1  egg, 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 

1  scant  cup  of  confectioner's  powdered  sugar. 
Add  the  sugar  gradually  to  the  egg  and  lemon.  Beat 

all  together  5  minutes.    Spread  on  cake. 

Chocolate  Frosting ; 

2  squares  of  chocolate, 

1  scant  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 

3  tablespoons  of  milk, 
Yolk  of  1  egg, 

y2  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water;  add  y2  the  sugar  and 
milk;  add  remaining  sugar  and  beaten  yolk.    Cook  till  it 
thickens,  stirring  constantly  at  first,  that  it  may  be 
smooth.    Cool  slightly;  flavor  and  spread  on  cake. 


102 


FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 


Almond  Filling. 

1  cup  of  sweet  cream;  set  in  a  basin  of  hot  water; 
heat  for  2  or  3  minutes ;  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  tsp.  of 
corn  starch,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Sweeten  to  taste: 
cook  till  it  thickens ;  remove  from  fire ;  add  y2  cup  of  al- 
monds, blanched  and  chopped,  (not  too  fine).  When  cool, 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Cover  cake  and  sprinkle  almonds  on 
top. 

Nut  Filling  for  Cake. 

1  cup  of  sour  cream, 
1  cup  of  brown  sugar, 

1  cup  of  black  walnuts  or  other  nut  meats. 
JJoil  until  of  proper  consistency  and  spread  on  cake, 
using  a  plain  white  boiled  frosting  for  top  layer. 

MRS.  P.  Mcl.  M. 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


Grandmother's  Raised  Doughnuts. 

Take  piece  of  bread  dough  size  of  a  loaf,  work  into  it 
piece  of  butter  or  lard  size  of  a  lien's  egg,  a  little  salt,  if 
lard  is  used;  1  cup  of  sugar,  allspice  to  taste.  Knead  all 
together,  and  put  in  a  warm  place.  When  very  light,  roll 
and  cut  into  pieces  size  of  walnut ;  lay  on  a  board  and  let 
rise  again.  Drop  into  hot  lard,  lower  side  up.  If  not; 
they  will  turn  over,  and  only  raise  on  one  side. 

ROSE  B.  NISBET. 

Doughnuts. 

1  cup  of  brown  sugar, 

2  eggs,  beaten  well, 
1  cup  of  sour  milk, 

1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  milk, 
1  tablespoon  of  sour  cream  or  melted  lard, 
Nutmeg, 

1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in  a  little  flour. 
Then  add  flour  enough  to  roll  easily. 

MRS.  W.  A.  COLEMAN. 

Excellent  Doughnuts. 

1  teaspoon  butter, 

1  cup  sugar, 

2  eggs, 

Grated  nutmeg, 
1  cup  sweet  milk, 

3  teaspoons  level  baking  powder, 
3  cups  flour  or  more. 

ESTHER  G.  TYLER. 


1(  4  DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

Crullers. 

2  eggs, 

6  tablespoons  sugar, 
2  tablespoons  butter, 

10  tablespoons  sweet  milk, 
V2  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

MRS.  H.  F.  SEYEREXS. 

Elegant  Soft  Doughnuts. 

iy2  cups  sugar, 
2  eggs, 

iy2  eups  buttermilk,  sour, 
2  tbsp.  melted  butter, 
2  tbsp.  melted  lard, 

1  tsp.  soda, 

2  tsp.  baking  powder, 
Y2  of  a  nutmeg, 
Enough  flour  to  mix  soft. 

MRS.  HARRY  G.  HOWARD. 

Doughnuts. 

1  large  cup  of  sugar, 

Shortening — butter  and  lard,  mixed,  size  of  an 

4  eggs,  beaten  separately, 

2  cups  of  sweet  milk, 

7  cups  of  flour, 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  to  each  cup  of 

flour, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
y2  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg. 
One-half  of  the  above  rule  is  enough  for  a  small 
family.  MRS.  G.  C.  BURNHAM. 

White  Cookies, 

1  cup  white  sugar, 
1  cup  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  butter, 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


1C5 


Cream  butter  and  sugar, 
2  eggs, 

A  little  nutmeg, 
2-3  cup  hot  water, 
1  level  teaspoon  soda, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  sifted  in  flour, 
Flour  to  roll  soft.  ISABELLA  COLE. 

Sour  Cream  Cookies. 

2  cups  of  sugar, 

y2  cup  butter,  less  1  tablespoon, 
1  cup  of  sour  cream, 

1  even  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  cream, 
1  big  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
A  little  nutmeg, 

5  cups  of  flour,  with  iy2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  in  it, 

2  eggs,  beaten  light,  and  put  in  after  creaming 
butter  and  sugar, 

Use  just  enough  extra  flour  to  roll  out  thin. 

MRS.  A.  K.  EDWAEDS. 

Peanut  Cookies, 
Cream  4  tbsp.  butter  with  y2  cup  granulated 

sugar, 

Add  yolks  2  eggs,  thoroughly  beaten, 

4  tbsp  milk, 

y2  tsp.  salt, 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice, 

iy2  tsp.  baking  powder, 

1  cup  flour, 

2  cups  chopped  peanuts, 

Drop  from  spoon.    Bake  12  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

MRS.  FRANK  BUSH. 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


Sugar  Cookies, 

2-3  cup  butter, 

1  coffee  cup  sugar, 

2  eggs, 

4  tablespoons  milk, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

Roll  soft. 

MRS.  RALPH  McCOY. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. 

Cream  1  cup  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  sugar, 
Add  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
4  tablespoons  of  sour  milk, 
%  teaspoon  of  soda, 
1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon, 

3  tablespoons  of  molasses, 

1  cup  of  chopped  raisins, 

2  cups  of  rolled  oats, 
2  cups  of  flour. 

Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake. 

MRS.  R.  H.  BUCKHOUT. 

Molasses  Cookies. 

Y2  cup  sugar, 
1  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  shortening,  lard  preferred, 

2  eggs, 

Va,  cuP  vinegar, 

1  tbsp.  soda,  heaping, 

Ginger  and  spice  to  taste.    Mix  soft. 

MRS.  JAMES  FRASER. 

Nut  Wafers. 

1  cup  brown  sugar, 
1  egg, 

1  teaspoon  of  butter, 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


107 


1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Mix  together,  and  add  one  cup  of  English  walnuts, 
chopped  fine.    Drop  teaspoonful  in  buttered  pans,  quite 
a  distance  apart,  and  bake  in  medium  oven.  When 
brown,  take  out.  HELEN  A.  SEEKING. 

Marguerites. 

White  of  one  egg, 

1  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 

Enough  water  to  moisten, 
Boil  together  slowly  until  a  soft  ball  can  be  made. 
Then  pour  slowly  over  the  well  beaten  egg,  beating  all  the 
time.  Stir  thick  with  shelled  walnuts,  (English), 
chopped  fine,  and  spread  over  salted  wafers ;  place  in  oven 
to  brown.  Delicious  to  serve  with  lemonade  or  coffee; 
nice  if  crackers,  not  salted,  are  used  to  serve  hot  with 
ice  cream.  MRS.  C.  W.  WILSON. 

Marguerites. 

Half  pint  confectioner's  sugar, 
The  white  of  1  egg,  beaten  stiff,  but  not  to  a  froth, 
Half  cup  of  English  walnuts,  chopped  very  fine, 
Mix  together  the  egg  and  sugar,  then  add  the 

nuts, 

Spread  on  wafer  crackers, 
Put  in  slow  oven  until  the  mixture  becomes  hard- 
ened.   This  amount  will  spread  about  13  wafers. 

MRS.  RALPH  McCOY. 

Rocks. 

l1/^  cups  granulated  sugar, 

1  cup  butter, 
3  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  hot  water, 
1  teaspoonful  soda, 

314  cups  flour, 

Y2  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 


108 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


y2  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
V2  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg, 
1  cup  nut  meats, 
1  cup  raisins, 
1  cup  currants, 

1  cup  dates,  chopped. 

Bake  in  gem  irons  30  minutes,  in  slow  oven. 

MRS.  FRANK  W.  RUSSELL. 

Hermits. 

2  eggs,  beaten  light,  with  a  little  salt,  sprinkled 

on  them. 

1  cup  chopped  raisins, 

2-3  cup  shortening, 

iy2  cups  light  brown  sugar, 

%  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

4  tablespoons  sour  milk, 

1  small  teaspoon  ground  cloves, 

1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon. 
A  bit  of  nutmeg, 

2  cups  sifted  flour. 

MADGE  M.  BURXHAM. 

Coecanui  Dainties. 

Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Boil  1  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  water  until  it  spins 
a  thread;  pour  this  synrp  over  the  eggs,  stir  in  enough 
cocoanut  to  make  a  very  stiff  paste.  Drop  in  small 
cakes  on  a  well  greased  tin  and  bake  carefully  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  to  a  very  light  brown. 

MRS.  RALPH  McCOY. 

Rocks. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

I1 2  cups  brown  sugar, 
y2  cup  melted  butter, 
A  little  salt, 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


109 


3  tablespoons  molasses, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2y2  cups  of  flour, 

1  cup  English  walnuts,  cut  small, 

1  cup  raisins,  stoned  and  cut  small. 
T)rop  from  spoon  in  well  floured  pan. 

MRS.  C.  W.  DEWING. 

"Little  Rocks"  or  Rolled  Oat  Cakes. 

2  cups  of  flour, 

2  cups  of  rolled  oats, 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately, 
1  cup,  part  lard  and  butter, 
1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  English  currants, 
1  teaspoonful  of  cinriamou, 
y2  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
y2  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
5  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  milk. 
Drop  a  teaspoonful  of  batter  in  buttered  tins  and 
bake.  BESSIE  S.  NEWELL. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar, 

1  cup  lard  and  butter,  mixed, 

2  eggs, 

2  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

2  tablespoons  sweet  milk. 
1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  cups  rolled  oats. 

Put  together  in  the  order  given;  roll  thin;  cut  with 
cookie  cutter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  They  will  be 
deliciouslv  crisp. 

MRS.  FRANK  W.  RUSSELL. 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


Soft  Ginger  Bread. 

y2  cup  granulated  sugar, 
y2  cup  butter, 
1  cup  hot  water, 

1  cup  molasses, 

2  teaspoons  soda,  dissolved  in  the  hot  water, 
2y2  cups  of  flour, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  ginger, 

Add  2  well  beaten  eggs  the  last  thing. 

MRS.  FRANK  W.  RUSSELL. 

Soft  Gingerbread. 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream, 
1  cup  molasses, 
y2  cup  brown  sugar, 
1  egg, 

1  level  teaspoonful  salt, 
1  level  teaspoonful  ginger, 

1  level  teaspoonful  soda, 

y2  level  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
y±  level  teaspoonful  cloves. 
Flour  to  make  a  soft  batter. 
Bake  slowlv  in  a  moderate  oven. 

M.  E.  POMEROY. 

Ginger  Cake. 

2  eggs, 

iy2  cups  molasses, 
y2  cup  butter, 
y2  cup  sour  milk, 

1  teaspoonful  soda? 

2  cups  sifted  flour, 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  ginger. 
More  flour,  if  needed. 

MRS.  JOEL  WATERBURY. 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


Ill 


Aunt  Kittie's  Cookies. 

4  eggs, 

2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  butter, 

y2  cup  sweet  milk, 

2  level  teaspoons  soda, 

2  rounding  teaspoons  cream  tartar, 

1  nutmeg, 

Flour  enough  to  handle. 

MRS.  C.  T.  WHITE. 

Fancy  Crullers  (Cut  with  Jiggering  Iron). 

5  tablespoons  sugar, 

5  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
10  tablespoons  sweet  milk, 
i/o  nutmeg, 
A  little  salt, 

2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

MRS.  J.  M.  EDWARDS. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

1  cup  sugar, 
V2  CUP  butter, 
Y2  cup  hot  water, 
y2  cup  molasses, 
1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  tablespoon  ginger, 
Flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 
Roll  very  thin. 

MRS.  E.  D.  G.  RUSSELL. 

Fruit  Cookies. 

iy2  cups  sugar, 
1  cup  butter, 

3  cups  flour, 

1  pound  chopped  raisins, 

V/2  teaspoons  soda,  dissolved  in  y±  cup  warm 

water, 


112 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder,  heaped, 
14  cup  sweet  milk, 
3  eggs, 

Pinch  of  salt, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
y2  teaspoon  cloves, 
y2  nutmeg. 
Bake  in  gem  pans. 

MRS.  H.  C.  BRUCE. 

Ginger  Drops. 
1  cup  brown  sugar. 

1  cup  shortening,  beef  drippings  the  best ;  next  ta 
that,  half  butter  and  half  lard. 
iy2  cups  molasses, 
1  cup  sour  milk, 
5  cups  flour, 
1  tablespoon  of  ginger. 

1  small  tablespoon  soda. 

Put  the  sugar,  butter  and  molasses  in  a  pan,  and  pur 
on  the  stove  to  soften  before  putting  in  the  other  ingre- 
dients. Drop  bv  spoonfuls  in  a  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven.  ANNIE  D.  CLARK. 

Ginger  Drops. 

2  eggs, 

2-3  cup  molasses, 
2-3  cup  butter, 
2-3  cup  brown  sugar, 
2-3  cup  boiling  water, 
1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  tablespoon  ginger,  not  heaping. 

2%  cups  sifted  flour. 
Stir  molasses,  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  eggs, 
then  flour,  and  lastly,  boiling  water,  with  soda  in  it 
Bake  in  slow  oven  in  buttered  pan.  dropping  with  dessert 
spoon  about  1  inch  apart. 

MADGE  31.  BURXHAM. 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


113 


Cream  Ginger  Cake. 

y2  cup  butter, 

1  cup  brown  sugar, 

1  cup  sour  cream, 

1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses, 

1  teaspoonful  soda, 

1  teaspoonful  cloves,  cinnamon  and  ginger, 
2y2  cups  flour, 

2  eggs, 

Bake  in  two  long  tins. 

mrs.  geo.  Mcdonald. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar, 

1  cup  butter  and  lard,  mixed, 

iy2  cups  molasses, 

iy2  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  y±  cup  water, 
iy2  teaspoonfuls  ginger, 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Cream   sugar   and   shortening  together,   and  add 
molasses,  then  other  ingredients,  and  lastly,  flour  enough 
to  make  dough  roll  out.    Knead  well,  but  keep  soft. 

MRS.  A.  J.  CURTISS. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

1  cup  brown  sugar, 

1  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  butter, 

1  tablespoon  of  ginger, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water, 
Flour  to  stir  in  (not  knead), 
Pinch  off  pieces  size  of  large  marble  ;  leave  space  in 
pan  to  spread.    Moderate  oven  ;  leave  in  pan  until  cold. 

ISABELLA  COLE. 


114 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


Soft  Ginger  Bread. 

1  cup  of  molasses, 
V2  cup  butter, 
Melt  butter  over  steam  and  stir  into  molasses ;  put 
2  teaspoons  of  soda  in  little  cold  water,  and  stir  into 
molasses  and  butter;  then  add  %  CUP  boiling  hot  water, 
1  beaten  egg,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  2  cups  flour.  Stir  in  last 
%  teaspoon  salt.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

HELEN  B.  PATTISON. 

Soft  Ginger  Cookies. 

1  tumblerful  Porto  Rico  molasses, 
2-3  tumbler  shortening,  (mostly  lard), 
1  egg, 

1  even  teaspoon  ginger, 
4  small  tablespoons  cold  water  in  tumbler, 
1  rounding  teaspoon  of  soda  in  water, 
Put  in  soda  last, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  the  flour, 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
Make  a  thick  batter. 

MRS.  JAMES  DEWING. 

Ginger  Bread. 

2-3  cup  butter, 
1  cup  sugar, 
1  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  sour  milk, 

2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  tablespoon  ginger, 
1-^2  CUPS  flour. 

MRS.  FRANK  A.  NASON. 
Ginger  Snaps. 

y2  lb.  butter, 

14  lb.  brown  sugar, 


DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

1  pt.  molasses, 
5  tbsp.  ginger, 
1  qt.  flour, 

1  tsp.  soda,  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  cold  milk, 
Roll  very  thin  and  bake. 

MRS.  J.  D.  BURNS. 


PIES  AXD  PUDDINGS. 


Currant  Jelly  Pie. 

Boil  1  cup  currant  jelly  in  %  cup  water  until  dis- 
solved.   Beat  together  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  cup  sugar, 

2  rounded  teaspoons  flour,  moistened  with  14  cup  water  ; 
add  these  to  jelly,  and  boil  all  together  until  thickened. 
Fill  a  pastry  shell  which  has  been  previously  baked,  heap 
on  top  the  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs,  sweetened  with  2 
tablespoons  granulated  sugar;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  in 
order  to  crisp  it,  and  put  in  oven  to  brown. 

MRS.  ALFRED  HICKS. 

Mince  Meat. 

Two  qt.  bowls,  one-half  beef  and  one-half  lean  pork, 
chopped,  4  bowls  chopped  apples,  (sour  and  little  sweet), 
1%  bowls  shortening,  either  butter  or  suet,  2  bowls  mo- 
lasses, 2  bowls  sugar,  2  bowls  syrup  from  sweet  pickles, 
1  qt.  boiled  cider,  1  pound  figs,  chopped  fine,  1  pound 
orange  citron,  1V2  pounds  lemon  citron,  2  pounds  citron, 

3  pounds  raisins,  chopped,  4  heaping  tablespoons  of  salr, 
a  little  allspice,  pepper,  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg,  accord 
ing  to  taste.  After  it  is  done,  heat  the  liquids,  and  when 
hot,  stir  in  meat,  then  chopped  fruit,  etc.,  the  apples  last. 
The  liquid  from  the  boiled  meat  improves  it.  When  pies 
are  made.,  put  Vviiole  raisins  on  top  and  add  brandy. 
Three  pounds  of  fresh  pork  and  two  of  beef  makes  the 
recipo.  Boil  together ;  let  cool  in  the  liquid,  but  chop  sep 
arately.  MRS.  W.  S.  DEWING. 

Puff  Pastry. 

1  lb.  flour, 

5  oz.  flour  for  the  board  and  rolling  pin, 

1/2  lb.  butter, 

%  lb.  lard, 

1  cup  cold  water. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


117 


Sift  the  pound  of  flour  into  bowl ;  cut  butter  and  lard 
through  with  knife  into  small  bits ;  scatter  the  water  over 
the  whole,  and  mix  lightly  with  knife.  Put  on  ice  for  15 
minutes  before  rolling  out. 

MRS.  J.  D.  BURNS. 

Mince  Meat. 

3  lbs.  lean  beef,  boiled  and  chopped, 
1  pk.  apples,  peeled  and  chopped, 
iy2  lbs.  chopped  suet, 

1  glass  grape  jelly, 

2  lemons,  grated,  peel  and  juice, 

2  oranges,  grated,  peel  and  juice, 
iy2  lbs.  brown  sugar, 

1  qt.  molasses, 
1  qt.  boiled  cider, 

1  qt.  Cal.  brandy,  (may  be  omitted ); 

3  grated  nutmegs, 

1  teaspoon  mace, 

2  tsp.  ginger, 
2  tsp.  allspice, 
2  tsp.  cloves, 

S  tsp.  cinnamon, 
2  tbsp.  salt, 

1  lb.  citron,  sliced  fine, 

4  lbs.  raisins, 

2  lbs.  currants. 

Mix  beef  and  suet  evenly,  then  add  spices,  grated  peel, 
sugar,  apples  and  jelly.  Then  add  cider  and  juices  to  the 
molasses.  Turn  over  the  dry  ingredients  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Pack  in  a  stone  jar.  Cover  with  butter,  or  para- 
phin,  and  stand  in  cold,  dry  place  to  ripen.  If  one  wishes 
to  keep  it  a  long  time,  it  is  best  to  scald  it  and  seal  hi 
cans.  SARA  E.  CARNEY. 

Apple  Pie. 

Slice  apples,  and  fill  lower  crust  heaping  slightly  in 
the  center;  put  on  them  y2  cup  of  sugar,  (or  more),  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg,  or  cinnamon,  2  tablespoons  of  water,  and  bits 


118 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  molasses  improves  the  flavor  for 
some.  Put  on  upper  crust,  press  the  edges  firmly  to 
gether,  and  bind  on  a  strip  of  wet  cloth  to  prevent  the 
juice  from  running  out.  Bake  35  to  40  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  This  can  be  baked  without  a  top  crust, 
and  just  before  serving,  cover  thickly  with  whipped 
cream.  MRS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 


Lemon  Pie. 

1  cup  sugar, 

Juice  of  1  large  or  2  small  lemons, 

2  tablespoons  water, 
4  eggs, 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  juice  of  lemon,  rind,  sugar  and  water  until  sugar 
is  dissolved.    Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  light,  then  add 
boiling  syrup,  beating  constantly.    Fold  in  beaten  whites 
Put  in  crust  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  about  6  minutes. 

MRS.  A.  L.  WALDO. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  good  crust,  moisten  the  edge, 
and  put  a  narrow  strip  of  crust  around;  prick  bottom  and 
sides  with  fork  and  bake  quickly. 

Filling. 

1  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  water, 

4  eggs,  saving  2  whites  for  frosting, 

2  tablespoons  corn  starch, 

1  lemon,  grate  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice. 
Put  all  into  double  boiler,  and  cook  until  thick  as 
custard;  turn  into  tins,  and  add  beaten  whites  with  3 
tablespoons  of  fine  sugar ;  then  brown  lightlv. 

MARY  E.  VANDE  WALKER. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS  119 

.      Lemon  Pie. 

1  cup  sugar, 

2  tbsp.  corn  starch, 

iy2  cups  of  boiling  water , 
2  eggs, 

Juice  and  rind  of  one  large  lemon. 
Put  sugar,  yolks  of  eggs,  corn  starch  and  lemon  to 
gether  in  a  double  boiler  and  stir  all  together;  then  the 
hot  water  last.  Stir  constantly  until  it  thickens;  then 
pour  into  the  crust  which  has  been  baked  before.  Add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  sweetened,  as  frostings ; 
put  in  oven  and  brown. 

MRS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 

Raisin  Pie. 

1  cup  sour  cream, 
1  cup  sugar, 
1  cup  seeded  raisins, 
y2  teaspoon  vanilla, 
1  level  teaspoon  of  flour. 
Bake  with  two  crusts. 

MRS.  FRANK  MILHAM. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

One  large,  or  two  small,  cold  baked  sweet  potatoes 
put  through  a  ricer,  and  proceed  as  with  a  pumpkin  or 
squash  pie,  allowing  2  eggs  for  one  pie,  or  3  eggs  for 
two  pies.    Season  with  ginger,  sugar,  etc. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

Boil  potatoes  until  soft;  peel,  mash  and  put  through 
a  sieve.  To  y4  lb.  potato,  add  1  pt.  sweet  milk,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter,  4  eggs,  1  glass  wine,  sugar  and 
nutmeg  to  taste.  ROSE  B.  NISBET. 


120 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


Pieplant  Pie. 

1  cup  chopped  pie-plant, 
%  cup  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  flour, 
Yolks  of  two  eggs. 

Bake  in  one  crust;  make  a  meringue  of  the  egg 
whites.  MBS.  E.  D.  G.  RUSSELL. 

One  Good  Pumpkin  Pie. 

1  coffee  cup  of  pumpkin,  well  browned  and  sifted. 
In  this  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teacup  of  sugar,  a  dessert  spoon 
of  ground  ginger,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter;  lastly,  214  teacups  of  rich  milk  or  part  cream. 
Pour  this  mixture  in  pie  plate  lined  with  good  crust  and 
bake.  MRS.  M.  H.  BURNHAM. 

Cream  Pie. 

iy2  cups  milk, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch, 
Yolks  of  2  ergs, 

1  small  piece  of  butter. 
Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  cornstarch  and  butter.  Stir 
into  boiling  milk  and  cook  until  thick.    Then  pour  into 
baked  crust.    Make  meringue  of  whites  of  eggs.    Heap  on 
pie  and  brown  in  oven. 

BERTHA  FLEMING  GEILFUSS. 

Suet  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  chopped  suet, 
1  cup  of  molasses, 
1  cup  of  sour  milk, 

1  cup  each  of  citron,  raisins  and  currants, 

3  cups  of  flour, 

1  teaspoon  soda  in  molasses, 
Salt,  nutmeg,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  Y2 
teaspoon  each. 

Steam  three  hours  in  greased  tin. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


121 


Sauce  for  Pudding 

1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
1  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
Butter  size  of  an  egg, 
1  cup  water. 
Cook ;  then  add  brandy  to  taste. 

MRS.  WILLIS  N.  POMEROY. 

New  England  Suet  Pudding. 

Mix  1  cup  stoned  raisins,  3y2  cups  flour,  1  cup  chop- 
ped suet,  y2  tsp.  cinnamon,  y2  tsp.  grated  nutmeg  To 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  add  1  cup  molasses,  1  salt  spoon  of  salt, 
1  level  tsp.  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tbsp.  of  milk.  Stir  th3 
liquid  and  dry  ingredients  together;  add  a  well  beaten 
egg  and  pour  the  mixture  into  a  covered  buttered  mold. 
Steam  3  hours. 

Pudding  Sauce. 

1  cup  sugar, 
Butter  size  of  a  walnut, 
1  tbsp.  of  corn  starch, 
1  cup  boiling  water, 
1  tsp.  nutmeg. 

One-half  the  above  recipe  will  do  for  a  small 
family.  ELLA  SMITH  LEWIS. 

Macaroon  Pudding. 

Y2  lb.  stale  macaroons,  rolled  fine,  *4  box  of  granu- 
lated gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very  little  water,  afterwards 
adding  a  very  little  more  of  hot  water  to  dissolve  it,  1  qt. 
of  cream,  whipped,  into  which  put  sugar  and  rolled  maca- 
roons, and  lastly,  the  gelatine.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Serve 
with  cream,  or  without,  as  desired.    Serve  cold. 

This  is  enough  for  ten  persons. 

MRS.  W.  S  DEWING. 


122 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


Nut  Pudding. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  finely  chopped  pecan  nuts* 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  beaten  well,  with  1  cup  of  sugar.  Then 
add  chopped  nuts  and  pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 
and  lastly,  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff.  Bake  slow- 
ly about  20  minutes.    Serve  hot,  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  W.  S.  DEWING. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

2  sqs.  sweet  chocolate,  grated, 
y2  cup  sugar, 
y2  cup  flour. 

Boil  2  cups  of  milk,  and  mix  the  above  in  a  little 
scalded  milk.  Stir  into  boiled  milk.  Serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

MRS.  L.  J.  HALE. 

Fig  Pudding. 

1  cup  molasses, 
1  cup  chopped  suet, 

1  cup  milk, 
314  cups  flour, 

2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
y2  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
1  pint  figs. 

Mix  molasses,  suet,  spices  and  figs,  cut  fine.  Dis- 
solve soda  with  tablespoon  hot  water,  and  mix  with  milk. 
Add  to  other  ingredients.  Beat  eggs  light,  and  stir  into 
mixture.  Add  flour,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Steam  5 
hours.  MRS.  A.  L.  WALDO. 

Fig  Pudding. 

1  pint  bread  crumbs, 
1  cup  of  chopped  suet, 
1  pound  of  chopped  figs, 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


123 


3  eggs, 

Juice  of  1  lemon, 
1  cup  of  sugar, 
Salt  to  taste. 

Steam  three  hours  in  a  buttered  mould,  and  serve 
with  brandy  sauce.         FLORENCE  S.  WATTLES. 

Boiled  Huckleberry  Pudding. 

Measure  %  pt.  of  sifted  flour;  add  to  it  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  y2  salt  spoon  of  salt.  Sift  thoroughly  to 
gether.  -  Stir  a  well  beaten  egg  into  y2  pt.  milk,  and  stir 
this  gradually  into  flour,  making  a  smooth  batter.  Then 
stir  in  iy2  cups  of  berries;  turn  into  a  buttered  mould, 
and  steam,  in  enough  boiling  water  to  partly  cover  the 
mould,  for  1  hour.    Serve  with  hard  or  liquid  sauce. 

MRS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 

Gup  Puffs. 

Batter: — One-half  cup  white  sugar,  y2  cup  milk,  2 
eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  flour 
enough  so  the  batter  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Butter 
teacups  and  put  1  tablespoon  of  any  kind  of  fruit  you 
prefer  in  bottom  of  cup,  then  fill  cup  half  full  of  batter. 
Steam  one  hour.  For  sauce,  use  juice  of  fruit. — Taken 
from  the  Old  Book. 

Baiter  Pudding, 

1  cup  milk, 

2  tablespoons  flour, 
2  tablespoons  sugar, 

4  eggs, 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Stir  the  flour  and  butter  together;  put  into  it  the 
milk,  and  cook  8  minutes,  or  until  it  thickens.  Stir  the 
sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs,  together,  take  the  milk  from  the 
fire  and  mix  together,  then  let  it  stand  until  cold.  When 
nearly  dinner-time,  beat  up  the  whites  and  stir  in,  and 
then  cook  20  minutes.  A  mortar  or  liquid  sauce,  which 
ever  is  preferred,  can  be  used. 

MRS.  L.  C.  CHAPIN. 


124 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


Cottage  Pudding. 

1  cupful  of  sugar, 
iy2  cupfuls  of  flour, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
y2  cupful  of  milk, 

2  eggs,  beaten  separately, 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Brandy  or  wine  sauce.  S.  B.  K. 

Orange  Float. 

1  qt.  boiling  water, 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch, 
1  teacup  of  sugar. 

Put  the  sugar  in  the  water,  dissolve  the  corn  starch 
in  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  all  together.  When  cold, 
add  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Take  one  dozen  oranges,  peel  and  cut  into  small  pieces, 
taking  all  the  seeds  out;  put  sugar  over  them,  let  them 
stand  a  little  while,  then  put  in  the  corn  starch.  Beat  the 
whites  of  3  eggs  with  a  little  sugar,  and  pour  over  the 
top.  MRS.  O.  B.  FLAGG. 

Orange  Fritters. 

Make  a  batter  of  a  cup  of  flour,  2  eggs  and  milk 
enough  to  make  it  of  proper  consistency;  peel  6  oranges, 
slice  them,  and  mix  with  the  batter.  Fry  in  hot  lard  to  a 
delicate  brown.  Serve  with  powdered  sugar  and  sherry 
wine.  BESSIE  L.  DUDGEON. 

Buckeye  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  chopped  raisins, 
iy2  cups  of  molasses, 
1  cup  of  warm  water, 
2V2  cups  of  flour, 
1  dessertspoonful  of  soda, 
The  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Steam  for  2  hours. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


125 


Sauce. 

L  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
y2  cup  of  butter, 

1  tsp.  of  hot  water  in  butter  and  sugar, 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  and  added  just  before 

serving. 

Half  of  the  above  is  enough  for  six  persons. 

MRS.  ALBERT  SHELMIRE. 

Cottage  Pudding. 

Butter  size  of  black  walnut 
1  egg, 

1  tablespoon  sugar, 
y2  cup  milk, 

Flour  like  cake  dough, 
Heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Butter  cups,  and  put  in  1  tablespoon  canned  rasp- 
berries; add  dough,  and  steam  20  minutes;  serve  with 
raspberrv  sauce. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 

Tapioca  Cream. 

Soak  3  tablespoons  of  tapioca  over  night,  put  it  in  fi 
quart  of  boiling  milk.  Cook  y2  hour.  Beat  yolks  of  i 
eggs  with  1  cup  of  sugar,  add  3  tablespoons  of  prepared 
cocoanut ;  stir  in  and  boil  10  minutes  longer.  Pour  into 
pudding  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
with  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  added ;  pour  this  over  the  top, 
then  sprinkle  cocoanut  over  all.    Set  in  oven  to  brown. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 

Broicn  Betty 

2  cups  chopped  apples, 
iy2  cups  bread  crumbs, 
%  cup  sugar, 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
Put  together  in  layers.    Dot  top  with  bits  of  butter. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  without. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 


126 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


A  Simple  Apple  Pudding. 

Pare  and  slice,  thin,  enough  tart  cooking  apples  to 
make  an  inch  layer  in  a  granite  pie  pan.  Sift  together 
1Y2  cups  flour,  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Rub  into  this  1  tablespoon  lard  and  ^2 
tablespoon  butter.  Mix  to  a  stiff  batter,  with  sweet  milk, 
and  spread  over  apples.  Bake  until  apples  are  soft  and 
turn  out  on  a  plate,  with  apple  on  top.  Sprinkle  thick 
with  sugar,  and  serve  either  with  cream  or  a  boiled  sauce. 

MRS.  E.  A.  BALYEAT. 

A  Delicate  Dessert. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  minute  tapioca,  cooked  with  1 
qt.  of  water,  and  a  little  salt,  in  a  double  boiler  for  15 
minutes.  Prepare  3  large  apples  as  for  apple  sauce,  and 
cover  with  y2  cup  of  sugar.  Pour  cooked  tapioca  over 
apples,  and  bake  until  apples  are  tender.  Serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream.  MRS.  J.  A.  NEWELL. 

Rice  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  heated,  in  double  boiler.  Stir  into 
it  2-3  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  yolks  of  2  eggs,  into  which 
have  been  beaten  two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch.  Boil 
this  until  it  thickens,  and  stir  in  2  squares  of  chocolate. 
The  last  thing  add  a  cupful  of  rice,  which  has  been 
cooked,  and  is  still  hot.  Beat  this  in;  pour  into  a  baking 
dish,  make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  brown  in 
the  oven  or  turn  into  custard  cups  and  serve  cold. 

MRS.  F.  W.  RUSSELL. 

Straivberry  Chortcake. 

I  have  used  several  recipes  for  short  cake,  but  find 
this  the  very  best  of  all. 

Sift  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  a 
little  salt  with  three  cups  of  flour.  Rub  a  large  table 
spoon  of  butter  in.  Mix  with  milk,  with  a  fork,  until 
soft  enough  to  drop  from  a  spoon.  Spread  equally  in  two 
jelly  cake  pans,  baking  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  quick 
oven.    Spread  each  layer  with  butter.    Have  ready  two 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


127 


quarts  of  berries,  part  of  them  having  been  plentifully 
sugared  two  hours  before.  Put  these  on  the  lower  cake 
and  the  finer  ones  on  top.  Set  in  oven,  and  just  before 
serving,  pour  the  syrup  that  has  formed  over  the  top. 
Serve  with  or  without  cream.  It  is  very  easily  made  and 
delicious.  MRS.  GEORGE  F.  KIDDER. 

Fig  Pudding. 

Y2  cup  graham  flour,  wet  with  cold  water, 

1  pint  boiling  water, 

Cook  until  thick, 

y2  pound  chopped  nuts, 

y2  pound  chopped  figs, 

1  cup  sugar, 

Cook  all  together, 

Put  into  cup  and  mould, 

Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 

Apple  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  flour, 

Y2  cup  sugar, 
y2  cup  milk, 

2  spoons  melted  butter, 
1  egg, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Turn  this  batter  over  sliced  apples,  and  bake  1  hour. 
Serve  with  cream. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 

Suet  Pudding. 

2y2  cups  bread  crumbs, 

y2  cup  suet, 

y2  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  raisins,  (chopped), 

1  egg, 

Half  teaspoonful  cloves, 


128 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


Half  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
Salt  spoon  of  salt. 
Steam  two  hours  in  a  tin  pudding  dish.    Serve  with 
wine  sauce.  MRS.  GEORGE  McDOXALD. 

Kentucky  Plum  Pudding. 

3  lbs.  raisins, 

1  lb.  currants, 

Y2  lb.  citron, 

%  lb.  suet, 

A  pinch  of  salt, 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 

iy2  lbs.  stale  bread, 

1  lb.  brown  sugar, 

%  lb.  chopped  apples, 

8  eggs, 

1  qt.  milk, 

2  grated  nutmegs. 

Pour  the  hot  milk  on  bread  crumbs,  then  add  suet  ; 
when  that  is  cool  enough  not  to  curdle,  or  cook,  put  in 
eggs;  then  the  other  ingredients.    Steam  four  hours. 

CAROLYN  F.  EDWARDS. 

Washington  Pudding. 

2  cups  flour, 
1  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  milk, 

2  teaspoons  cloves, 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 
y2  teaspoon  salt, 

2  eggs, 

Steam  two  hours. 

Sauce. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs. 

Pulverized  sugar  to  thicken, 

Wine  to  taste. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


129 


Add  whites,  well  whipped,  just  before  serving. 

(Half  the  quantities  given  in  the  pudding  recipe  is 
^enough  for  a  small  familv,  but  it  must  steam  two  hours 
just  the  same.)  MRS.  CHARLES  A.  PECK. 

Plum  Charlotte. 

Take  slices  of  bread — either  baker's  or  home  made — 
cut  off  the  crust,  and  butter  on  both  sides.  Have  a  can  of 
plums  heated  (tart  red  or  purple  plums  are  best),  put  a 
layer  of  fruit  in  a  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  bread,  un- 
til the  dish  is  filled.  Put  it  into  the  oven  for  five  minutes, 
till  it  gets  heated  through,  then  cover  with  a  plate,  and  put 
a  weight  on  it.  Eat  cold,  with  cream  and  sugar.  It 
needs  plenty  of  juice  to  saturate  the  bread. 

MRS.  T.  P.  SHELDON. 

Suet  Pudding. 

1  cup  suet,  chopped  fine, 

1  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  raisins, 

1  cup  sweet  milk, 

4  cups  sifted  flour, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

1  teaspoon  cloves, 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

Steam  three  hours.  Sour  milk  can  be  used  by 
omitting  the  cream  of  tartar.        MRS.  F.  E.  HULL. 

Fritters. 

1  pint  sweet  milk, 
4  eggs, 

1  quart  flour, 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  sifted  in  flour. 
Serve  warm,  with  maple  sugar. 

MRS.  EDDY. 


6 


130 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


Cream  Puffs. 

Melt  y2  cup  of  butter  in  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  and 
beat  in  1  cup  of  flour.  Then  remove  from  stove,  and  when 
cool  add  3  eggs — one  at  a  time — without  beating.  Drop 
on  tins  quickly  and  bake  about  25  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  For  the  cream :.. One-half  pint  of  milk,  1  egg,  i 
teaspoons  of  sugar,  2  large  tablespoons  of  flour ;  boil  and 
flavor  with  lemon.  When  puffs  are  done,  open  with  a 
sharp  knife  and  fill  with  the  cream. 

MRS.  EDWIN  DeYOE. 

Pudding  Sauce. 

1  large  tablespoon  butter, 
1  teacup  sugar, 

1  tablespoonful  boiling  water. 
Beat  well  together  the  yolk  of  1  egg.  the  white  beaten 
to  a  froth,  and  put  in  last ;  as  it  goes  to  the  table  add  wine. 

MRS.  GEORGE  F.  KIDDER. 

Pudding  Sauce. 

One  egg  beaten  5  minutes.  Beat  w^ith  1  cup  of  sugar 
5  minutes  more;  add  2  tbsp.  boiling  water,  just  before 
serving.  The  secret  of  the  sauce  is  to  beat  it ;  20  minutes 
is  not^too  long.  CHRISTINA  L.  BURNS. 

Fine  Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  cream, 

1  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 

1  egg, 

Whiskev  or  brandv  to  taste. 
Cream  the  butter  till  light;  add  the  sugar,  then  break 
an  egg  over  it  and  mix  thoroughly.    Put  the  sauce  in  a 
bowl  and  set  in  hot  water.    Stir  till  it  melts,  add  the 
whiskey  and  serve 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS 


131 


Hard  Sauce. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
1  cup  sifted  powdered  sugar, 
White  of  1  egg, 

1-  3  teaspoonful  lemon  extract, 

2-  3  teaspoonful  vanilla, 
Little  nutmeg. 

Cream  butter  ;  add  sugar,  and  beaten  white  of  egg. 
Pile  lightly  on  a  dish,  and  sprinkle  with  nutmeg. 

ROSE  B.  NISBET. 

Pudding  Sauce. 
Yolk  of  1  egg, 

1  tablespoon  butter  and  1  teacup  sugar,  creamed 

together 

Beat  the  egg,  and  add  to  the  creamed  butter  and 
sugar.  Add  two  large  spoons  of  boiling  water.  Set  on 
the  stove  and  stir  constantly  until  it  just  boils.  Flavor 
with  vanilla,  sherrv  wine  or  brandy. 

MRS.  L.  B.  HEARD. 

.Strawberry  Sauce  for  Steamed  Sponge  Puddings. 

Small  tablespoon  butter, 
%  cup  sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream. 
Add  %  cup  strawberry  syrup,  or  same  amount  of 
fresh  crushed  berries;  beat  up  light,  and  just  before  serv 
ing,  add  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES. 


Almond  Charlotte. 

Soak  half  a  package  of  gelatine  in  half  a  cup  of  cold 
water  two  hours.  Blanch  one  cup  of  almond  meats,  and 
chop  them  fine.  Put  three  large  spoonfuls  of  granulated 
sugar  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  melted 
put  in  the  nut  meats,  and  stir  until  they  become  slightly 
browned;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  the  meats  are 
cold,  roll  fine.  Put  in  a  double  boiler  one  and  one-half 
nips  of  milk  and  the  rolled  meats,  and  place  over  the  fire. 

Beat  light  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  add  to  them, 
three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  Draw  the  boiling  milk 
to  one  side  of  the  fire,  and  gradually  stir  in  the  egg  mix 
ture.  Put  in  the  soaked  gelatine,  and  stir  a  few  mo- 
ments ;  remove  quickly  from  the  range,  and  stand  the  dish 
in  a  pan  of  ice  water.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
almond,  and  beat  the  mixture  until  it  begins  to  thicken; 
then  add  two  quarts  of  whipped  cream,  and  stir  until  it 
is  so  thick  it  cannot  settle.  Turn  into  moulds,  and  set  it 
awav  in  a  cool  place  to  become  firm. 

ELIZABETH  HOLTEXHOUSE. 

Caramel  Pudding. 

1  quart  of  milk, 

1  cup  of  dark  brown  sugar, 

4  level  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch, 

A  little  salt, 

Small  piece  of  butter, 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Put  sugar  in  iron  spider,  and  let  it  brown,  stir- 
ring all  of  the  time;  add  milk  hot,  and  stir  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved ;  then  add  corn  starch,  dissolved  in  cold 
milk,  butter,  salt;  add  vanilla  after  it  is  removed  from 
stove.    Eat  with  cream  cold. 

BESSIE  L.  NEWELL. 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES 


133 


Caramel  Cup  Custard. 

Beat  up  5  eggs,  add  %  CUP  granulated  sugar  and  1 
qt.  new  milk.  In  a  small  frying  pan  stir  2-3  of  a  cup  of 
granulated  sugar  until  it  becomes  liquid,  and  just  begins 
to  smoke.  Pour  this  into  custard  cups.  Then  on  top 
pour  the  custard  mixture.  Set  cups,  in  a  moderate  oven 
in  a  shallow  pan  half  filled  with  hot  water.  In  about  20 
minutes,  try  them  Avith  the  handle  of  a  teaspoon,  to  see  if 
they  are  firm.  Turn  out  of  the  cups  onto  sauce  dishes 
when  cool.  The  melted  sugar  will  form  a  caramel  sauce 
over  the  custard. 

MRS.  ROBERT  T.  VAN  DEUSEN. 

Caramel  Pudding. 

One-half  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  browned  until  a 
coffee  color;  into  this  pour  one  quart  of  hot  milk  and  two 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar;  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn  starch  in  milk,  and  boil  until  it  becomes  a  thick 
custard.  When  almost  cold,  stir  in  one  cupful,  each,  of 
raisins  and  nuts.    Chill  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

ELIZABETH  HOLTENHOUSE. 

Custard  With  Caromel  Sauce. 

1  pint  milk, 

2  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  sugar, 

A  few  slices  of  lemon  peel. 
Boil  the  milk  with  the  lemon  peel  in  double  boiler, 
while  you  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Add  the 
boiling  milk  slowly,  and  turn  into  baking  cups  which 
have  been  buttered  and  sugared.  Set  the  cups  in  a  tin  of 
water,  and  bake  40  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

Sauce. 

Boil  y2  cup  water,  y2  cup  sugar,  some  pieces  of  lemon 
peel,  2  cloves  and  1  inch  piece  of  cinnamon  for  ten  min 
utes.    Put  2  tablespoons  sugar  in  a  sheet  iron  sauce  pan, 


134 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES 


with  1  table  spoon  water.  Stir  until  very  dark  brown, 
then  add  to  above  mixture,  stirring  until  well  mixed. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

French  Charlotte. 

Soak  14  box  pulverized  gelatine  one  hour,  then  set 
over  boiling  water  to  dissolve.  Scald  1  cup  of  milk,  add 
to  it  1  cup  granulated  sugar  and  1  beaten  egg,  stirring  ali 
the  time.  Add  gelatine  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  set* 
aside  to  cool.  Whip  1  pint  cream,  and  add  to  the  cooled 
custard;  turn  into  mould  that  has  been  wet  with  cold 
water,  and  when  nearly  set,  put  in,  one  at  a  time,  one-half 
cup  English  walnut  meats.  Should  be  made  the  day 
before  using.    Delicious  dessert. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 

Rice  Blanc  Mange. 

Pick  over  and  wash  a  scant  half  cupful  of  rice;  put 
in  double  boiler  with  3  cups  of  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt; 
cook  until  very  soft,  then,  add  two  rather  scant  table- 
spoons of  granulated  gelatine,  which  has  been  soaked  in 
four  tablespoons  of  cold  water;  stir  gently,  and  add  good 
Y2  cup  powdered  sugar.  Set  aside  until  cold,  and  begin- 
ning to  thicken;  then  add  14  cup  of  sherry,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  1  cup  cream,  whipped  stiff.  Turn  into  wetted 
moulds  until  firm.  When  ready  to  serve,  unmould  and 
garnish  with  candied  cherries.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  MRS.  WM.  E.  HILL. 

Chocolate  8  outfit- 

3  oz.  chocolate, 

4  tbsp.  of  sugar, 

2  rounded  tbsp.  flour, 

Whites  of  4  eggs, 

1  rounding  tbsp.  butter. 
Melt  butter  in  small  sauce  pan.    Stir  into  it  the  flour, 
and  let  it  cook  a  minute,  but  not  brown.    Then  add  slowly 
the  milk.    Stir  until  smooth  and  a  little  thickened;  re- 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES 


135 


move  from  fire  and  turn  it  slowly  onto  the  yolks  am! 
sugar,  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  cream.  Mix  thoroughly, 
and  add  the  melted  chocolate.  Stir  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  set  away  to  cool.  Rub  a  little  butter  over  the  top,  so 
a  crust  wrill  not  form.  When  ready  to  serve,  stir  the 
mixture  well  to  make  it  smooth,  and  fold  into  it  lightly 
the  whites  of  eggs,  which  have  been  whipped  until  very 
dry  and  firm.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  tin,  lined 
with  a  strip  of  greased  paper,  which  rises  above  the  sides 
to  confine  the  souffle  as  it  rises.  Cover  the  sauce  pan, 
and  steam  for  30  minutes.  Do  not  raise  cover  from  the 
time  it  commences  to  steam  until  ready  for  table.  Place 
tin  on  hot  dish,  and  serve  at  once,  with  plain  cream. 

MES.  W.  H.  BROWN. 

Chocolate  Charlotte  Russe. 

1  pint  cream, 

Y2  cup  sugar, 

4  eggs,  beaten  separately, 

y2  box  gelatine,  (Cox), 

3  tbsp.  grated  chocolate. 
Put  cream  in  hot  water  till  it  is  thick.    Add  sugar 
gelatine  and  chocolate.    Cook  till  dissolved,  then  pour 
over  yolks  of  eggs,  and  cook  5  minutes.    Remove  from  fire, 
and  pour  over  beaten  whites  and  lady-fingers  in  a  dish. 

PAULINE  DAVIS. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

1  pt.  sweet  cream,  sweetened  to  taste, 

1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

2  tablespoons  brandy,  whipped  until  thick. 
Dissolve  14  00x  ^ox's  gelatine  in  very  little  water, 

and  stir  in  cream  quickly.  Line  a  bread  tin  with  lady 
fingers,  and  pour  in  the  charlotte.  Before  serving,  turn 
out  onto  platter. 

MARY  E.  VANDE  WALKER. 


136 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES 


Bavarian  Cream. 

1  pt.  milk, 

Yolks  4  eggs,  well  beaten, 
y2  cup  sugar, 

y2  box  Cox's  gelatine,  (scant  measure). 
Mix  all  together  and  cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring 
constantly  until  gelatine  is  dissolved.    Strain  through  a 
sieve,  and  when  nearly  cold,  stir  in  1  pt.  of  whipped  cream. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  MRS.  W.  S.  DEWING.. 

Ginger  Cream. 

Soak  y2  box  gelatine  in  y2  cup  cold  water  20  minutes. 
Boil  1  pt.  milk;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  y2  cup 
sugar  and  y2  tsp  salt.  Cook  until  it  thickens  like 
custard.  Add  gelatine ;  strain  into  pan.  Add  1  tbsp.  each 
of  wine,  brandy  and  quarter  of  a  cup  ginger  syrup,  and  y± 
lb.  ginger,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Set  on  ice.  When 
quite  thick,  add  1  pt.  whipped  cream,  then  mould. 

MRS.  J.  H.  BROWN. 

Figs  a  la  Creme. 

Take  the  best  figs,  and  steam  15  minutes.  Cut  open 
and  fill  with  apricot  jam  and  chopped  English  walnuts 
Close  again,  roll  in  powdered  sugar,  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream.  MRS.  W.  S.  DEWING. 

Wine  Jelly. 

One  package  Cox's  gelatine.  Add  juice  of  3  lemons 
and  rind  of  one.  Pour  over  1  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let 
stand  an  hour.  Then  add  2y2  pints  boiling  water,  1  pint 
wine,  2  lbs.  white  sugar,  and  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon. 
Boil  up,  once,  and  strain  through  old  linen. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Sherry  Cream. 
1  cup  sherry  wine, 

y^  cup  gelatine,  dissolved  in  14  CUP  water. 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES 


1ST 


%  cup  confectioner's  sugar. 
Dissolve  gelatine ;  add  sugar  and  wine.    Strain.  Add 
2  cups  whipped  cream.    Pour  into  mould  previously  wer 
in  cold  water.  MRS.  FRANK  BUSH. 

Apple  Snow. 

Pare,  core  and  steam  until  done,  six  large  tart  apples. 
Cool,  strain  and  beat  well,  sweeten  to  taste,  then  add  the 
whipped  whites  of  four  eggs.  Beat  together  until  a  dish 
of  snow  is  the  result.  Flavor  with  a  little  lemon  or 
vanilla.    Serve  with  cream. 

MRS.  L.  B.  HEARD. 

Manioca  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  3  tablespoons  of  manioca, 
put  in  the  milk  when  it  is  cooking.  When  boiled,  add 
4  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  beaten 
with  the  sugar.  Remove  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  it  thick 
ens.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  turn  into  a  pudding  dish,  and 
cover  with  a  meringue,  made  of  the  three  whites  of  the 
eggs,  and  a  little  powdered  sugar.  Brown  delicately  in 
the  oven,  and  serve  cold,  with  cream. 

MRS.  L.  B.  HEARD. 
Marmalade  Pudding. 

3  eggs, 

1  big  coffee  cup  of  flour, 

1  small  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
Butter  the  size  of  2  eggs, 

2  large  tbsp.  of  orange  marmalade, 

y2  even  tsp.  of  soda,  dissolved  in  3  tsp.  of  milk. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  marmalade, 
then  the  well  beaten  eggs,  the  flour  and  then,  the  soda 
Steam  2  hours  in  a  covered  tin  mold.    Wine  sauce. 

MRS.  ROBERT  BURNS. 


138 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES 


Stuffed  Peaches  (for  Dessert). 

Peel  %  pk.  of  large  sized  peaches,  remove  stones  with 
tin  teaspoon.  Fill  with  1  lb.  chopped  English  walnuts,  1 
lb.  chopped  figs,  1  lb.  chopped  raisins,  mixed  together. 
Make  very  rich  syrup  of  brown  sugar  and  water  (about 
1  gal.)  ,  and  add  enough  good  vinegar  to  flavor  well.  Care 
fully  boil  prepared  peaches  in  syrup  until  clear,  then  put 
in  mason  jars  as  you  do  for  canned  peaches.  Serve  indi- 
vidually with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  HARRY  C.  HOWARD. 

Prunes  in  Jelly. 

Soak  2  heaping  dessert  spoonfuls  of  granulated  gela- 
tine in  1  cup  of  cold  water  1  hour.  Add  1  cup  of  boiling 
w^ater,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  white  wine  or  sherry,  and 
the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Cut  12  cooked  prunes  in  quarters. 
Have  ready  a  mould  set  in  cold  water.  Strain  into  it, 
enough  jelly  to  make  about  1  inch  in  thickness;  let  this 
harden ;  add  prunes  at  equal  distances  apart,  then  a  sec 
ond  layer  of  jelly.  When  that  has  hardened,  repeat  until 
the  mould  is  filled.    Serve  with  whipped  cream, 

MRS.  W.  S.  DEWING. 

Lemon  Fruit  Jelly. 

One  half  box  gelatine,  soaked  for  one-half  hour,  in 
one-half  cup  cold  water.  Pour  two  and  one-half  cups 
boiling  water  over  gelatine,  add  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
lemon  juice  and  one  and  a  quarter  cups  sugar.  Put  mold 
on  ice;  add  four  tablespoons  of  the  liquid.  Let  it  stand 
until  it  begins  to  form,  then  add  a  few  slices  of  bananas, 
walnut  meats,  cherries;  add  liquid  and  fruit  alternately 
until  mold  is  filled.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 

Prune  Whij). 

One  pound  best  California  prunes,  washed  well  and 
soaked  over  night.    In  morning,  cook  in  same  water  in 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AM)  ICES 


139 


which  they  were  soaked,  with  iy2  cups  sugar.  When 
thoroughly  soft,  take  out  pits  and  put  pulp  through  a 
sieve.  An  hour  before  serving,  beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
to  stiff  froth,  and  beat  into  the  prunes.  Serve  very  cold 
with  whipped  cream.  M.  H.  P. 

Coffee  Jelly. 

Soak  one-half  box  gelatine  in  y2  pint  cold  water  for 
an  hour.  Then,  add  one  generous  pint  of  strong  coffee, 
boiling  hot,  and  y2  pint  sugar.  Strain  through  old  linen. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

To  make  the  coffee,  take  6  tablespoons  coffee  to  iy2 
pint  water.  MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Coffee  Mousse. 

Dissolve  y2  box  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  milk,  (about 
half  a  cupful),  for  an  hour,  or  until  thoroughly  dissolved; 
add  one-half  pint  strong  coffee,  boiling  hot,  and  sweeten 
to  taste.  Strain  through  old  linen  into  a  cake  bowl. 
When  it  begins  to  stiffen,  beat  it  up  with  egg  beater  till 
it  becomes  a  froth,  then  add  a  pint  of  cream,  whipped. 
Mix  thoroughly,  mold  and  set  on  ice.  Serve  plain  or  with 
whipped  cream.  MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Maple  Paffait  for  Two. 

2  eggs, 

y2  pint  cream,  to  whip, 
y2  cup  maple  syrup. 
Beat  eggs  well,  and  add  syrup;  put  in  double  boiler, 
and  cook,  until  it  makes  a  thick  coating  on  spoon.  Turn 
into  a  bowl,  and  beat  until  cold.  Whip  the  cream,  and 
mix  with  egg  mixture.  Put  in  mold  and  set  where  cold 
for  3  or  4  hours.  In  winter,  set  in  snow ;  in  summer,  pack 
in  ice  and  salt.  MRS.  A.  E.  KETTLE. 

Angel  Charlotte  Basse. 

1  tbsp.  Knox  gelatine, 
y±  cup  cold  water, 


540 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES 


414  cups  boiling  water, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  pt.  thick  cream,  y2  doz.  rolled  stale 
macaroons,  1  doz.  marshmallows,  cut  in  small  pieces, 

2  tbsp.  chopped  candied  cherries. 

y±  lb.  blanched  and  chopped  almonds. 
Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water ;  dissolve  in  boiling  water, 
and  add  sugar.    When  mixture  is  cold,  add  cream,  beaten 
stiff,  then  macaroons,  marshmallows,  almonds  and  cher 
ries.    Flavor  with  a  little  sherry.    Turn  in  molds  and  let 
stand  in  cold.  MRS.  A.  E.  KETTLE. 

Maple  Mousse. 

4  eggs, 

1  cup  maple  syrup, 
1  pt.  of  thick  sweet  cream. 
Put  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  syrup,  in  a  basin ; 
-stir  together,  and  set  basin  on  the  stove.  Stir  continually 
until  it  thickens.  Remove  and  let  it  cool.  Whip  cream 
until  stiff.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  and  stir  them  into 
the  cream.  Turn  syrup  into  this.  Beat  thoroughly,  and 
pour  into  a  freezer  or  mold.  Pack  with  ice.  Stir  the 
mixture  with  a  spoon  a  few  times.  Cover  and  let  stand 
four  hours.  MRS.  W.  S.  DEWING. 

Tan  ilia  Ice  Cream. 
1  qt.  cream, 

iy2  cups  granulated  sugar, 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Whip  cream;  beat  into  cream  the  sugar,  and  then 
add  the  vanilla,  and  freeze  in  freezer.  Or,  put  mixture  in 
a  two-quart  mold.    Pack  mold  in  cracked  ice  and  salt,  and 
leave  for  four  hours. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

1  quart  of  cream. 
1  quart  of  strawberries, 
1  pint  of  granulated  sugar. 
Mash  the  sugar  and  strawberries  together,  and  let 
stand  for  an  hour.    Whip  the  cream ;  add  the  strawberry 
mixture ;  put  all  in  a  freezer  and  freeze. 

WINIFRED  S.  CLARK. 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES  141 

Lemon  Ice. 

2  small  cups  granulated  sugar, 
Juice  of  3  lemons,  squeezed  into  the  sugar, 
Stir  well.    When  ready  to  turn  into  the  freezer,  add 
1  quart  of  morning's  milk. 

MRS.  W.  S.  DEWING. 

Orange  Water  Ice. 

The  juice  of  12  oranges  to  1  gallon  of  water, 
Sugar  to  taste. 
Take  1  pint  boiling  water,  pour  on  pulp  and  skin  and 
let  remain  until  juice  is  extracted. 

F.  C.  VAN  WYCK 

A  Delicious  Sherbet. 

Mix  together,  1  pint  of  milk, 
1  pint  of  sugar, 
1  pint  water, 

1  pint  canned  apricots,  rubbed  through  a  sieve, 
(Peaches  may  be  used  instead  of  apricots). 
Freeze.  F.  C.  Y.  W. 

Frozen  Pudding. 

Whip  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth ;  add  a 
ismall  half  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  mix  well.  Add 
to  this  a  pint  of  cream,  which  has  been  thoroughly 
whipped.  Divide  this  into  two  parts ;  to  one  portion,  add 
chopped  candied  fruits  and  nuts,  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 
To  the  other  portion,  add  one  sq.  of  Baker's  chocolate, 
which  has  been  melted  and  cooled.  Fill  a  mold  half  full 
of  one  kind,  and  add  the  other.  Pack  in  a  pail  with 
chopped  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 

Cranberry  Frappe. 

Roil  one  quart  of  cranberries  in  one  pint  of  water  five 
or  six  minutes ;  strain  through  a  cloth.    Add  one  pint  of 


142 


DESSERTS,  CREAMS  AND  ICES 


sugar  ;  stir  and  boil  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  When 
cold,  add  the  strained  juice  of  two  lemons.  Freeze  to  a 
inush.  MBS.  CHAS.  BUSH. 

Stratvberry  Bavarian  Cream. 

1  quart  of  strawberries, 

1  pint  of  cream, 

1  large  cupful  of  sugar, 

%  cupful  of  boiling  water, 

V-2  cupful  of  cold  water, 

y2  package  of  gelatine. 
Soak  the  gelatine  two  hours  in  the  cold  water.  Mash 
the  berries  and  sugar  together,  and  let  them  stand  one- 
hour.  Whip  the  cream  to  a  froth;  strain  the  juice  from 
the  berries,  pressing  through  as  much  as  possible  without 
the  seeds.  Pour  hot  water  on  the  gelatine,  and  when  dis- 
solved, strain  it  into  the  strawberry  juice.  Place  the 
basin,  (which  should  be  tin),  in  a  pan  of  ice  water  and 
beat  until  the  cream  begins  to  thicken.  When  as  thick  as 
soft  custard,  stir  in  the  whipped  cream,  and  when  this  is 
well  mixed,  turn  into  the  mold  (it  will  make  nearly  two 
quarts),  and  set  away  to  harden.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  heaped  around  it,  or,  if  the  border  mold  is  used, 
have  the  cream  in  the  center.  Canned  strawberries  may 
be  used  in  the  same  wav. 

ELIZABETH  W.  PBATT. 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES. 


Razzle  Dazzle. 

2  qts.  red  raspberries, 

2  qts.  red  currants, 

2  qts.  red  cherries, 

1  qt.  green  gooseberries. 

To  every  lb.  of  fruit,  %  lb.  sugar. 
Pit  cherries,  and  stem  currants.  Put  gooseberries  in 
kettle  first,  then  cherries,  currants  and  raspberries.  Boil 
all  together  10  minutes,  then  add  sugar,  and  boil  to  the 
consistency  of  jelly.  Cooking  too  long  makes  it  dark. 
Put  in  glasses  or  pt.  Mason  jars.  MRS,  A.  E.  C. 

Cherry  Conserve. 

5  lbs.  pitted  cherries, 
5  lbs.  sugar, 

21/2  lbs.  of  seeded  raisins, 

4  oranges, 
1  lemon. 

Use  all  the  orange  and  lemon ;  chop  the  rind  very  fine, 
and  boil  all  together,  good,  for  one  hour. 

MRS.  JAMES  H.  MILLS. 

Ginger  Pear. 

8  lbs.  of  pear  rinds  and  juice  of  four  lemons, 
1  60c  jar  of  preserved  ginger, 
8  lbs.  sugar. 

Chop  all  fine,  mix  with  sugar,  and  boil  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 

Spiced  Gooseberries. 

5  lbs.  of  fruit,  with  the  stem  and  blossoms  cut  off, 
4  lbs.  sugar, 

1  pt.  vinegar, 


144 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


2  tablespoons  of  cinnamon. 

Boil  two  hours.    Watch  carefully  the  last  hour. 

FRANCES  C.  VAN  WYCK. 

Spiced  Tomatoes. 

12  lbs.  of  tomatoes, 
4  pounds  of  sugar, 

1  quart  of  vinegar. 

Peel  tomatoes  and  let  them  stand  over  night  in  the 
sugar  and  vinegar  ;  in  the  morning,  add  1  tablespoon 
each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves  in  a  bag,  and  boil  down 
slowly  until  they  are  thick.  M.  H.  DeYOE. 

Tomato  Marmalade. 

6  -lbs.  ripe  tomatoes, 

3  lbs.  of  sugar, 

3  lemons,  juice,  peel  and  pulp  and  chop  fine, 

2  oz.  white  ginger  root,  broken  in  small  pieces. 
Cook  slowly  until  thick.    Cut  out  the  hard  center  of 

tomato,  and  remove  the  skin  before  weighing. 

MRS.  F.  W.  MYERS. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

One  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Pare  the 
oranges  then,  and  take  2-3  of  the  rinds  and  boil  in  three 
waters  until  tender.  Pare  all  the  thick  white  from  the 
oranges  that  can  be  taken  off.  Quarter,  remove  seeds, 
and  chop  or  cut  into  small  pieces.  Drain  over  the  sugar 
all  the  juice  that  will  come  out  without  pressing.  Heat 
this  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  and  skim  for 
five  minutes;  put  in  the  skin  and  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Add  the  fruit  and  boil  20  minutes  more.  When  cold,  put 
in  jellv  glasses.    Shred  or  chop  the  skin  very  fine. 

MRS.  GEORGE  McDONALD. 

Grape  Marmalade. 

Heat  grapes;  strain  to  remove  seeds  and  skins.  To 
4  pints  of  juice,  add  3  pounds  sugar,  and  2  pounds  raisins. 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


145 


Boil  until  it  becomes  like  marmalade.  Just  before  re- 
moving from  the  fire,  add  1  pound  English  walnut  meats, 
which  have  had  boiling  water  poured  over  them. 

MRS.  EUGENE  COOK. 

Quince  Marmalade. 

Pear,  core  and  slice  quinces,  stewing  the  skins,  cores 
and  seeds  in  a  vessel  by  themselves,  with  just  enough 
water  to  cover  them.  When  this  has  simmered  long 
enough  to  extract  all  the  flavor,  and  the  parings  are 
broken  in  pieces,  strain  off  the  water  through  a  thick 
cloth.  Put  the  quinces  into  a  preserving  kettle.  When 
this  water  is  almost  cold,  pour  it  over  them  and  boil, 
stirring  and  mashing  the  fruit  with  a  wooden  spoon  as  it 
becomes  soft.  The  juice  of  2  oranges  to  every  3  lbs.  of 
fruit  imparts  an  agreeable  flavor.  Put  in  through  a  sieve 
to  have  it  fine.  When  you  have  reduced  all  to  a  smooth 
paste,  stir  in  a  scant  %  lb.  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of 
fruit;  boil  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  constantly.  Put  in 
glasses,  with  brandied  paper  over  them. 

MRS.  A.  K.  EDWARDS. 

Preserved  Figs. 

Three  lbs.  of  figs.  Cover  with  water  and  boil  until 
tender,  then  drain  off  the  water.  Make  a  thick  syrup  of 
granulated  sugar,  with  whole  cloves,  stick  cinnamon  and 
vinegar  to  taste.  Pour  over  the  figs  boiling  hot.  Serve 
cold.    Very  nice  served  with  ice  cream. 

MRS.  C.  W.  DEWING. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Put  currants  over  the  fire  with  a  little  water.  Lei 
come  to  boil;  strain;  measure  a  pint  of  juice  and  a  pint 
and  a  handful  of  sugar.  Boil  exactly  20  minutes.  Tlii.s 
never  fails.  ROSE  B.  NISBET. 


146 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


Steiced  Cranberries 

1  qt.  of  berries, 
1  pt.  of  sugar, 
1  pt.  of  water. 

Currant  Jelly.    'Never  Falls. 

Wash  and  weigh  your  currants,  leaving  them  on  the 
stems.  Then  crush  the  currants,  and  put  into  the  preserv 
ing  kettle  with  one  pint  of  cold  water.  When  they  begin 
to  boil,  let  them  boil  at  least  twenty  minutes,  stirring 
them  so  they  won't  burn.  Let  drain  over  night.  In  the 
morning,  pour  the  juice  into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  ler 
it  boil  thoroughly  for  three  or  four  minutes,  then  add  half 
as  many  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  as  you  had  pounds  of 
fruit  when  weighed.  For  instance,  if  you  had  twelve 
pounds  of  fruit,  use  six  pounds  of  sugar,  and  as  soon  as 
sugar  is  dissolved,  pour  into  glasses.  Always  warm  the 
sugar  before  adding  it  to  the  juice. 

MKS.  A.  C.  WOKTLEY. 

Crabapple  Jelly. 

Cut  the  apples  into  quarters,  cover  with  water,  ami 
boil  till  tender.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag  over  night. 
For  1  pt.  of  juice,  take  1  pt.  of  sugar.  Boil  juice  20  min- 
utes, then  add  sugar  which  has  been  heated  in  oven.  Boil 
until  it  begins  to  jelly.    Skim  constantly. 

Quince  and  peach  jelly  can  be  made  same  as  crab 
apple  jelly. 

Gh~ape  Jelly. 

Wash  and  stem  grapes;  place  in  a  kettle  and  cook 
until  the  skins  break  open.  Strain  over  night  in  flannel 
bag,  and  to  1  pt.  of  juice,  add  1  pt.  of  sugar.  Boil  until 
it  begins  to  jelly,  and  pour  in  glasses.  When  hard,  melt 
paraflne  and  pour  enough  in  each  glass  to  form  a  cako 
over  the  jelly.  Cover  over  with  paper,  and  place  in  dark 
closet. 


Corn  Oysters. 
6  ears  grated  corn, 

1  well  beaten  egg,  stirred  in  just  before  frying, 

y2  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  scant  cup  of  sifted  flour. 

Season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  on  pancake 
griddle  in  size  of  large  oysters.  Use  one-half  each,  butter 
and  lard  for  greasing  the  griddle.  Turn  like  griddle  cakes. 
Serve  hot. 

MRS.  J.  W.  PATTERSON. 

Candied  Orange  Peel. 

Take  the  rind  of  6  thick  skinned  oranges;  remove  the 
pulp,  cut  with  shears  into  straws;  put  into  a  two  quart 
glass  jar,  cover  with  water  and  soak  for  four  days,  chang- 
ing the  water  each  day;  then  place  in  a  granite  kettle, 
cover  with  clear  cold  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Make 
a  syrup  of  three  cups  of  sugar,  add  orange  peel,  which  has 
been  drained,  and  let  it  cook  until  the  syrup  almost 
granulates.  Remove  peel  from  syrup,  spread  on  a  platter, 
when  nearly  cool,  roll  in  sugar  and  place  on  wax  paper  to 
dry. 

MRS.  J.  W.  PATTERSON. 

Sweet  Stuffed  Cucumbers. 

Take  24  large,  full  grown  green  cucumbers.  Wash 
and  put  into  a  strong  brine  for  2  or  3  days.    Have  ready 
\y  lbs.  of  seedless  raisins,  cut  in  pieces, 
\y2  lbs.  of  citron,  put  through  the  chopper, 
1     lbs.  of  washed  and  dried  currants, 
1  lb.  of  white  mustard  seed, 
1  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cloves, 
1  of  grated  nutmeg  or  mace. 

Mix  together.  Cut  open  the  cucumbers  on  one  side 
and  with  the  finger  scrape  out  the  seeds,  after  they  have 
been  in  fresh  water  a  day.  Fill  the  cucumbers  with  the 
mixture,  close  and  tie  securely  with  cord  from  end  to  end. 
Have  a  gallon  of  vinegar  in  which  4  lbs.  of  light  brown 
sugar  Has  been  boiled.  Add  the  cucumbers  and  let  them 
boil  till  clear.    Put  into  a  stone  jar  and  pour  over  the 


vinegar — adding  more  if  needed,  in  the  same  proportion. 
Put  a  plate  over  the  top  with  a  heavy  clean  stone  to  keep 
them  under  the  syrup.  Tie  up  closely  and  in  a  few  weeks 
they  will  be  ready  to  eat.    Very  nice. 

MRS.  ALLAN  M.  STEARNS. 

Butternut  Pickles. 

Gather  the  green  butternuts  soon  after  the  first  of 
July,  or  when  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  needle.  They 
must  not  be  too  hard  and  yet  if  too  young  will  go  to  pieces. 
Pierce  each  with  a  darning  needle.  Drop  into  a  stone  jar 
containing  a  strong  brine.  Leave  two  or  three  weeks, 
changing  the  brine  once  a  week.  Pour  over  scalding  hot. 
Some  day  when  you  have  plenty  of  time,  put  on  rubber 
gloves  and  rub  the  fuzz  off  of  each  butternut.  Freshen  in 
water  a  day,  or  two,  then  pour  over  them  cold  vinegar. 
Leave  until  a  convenient  season,  even  weeks.  Boil  the  last 
vinegar  with  some  all  spice,  cloves  and  whole  black 
peppers.  They  need  less  flavoring  than  other  pickles, 
the  natural  flavor  of  the  nut  being  so  very  delicious  that 
they  require  little  other  than  their  own  flavor. 

MRS  ALLAN  M.  STEARNS. 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


147 


Katie's  Cucumber  Pickles. 

To  1  peck  small  cucumbers,  make  a  brine  of  6  qts. 
water,  iy2  cups  salt.  Boil  and  turn  on  cucumbers  3  days 
in  succession,  then  make  a  new  brine  as  before,  and  boil 
and  turn  on  cucumbers  for  4  more  days.  The  eighth  day. 
turn  all  off,  and  take  2y2  qts.  of  vinegar  and  2y2  qts.  of 
water,  piece  of  alum  size  of  a  hickory  nut ;  boil  and  turn 
on  cucumbers,  and  let  stand  4  or  5  days,  then  wrash  off, 
and  dry  with  cloth,  and  put  a  layer  of  cucumbers  and  a 
layer  of  spices,  and  one  green  pepper  in  each  layer,  (in 
all  4  peppers)  ;  4  peppers,  y2  lb.  white  mustard  seed,  2  oz. 
stick  cinnamon,  1  oz.  cloves,  y2  oz.  of  celery  seed,  1  oz. 
whole  allspice,  1  oz.  whole  black  peppers,  a  good-  sized 
bunch  horseradish  root,  cut  into  small  pieces,  6  lbs.  brown 
sugar,  and  5  qts.  of  vinegar.  Steep  up  a  few  spices  in  a 
little  vinegar,  and  put  into  the  vinegar  and  sugar,  and 
turn  over  pickles  hot. 

MRS.  R.  ARTHUR  STONE. 

Cucumber  Pickles.  , 

1  pk.  small  cucumbers, 
1  gal.  cider  vinegar, 
1  cup  salt, 

1  2-3  cups  granulated  sugar. 
Boil  vinegar,  salt  and  sugar  together;  place  in  bottom 
of  can  a  handful  celery  seed,  allspice  and  a  few  pieces  of 
red  pepper,  y2  doz.  onions  to  each  can.  It  takes  4  oz.  of 
celery  seed  and  4  oz.  of  allspice  for  the  above  amount.  A 
few  cassia  buds  improves  it. 

MRS.  JAMES  H.  MILLS. 

Chili  Sauce. 

1  pk.  tomatoes, 
12  onions, 
3  red  peppers, 
3  green  peppers. 
Sugar  to  taste, 
1.-3  cup  salt. 


148 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


1  tbsp.  cinnamon, 
1  tbsp.  cloves, 
1  tbsp.  allspice, 
1  tbsp.  mace. 

Chop  onions  and  peppers  fine;  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients, and  boil  three  (3)  hours.  Add  1  qt.  vinegar  and  1 
pt.  Worcestershire  sauce.    Let  come  to  a  boil,  and  bottle. 

SARA  E.  CARNEY. 

Watermelon  Pickles. 

Pare  off  the  green  outside,  and  cut  out  the  pink  in 
side,  slicing  the  white  part  into  thick  strips.  Weigh  8 
lbs.,  and  put  in  kettle,  pouring  over  it  1  gal.  of  water  in 
which  1  oz.  alum  has  been  dissolved.  Stand  on  hot  part 
of  stove  for  3  hours.  Then  place  in  ice  water  for  half  an 
hour.  Take  4  lbs  of  white  sugar,  1  qt.  vinegar,  and  g 
large  cupful  of  mixed  spices,  such  as  whole  cloves,  all- 
spice, cassia  buds,  stick  cinnamon,  and  green  ginger  roor. 
tied  in  cheese  cloth  bags.  Boil  3  minutes.  Skim,  cool  a 
little,  and  drop  in  rinds.  Simmer  gently  a  half  hour  or 
till  clear  and  tender;  put  in  jars.  Boil  down  svrup  and 
pour  it  over.  JULIET  SEEKING  HUNTER. 

Watermelon  Piclde. 

Boil  the  rinds  in  salted  water  until  tender ;  then  pour 
off  the  water  and  let  drain.  For  the  syrup:  5  lbs.  of 
sugar,  to  7  lbs.  of  melon,  and  1  pt.  of  vinegar.  Let  the 
sugar  and  vinegar  come  to  a  boil ;  after  syrup  has  boiled 
for  a  few  minutes,  put  in  the  rind  and  spice;  let  boil  for 
15  minutes,  at  least.  For  the  spice  use  plenty  of  cinna- 
mon and  cloves.  LAURA  R.  WAGNER. 

Brandied  Peaches. 

Peel,  halve  and  weigh  peaches.  To  every  pound  of 
peaches,  take  %  lb.  of  granulated  sugar.  Dissolve  sugar 
in  water,  and  boil  until  syrup  hairs ;  put  in  peaches,  and 
cook  until  clear  and  tender.  Skim  out  peaches,  and  place 
in  quart  cans,  filling  cans  two-thirds  full,  and  cover,  while 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES  149 

boiling  down  syrup.  When  syrup  has  boiled  until  thick, 
add  1  cup  of  French  brandy  for  each  quart  can  of  peaches ; 
remove  from  fire  immediately,  and  pour  over  peaches. 
Seal  can  at  once.  It  is  better  not  to  cook  more  than 
enough  peaches  to  fill  two  cans  at  one  time.  This  is  not 
too  much  brandy. 

MRS.  HUTSON  B.  COLMAN. 

Pickle  Peaches. 

5  lbs.  of  peaches, 

3  lbs.  granulated  sugar, 

y2  pint  vinegar, 

1  oz.  cassia  buds. 
Stick  cassia  buds  into  peaches.    Make  a  good  syrup 
with  sugar  and  vinegar.    Put  fruit  into  hot  syrup,  and 
cook  until  tender.    Place  peaches  in  jar  and  pour  over 
them  the  hot  syrup.  FLORENCE  MYERS. 

Pickle  Peaches. 

1  peck  peaches, 

5  lbs.  sugar, 

3  qts.  vinegar. 
Heat  vinegar  and  sugar,  and  cook  a  few  peaches  at  a 
time.    When  all  are  done,  boil  syrup  a  little  and  add  all 
kinds  of  whole  spice.    Pour  over  the  peaches.    These  will 
keep  without  sealing.  ROSE  B.  NISBET. 

Chopped  Pickle. 

y2  pk.  ripe  tomatoes, 
1-  pk.  green  tomatoes, 
y2  doz.  good  sized  onions, 
1  small  cabbage, 

1  large,  or  3  small,  cucumbers 
3  green  peppers, 

3  red  peppers, 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar, 

3  pts.  cider  vinegar. 

Slice  all  together,  and  leave  over  night  in  salted 


150 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


water;  drain  and  chop  quite  fine.  Then  put  all  with  the 
sugar,  vinegar  and  spices,  (cinnamon  and  black  pepper), 
and  a  little  mustard,  and  boil  for  1  or  2  hours,  until  as 
thick  as  you  like.  MRS.  J.  K.  WAGNER,  . 

Beet  Pickle. 

1  qt.  of  raw  cabbage,  chopped  fine, 
1  qt  .of  boiled  beets,  chopped  fine, 

1  qt.  of  celery,  chopped  fine, 

2  cups  of  sugar, 

1  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
1  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper, 
14  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper, 
1  teacup  of  grated  horseradish. 
Put  in  cans,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar;  seal. 

MRS.  J.  A.  NEWELL. 

Aristocrat  Pickle. 

One  pk.  small  cucumbers,  3  pts.  small  onions,  slice 
both  thin,  and  put  in  layers  with  V/2  cups  salt.  Let  stand 
24  hours,  then  drain  well ;  take  2  qts.  vinegar,  y2  pt.  olive 
oil,  1  tbsp.  black  pepper,  2  tbsp.  each  of  white  mustard 
seed  and  celery  seed.  Stir  well,  then  add  to  cucumbers 
and  onions.    Put  in  cans. 

MRS.  JOSEPHINE  PHILLIPS. 

Pepper  Hash. 

Y2  medium  sized  cabbage, 
y2  doz.  large  onions, 

y2  doz.  green  peppers,  with  seeds  removed, 

1  coffeecup  of  white  sugar, 

2  tbsp.  celery  seed, 

1  tbsp.  mustard  seed. 
Chop  cabbage,  peppers  and  onions  quite  fine.  Sprin- 
kle with  14  cup  salt.    Let  stand  over  night,  then  drain  as 
dry  as  possible.    Cover  with  cold  vinegar.    Extra  good. 

MRS.  JOSEPHINE  PHILLIPS. 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


151 


Choice  Cucumber  Pickles. 

1  pk.  midget  cucumbers, 

2  qts.  small  silver  skin  onions, 
2  red  peppers, 

1  gallon  vinegar, 
1  cup  salt. 

1  2-3  cups  granulated  sugar. 
Wash  and  wipe  cucumbers,  skin  onions  and  cut  pep- 
pers into  small  strips.  Pack  in  quart  fruit  jars,  adding 
occasionally  a  few  celery  seeds,  and  whole  allspice.  Bring 
vinegar,  with  sugar  and  salt  added,  to  boiling  point.  Fill 
and  seal  jars.  MRS.  E.  A.  BALYEAT. 

Pickled  Peaches,  Baked. 

Eub  the  fuzz  off  the  peaches,  and  put  2  cloves  in  each 
one.  Take  a  stone  jar,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  sugar  and 
one  of  peaches,  alternating,  till  the  jar  is  nearly  full,  and 
every  crevice  is  filled  with  sugar ;  put  a  layer  of  sugar  on 
top,  then  add  y%  pint  of  vinegar.  Put  in  a  moderate  oven 
and  bake  3  hours.  ELLA  LEWIS. 

English  Chutney  Sauce. 

1  doz.  ripe  tomatoes, 

1  bu.  tart  apples,  peeled  and  cored, 
%  lb.  raisins, 

2  lbs.  red  peppers, 
6  medium  onions, 
%  cup  mint. 

Put  all  through  meat  grinder, 
1  oz.  whole  white  mustard  seed, 
4  ozs.  salt, 
1%  cups  sugar, 
1%  cups  vinegar. 
Keep  stirred  several  days,  then  put  away  in  con- 
venient jars. 

MRS.  GEORGE  H.  CORNELL. 


152 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


Cold  Catsup. 

y2  pk.  ripe  tomatoes,  (peeled), 
2  green  peppers, 
2  onions, 
1-3  cup  salt, 
1  cup  sugar, 

%  cup  white  mustard  seed, 

1  cup  grated  horseradish, 

2  tablespoons  black  pepper, 

1  qt.  cider  vinegar. 

Chop  tomatoes  fine,  and  drain  slightly,  if  very  juicy. 
Chop  onions  and  peppers  fine,  (together),  add  other  ingre- 
dients and  seal,  without  cooking. 

MRS.  WM.  E.  HILL. 

Cucumber  Relish, 

2  doz.  cucumbers, 
1  doz.  onions, 

6  green  peppers. 
Scrape  out  large  seeds;  do  not  peel  cucumbers;  chop 
all  fine ;  add  %  cup  salt ;  cover  with  water.  Let  stand  over 
night;  drain.    Add  2  cups  brown  sugar,  4  tablespoons 
white  mustard  seed,  4  teaspoons  celerv  seed,  vinegar. 

MRS.  E.  P.  G.  RUSSELL. 

Chili  Sauce. 

36  ripe  tomatoes, 

6  green  peppers, 

4  onions,  cut  fine. 

Boil  till  it  can  be  put  through  colander;  strain;  add 
1  cup  sugar,  2y2  cups  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  cinna- 
mon, 2  of  salt.    Simmer  1  hour.    Bottle  and  seal. 

MRS.  E.  D.  G.  RUSSELL. 

Sweet  Pickle  Pears. 

5  pounds  sugar, 

7  pounds  pears, 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


153 


1  ounce  cassia  buds, 

1  pint  vinegar. 
Pare  the  fruit,  and  lay  in  cold  water  while  getting 
them  ready.    Boil  in  a  weak  syrup  until  tender,  put  in  a 
stone  par,  and  pour  the  above  syrup  over  them.    They  will 
keep  without  sealing. 

MRS.  GEO.  F  KIDDER. 

Canned  Tomatoes. 

1  bu.  of  tomatoes, 
1  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
6  or  8  onions,  cut  fine,  or  chopped, 
1  small  teaspoon  of  red  pepper, 
1  teacup  of  salt. 
Cook  thirty  minutes. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

Bordeau  Sauce. 

1  gal.  green  tomatoes,  chopped, 

2  lbs.  white  sugar, 

1  gal.  chopped  cabbage, 

1  doz.  onions, 

3  red  peppers, 

y2  oz.  Tumeric  Powder, 

2  oz.  white  mustard  seed, 
1  oz.  celery  seed, 

1  oz.  (whole)  cloves, 
1  oz.  allspice, 
1  gal.  vinegar, 
Salt  to  taste. 

Boil  20  minutes.  MRS.  C.  T.  WHITE. 


BEVERAGES. 


Coffee,  with  Cold  Water. 

Allow  one  tablespoon  coffee  for  each  person,  and  one 
for  the  pot;  mix  with  part  of  an  egg  and  a  little  cold 
water.  Put  into  perfectly  clean  coffee  pot  with  y2  pint 
cold  water  for  every  tablespoon  of  coffee.  Let  it  come  to 
a  slow  boil,  stirring  down  occasionally.  Let  boil  hard 
about  5  minutes,  after  it  comes  to  a  boil.  It  should  take 
about  25  minutes  in  all.  M.  H.  P. 


Cocoa. 

One  teaspoon  cocoa  to  each  cup;  dissolve  in  hot 
water,  and  fill  cup  2-3  full  with  same.  Serve  with  sugar 
and  cream.  Or,  dissolve  in  hot  water  and  fill  up  with  hoi 
milk,  and  serve  with  sugar  and  whipped  cream. 

M.  H.  P. 


Chocolate  Syrup. 

Mix  3  tablespoons  grated  chocolate  (Walter  Baker's), 
with  1  pint  boiling  water.  Let  the  mixture  boil  up,  then 
add  1  pint  sugar  and  boil  3  minutes.  When  cold  add  one 
tablespoon  of  vanilla. 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  the  syrup  and  two  of  cracked  ice 
in  a  glass,  and  fill  the  glass  with  milk ;  stir  well,  and  add 
1  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 


Chocolate. 

Put  1  quart  of  milk  in  the  double  boiler,  and  on  the 
fire.  Put  into  a  small  frying  pan  4  ounces  Walter  Baker's 
chocolate,  scraped  fine,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Stir  this  preparation  over  a  hot 
fire  until  it  becomes  smooth  and  glossy,  which  will  be  in 
about  one  minute;  then  stir  the  dissolved  chocolate  into 


BEVERAGES 


155 


the  boiling  milk.  Whisk  well,  and  then  pour  into  a  hot 
jug.  Send  to  the  table  with  a  bowl  of  whipped  cream. 
Beat  chocolate  well  with  a  Dover  egg  beater,  as  it  will 
make  it  much  thicker.  MRS.  M.  H.  C. 

Grape  Juice. 

10  lbs.  Concord  grapes, 
2  qts.  water. 

Put  on  stove,  and  cook  until  grapes  burst  open,  then 
put  in  cheese  cloth  bags;  let  drain,  and  squeeze  a  little. 
Add  to  juice  2  coffeecups  of  sugar,  and  let  boil  5  minutes; 
or  until  sugar  is  all  dissolved.    Put  up  in  Mason  cans. 

HELEN  B.  PATTISON. 

Virginia  Eggnog. 

To  make  one  gallon  of  eggnog,  take  one  dozen  eggs; 
separate  the  whites  and  the  yolks  very  carefully.  Beat 
each  until  it  becomes  as  light  as  practicable.  Add  one 
pound  of  pulverized  white  sugar  to  the  yolks,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Then  add  one  quart  of  cognac  brandy  and  a 
half  pint  of  Jamaica  rum,  pouring  them  in  a  small  stream 
while  stirring  actively.  Add  half  a  gallon  of  rich  milk. 
Then  add  not  less  than  three-fourths  of  the  bulk  of  the 
whites  and  incorporate  thoroughly.  The  remainder  of 
the  whites  should  be  put  upon  the  surface  merely  as  an 
ornament.  A  large  portion  of  the  white  of  the  eggs  should 
always  be  mixed  with  the  compound  to  render  it  light  and 
wholesome.  MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Grape  Juice. 

Pick  nice,  ripe  grapes  from  stems.  Wash  thoroughly 
and  put  in  porcelain  or  granite  kettle  and  cover  with  cold 
water.  Let  them  come  to  a  boiling  heat,  stirring  them  for 
about  five  minutes.  Turn  contents  of  the  kettle  into  a 
crash  bag,  and  strain  out  the  juice.  Then  to  each  quart 
of  juice,  add  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Return  to  the 
stove,  and  heat  to  boiling  point.  Then  put  into  glass  cans 
and  seal  while  hot.  One  bushel  of  grapes  makes  about  six 
gallons  of  grape  juice.  MRS.  WM.  E.  HILL. 


156 


BEVERAGES 


Iced  Tea. 

Put  the  usual  quantity  of  tea  in  cold  water  five,  or  six 
hours,  before  it  is  to  be  used ;  the  delicate  flavor  of  the  tea 
and  abundant  strength  will  be  extracted,  without  a  trace 
of  the  tannic  acid,  which  often  renders  tea  disagreeable. 
Just  before  serving,  put  some  ice  in  the  pitcher,  and  one 
lump  in  each  glass.  This  recipe  is  especially  for  lunch 
eons.  F.  C.  VAN  WYCK. 

Eggnog. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  1  egg,  add  1  tbsp.  sugar  and  beat  till 
creamy ;  add  y2  cup  milk.  Beat  the  white  till  foamy,  and 
stir  it  in  lightly;  sprinkle  the  top  with  grated  nutmeg; 
last,  add  1  heaping  tbsp.  of  whiskey.      K.  P.  M.  T.  S. 

Beef  Tea. 

Remove  all  fat  from  1  lb.  round  steak.  Cut  beef  m 
y2  inch  cubes,  and  put  in  a  glass  fruit  jar.  Pour  1  cup 
cold  water  over  it,  and  let  it  soak  y2  hour.  Set  in  kettle 
of  cold  water,  and  heat  gradually.  Keep  water  below 
boiling  point  2  hours;  strain;  heat  over  hot  water;  add 
a  little  salt  and  serve.  The  liquid  should  be  clear  red ;  if 
the  water  around  the  jar  becomes  too  hot,  it  will  be  brown 
and  flaky.  K.  P.  M.  T.  S. 

Lemonade. 

The  juice  of  6  or  8  lemons,  juice  of  one  orange,  1  pint 
of  cold* water,  1  small  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  juice  from 
canned  pineapple,  y2  cup  of  Jamaica  rum,  and  one  fifty 
cent  bottle  of  Maraschino  cherries. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

Lemonade. 


The  juice  of  C  lemons,  juice  of  3  oranges  and  1  cup 
of  granulated  sugar.  JULIET  HUNTER. 


BEVERAGES 


157 


Mulled  Wine. 
Into  one  pint  of  water,  put  two  ounces  of  stick  cinna- 
mon, and  let  it  simmer  fifteen  minutes.    Pour  in  one  quart 
of  claret,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  heat,  all  together,  boiling 
hot,  then  strain.    Serve  hot  in  small  glasses. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

Cherry  Bounce. 

1  gal.  of  whiskey, 

9  qts.  of  sour,  red  cherries, 
3  lbs.  of  granulated  sugar. 

Wash  and  stem  the  cherries;  put  them  in  a  jug,  in- 
cluding the  pits.  Add  the  sugar,  then  the  whiskey.  Let 
stand  for  a  few  weeks,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  As 
you  use  it,  leave  the  cherries  in  the  jug,  until  the  whiskey 
is  all  drained  off.  MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

TJn  fermented  Wine. 

10  lbs.  of  Concord  grapes, 

2  qts.  of  water. 

Cook  grapes  until  they  break,  and  skins  are  tender; 
let  drain  over  night.  To  the  juice,  add  2  coffeecups  of 
granulated  sugar ;  let  boil  five  minutes  or  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Seal  in  Mason  cans.  When  you  serve  it, 
add  lemon  juice  to  taste. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 

Ginger  Cordial. 
5  lbs.  of  ripe,  red  currants,  after  they  have  been 
washed  and  picked  from  the  stems. 

3  ozs.  of  broken  Jamaica  ginger  root, 

4  lemons,  sliced  and  seeded,  leaving  the  peel  on. 
1  gallon  of  whiskey. 

Crush  the  currants  in  a  stone  jar;  add  the  broken 
ginger  root,  lemons  and  whiskey.  Let  them  stand  three 
weeks,  stirring  frequently.  Cover  the  jar  with  muslin, 
and  put  a  plate  over  it.  At  the  end  of  three  weeks,  strain 
twice  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  add  4  pounds  of  granu- 
lated sugar.    When  sugar  is  dissolved,  bottle  and  seal. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 


CHAFING  DISH. 


Salted  Almonds. 

Shell,  blanch,  and  dry  half  a  pound  of  almonds. 
Pour  over  nuts,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  and  let  stand 
for  an  hour.  Heat  one  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil  in  the 
blazer.  Put  in  almonds,  and  cook  to  a  delicate  brown, 
stirring  constantly,  to  keep  them  from  burning.  Drain, 
drv  on  soft  paper,  and  sprinkle  with  fine  salt. 

HELEN  A.  SEEKING. 

i 

Tomato  Rarebit. 

Put  together  in  chafing  dish,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
quarter  cup  tomato  sauce,  or  catsup.  %  cup  cream ;  add 
to  this,  2  cups  fresh  cheese,  cut  fine ;  when  well  melted,  stir 
in  2  beaten  eggs,  pinch  of  soda,  salt  and  cayenne.  Serve 
on  long  wafers.    Serves  6  people. 

MRS.  FRANK  COWLBECK. 

Creamed  Chicken. 

Boil  1  large  chicken,  (5  lbs.),  (white  meat  only),  cut 
in  small  pieces ;  1  pt.  cream,  y2  cup  butter,  3  even  tsp.  of 
flour,  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  small  can  of  truffles.  Heat 
cream,  in  chafing  dish,  till  it  boils;  add  flour,  wet  with 
milk,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  chicken  and  mashed  yolks 
of  eggs,  then  whites,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  chopped 
truffles;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  This  will  serve  5  peo- 
ple. MRS.  HUTSON  COLEMAN. 

Shrimps  a  la  Newberg.  \ 

1  pint  shrimps, 
3  tablespoons  butter, 
y2  teaspoon  salt, 
Few  grains  cayenne, 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 


CHAFING  DISH 


159 


1  teaspoon  flour, 
y2  cup  cream. 
Yolks  2  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  sherry. 

Clean  shrimps  and  cook  three  minutes  in  two  table- 
spoons butter.  Add  salt,  cayenne,  and  lemon  juice,  and 
cook  one  minute.  Remove  shrimps,  and  put  remaining 
butter  in  chafing  dish ;  add  flour  and  cream ;  when  thick- 
ened, add  yolks  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  shrimps  and  wine. 
Serve  on  toast.  MRS.  D.  O.  B. 

Venetian  Eggs. 

Melt  1  tbsp.  of  butter  in  blazer,  and  cook  in  this  a 
_tbsp.  of  chopped  onion.  When  brown,  add  1  pt.  can  of 
tomatoes,  1  tsp.  salt,  cayenne  pepper.  Stir  and  cook  until 
boiling  thoroughly.  Then  add  3  heaping  tbsp.  diced 
cheese,  and  an  unbeaten  egg,  to  every  person  to  be  served. 
When  eggs  are  set,  serve  on  toast.  After  cheese  and  eggs 
are  added,  blazer  must  be  lifted  from  flame,  and  hot  water 
pan  must  be  used.  MRS.  A.  E.  KETTLE. 

Lobster  a  la  Neivberg. 

li/2  cupfuls  of  boiled  lobster  meat  cut  into  pieces 
one  inch  square, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

%  cup  of  madeira  or  sherry, 

1  cupful  of  cream, 

Yolk  of  2  eggs, 

1  truffle,  chopped, 

!/4  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

Dash  of  cayenne  or  paprica. 
Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan;  when  it  has  melted, 
add  the  lobster  meat,  the  chopped  truffle,  the  salt,  and  the 
pepper;  cover,  and  let  simmer  for  five  minutes;  then  add 
the  wine,  and  cook  three  minutes  longer.  Have  ready 
two  yolks  and  one  cupful  of  cream,  well  beaten  together; 
add  this  to  the  lobster;  shake  the  saucepan  until  the  mix 
ture  is  thickened,  and  serve  immediately.  This  dish  will 
not  keep  without  curdling,  and  should  not  be  put  together 


160 


CHAFING  DISH 


until  just  in  time  to  serve.  The  lobster  may  be  prepared 
and  kept  hot.  The  rest  of  the  cooking,  from  the  time  the 
wine  goes  in,  requires  but  five  minutes,  so  the  time  can  be 
easily  calculated.  If  the  mixture  is  stirred,  the  meat  will 
be  broken ;  shaking  the  pan  mixes  it  sufficiently.  This  is 
a  very  good  dish,  and  easily  prepared;  but  it  will  not  be 
right,  unless  served  as  soon  as  it  is  cooked.  The  quantity 
given  is  enough  for  six  people.  Crab  meat  mav  be  used 
in  the  same  way.  MRS.  ALLEN  C.  FRIXK, 

Lobster  Yewberg. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  butter, 
Salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg, 

1  large  can  of  lobster, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  sherry. 
Simmer  together. 

Sauce.  . 

%  tablespoonful  flour,  v 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter, 

1  cup  cream, 

2  or  3  yolks  of  eggs, 
1  wine  glass  sherry, 
Stir  together  and  serve. 

MRS.  JOSEPH  BROWN. 

Curried  Eggs. 

Fry  one  finely  sliced,  medium-sized  onion  in  a  little 
butter,  very  slowly;  do  not  allow  it  to  burn.  Then  add  ^ 
tablespoons  of  curry  powder  and  1^2  cups  of  stock.  Let 
simmer  until  the  onion  is  tender.  Put  1  tbsp.  of  corn 
starch  in  y2  cup  of  cream,  and  add  this  to  the  stock  and 
onion ;  stir  constantly  until  boiling,  then  simmer  for  5 
minutes.  Quarter  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  add  to  the  curry : 
salt  to  taste.  MRS.  C.  D.  MeGIBENY. 


CHAFING  DISH  161 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

y2  lb.  of  cheese, 
2  eggs, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter 

1  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 

y2  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

A  dash  of  cayenne, 

y2  cupful  of  cream. 
Break  the  cheese  in  small  pieces,  and  put  it  and  the 
other  ingredients  in  chafing  dish,  which  put  over  boiling 
water.    Stir  until  cheese  melts;  then  serve  on  slices  of 
crisp  toast  or  salted  wafers.  W.  C. 

Pepper  Roast. 

Put  a  tbsp.  of  butter  into  the  blazer ;  when  it  bubbles, 
add  a  green  pepper  and  %  of  a  small  onion,  both  chopped 
fine,  and  cook  for  5  minutes,  without  browning.  Stir 
into  this,  1  level  tbsp.  of  flour;  blend  and  add  %  cup  of 
oyster  juice,  and  %  cup  of  rich  cream.  Mince  the  oysters, 
not  too  fine;  add  them  to  the  mixture,  and  cook  slowly  for 
5  minutes.    Season  with  salt.    Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Clams  mav  be  substituted  for  oysters,  if  preferred. 

MRS.  C.  D.  McGIBENY. 

Oysters  a  la  Thomdyke. 

1  pint  oysters, 

2  tablespoons  butter, 
y2  teaspoon  salt, 
Few  grains  cayenne. 
Few  grains  nutmeg, 
%  cup  cream, 
Yolks  2  eggs. 

Melt  butter,  add  oysters,  (washed  and  drained),  and 
cook  until  plump.  Add  seasoning,  eggs  and  cream,  and 
cook  until  slightly  thickened.    Serve  on  toast. 

G.  E.  CLARK. 


7 


162 


CHAFING  DISH 


Panned  Oysters. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg.  Melt  butter,  and  as  it  creams, 
add  oysters,  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  cook  2  minutes, 
or  until  edges  curl.    Serve  on  toast. 

KATHARINE  WOODBURY. 

Fricasseed  Oysters,  with  Mushrooms. 
30  oysters, 

y2  cupful  mushrooms,  sliced, 

1  tablespoonf ul  butter, 

1  tablespoonful  flour, 

3  gills  cream, 

1  gill  mushroom  liquor, 

Yolks  of  2  eggs, 

Scant  teaspoonful  salt, 

Pinch  of  white  pepper. 
Cook  together  the  butter  and  flour  over  hot  water; 
pour  upon  them  the  cream  and  mushroom  liquor;  put  in 
the  oysters  and  the  mushrooms,  and  when  the  former 
begins  to  plump,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  very 
slowly.  Unless  this  is  done,  with  great  caution,  the  sauce 
will  curdle.  Cook  them  only  a  minute,  until  the  raw  yel- 
low becomes  creamv ;  season,  and  serve  on  toast. 

CHRISTINE  TERHUNE  HERRICK. 

Chafing  Dish  Birds. 

To  1  doz.  birds,  (split  open  in  back  as  for  broiling). 
y2  doz.  red  peppers,  cut  fine,  with  scissors.  Place  birds 
in  chafing  dish,  breasts  down.  Salt  to  taste.  Scatter 
peppers  on  them.  On  each  bird,  put  inch  squares  of 
butter.  Pour  in  dish,  y2  teacup  of  boiling  water.  Cover 
and  steam  until  butter  is  melted,  then  add  following 
preparation : 

Put  in  large  tumbler,  2  tbsp.  of  Worcestershire  sauce, 
juice  of  1  lemon ;  fill  tumbler  with  Port  wine.  After  cook- 
ing y2  hour,  add  2  cans  of  small  mushrooms,  which  have 
been  heated  and  drained.  If  the  birds  are  young,  it 
usually  takes  iy2  hours  to  cook,  (better  to  have  birds 


CHAFING  DISH  163 

steamed  before  hand).  Just  before  serving,  add  1  teacup 
of  cream.  (Thicken  sauce,  if  desired).  Replenish  watei? 
in  both  of  chafing  pans,  owing  to  length  of  time  it  takes  to 
cook.  MRS.  JOSEPH  BROWN. 

Mushrooms  with  Bacon. 

Fry  out  6  pieces  of  bacon  in  chafing  dish ;  add  piece 
of  butter,  size  of  large  egg;  let  melt;  add  from  1  to  1%  lbs. 
of  fresh  mushrooms;  place  bacon  on  top  of  mushrooms. 
Pour  over  big  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  pepper 
(red),  salt,  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Let  cook  until  very 
tender,  then  pour  over  %  to  1  pint  thick  cream.  Let  it 
cook  through  mushrooms  4  or  5  minutes.  Serve  on  fried 
bread.    Serves  6  people. 

MRS.  FRANK  COWLBECK. 

Brook  Trout. 

Put  two  tablespoons  of  the  best  butter  in  the  blazer, 
and  when  it  is  verv  hot,  lav  in  small  brook  trout.  Cook, 
turning,  until  they  are  done  through — it  will  take  only  a 
few  minutes — and  serve  on  hot  plates.  Take  them  out 
with  a  fork.  Two  or  three  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  can  be 
used  instead  of  butter. 

Brook  Trout. 

Fry  several  slices  of  best  bacon,  cut  very  thin,  in 
blazer.  When  crisp,  remove  to  a  hot  plate,  and  keep  cov- 
ered. Place  brook  trout  in  blazer,  and  fry  in  the  bacon 
fat  until  done.    It  takes  onlv  a  few  minutes. 

JULIET  HUNTER, 

Mushrooms  a  la  Sabine. 

1  lb.  mushrooms, 

2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  1-3  cups  Brown  sauce, 

3  tablespoons  grated  cheese. 

Wash,    remove   stems,    and    peel  caps    of  mush- 


164 


CHAFING  DISH 


rooms.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper ;  dredge  with  flour, 
and  cook  three  minutes  in  melted  butter.  Add  sauce,  and 
cook  five  minutes.  Add  cheese.  When  cheese  melts,  serve 
on  toast.  G.  E.  CLARK. 

Cheese  Dreams. 

Make  small  sandwiches  of  dry  bread  and  thin  sliced 
cheese.  Pry,  in  sufficient  melted  butter,  until  bread  is 
well  browned.  G.  E.  CLABK. 

Panned  Oysters. 

Drain  the  oysters  free  from  all  liquor.  Heat  the 
upper  pan  of  chafing  dish,  and  grease  with  a  little  butter. 
Pour  in  the  oysters.  Stir  at  once  that  they  may  not 
stick;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  for  every  pint  of 
oysters.  As  soon  as  the  edges  curl,  season  lightly  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

MBS.  A.  C.  WOBTLEY. 

Cheese  Fondu. 

2  cups  grated  cheese, 

1  cup  fresh  milk, 

1  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs, 

1  tbsp.  of  butter, 

2  eggs, 

1  salt  spoon  dry  mustard, 
Pinch  of  cayenne. 
Place  butter  in  chafing  dish.    When  melted,  add  milk, 
bread  crumbs,  cheese  and  mustard,  and  a  little  cayenne. 
Stir  constantlv,  and  add  eggs,  beaten  light,  just  before 
serving.  KATHARINE  WOODBURY. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Put  into  your  chafing  dish,  or  spider.  1  tablespoonfui 
of  butter.  When  hot,  add  y2  cup  of  cream;  it  need  not 
"be  thick  cream,  6  eggs,  some  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  con- 
stantlv, with  a  spoon,  for  two  or  three  minutes. 

MBS.  A.  C.  WOBTLEY. 


CHAFING  DISH 


165 


Eggs  an  Gratin. 
Put  in  a  chafing  dish  a  quarter  cup  of  milk,  one  tea 
spoon  butter,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne,  one  cup  of  grated 
cheese.    When  melted,  add  five  eggs,  beaten  with  a  fork. 

MRS.  FRANK  COWLBECK. 

Squabs. 

Fill  a  chafing  dish  half  full  of  olive  oil,  and  let  it  get 
boiling  hot.  Prepare  squabs;  put  in  hot  oil,  and  cook 
fifteen  minutes,  with  cover  on  chafing  dish.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  on  toast. 

MRS.  EDMUND  S.  RANKIN. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

%  cup  beer, 

A  pinch  of  cayenne, 

2  teaspoons  mustard, 

A  dash  of  salt. 
Put  scant  teaspoon  butter  in  chafing  dish;  when 
melted,  add  beer  in  which  the  seasoning  has  been  mixed ; 
when  hot,  add  cheese  slowly.  Have  the  cheese  shaved 
thin,  and  it  is  better  to  open  the  beer  some  hours  before 
using.    The  above  is  for  1  lb.  of  cheese. 

MRS.  CHAS.  A.  PECK. 

Beefsteak  with  Sherry  Sauce. 

Broil  the  steak  in  the  usual  way.  Lay  it  in  th* 
chafing  dish,  and  cover  it  with  the  sauce;  after  which,  put 
on  the  cover,  and  let  stand  five  minutes  before  serving. 

Sauce. 
1  glass  of  sherry, 
Juice  of  y2  lemon, 

1  tablespoon  of  catsup, 

2  tbsp.  of  butter,  cut  up  in  1  tsp.  of  browned 

flour, 

y2  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

y±  teaspoon  of  pepper. 
Heat  butter,  catsup  and  lemon  juice  in  a  sauce  pan ; 
add  seasoning,  and  wine;  boil  quickly,  and  pour  over  the 
steak.  MRS.  EDMUND  S.  RANKIN. 


CONFECTIONERY 


Molasses  Candy. 

1  pt.  mojasses, 

1  cup  granulated  sugar, 

y2  teaspoon  soda.,  put  in  at  the  last, 

Pinch  of  salt, 

Boil  until  it  hardens  in  cool  water. 
Pour  into  buttered  pans  and  cool.    When  cold,  pull 
until  white,  then  cut  into  small  pieces. 

MARGARET  COBB. 

Molasses  Candy. 

1  cup  best  New  Orleans  molasses, 
1  cup  white  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  vinegar, 
1  teaspoon  butter. 
Cook  until  it  hardens  in  water. 

MRS.  R.  ARTHUR  STONE. 

Peanut  Candy. 

Shell,  peel  and  chop  one  pound  of  peanuts.  Put  two 
teacups  of  granulated  sugar  into  a  hot  saucepan  over  a 
slow  fire,  and  stir  constantly  until  dissolved.  As  the  last 
specks  of  sugar  are  disappearing,  stir  in  the  peanuts, 
quickly,  and  spread  on  unbuttered  tins.  While  cooling, 
cut  into  squares.  LILY  HOLTENHOUSE. 

Hickorynut  Kisses. 

Whites  of  three  fresh  eggs  and  one  pound  of  coffee 
A  sugar.  Stir  the  unbeaten  eggs  and  sugar  together  until 
very  stiff.  When  very  stiff,  add  two  cups  of  hickorynut 
meats.  Drop  on  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  till  slightlybrown.  Remove  from  the  paper  when 
hot,  or  thev  will  not  come  off  readilv. 

FRANCES  HUBBARD  KUHN. 


CONFECTIONERY 


167 


Butter  Scotch. 

1  cup  of  white  sugar, 

y2  cup  water, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

1  teaspoonful  of  vinegar, 
A  little  nutmeg. 

Boil  until  thick,  then  pour  on  a  buttered  plate,  and 
cut  in  squares,  when  cool.  Peanuts,  stirred  in,  greatlv 
improve  the  candy,  CHRISTINA  L.  BURNS. 

Praulines. 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 
2-3  cup  of  water, 

1-3  cup  vinegar, 
Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
Boil  until  it  ropes  from  the  spoon,  then  stir  in  one 
quart  of  peanuts,  and  stir  until  white. 

HATTIE  DeYOE. 

French  Vanilla  Creams. 

Break  into  a  bowl  the  white  of  one  or  more  eggs,  as 
the  quantity  you  wish  to  make  will  require ;  add  to  it  an 
equal  quantity  of  cold  water,  then  stir  into  it  confection- 
er's sugar  until  it  is  stiff  enough  to  mold  into  shape  with 
the  fingers.  Flavor  to  taste.  After  it  is  formed  into 
balls,  cubes,  or  lozenge  shapes,  lay  them  upon  plates,  or 
waxed  paper,  and  set  them  aside  to  dry.  This  cream  is 
the  foundation  of  all  the  French  creams. 

English  Walnut  Creams. 

Make  French  cream  as  previously  directed.  Have 
ready  some  English  walnuts,  using  care  not  to  break  the 
meats.  Make  a  ball  of  the  cream  about  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, and  place  a  nut  meat  upon  either  side.  Lay  them 
away  for  a  few  hours  to  dry. 


168 


CONFECTIONERY 


Cream  Dates. 

Select  perfect  dates,  and  with  a  knife  remove  the  pit. 
Take  a  piece  of  French  cream,  make  an  oblong  shape,  and 
wrap  the  date  around  the  cream. 

Nut  Creams. 

Chop  almonds,  hickorynuts,  butternuts  or  English 
walnuts  quite  fine.  Make  the  French  cream,  and  before 
adding  all  the  sugar,  while  the  cream  is  quite  soft,  stir 
into  it  the  nuts.  After  adding  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  make 
into  balls,  bars  or  squares.  Three  or  four  kinds  of  nuts 
may  be  mixed  together. 

Cocoanut  Creams. 

Take  some  French  cream,  and  while  soft,  add  fresh 
grated  cocoanut  to  taste;  add  sufficient  confectioner's 
sugar  to  mold  into  balls,  and  then  roll  the  balls  in  the 
fresh  grated  cocoanut.  These  may  be  colored  pink  with 
a  few  drops  of  cochineal  syrup,  also  brown  by  adding  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate;  then  roll  them  in  the 
cocoanut.  The  cocoanut  cream  may  be  pressed  into  a  tin, 
and  when  dry  cut  into  slices. 

L.  M.  HOLTENHOUSE. 

Shellbark  Candy. 

2  cups  white  sugar, 

Scant  half  cup  water, 

2  tablespoons  vinegar, 

Butter  size  of  walnut. 
Mix  thoroughly  before  putting  on  the  fire ;  do  not  stir 
while  cooking;  test  with  cold  water.  Butter  the  pans, 
put  in  nuts,  and  pour  the  candy  on  them.  Cream  candy 
is  made  the  same  way,  onlv  without  the  nuts,  and  when 
a  little  cool,  pull  it.  BLANCHE  HULL. 


CONFECTIONERY 


169, 


Cream  Candy. 

3  pounds  of  granulated  sugar, 

6  ounces  of  butter, 

1  pint  of  water. 
Boil  to  exactly  260  degrees;  be  sure  not  any  over. 
Pour  out  on  buttered  marble  slab.  Pour  on  the  candy  a 
little  vanilla,  just  before  taking  up  to  pull  it.  Puli 
quickly,  and  do  not  finger  much.  Do  not  stir  while  boil- 
ing. Do  not  scrape  kettle.  Cut  in  small  pieces;  put  ou 
buttered  plate,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  a  short  time. 

W.  S.  CLARK. 

Fudges. 

1  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 

2  to  4  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate, 
A  piece  of  butter  size  of  hen's  egg. 
Boil  to  228  degrees,  exactly.  Do  not  let  burn,  but 
do  not  stir  much.  When  candy  is  boiled,  let  syrup  cool  ; 
takes  about  twenty  minutes  in  winter;  then  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat  until  thick.  Pour  into  pan, 
and  mark  into  squares. 

WINIFRED  SEBRING  CLARK. 

Fudge. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar, 
1  cup  milk, 

%  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate, 
Butter  size  of  a  walnut. 
When  it  will  harden  in  cold  water,  take  from  the  fire, 
and  stir  until  it  is  quite  thick,  then  pour  on  buttered  tins. 

BLANCHE  HULL. 

Peanut  Candy. 

Melt  three  cups  of  white  sugar  in  hot  spider,  stirring 
continually.  When  it  is  thoroughly  melted,  pour  in  the 
peanuts;  and  turn  into  buttered  tins. 

BLANCHE  HULL. 


170 


CONFECTIONERY 


French  Confectionery. 

Take  whites  of  2  eggs ;  add  as  much  more  water.  Stir 
well;  keep  adding  XXXX  sugar  until  pliable  in  the 
hands.  Add  vanilla.  This  can  be  rolled  in  cinnamon,  or 
chocolate,  with  or  without  nuts. 

MRS.  JOSEPH  BROWN. 

Maple  Cream. 

1  lb.  of  maple  sugar, 
y2  pt.  of  cream, 

y2  cup  chopped  nuts. 
Cook  sugar  and  cream  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water. 
Stir  frequently,  while  cooking.    Beat  until  cold. 

K.  H.  W. 

Nut  Chocolate  Caramels. 

2y2  tablespoons  butter, 

2  cups  molasses, 

1  cup  brown  sugar, 
y2  cup  milk, 

3  squares  chocolate, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Melt  butter ;  add  molasses,  sugar,  and  milk.  Stir  un- 
til sugar  dissolves.  When  boiling,  add  chocolate,  stirring 
constantly  until  melted.  Boil  until,  when  tried  in  cold 
water,  it  hardens.  Add  broken  meat  from  one  pound  Eng- 
lish walnuts.  Remove  from  fire,  and  add  vanilla.  Cool 
and  cut  into  small  squares. 

MRS.  MABEL  B. 

Fondant. 

If  the  directions  are  carefully  followed,  it  is  almost 
impossible  to  fail  with  the  fondant.  Mix  2  cups  of  fine 
granulated,  (not  beet),  sugar,  14  level  tsp.  of  cream  of 
tartar,  and  %  cup  of  cold  water  together  and  boil,  (pre- 
ferably in  an  aluminum  kettle,  without  stirring,  until, 
when  dropped  in  water,  it  forms  a  soft  ball,  which  can  be 


CONFECTIONERY  171 

rolled  between  the  fingers.  Pour  immediately  upon  a  mar- 
ble slab,  and  let  stand  until  cool.  Stir  with  a  flat,  wooden 
spatula,  (a  wooden  spoon  may  be  used),  until  the  fon- 
dant becomes  stiff,  when  it  is  best  to  be  mixed  with  the 
hands.  Koll  into  small  balls,  or  cut  in  squares,  and  it  is 
ready  for  use.    Flavor  as  desired. 

GENE  SIDDALL. 

Nut  Croquettes. 

When  mixing  the  fondant  with  the  hands,  add  black 
walnut  meats,  then  roll  into  balls,  and  immediately  coat 
with  finely  chopped  black  walnuts.  Chop  the  nuts  in  the 
chopping  bowl,  and  roll  the  balls  of  fondants  in  the  bowl 
with  the  fingers.  GENE  SIDDALL. 

Chocolates. 

Melt  Baker's  bitter  chocolate  over  hot  water,  and 
add  a  very  few  scrapings  of  paraffin.  Drop  into  the 
melted  chocolate,  one  at  a  time,  regularly  shaped  balls  of 
the  fondant,  which  have  stood  for  an  hour  in  a  cool  place. 
Two  knives  may  be  used  in  coating  the  balls,  which  are 
removed  from  the  chocolate  onto  a  sheet  of  paraffin  paper. 
Let  the  chocolates  stand  several  hours,  or  better,  for  two 
days,  in  a  cool  place.  The  process  of  coating  mav  be  re- 
peated, if  desired.  GENE  SIDDALL. 

Opera  Caramels. 

Mix  2  cups  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  14  level  tsp. 
cream  of  tartar,  1  cup  of  cream.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
drop  in  1  tsp.  of  batter.  Keep  it  well  stirred  up  from  the 
bottom,  though  do  not  stir  round  and  round.  Pour  on  the 
marble  slab,  and  proceed  as  with  the  fondant.  Cut  into 
squares,  and  coat  with  bitter  chocolate.  Boil  in  aluminum 
kettle,  if  possible. 

GENE  SIDDALL. 


172 


CONFECTIONERY 


Maple  Creams. 

Cook  2  cups  of  pure  maple  syrup  until  a  soft  ball 
may  be  formed  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Then  add 
%  cup  of  sweet  cream,  and  cook  again  till  a  soft  ball  is 
formed.  Pour  on  marble  slab,  and  proceed  as  with  the 
fondant.  Instead  of  mixing  with  the  hands,  it  is  better 
to  cut  into  squares.  Xuts  may  be  stirred  in  with  the 
wooden  spatula.  GEXE  SIDDALL. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Candy. 

One  fresh  cocoanut,  one  and  one  half  pounds  granu- 
lated sugar.  Put  sugar  and  milk  of  cocoanut  together; 
heat  slowly  until  sugar  is  melted,  then  boil  five  minutes ; 
add  cocoanut,  (finely  grated)  ,  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer. 
Stir  constantly  to  keep  from  burning.  Pour  on  buttered 
plates,  and  cut  in  squares.  It  hardens  in  about  four 
hours.  MRS.  O.  A.  LaCRONE. 

Panoche. 

3  cups  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  milk, 

1  tablespoon  butter. 

Boil  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball,  when  dropped  in 
cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  and  beat  it  until  it  be- 
comes just  thick  enough  to  pour.  Add  1  cup  nut  meats, 
and  pour  on  a  greased  pan. 

WINIFRED  DEWING. 

Butter  Scotch. 

2  cups  brown  sugar, 
y2  cup  water, 

2  tbsp.  butter, 
2  tbsp.  vinegar, 
Boil  all  together  until  it  hardens  in  water.    Pour  on 
two  greased  pans. 

WINIFRED  DEWING. 


CONFECTIONERY 


173 


Nut  Caramels. 

2  cups  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  granulated  sugar, 
1  cup  milk, 

1  square  of  Baker's  chocolate, 
Butter  size  of  an  egg, 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Cook  until  waxy,  and  then  remove  from  fire,  and  add 
1  cup  of  nuts.  Beat  this  to  a  cream,  and  pour  into  a  but- 
tered pan,  and  cut  in  squares. 

H.  M.  DeG. 

Chocolate  Creams. 

Shape  fondant  into  balls,  and  dip  into  melted  choco- 
late, to  which  a  little  paraffin  has  been  added.  Put  on 
greased  paper  to  harden. 

H.  M.  DeG. 

Molasses  Candy 

2  cups  of  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  of  molasses, 

1  tablespoon  vinegar, 
1  tablespoon  butter, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Boil  until  it  hardens,  when  dropped  in  water.  Re- 
move from  stove,  and  let  cool.    Then  pull  it  until  it  be 
comes  light.    Put  on  greased  plates,  and  cut  in  squares. 

WINIFRED  DEWING. 

Maple  Creams. 

Take  y2  as  much  water  as  maple  sugar,  and  cook 
without  stirring,  and  when  almost  done,  put  in  a  small 
piece  of  butter.  When  it  begins  to  harden,  take  it  off  the 
fire,  and  stir  rapidly  until  it  becomes  a  waxen  substance. 
Then  divide  it  into  balls,  and  if  you  wish,  enclose  each 
ball  between  the  halves  of  an  English  walnut. 

H.  M.  DeG. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


Misery  Sauce. 

Take  1  set  of  feelings  ( parboiled)  > 
1  lb.  envy, 
1  lb.  egotism, 
1  qt.  tears, 

1  tsp.  being  misunderstood, 

2  qts.  selfishness. 

Mix  the  feelings  as  fine  as  possible;  stir  in  the  envy 
thoroughly,  then  add  the  egotism,  which  must  be  very 
strong,  as  much  of  the  success  of  the  sauce  depends  upon 
a  woman's  never  thinking  of  any  one  but  herself.  Put  in 
the  tears,  drop  by  drop,  to  spread  them  out  as  much  as 
possible,  and  mix  in  the  flavor  of  misunderstanding,  while 
things  are  hot.  Saturate  the  mixture  thoroughly  with 
selfishness,  and  set  away  in  the  mind  to  ferment.  Those 
who  enjoy  being  unhappy ,  should  always  keep  this  in  th*3 
house.  It  can  be  applied  like  a  salad  dressing,  to  any 
kind  of  circumstances,  and  enough  of  it  can  be  concocted 
at  a  moment's  notice  to  last  a  month. 

One  thing  about  misery  sauce  is  this:  That  it  will 
not  keep  in  fresh  air  and  sunshine. 

MKS.  JANE  L.  SHAW. 

Remember. 

A  spoonful  of  butter  melted,  is  more  than  a  spoonful 
of  melted  batter.    Take  care  to  note  which  is  called  for. 

Baking  powder  is  always  measured  rounding,  unless 
level  is  called  for. 

Always  have  flour  ready  when  frying,  to  throw  on 
fire,  in  case,  lard  should  burn. 

When  using  butter  in  frosting,  always  melt  and  let 
salt  settle,  then  remove  the  butter.  This  prevents  curd- 
ling.   Be  sure  of  this  in  caramel  frosting. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


175 


Rice  will  cook  in  20  minutes.  Always  have  water 
boiling  before  adding  rice. 

Test  the  oven  for  baking  with  a  piece  of  white  paper. 
If  it  turns  it  a  light  yellow  in  5  minutes,  it  is  ready  for 
sponge  cake ;  if  a  dark  yellow  in  5  minutes,  it  is  ready  for 
cup  cake.  Cake  should  not  be  moved  in  the  oven  till  it 
has  risen  its  full  height.  When  it  feels  firm  to  the  touch, 
shrinks  from  the  pan  and  a  straw  inserted  comes  out 
clean,  the  cake  is  done. 

BITS  OF  CULINARY  LORE. 

White  meats  require  thorough  cooking,  while  red 
meats  are  usually  served  rare. 

Avoid  banging  oven  doors  while  baking ;  it  is  the 
cause  of  many  cakes  and  pastry  being  heavy. 

Salt  spread  on  the  oven  bottom  under  a  baking  pan 
will  prevent  scorching;  asbestos  mats  are  also  good. 

Steeping  means  infusing  in  water  maintained  below 
the  boiling  point. 

Canned  goods  of  all  kinds  should  be  emptied  from 
the  cans  as  soon  as  they  are  opened.  They  should  never 
on  any  account  be  left  standing  in  the  cans. 

Dried  orange  peel  allowed  to  smoulder  on  a  piece  of 
red  hot  iron  or  on  an  old  shovel  will  kill  any  bad  odor  in 
existence  and  leave  a  fragrant  one  instead. 

Use  boiling  water  when  it  first  boils  or  the  gases  es- 
cape and  the  water  becomes  flat. 

Brush  the  bottom  crust  of  a  fruit  pie  with  the  white 
of  egg  and  it  will  not  be  soggy. 

Coffee  heads  the  list  of  beverages  most  acceptably 
served  with  sandwiches.    Tea  comes  next. 

Cocoa  and  chocolate  are  admissable  only  with  the 
dainty  varieties,  in  which  fruit  or  some  kind  of  sweet 
meat  is  used. 


176 


MISCELLANEOUS 


QUANTITIES  REQUIRED  TO  SERVE  SUPPER  TO 
TWELVE  PEOPLE. 

Three  doz.  tea  rolls. 

Three  medium  sized  spring  chickens. 

Five  lbs.  of  fish,  escalloped. 

One  doz.  tea  patties. 

Two  small  glasses  of  jelly. 

One  doz.  peach  pickles. 

Two  qts  .ice  cream. 

Three  boxes  of  strawberries,  or  three  pts.  of  preserves. 
One  medium  sized  cake. 

PICNIC  LUNCH  FOR  TWENTY-FIVE. 

Six  doz.  sandwiches. 
Two  chickens,  pressed. 
Twenty-five  hard  boiled  eggs. 
One  qt.  cucumber  pickles. 
One-half  gal.  salad. 
1  gal.  ice  cream. 
Two  medium  sized  cakes. 
One-half  lb.  salted  almonds. 

QUANTITIES  REQUIRED  TO  SERVE  SUPPER  TO 

165  PEOPLE. 

Four  ten  lb.  hams. 

Six  veal  loaves. 

Three  gal.  potato  salad. 

Three  gal.  cabbage  salad. 

One-half  gal.  sweet  cucumber  pickles. 

Four  big  bunches  celery. 

Twenty-four  doz.  rolls. 

Six  loaves  Boston  brown  bread. 

Two  gal.  cream. 

Four  lbs.  coffee. 

One-fourth  lb.  tea. 

Six  lbs.  butter. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


177 


Household  Hints. 

Muriatic  acid  will  remove  lime  stains  from  cups, 
pitchers,  water  bottles,  etc.    Use  with  care.  Poison. 

A  spoonful  of  vinegar  in  a  kettle  of  hot  lard  will  pre- 
vent doughnuts  from  absorbing  fat. 

Diluted  oxalic  acid  will  remove  dried  paint  from  win- 
dow glass. 

Dough  for  breakfast  may  be  kept  for  several  days  in 
the  refrigerator. 

A  little  dry  salt  will  remove  egg  stains  from  silver. 

Kust  may  be  removed  from  linen  by  being  covered 
with  salt,  wet  thoroughly  with  lemon  juice,  and  laid  in 
the  hot  sun  for  several  hours. 

To  clean  straw  matting,  never  use  soap.  Put  salt  in 
water  for  white  matting  and  vinegar  for  red. 

A  thin  coating  of  paraffin  on  a  glass  stopper  prevents 
its  sticking  in  the  neck  of  bottle. 

Salt,  soda,  spices — all  even  spoonful. 


Furniture  Polish. 

1  pt.  rubbing  oil, 
1  pt.  of  benzine, 
%  pt.  of  alcohol, 
%  pt.  of  vinegar. 
Mix  well,  and  put  on  with  waste,  and  rub  dry. 

MRS.  W.  S.  DEWING. 


Japanese  Cream  for  Cleaning. 
4  ozs.  of  white  castile  soap, 
4  ozs.  of  ammonia, 
2  ozs.  of  ether, 
2  ozs.  of  alcohol, 
1  oz.  of  glycerine. 

Directions. 

First,  cut  the  soap  fine,  dissolve  in  one  quart  soft 
water  over  the  fire.  When  dissolved,  add  4  qts.  more 
water,  then  add  the  spirits. 

MRS.  JAMES  DEWING. 

8 


178 


MISCELLANEOUS 


For  Cleaning  Rugs  and  Carpets. 

1  lb.  of  Ivory  soap, 
Y2  lb.  of  washing  soda, 
-34  lb-  of  powdered  borax, 
6  gallons  of  water. 
When  these  ingredients  are  dissolved,  and  the  liquid 
cold,  stir  in  y2  oz.  of  ether.    Let  stand  over  night,  until  it 
jellies.    With  a  clean,  soft  scrub  brush,  rub  this  into  the 
rug,  or  carpet.    Then  wash  with  cloth,  wrung  from  clear, 
hot  water,  and  wipe  dry.    With  Oriental  rugs,  always 
wipe  the  way  they  are  woven.    Never  against  the  nap. 

MRS.  A.  C.  WORTLEY. 


 (Hatljmtt*  IE.  Hunt,  Prnprttftnr   

Makes  a  Specialty  of  party  refreshments 
and  catering  for  clubs,  societies  and 
Private  Dinners        :-:  :-:  :-: 


THE  OLDEST  INHABITANTS  KNOW 

£olm&t?'$  flrflj  Store 

AND  ALL  NEW  COMERS  SHOULD 
KNOW  IT 

It  is  an  Up-to-flate  pharmacy 
First  Class  in  Every  Dept 

123  WEST  MAIN  STREET 

"Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers  in  Brass  Goods,  Iron  Pipe  and  Fittings, 
Rubber  Goods,  Packing,  Etc.,  Engineers'  and  Mill  Supplies,  Steam  Boilers 
and  Trimmings.  :-:  :-:  :-:  :-: 

WHEELER  &  PITKIN 

  PRACTICAL  PLUMBERS   

HEATING     AND    VENTILATING  ENGINEERS 

J,  A.  WHEELER  J,  A.  PITKIN 

223-225  Nortk  Burdick  Street  ^  Telephone  111 

KALAMAZOO,  MICHIGAN 


CONTENTS. 


How  to  Seta  Table   20 

Abbreviations,  Weights  and  Measures   22 

Timetables  for  Cooking   23 

Soups   25 

Fish  and  Oysters   32 

Meat,  Poultry  and  Game   39 

Vegetables   45 

Salads  and  Sandwiches   53 

Meat,  Game  and  Fish  Sauces   60 

Entrees  and  Cheese   64 

Bread,  Hot  Breads,  &c   72 

Cake,  Frostings  and  Fillings   85 

Frostings  and  Fillings  100 

Doughnuts,  Cookies,  &c  '  103 

Pies  and  Puddings  116 

Desserts,  Creams  and  Ices  132 

Pickles  and  Relishes . . .  143 

Beverages  154 

Chafing  Dish  158 

Confectionery  166 

Miscellaneous  174 


BE  INFORMED  AND  PURCHASE  ACCORDINGLY 


THE  PURE  FOOD  LAWS 

These  statutes  we  announce,  advocate  and  adopt. 
Try  our  RURE}  FOOD  PRODUCERS. 

Perfect  Bak  ing  Powder 
Pure  Spices 

Solid  Oil  .extracts.  Etc. 
D.  D.  BROWN  DRUG  CO. 

Opposite  Port  Office  Telephone  807  KALAMAZOO.  MICH, 


It  takes  Good  Groceries  for  good 
results  

E.  B.  RUSSELL  has  them 


Sole  Agent  for 

CHASE  &  SANBORNS  TEAS  and  COFFEES 


CD'C'V'C'D'C  READY  TO  WEAR 
Oi    LIC IV  O  ESTABLISHMENT 


CLOAKS,  SUITS,  SKIRTS,  WAISTS,  FURS, 
  ETC.   

Headquarters  for  Fashionable  Dressers 
Everything  Up-to-Date — dependable  and  economi- 
cal— largest  varieties  and  biggest  assortment. 
We  solicit  }Tour  inspection. 

117  WEST  MAIN  ST.  KALAMAZOO,  MICH 


SPICE  QUALITY 


The  best  results  in  using  the  receipts  of  this  book  can  only  be 
secured  by  using  Pure  Spices,  Flavoring  Extracts,  Baking  Powder, 
Etc.    The  Best  Cooking  Materials  only  are  carried  at 

WALLACE'S   DRUG  STORE 

llo  SoT_itri  Rose  Street 


THIS  IS  A  SILHOUETTE  OF 
H.  SIEWERT,  Pkotograpker, 

who  approves  of  every  receipt  in  this  book. 
He  invites  you  to  visit  his  beautiful  studio,  as 
his  work  may  interest  you. 


414=  WEST  Nl^vl^  STREET 


Holds  America's  Highest  Prize 


BAKER'S 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate 

Absolutely  pure,  with  a 
most  delicious  flavor,  made 
by  a  scientific  blending  of 
the  best  cocoa  beans  grown 
in  different  parts  of  the 
world.  It  is  backed  by  126 
years  of  successful  manu- 
facture and  by  46  highest 
awards    in    Europe  and 

America — an  unparalleled 
Eegistered  u.s.  rat.  Office  record  of  achievement 

Be  sure  that  you  get  the  genuine  with   the  trade-mark 

on  the  package. 

Directions  for  preparing  more  than  one  hundred  dainty 
dishes  in  our  Choice  Recipe  Book,  sent  free  on  request. 

Walter  Baker  ©.  Co.  Ltd. 

Established  1780.     DORCHESTER.  MASS., 


A  Mistaken  Idea  About 
ELECTRIC  LIGHT 


Strangely  enough  there  are  people  who  feel  that  electric 
light  is  expensive.  They  seem  to  argue  that  because  it  is 
so  much  superior  to  any  other  illuminant  therefore,  it 
must  be  more  costly  to  use.    It  is  not! 


The  Cost  is  Lower 


than  for  any  other  form  of  lighting  when  you  consider  the 
efficiency  of  electric  light — the  actual  candle  power  avail- 
able for  use— and  the  saving  to  decorations  in  a  house 
in  freedom  from  soot  or  smudge. 


The  Reduced  Rates 


now  in  effect  have  lessened  the  cost  more  than  20  per 
cent.  It  may  pay  you  to  investigate— to  compare  the 
cost  of  less  desirable  forms  of  illumination.  A  solicitor 
will  call  if  you  desire.    Call  telephone  108 


Commonwealth  Power 


Company 

1  1  1  N.  Rose  St.  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 


r 


Good  CooKj: 


Require  proper  utensils  and  accessories  as  good 
workmen  require  good  tools.    Our  Stock  of 


Everything  ™*  Kitchen 


Includes  all  the  Up-to-Date  Inventions  and  is 
selected  with  the  idea  of  meeting  the  demands 
of  the  best  housekeepers 


A  visit  to  our  store,  would,  we  believe  be 
interesting  to  you  as  it  would  by  us,  be 
appreciated 


m 


Hardware  Co. 


J 


 %  Jk.  Btxah,  manager  

£xmtlr  UnsE  St.       %aTatnaz«0,  With:. 


E.  A.  HONEY,  D.  D.  S. 

SUITE:    402  BROWNE  BUILDING  TELEPHONE  357 

KALAMAZOO,       -        -  MICHIGAN 


RUDOLPH  LINTON  GILKEY,  D.  D.  S. 

SUITE:    402  BROWNE  BUILDING  TELEPHONE  357 

KALAMAZOO,       -        -  MICHIGAN 


J  I 


H  anselmans 

CHOCOLATES 

  ARE  THE  BEST   


In  order  to  enjoy  and  relish  the 
good  things  contained  in  this  book, 
it  will  be  necessary  to  keep  your 
teeth  in  order;  this  is  the  advice  of 
a  Dentist  who  has  paid  for  this  space 


Hair  Goods  of   All    Descriptions,  Fancy    Combs,   Brushes    Hair  Pins, 
Hair  Dyes,  Hair  Tonics,  Hair  Balms.    All  kinds  of  high  grade 
Cosmetics.  Hair  Dressing,  Shampooing,  Scalp  Treatments, 
Facial  Massage,  Manicure,  Chiropody. 


SATISFACTION  GUARANTEED. 


Our  Work  it  Second  to  None 


MADAM  COOKE 

124  E.  Main  St.  Phone  824 

Kalamazoo,  Mien. 


-B.  DESENBERG  U  CO.- 

WHOLESALE  GROCERS  and  IMPORTERS 

 SWING  BRAND  CANNED  GOODS  


Automobiles 


Repairing 


LOCHER  &  ROBB 
Sporting  and  Athletic  Goods 

TELEPHONE  1743  J 


Brownell  s   Glove  Store 


A  complete  line  of  the  best  Gloves 
and  Mittens  in  Domestic  and  Im- 
ported Kid,  Silk  and  Lisle 

We  are  the  only  people  in  Kala- 
mazoo who  make  Gloves  to  Order 


315  S.  Burdick  St.  Kalamazoo 


Sign  of  the  Big  Glove 

141  S.  Burdick  St.        MI  Kalamazoo 


Best  Ice  Creams  and    Ices,    Choicest    Reception  Cakes 
and   Finest  Confectionery,  can  always  te  kacl  at 


HARVEY  CANDY  COMPANY 

SOUTH  BURDICK  STREET. 


^fedding  and  Party  Orders   Specially  Cared  for 


THE  CHICAGO,  KALAMAZOO  &  SAGINAW 
 RAILWAY  

"THE  GREAT  INLAND  LAKE  ROUTE" 


It  is  the  ideal  route  for  pleasure  seekers.  Its  patrons  are  carried 
to  the  very  lap  of  nature  where  the  old  cane  pole  and  the  hungry  bass 
dispel  all  thoughts  of  the  busy  world  left  behind.  Nowhere  can  a 
few  days  be  more  enjoyably  passed  for  as  little  expense  than  at  one 
of  the  beautiful  inland  lake  resorts  that  are  reached  by  the  C.  K.  &  S. 

Fishing,  hunting  and  bathing,  an  abundance  of  pure,  sparkling 
drinking  water,  a  prosperous  farming  country  providing  delicious 
butter  and  eggs,  and  pure  milk,  are  the  inducements  offered  a  man 
and  his  family  in  quest  of  a  summer  outing.  Fully  fifteen  lakes  are 
available  to  the  patrons  of  the  Great  Inland  Lake  Route. 


UJork  Called  for  and  Delivered  Satisfaction  Guaranteed 


THE  PARIS 

FRENCH   DRY  CLEANING 
AND  STEAM  DYE  WORKS 
lttr.  and  ltlrs.  T.  Knopf,  managers 


£adie$'  and  6ent$'  Wearing  Hpparel  of 
all  Kinds  Cleaned,  Dyed  and  Repaired. 


Office  and  Works 
222  West  Main  Street. 


FLEXNERS 


—LADIES  OUTFITTERS— 

NEW  LOCATION,  116  EAST  MAIN  ST. 


Largest  Stock  in  tke  City 

OF  TAILOR-MADE  SUITS, 
COATS,  SKIRTS,  WAISTS, 
FURS,  MILLINERY,  BATH 
ROBES,  MUSLIN  UNDER- 
WEAR,  KIMONAS, 
DRESSING  SACQUES,ETC. 


Qviick,  Cheap  Hot  Water 


A  Hot  Bath  while  you  undress 
for  Two  Cents    if  you  use  a 

Humphrey  Crescent 
Instantaneous  Gas 
Water  Heater 

IN  YOUR  BATH  ROOM. 

HANDSOME,  DURABLE,  ECONOMICAL 


■SOLD  BY  ALL  PLUMBERS- 

Send  for  Catalogue  to 


HVMVWREy  CO., 

607  Rose  St.,  Kalamazoo,  Mich.,  D.  S.  A. 


j»    HIGH  GRADE  CONFECTIONERY  MADE  j» 

 AT   

MEABIMBERS 

PALACE  m  SWEETS 


130  WEST  MAIN  ST.  Phone  639-3  R 


MADAME  DOYLE 
 MODISTE  

 WITH  

GILMORE  BROS. 


The  Superior  Quality  of  the  Suppers  at  St.  Luke's, 
is  Largely  Owing  to  the  Superior  Quality  of  the 
Milk,    Cream    and    Butter    Supplied    by  the 


KALAMAZOO  CREAMERY 


Valueless 
Cooking  Receipts 

Are  these  unless  good  Cooking  facilities  are  to  be  had 


A  Gas  Range 

gives  perfect  heat 
regulation  and 
absolute  cleanli- 
ness. 

Broiling,  Baking, 
Frying,  Toasting, 
Roasting,  in  fact 
all  the  dishes 
known  to  the  cul- 
inary art,  become 
most  manageable 
to  the  user   of  a 


Gas  Range 
"Clock  Cooking  Then  Becomes  Possible' 


WELSBACH  LIGHTS  show  you  the 
good  results  too. 


GAS  COMPANY 

Phone  2033  for  a  Representative 


the  HUB  RESTAURANT 

FRY  &  HILL,  Proprietors  &  \  18  East  Main  Street 


LARGE  NEAT  DINING  ROOMS 

 ON  SECOND  FLOOR  


LUNCH  COUNTER 

  ON  FIRST  FLOOR   


PARTY  ORDERS,  BANQUETS,  ETC  will 
have  special  attention*    We  do  our  own  Baking* 


OFFICERS  OF  ST.  LUKE  S  GUILD 

MRS.  C.  C.  PACKARD,  President 

MRS.  GEO.  MCDONALD,  Vice-President 
MRS.  ROSE  B.  NESBIT,  Secretary 

MISS  MARY  DRAKE,  Ass't  Secretary 

MRS,  GEO.  CORNELL,  Treasurer 


^       MEMBERSHIP  74      ^  ^ 


*Bctth   "Robes,     Comforters,  Tads, 
^/Iprorts  and  Uobvels 

 Made  to  Order  

yO  VR  7>A  THOJVA  GB  IS*  S'OLICI&E  2>. 


I 


jl 

ll 

I 


I 


LC  ACQUISITIONS 


0  030  518  674  0 


- 


oho* 


*  *  *  *  a1 


*o  .  t**  S?  «*  ^ 


o 


Deacidified  using  the  Bookkeeper  process. 
Neutralizing  agent:  Magnesium  Oxide 
Treatment  Date:  Jan.  2011 

PreservationTechnologies 

A  WORLD  LEADER  IN  COLLECTIONS  PRESERVATION 

111  Thomson  Park  Drive 
Cranberry  Township,  PA  16066 
(724)779-2111 


P*J 


<fcr  * 


0 


O 


4>r  &  o 


9  K 


*    Jp  V 


o  ■ 


