ee WORCESTER: 
“WISHED 1 BY. 8. A, Ho WL 


: z 185 Maw Sree 


© ae 


fe 
aes Se Re ue tbe 


oe EVEN hethe viii 


eRe ES? (OT PRA eee eer 
EES: TVG VaR FRED HLT < 


eng, | 


2 


| ue 


NUON = 


“al 


nn 


: = = Aas | 
2 ace ae 


€ (\@ BN 


®) © (7 ne) . 
: en 
2S = Ws 
€ B ay ~~ 
3 = f 
. / 
ass y D\/@& ¢ 


_ NEW ENGLAND 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER, 


AND 


FAMILY RECEIPT BOOK. 


a aie 


BY MRS. E. A. HOWLAND. 


STEREOTYPE EDITION. 


WORCESTER: 
PUBLISHED BY S. A. HOWLAND. 


1847 


are 


RAL AAA ee 


tatiana taetintn tn etn th chatindn tata tn het ts nth 


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1845, by 


Ss. A. HOWLAND, 
In the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of Massachusetts. 


COLL LSE CRRA PLR DUBOEVG DON 


wee 


STEREOTYPED AT THE 
BOSTON TYPE AND STEREOTYPE FOUNDRY. 


PREFACE. > 


Tuis work has been compiled with a careful regard to the 
most economical mode of preparing the various dishes for which 
directions have been given ; and is particularly recommended to 
the attention of those who would cook well at a moderate ex- 
pense. Many of the receipts are new, having been prepared, or 
furnished, expressly for this work. Selections have also been 
made from various works on this subject, such as have been 
proved to be good by use. : 

The Medicinal Department will be found to contain a select 

number of useful and tried remedies for the various ills and 
accidents that occur in almost every family. Although not in- 
tended as a substitute for the family physician, still, there are 
times when his attendance or advice cannot be had at the mo- 
ment when most needed. It is then that the receipts in this 
department will be found to be of some service. 
_ In conclusion, we would tender our thanks to those friends 
who have kindly furnished some of their choice and valuable 
receipts; and of those into whose hands our little work may 
come, we would bespeak a fair trial before passing judgment 
against it. 


~ 


ADVERTISEMENT 


TO THE SECOND EDITION. 


EncouraGeEp by the very favorable reception that our humble. 
labors have met, in the rapid sale of the first edition, of fifteen 
hundred copies,'‘in about fifteen weeks, and the demand still con- 
tinuing, we have improved the time by endeavoring to make 
the present edition more worthy of patronage, if possible, than 
the first. 

We have thoroughly revised the work by leaving out such 
receipts as were not of practical utility, have improved 
many that have been retained, and have added more than fifty 
new ones, which have been tried and proved to be good and 
economical. We have also improved the Medicinal Department, 
which we consider as valuable as any part of the book, by giv- 
ing several additional articles. 


INDEX. 


- 


The figures in the Index refer to the number of the receipt, and not to 
the page. 


No. 


Apple Jelly... istic hea care Seay eer 246 
op ALIN DIM cs sipateay= KEANE Sf 134 
DEGUS MAKE cos ces aiselcleiie sec e ee e265 
Beetia-la-moden cre scars se criewe en etoo 
Steak, to broil. .......0. ate te pees 
——-— LO rOAST.. cece cece enee 194 


\ : No. 
Cakes, Shrewsbury .....0cecceceeeee04 
SOR Mics oreo seaietein teal alent 

Spon Gesicsers sc shes v ee oo tO oO 
Tea. digedeg sew ea dncay hUs 
Temperance scacasiele seed, OF 
Wedding 200, os os sien ene 40st0 OU 


BEET sa etalstaneigere e sbaatolsts attest 267 to 269| Calf’s Head and ee to boil......209 
Biscuit, Breads) 08 ba einiarslecslnie 18| Chicken Brothtis sc ccsdestns antes seeleonO 
—\Brown Breads. eck ascseeecs -17| Chowder....... Ngee eS. 234 
BULL ers cat cee e inka sais ayaxete 26 | Coffee, to malte...cscicse ep nceicemccts 

ignte. sects. Dolasatesia wala oeeenl-| COOKIES < cee dnwigcarpiels teins eisietats POE eo 
——- Rice........0.......- Pe doe es 21) Cranberry Partsy cincg ve vie'ees eae ioe aee 
Rich Miles Gee e esa vee 20} Carrant Jenyi< eae. ab eset sate ble eee 

TPL CB siieces dblele sissies a/sisicicwae ae ok Oi] WOUSLALUS Tem eUliess cheteeatnemts veeee 2180 
Boiled Dish Meat. ...........00 infor hae —— Cream..... Sheek ae ee eee 
Flank.. Seer arate ra ele ewes RiGe dete eb woe cisesee sly matne 
Bread, Brown. ....-..eeeeeeeeeeee4, 11 | — Without Megs, 3. iscssb ee ve 178 
Cream ‘Tiaftare 0 ck dioceses 'o4.00) INTs LO a VCO aerials Sidieiolevenetoe ee 
Dyspepsia ........ o ese ain's cieie 0/0) LOGE H TILT A yece sales eieeertee races At to 80 

to prevent moulding.......-.. 31| Ducks and Geese, to roast. .........2i4 
POtalOze sepa clas one ne fee e eis 2 Dumplings 3, A Pilea aswate esses kod, los 
RiGewa wale. eiereislete tiers ons eeee 04 MSGS; 10 PYOSCEVE iamecbmle steeceie a . 260 

PUIDOR Sec eres veers cals aioe clemstegn pte 1 Fish, LO: DOUSS canoe eee Paina tne aoee 

Rye and Indian....... eoeess. 12|——- to broil, salt Cod. ............231 

PONT MIE ty Og eas one aloraty siiee ae 13 | ==. tol Frys. Doels cate ate pew eine eerpielee soe, 
PPOM MO Matas dere as paletuslels eiaislale 8} Flank, houed.: osopine geaCe ee ele ene! 
Wheat: Meal. i8 2 ins neg ou so eee LE IRE JACKS, Jo mene ee eee eieas ey Ohana 
Wisconsin. ,...... cebvcscecene ff PTOSURG tO Cake, oeniascie Felon ee ML, Oe 

PY Cast eeR eine oi ura a watela ert 10| Geese andeDucks, to rcast..... wists eee 
Brot sses ves eet Bes ae dee 235, 236 | Ginger Beer. ag. ale satee agstoibe mele ee S07 
BRUNI ect alee wee ee eta oleae «ot, 92 Gingerbread. ss. Wa os nase es sie a) 00) OL 
Walees: ‘Redford: c\ssu ceive be a leis 03 GIAVY SALE B isis ele ayaa elena stolatets Arpt 
Buck wheat .aisi\coc.ceese os ana 751-Grape Strip. dae. eves slave Maree eee 

WALA WEY ise cick nins cs paseieaniee 49|Grucl, Sago and Indian ...... 237, 238 

ma CIBVE icc hes Bees oeleins ers tin oie 63}. Ham, to boilcc. wae Wale Savoie sleipiews scUE? 
-———— Composition........... zatenh Ys 69| Head and Pluck, Calf’s...........-209 
———_ Cup ... eee eee eae es ain ate 32, 33| Heating the Oven. MR eo isha hors ae 185 
ee Currant 2 Ga ticls caielea’e tise ..-99| Indian Gruel.... Mi njsiereatyi tei ee ie elatet=ts 238 
——- Election.......... BP eT at = alos) J LIME Rs ce sus stds orale « seisare wrae algeareatehe pO. 
eT UIE joins alain pie sion.cre cine 109, 101} Jelly from Apples. .2..2-.-dessasem eon 
——— Gillet oo. c. ccc e ecto ee soveere lO?! Mackerel, to roll... cessiresseGhieaeoe 
a GN ET SE es 52 ae Se letoia eae ninre as97} Man 06S.) iii.) kla enue nema eatin 
———  Graham.....sseseeeses sows eel05) Mead, Sassifras s))cuncs seen cements 
—— Griddle...... a ravetid ota are ate aerate 22.| Meat, tO cure sss. cube sidy sekeeneeeees 
—— Johnny ............ Bate stenstaras 24 \bakitig ......ss0 neeaeieweaiiemnen 
—— Loaf......-..... sie osiele td tO M7 boiling .... ces ket ceecotepes OO 
— Measure..... Sy detsicie aisle sieig sea broiling’ 9.6) . cue wel pean teat Oe 
tA. tS, New VERY Sie cletmegtt = oars SE UISiC OE frying? jes le 6 ef ehadaeean enone 
——— Plain............---.--.83, 106] ——— to keep hot. .....-..sceeeees 203 
——. Plum aA SR TADEA DUDES CESS Het Fpseiis pressing J). 7. ives wee scree eee 
—— Raised ..........2625.6.,..--39| Mutton-with Oysters. ....5-0+0+006 220 
——— Seed ......c0..ceeeeee Sd £0 90 to roast..... oiplaie.s sie-000\e-aeis' ml OO 
——— _ BHO on carecccerceseseseeceedd| OVEN, tO heat ..cceccccecccvecvecccldD 


INDEX. 


. No. 
MEMPRUDR Wot cabictsn<ceus eevee Ol, 62 
Bees LOC ie) oie ag! aicw a/c) orale o vishe.aia's oe CO4 
’ Peaches, to keep dry..............240 
———— to keep fresh. ............239 
PRE Biel raey ale taidie d/clelsatkiseise ene «eles e200 
(PEACH DANCE. 35.0 sc cece osu Heese ctl 
PEND DLChaas ac diccciclecie's's sis el69, 170 
PRTG R Gee aires isess ces nsel (lt 
——- CHICKEN 62. csc eee cect ecco el 4 
——- Chicken. Pot........ecesee000el175 
a PWUSLAF Gs oc cebiece ds canccesiccvl (6 
ee MTLOI, sividiainiols's oe siee'ce's cies oLOt 
- 165, 166 


ma INEIMOD) Se dive ice wieleweees« 
—- Mitton .........6.. 
aA O MOE a cele waidiethis cia ce ole vows FOL 
SUEOL pA) Mein ictole'ale'sialcles odalevs'ceLOo 
MUD LDPC) G4. kis wen's tb vcdece'ssoeLi2 
PEROT OMe iislcs sik Scheie ates ace ealO 
—- Pumpkin ...............-167, 168 
SALMO: ous acc Ueslcdcaseewscwvel (2 
MEIC iaisateenite tceceese eee ee hed 


Whortleberry 
Pip GUO amiceavitts sels davies nee o2190 
-——— ts bake..... Sepeiaie Sus eiarsscara'pi<' a ofere-gulc> 


eeteee 


Pork, Leg of, to boil ..... 0... <000.. 204, 


GOVLN crane, \<:he 0 So SESS cance, 10) 
to roast.... iejereta v4 Oe, 
Bat eae CODRING scission sismns 40022 
Potato Starch.... wae eek 
pee Sliced wats els ewivivwacieoece dee ol 
PrOserves, APPles. 6.00. se sine neces 240 
MMEDIVS sis/e aiwleieis)s 66 oes oie 5240 
BO UIEVAMES oie 66 510-00 2.64 e200 
—$—__—_—— GHAJES.. derccesccecsceesdi9 
PMC MGS e cictelelaicccid'e's ares ies verte 

SPC RES s/n slate cieisid Wel ols)y\o.< ce Si 
——__—4 QUIINCES. ». 0 cer eccrcees O47 
RaSDUGEICS: 0. siecccivec.c cote 
Tomatoes. .... 255, 256 
- Whortleberries...........244 
BVO ISIN SM CAbs sce siuisisieln'nis alavieis Ge aco c0l 
Pudding, in Haste..... aye sisi se 
——— (Observations 02..........109 
————- Apple ...1---esceeeeer ee LAD 
————- Baked Apple......... Sees ae 
EPEMEACE india oun wasn id dicte imaiar se LOG: 
————- Indian...... ad Sipa sc eelas es LOS 
Sanna RICE a ola cig saad sacs cs sdt05-120 
MARCONI sag aisiks eeniee tod Loe 
Birds NCSL os. occ vicwesie's «135 
Boiled Apple ........114, 149 
seep eI I6 
WU SUGTEL Lie Sinis'< aeeeine-~:core kL 


eaereenseoreses 


eoc5ece 


——— 


£ 
” 


awe acres bees |\- 


11 


No. 
Pudding, Bread iescs ss cceese LIQ) 147 
————- Bread and Butter.........141 
BuDiijicesciseboecviccces esl 
————- Cracker Plum ............J13 
ROUT cc ceic ce cy ea seleie's caha 
PTUIG HEE sacle sajee'p b aacicieie don 
Green Corn ...0.e00000000128 
Ground Rice ....eeceeesee 106 
Indian Hasty .........-..160 
—_———- Little Citron .............157 
Plants. Sc oo asa seis eeleiseinsihdo 
Plat RiGe aossisis cee tees 140 
————- Plum boiled .............15l 
Quaking Plum...........136 
————- Quince..................144 
Rice; FOUL... caseswcsee tec 153 
Rice MAPK. se wice ees ee's otto 
ALO ss ciclaa nicine cas tcuntOr lie 
DAUCO LOM, sc ctegesecllsLlOs LIT 
Sunderland. cose cceeedsels 
——- Tapioca....... 143 
Rolls..... ile cisle dd pcivlale blealne se mtionc aaa 
BUONOED cd -clalee Wesciesles a'siorsiste sleeievee dO 
Round of Beef........ a Sibiielvie-gutae sieeOO 
Rusk... Ratienises eas ene edOS 


— 


eeseecoees 


weoeeesseoce 


SausaAse MEAL, ls oscicc.© ein sieid ects niagmcoe 
ME MOPV IMLOH Un cra aieigin aie @/6-a;e, saieigiwie 6 eloreoe 
Shad), £0 Doi .....00..ccsssisiesccaiicestoe 
Soups..... Suwabivs ce ccm anale te pkey ae 
SONASG is aro ik ic /o.os 6s ha o @ Sige nce’ Udi cinielae eM 
Btared.-. ss ceurereloraleieioie ein cretutereesrs Mal ged 
PURI ERTA sin: sss & cisrasere sishaisieiwieisrciets oe Uae ee 
Sirup from Grapes ......ccceesseee2200 
Wanted Beets 5:4 2s's10.ckn agencies see weet 
Thanksgiving Dinner, .......+.+-+-275 
WEGASES oars vale Sapo qainidesiste ais's cleat ge eo 
TOMatO Figs... vices asic oaecvosiee sec cool 
Ketchop...s:sssi<es. cessed ede 
Omelet...... wialaiaieiele cveia:bie aie Ore 
Preserve. ....scceeenes 200) 20) 

WAUCE Ls se cenleaslm ees ei siele ge coee 
Tripe, to pickle 4% aie < ove ceseccnnee 20k 
Turkey, roast. ......-cccscccsesesetle 
ao WUT LEC la/e lots afarelalsiretetnere statis cede 
Weal, Leg of . 0c ccceeveccncensecnsloo 
FOASCS cisieieclas cinsiois su actos eee. 


Venison, TOASt . 005 cccuke ns cncwme ede 
Wafers. ..--. slelG bia eldia'e,o.cie's sia tree Oe 
Water, £0 Punty. csc. iccerceciesien oo 2dU 
W ONES, «os so vcienes secs osiensenns «gO 


Medicinal Department. 


Accidents by Fire. ............282, 283 
ASTD siav as Ae AS AR OBA OEE Sasa 
Blackberry Jam....... 
Bleeding at the Nose......... Belnene 277 
Biceding, Remedy to stop.......... 278 
Blow on the Head. ......eeeeceeeee 279 
Burns and Scalds...... Matias sisiessle soe 
Four aL VGsFOr sale w as wives s S's ase Ol 
MONET ese sis sae cieses nsec cece cca ca 


” < 


Cahcer and Sores... ...0yccccsesesceoGl 
Canker and Sore Mouth............292 
Castor Oils sccacewee' Ss glitais os eetaaUO 
Chapped Hands. ......... Bare TAP 
Chilblains........ NOR sled cra Cun sisle METOLOS: 
CAI GON tai etait PICEA «6 e289 


eoee 


STOWE. cecccccccccccocedasee2ld | 


CONSUMPTION. ....eeccresceesces cigee 


OGENSi es <velsice Wks sin'clee aetasainacaqeeon 
Coughs.....erceceescessecvccceses sud 


12 


No. 
Cramp in the Stomach, .......6+.+-295 
CLOUD ies vio: 2e sine siord kOe g aialacints ote Ves 
WULSu sews celnacviae's sas sided se wnaen col 
Deatnesss as psc Mece de Dead. cee s Keles NOOO 
DACA 2 Salesian sy Aclailade Gow eeBOe 
LOPS Yc careiclo-sieis oie eeieete + 02303 
DOWNING )\...e cs aisle siests Boe eh eas FOU 
Dy s@ntery ios ccs dewa ve oa ea haee rec sok 
Warachesaoses ss a emer oes | 
Elderberry Sirupyisie-isbanees ees dele 
Elixir Asthmatic.........- Soe otowiaso Le) 
MSIE PLO; tl acetate erat aioe caer 
Byes; Inflamed. Sc .essahieeone syeeo00 
Eye, to remove Mote from .........307 
Felons. 312 
PPEVOER (ra2\s ccsiee (od ee settee SSR ENeES 
Bigs and Senta, {nes ove aaa 
Hire, Hseape |...) descaneeas bers ees eo 
—— to extinguish. ............286, 287 
GHA VEL reo. nwa cristae sitigiots Meslay <ceiaipw rane? 
Hair Restorative... <.ccsaweeds seweceo le 
PLEAD ACHE, oo eh seal siencleata enacts See 


eeroveees 


eeeosceesseceeeseeeeeressesens 


INDEX. 


No. 
Heartburn. s-0'stece ara Heseainalanen eee eae ae 
Hiccough ss: ss0s cece cleaneleawiesies sees 
Hy drophobia.ss sie seistencstsiaie scl aieiie ort 
Indigestion, Remedy for ...........d21 
Lip Salve... « cases unltis eiwiapaatacteie eae cee 
Opodeld oe. .c..ciasce aalseninieemin eee 
Pile. Blectuary. cdacwiseissets «arena reek 
——- OintMente 52:6. esse ccevweseecuued 
POISON. <. sieeoncaalee cass meee ara ee 
Rheumatism, ecisiewsascaeemeeeeee sacle 
RING WOM ss sisia paiet cael wes ema eiewOee 
Runround on the Finger. ....++..--327 
Salve for Burns. .ecicpieccs sais eae eseoue 
Sea Sicknegse css sivejswacacrpielomee sivas ear 
Sore Throat. 
Thoroughwort Sirup..........ce.s.sac0 
TOOtHACHEs . Gale ginlcisincan slomisiom ei vials praaters 
Washiiis swscissens cleo Se sie. cei 
Vomiting, 10 StCPiciciec ow cieselns Spiele aoe 
WALES: css cine win mia cues aareieee tee ican 
Whooping Cough. .....0..ssccesesedad 


i yieaa'gs wala Mey Tea wakoOU 


Miscellaneous, 


Apples, to keep the Year round.....340 
Ants, Red...... Spas ele ea Dee waeecsil 
Bed of Husks, cheap, good .........345 
Blacking, for Shoes........341, 342, 343 
Boots, Water-proof .......2+2e0005.344 
Butter, good, in Winter. ...........346 
Cabbage Red asisreccscese secs eee edue 
Cement for €hina.\s2. 22... 1. dba, S00 
Cheese, to preserve from Insects... .383 
Chloride OF Limes. lis cies se sels see cOe 
w@ologne Water. \. cicsecleccses Aer our, 
Corn, to preserve for boiling. .......349 
Crust in Tea-kettles. ... 2307 
Cucumber Plants, to preserve ......352 
— ——— to pickle. . Sete tr eons 
Flies, to drive off........... 
to prevent injuring Picture- 
HTAMES in esac ence esth sone 
LeasingGiHOrses es asgsse sae cOOk 
Powis; to'fatten’ 0s. sees esses eniesous) 
PXOZEH {PUMPS cise se ace owas sense aoe 
Gates, to prevent creaking..........379 
Glue i Portable sce en's’ cee s case 2395 
Good Bulessui ithe stses euwsesaperseee 
Grease-Spots, a Liquid to remove ...396 
Hint to Working Classes. .........-.398 
Horses, to break ...... ae ne 
SCLalCHOs 1M) as 'ces ec ven ew Ours 
teased Dy Plies. 0. 0.0. <a0ss saad 


eeeeeooee 


Ice, to remove from Door-Steps.....375 
Ink, to Make.......sceceecsecegees doo 
—— Spots, to remove.....+...+000.d03 
—— Spots on Floors. ......060+0+2.368 
Indelible Ink. eas sia nivineisoislnel Mem pinta eater 
Tron Pots; to mend osc ssaa tawemsoos 
Jefferson’s*two Rules. .....¢020040-390 
Lamps, to prevent smoking ........364 
Lavender-W ater. cio. tacsucencasees sop L 
Linen, Mildew from.........++.+..393 
Looking-Glasses, to clean..........373 
Molasses, boil it... io. sc ceesesgecs e004 
MOSQUILOES btcasdauy waeesetes eae eun 
Oil, to extract from Board or Stone. .394 
Paint fora Barit--1asaese sepa os sales ou 
Pitch, Tar, &c., to take out ........362 
Potatoes, to keep good .........0+..301 

Wateryincestnes ssmecss ecco 
Pump, PLOZen canes evienia ees slice eso 
Putty, Hard, to soften ..............3/0 
Rats, Bait/fori.c5 fsa cscs adieesesecod 
CO GESETOY secu: e's ram Siegieeleste eOuO 
to Grive: Off Kinscoee ann cscs ee eoe 
Rose“W ates cas ceamaneensneicsviece gous 
Smelling Salts jis icc ne easier s satewesty 
Soft Goap. ...ccscevecicwecncssvcserald 
Stoves, cracked, to mend .......--.378 
Tool CloSet ....ccescovvierevsvesee e400 


THE 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


1, Ripe Bread. 


Breap made of wheat flour, when taken out of the oven, 
is unprepared for the stomach. ‘It should go through a 
change, or ripen, before it is eaten. Young persons, or 
persons in the enjoyment of vigorous health, may eat 
bread immediately after being baked, without any sensi- 
ble injury from it; but weakly and aged persons cannot, 
and none can eat ‘such, without doing harm to the diges- 
tive organs. © Bread, after being baked, goes through a 
change similar to the change in newly-brewed beer, or 
newly-churned buttermilk, neither being healthy until 
after the change. Duiing the change in bread, it sends 
off a large portion of carbon, or unhealthy gas, and im- 
bibes a large portion of oxygen, or healthy gas. Bread 
has, according to the computation of physicians, one fifth 
more nutriment in it when ripe, than it has when just out 
of the oven. It not only has more nutriment, but imparts 
a much greater degree of cheerfulness. He that eats old 
ripe bread will have a much greater flow of animal 
spirits than he would were he to eat unripe bread. 
Bread, as before observed, discharges carbon, and im- 
bibes oxygen. One thing, in connection with this thought, 
should be particularly noticed by all housewives. It is, 
_to let the bread ripen where it can inhale the oxygen in 
a pure state. Bread will always taste of the air that sur- 
rounds it while ripening — hence it should ripen where 
the air is pure. It should never ripen in a cellar, nor in 
a close cupboard, nor in a bedroom. ‘The noxious 
vapors of a cellar, or a cupboard, never should enter into 
and form a part of the bread we eat. Bread should be 


14 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


light, well baked, and properly ripened, before it should 
be eaten. i 

Bread that is several days old may be renewed, so as 
to have all the freshness and lightness of new bread, by 
simply putting it into a common steamer over a fire, and 
steaming it half or three quarters of an hour. ‘The ves- 
sel under the steamer, containing the water, should not 
be more than half full; otherwise the water may boil up 
into the steamer, and wet the bread. After the bread is 
thus steamed, it should be taken out of the steamer, and 
wrapped loosely in a cloth, to dry and cool, and remain 
so a short time, when it will be ready to be cut and used. 
It will then be like cold, new bread. 


9.” Potato Bread. 


Take a dozen and a half of good mealy potatoes well 
boiled; peel them, and mash them fine while warm; add 
two quarts of cold water, and then strain the mixture 
through a colander; add flour enough to make a thick 
batter; then a pint of good lively yeast; if the yeast is 
sweet, no saleratus is necessary; if sour, a very little 
saleratus; let the sponge set, until it is well fermented. 
With this sponge you may make a large or a small quan- 
tity of bread by adding flour and water or milk; if a 
small quantity, it may be put into the oven very soon; if 
the quantity be large, it must stand longer, or over night. 
Put in double the usual quantity of salt, but no shorten- 
ing. Let the dough stand in a place moderately warm, 
but not near the fire, unless it is to be baked imme- 
diately. Milk or water may be used, but water is the 
best, for the sponge mixed with water keeps sweet the 
longest. ‘The bread will be very light, sweet, and whole- 
some, having in it neither acids nor alkalies, to neutralize 
each other. ‘he greater the proportion of potatoes, the 
lighter the bread will be; but if the proportion is very 
large, the bread will be so light as to dry up, if kept 
several days. 


3. Wheat Meal Bread. 


* Take two quarts of wheat meal, half a cup of mo- 
lasses, a tea-cup full of lively yeast; mix up with warm 


* All the receipts having a star prefixed to them, were prepared, or fur- 
nished, expressly for this work. c 


~ 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 15 


water; let it stand in a warm place an hour and a half; 
if necessary, add a little saleratus; bake it an hour and a 
half. : 
| 4, Brown Bread. 


* Put the Indian meal in your bread-pan, sprinkle a 
little salt among it, and wet it thoroughly with scalding 
water. When it is cocl, put in your rye; add two gills 
of lively yeast, and mix it with water as stiff as you can 
knead it. Let it stand an hour and a half; in a cool 
place in summer, on the hearth in winter. It should be 
put into a very hot oven, and baked three or four hours. 


d. Dyspepsia Bread. 


* Three quarts unbolted wheat meal; one quart soft 
water, warm, but-not hot; one gill of fresh yeast; one 
gill of molasses, or not, as may suit the taste. If you put 
this in the oven at the exact time when it is risen enough, 
saleratus will not be necessary. 


6. Rice Bread. ; i 


Boil a pint of rice, soft; add a pint of yeast; then, 
three quarts of wheat flour; put it to rise in a tin or 
earthen vessel, until it has risen sufficiently; divide it 
into three parts; then bake it as other bread, and you, 
will have three large loaves. : - 


7.: Wisconsin Loaf Bread. 


Stir Indian meal in skim milk, to the consistency of 
pancake batter, about two quarts. Add two tea-spoonfuls 
of molasses, one of saleratus,.twvo of shortening, and two 
teacups of wheat flour. Stir in the evening, bake in the 
morning, and eat while hot. 


8. Sponge Bread. | 


* Make a batter of flour and water, thickness of flat- 
jacks; put it in a tin pail, and set this pail*in a kettle ~ 
of warm water, five or six hours, till it has risen; then 
mould it hard by adding more flour, and make it into 
loaves in basins, and let it stand till it begins to crack 
open. It is now ready to be put into the oven, and will 
bake in from thirty to forty-five minutes. 


16 - ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


“ 


~ 9, Cream Tartar Bread. 


* One quart of flour, two tea-spoonfuls of cream tartar, 
one of saleratus, two and a half cups of milk; bake 
twenty minutes. 


10. Yeast Bread. 


Three pints of milk or water to one cup of yeast; stir 
in flour enough to make it a little thicker than batter, 
rise it over night, mould it up, and let it stand till it rises, 
then bake it. 


11, Brown Bread, made of Indian and Wheat Meal. 


* Take one quart of Indian meal, and one quart of 
wheat meal, one quart of sour milk, half a tea-cupful 
molasses, a heaping tea-spoonful of saleratus, and a little 
salt; stir it with a spoon, and bake it, in a tin or iron 
basin, about two hours. 


19, Rye and Indian Bread, 


* Take about two quarts of Indian meal, and scald it; 
then add as much rye meal, a tea-cupful of molasses, 
half a ‘pint of lively yeast; if the yeast is sweet, no sal- 
eratus is necessary; if sour, put in a little; let it stand 
from one to two hours, till it rises; then bake it about 
three hours. 


13. Nour Milk Bread. 


Have ready your flour, sweeten your milk with a little 
saleratus, add a little salt, make it rather soft, and pour it 
into your pan, and bake it. 


14, Potato Yeast. 


* Five large potatoes boiled and mashed, three pints of 
boiling water, flour enough to make it a little thicker 
than flat-jacks, and one cup of yeast. This is enough 
to rise five loaves of bread, which may be, mixed with 
water, or milk, and will rise enough while your oven is . 
heating. Save out enough of this yeast for your next 
baking. 

15. Rolls, 


Warm an ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, then 
add a spoonful and a half of yeast, and a little salt. Put 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 17 


two pounds of flour in a pan, and mix in the above in- 
gredients. Let it rise an hour — or over night, in a cool | 
place; knead it well, make into seven rolls, and bake 

them in a quick oven. Add half a tea-spoonful of sal- 
eratus, just as you put the rolls into the baker. : 


16. Short Rolls. 


Take about two pounds of flour; add a piece of but- 
ter half the size of an egg, a little salt, two spoonfuls, 
of yeast, and mix it with warm milk; make it into a light 
dough, and let it stand by the fire all night; should it 
sour, put in a little saleratus. Bake them in a quick 
oven. 

17, Brown Bread Biscuit. 


Two quarts of Indian meal, a pint anda half of rye, 
one cup of flour, two spoonfuls of yeast, and a table- 
spoonful of molasses, It i is well to add a little saleratus 
to yeast almost always, just as you put it into the article. 
Let it rise over night. 


18, Bread Biscuit. 


Three pounds of flour, half a pint of Indian meal sift- _ 
ed, a little butter, two spoonfuls of lively yeast ; set it be- 
fore the fire to rise over night ; mix it with warm water. 


. 19, Tea Biscuit. 


* Take one pint of sour milk, one tea-spoonful of 
saleratus, flour enough to knead up, a small piece of lard 
or butter, a little salt; roll it out, and cut it into small 
biscuits. 


90, Light Biscuit, 


Take two pounds of flour, a pint of buttermilk, half a 
tea-spoonful of saleratus ; put into the buttermilk a small 
piece of butter or lard rubbed into the flour; make it © 
about the consistency of bread before baking. 


91, Rice Biscuit. 


Two pounds of flour, a tea-cupful of rice, well boiled, 
two spoonfuls of yeast; mix it with warm water; when 
risen enough, bake it. 

2 


18 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER, 


f : » 


2), Griddle Cakes, 


Rub three ounces of butter into a pound of flour with 
a little salt, moisten it with sweet buttermilk to make it 
into paste, roll it out, and cut the cakes with the cover of 
your dredging-box, and put them upon a griddle to bake. 


93, Short Cake. f 


Rub in a very small bit of shortening, or three table- 
spoonfuls of cream, with the flour; put a tea-spoonful of 
dissolved saleratus into your sour milk, and. mix the cake 
pretty stiff, to bake quick. 


34, Superior Johnny-Cake. 


* Take one quart of milk, three eggs, one tea-spoonful 
saleratus, one teacup of wheat flour, and Indian meal 
sufficient to make a batter of the consistency of pancakes. 
Bake quick, in pans previously buttered, and eat it warm 
with butter or milk. ‘The addition of wheat flour will 
be found to be a great murayes in the art of making 
these cakes. 


25. Rich Milk Biscuit. 


Two pounds of sifted flour, eight ounces butter; two 
eggs, three gills of milk, a gill and a half of yeast. Cut © 
the butter into the milk and warm it slightly, sift the flour 
into a pan, and pour the milk and butter into it. Beat 
the eggs and pour them in, also the yeast; mix all well 
together with a knife. Flour your moulding-board, put 
the lump of dough on it, and knead it very hard. Then 
cut the dough in small pieces, and knead them into round 
balls; prick and set them in buttered pans to rise till light, 
probably about an hour, and bake them in a moderate 
oven. 


95. Butter Biscuit. 


Eight ounces of butter, two pounds of flour sifted, half 
a pint of milk or cold water, a salt-spoonful of salt. Cut 
up the butter in the flour and put the salt to it, wet it toa 
stiff dough with the milk or water, mix it well with a 
knife. Throw some flour on the moulding-board, take 
the dough out of the pan, and knead it very well. Roll i 
out into a large, thick sheet, and beat it very hard on both 


R 


ed 


ECONOMICAL HOU SEKEEPER. 19 


sides with the rolling-pin. Beat it a long time, cut it out, 
with a tin or cup, into small, round, thick cakes. Beat 
each cake on both sides with the rolling-pin, prick them 
with a fork, put them in buttered pans, and bake them to 
a light brown in a slow oven. 


97, Common Toast, 


* Put a lump of butter in your spider, set it over the 
fire, and pour some water from the tea-kettle; when the 
butter is melted, put in some thickening, made of flour, 
and milk, and water, and stir it all together; have your 
bread, either brown or white, toasting, and immerse it all 
over in the toast. If your bread is old and dry, dip it in 
hot water before you put it in the toast. 


98, Cream Toast 


* Is made in the same way, by using cream iatetd of 
butter. 
29, Yeast Cakes, 


To have good yeast in summer is a desirable object 
with every housewife. She may have such, by the follow- 
ing simple process : — 

Boil a single handful of hops (which every farmer can 
and ought to raise, to the extent of household wants) in 
two or three quarts of water; strain and thicken the 
fiquor, when hot, with rye flour; then add two or three 
small yeast cakes, to set the mass. If this is done at 
evening, it will be fit for use early next morning. Re- 
serve a pint of this yeast, which thicken with Indian 
meal, make into small cakes the size of crackers, and 
dry them in the shade for future use. In this way the 
yeast is always fresh and active. Yeast cakes kept a long 
time are apt to become rancid, and lose their virtues 
The fresher the cakes, the better the yeast. 


80. Yeast. 


Boil one pound of good flour, a quarter of a pound 
of hrown sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons of water, 
for one hour. When milk-warm, bottle it and cork it 
close, and it will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. One 
pint of the yeast will make eighteen lbs. of bread. 


& 


20 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


dl, To preserve Bread, or prevent it from moulding, 

Bread that is kept in a damp place, or not used soon 
after a heavy rain, is apt to collect a kind of moss or 
mould. ‘This can be easily prevented, by mixing a small 
quantity of arrow-root with the flour, before the dough is 
ready for the oven. It is also useful in preparing sea 
biscuit for long voyages. 


o2, Cup Cake, No. 1, 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, and 
four eggs, well beat together, and baked twenty minutes, 
in pans or cups. 

* This same quantity, with currants or raisins added, 
makes a verv good loaf cake. 


33 Cup Cake, No, 2, 


* Four cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of 


butter, one cup of cream, four eggs, one nutmeg, half a 
tea-spoonful of saleratus, one cup of raisins, and one of 


currants. 
84, Election Cake. 


Four pounds of flour; three quarters of a pound of 
butter; four eggs; one pound of sugar; half a pint of 
good yeast; wet it with milk, as soft as can be moulded 
on a board. Set it to rise over night in winter; in warm 


weather, three hours is usually enough for it to rise. - 


Bake it about three quarters of an hour. ° 


39. Sponge Cake, No. 1. 


The weight of six eggs in sugar, the weight of four 
eggs in flour, a little rose-water. ‘The whites and yolks 
of ten eggs should be beaten thoroughly and separately. 
The eggs and sugar should be well beaten together; but 
after the flour is sprinkled, it should not be stirred a 


moment longer than is necessary to mix it well; it should 


be poured into the pan, and got into the oven with all 
possible expedition. Twenty minutes is about long 
enough to bake it. . 

36. Sponge Cake, No. 2 


* Four large eggs, two cups of flour, two cups of 
sugar, even full; beat the two parts of the eggs separate, 


y 


RT 


f 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. . 21 


\ & 

\ 
the white to a froth, then beat them together, then stir in 
the flour, and without delay put it into the oven. 


$7, Cheap Sponge Cake, No. 3. 


Four eggs, three cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one 
tea-spoonful of saleratus, flour enough to make it a good 
stiff batter, a little salt and spice, quick oven. Bake 
it twenty minutes. 


a8. Rice Flour Sponge Cake, No, 4, 
It is made like other sponge cake, except that you use 
three quarters of a pound of rice flour, thirteen eggs, 
leaving out four whites, and add a little salt. 


a9, Raised Cake. 


* Four pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, half a 
pound of sugar, one pint of new milk, one pint of yeast; 
when risen, put it in the oven, and bake it till you can 
put a knitting needle in, and draw it out clean. 


4), Caraway Cake. 


Take one pound of doi three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, half a pound of butter, a glass of rose-water, four 
eggs, and half a tea-cup of caraway seed, — the materials 
well rubbed together, and beat up. Drop them from a 
spoon on tin sheets, and bake them twenty or thirty min- 
utes, in rather a slow oven. 


41, Loaf Cake, No. 1. 


* Four pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, one pint 
of yeast, three eggs, two nutmegs, one pound of raisins ; 
rub half the sugar and butter when you mix it, let it rise, 
then rub the rest of the butter and sugar, and pour it into 
pans, and bake immediately. 


4), Loaf Cake, No. 2. 


* Three pounds of flour, one pound and a half of but- 
ter, 0 pound and a quarter of sugar, one pound of 
raisins, one pint of yeast, ten eggs; spice to your taste. 

_ 


43, Loaf Cake, No. 3. 


Two pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, “quarter 
of a pound of butter, two eggs, a gill of sweet yeast, half 
ae 


Y 


a) ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


an ounce of cinnamon, a large spoonful of rose-water ; if 
it is not about as thin as good white bread dough, add a 
little milk. Bake it about three quarters of an hour. 


44, Loaf Cake, No. 4. 


* Five eggs, two large tea-cupfuls of molasses, the 
same of brown sugar rolled fine, the same of fresh butter, 
one cup of rich milk, five cups of flour sifted; add pow- 
dered allspice, cloves, and ginger, to your liking. Cut up 
the butter in the milk, warm them slightly, warm also the 
molasses, and stir it into the milk and butter, then stir in 
gradually the sugar, and let it cool. Beat the eggs very 
light, and stir them into the mixture alternately with the 
flour; add the ginger and other spice, and stir the whole 
very hard. Add half a pound of currants or raisins, 
and bake it in a moderate oven. 


45. Loaf Cake, very nice, No. 6. 


* One pound of flour, three eggs, one cup of sugar, 
one of butter, one pound of raisins, half a pound of cur- 
rants, two tea-spoonfuls of rose-water, nutmeg, one cup 
of cream, one tea-spoonful of saleratus. 


46. Cheap Loaf Cake, No. 6. 


Two cups of flour, one cup of molasses, two eggs well 
beat up, half a cup of currants, half a cup of raisins, 
half a tea-spoonful of cloves, the same of nutmegs, one 
tea-spoonful of saleratus, half a cup of butter. 


47, Loaf Cream Cake, No. 7, 


* Twelve cups of fléur, seven cups of sugar, six eggs, 
one pint of cream, one tea-spoonful of saleratus; salt and 
spice to suit your taste. This is enough for two loaves; 
put raisins or currants in one of them. 


48. Wedding Cake, No, 1. 


* Four pounds of flour, four pounds of sugar, three of 
butter, forty eggs, five pounds of stoned raisins, three 
pounds of currants, one ounce of mace, half an ounce 
of nutmeg, six tea-spoonfuls of rose-water, four tea-spoon- 
_ fuls of cream of tartar,-stirred in the flour, two tes-spoon- 
fuls of saleratus well dissolved. Beat the butter and 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 23 


sugar. to acream; beat the yolks and whites separate, add 
the flour gradually, then the spice and saleratus. Bake it 
two hours and a half. . 


49, Wedding Cake, No. 2. 


* Four pounds of flour, three pounds of butter, three 
pounds of sugar, four pounds of currants, two pounds of 
raisins, twenty-four eggs, one ounce of mace, and three 
_nutmegs. A little molasses makes it dark-colored, which 
is desirable. Half a pound of citron improves it. Bake 
it two and a half or three hours. 


- 60. Wedding Cake, No. 3. 


* Four pounds of flour, three pounds of butter, four 
pounds of sugar, thirty eggs, three and a half pounds of 
currants, one pound of citron, one ounce of mace, a little 
cinnamon, very little cloves; make it into loaves of con- 
venient size. Bake it two and a half or three hours. 


61. Frosting for Cake, No. 1, 

* Beat the whites of eggs to an entire froth, and to 
each egg add five tea-spoonfuls sifted loaf sugar, gradu- 
ally; beat it a great while. Put it on when your cake is 
hot or cold, as is most convenient. A little lemon juice 
squeezed into the egg and sugar, improves it. Spread it 
on with a knife, and smooth it over with a soft brush, like ~ 
a shaving brush. 


62. Frosting for Cake, No. 2. 


* Thrée and a half pounds of loaf sugar, the whites of 
twelve eggs, lemon juice, and a little potato starch. 


dd. Cheap Tea Cake. 


- Three cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of butter, 
one cup of milk, a spoonful of dissolved saleratus, and 
four cups of flour, well beat up. If it is so stiff that it 
will not stir easily, add a little more milk. 


54. . Gingerbread, No. 1. 


Rub four and a half pounds of flour with half a pound 
of lard, and half a pound of butter; a pint of molasses, 
a gill of milk, two table-spoonfuls of ginger, a tea-spoon- 


\ 


24 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


ful of saleratus, stirred together. All mixed, bake in 
shallow pans, twenty or thirty minutes. 


5d. Soft Gingerbread, No. 2. 


Six tea-cups of flour, three of molasses, one of cream, 
one of butter, one table-spoonful of ginger, and one of 
saleratus. 


6. Family Gingerbread, No. 3, 


Four cups of molasses, two cups of boiling water, four 
tea-spoonfuls of saleratus, a small piece of melted butter ; 
make it stiff with flour; roll it thin, and bake in pans. 


67, Sugar Gingerbread, No. 4. 


* Two pounds of flour, one of sugar, three. quarters of 
a pound of butter, two eggs, half a tea-cup of water, one 
tea-spoonful of saleratus; ginger to your taste. 


08. Saft Gingerbread, very nice, No. 5. 


Four tea-cups of flour, two cups of molasses, half a cup 
of butter, two cups of buttermilk, a cup of thick cream, 
three eggs, a table-spoonful of ginger, and the same of 
saleratus. Mix them all together with the exception of 
buttermilk, in which the saleratus must be dissolved, and 
then added to the rest. Bake in a quick oven. 


59. Mrs. Green’s Gingerbread, No. 6. 


One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one cup of 
milk, one large table-spoonful of ginger, one large tea- 
spoonful of saleratus; flour enough to roll well. 


60. Hard Gingerbread, No. 7. < 


* Four cups of molasses, foyr large tea-spoonfuls of 
saleratus, one tea-spoonful of pulverized alum, dissolved 
in hot water, a piece of butter the size of an egg, two 
table-spoonfuls of ginger; boil the molasses and pour it 
boiling hot to the flour; make it as hard as it can be 
rolled; roll very thin, and cut into squares. 


61. Gingerbread, No, 8. 

* Take a tea-cupful of molasses, a tea-spoonful of sal- 
eratus, dissolved in half a cup of boiling water, a tea 
spoonful of ginger, and flour to make it hard enough to 
roll. Bake it five minutes. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 25 


* 62. Wafers. 


One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, two — 
eggs beat, one glass of quince preserve juice, and a nutmeg. 


63. Fried Wafers. 


_ * Two eggs, two large spoonfuls of sugar, one nutmeg ; 
flour enough to knead up hard; roll thin. 


64, Shrewsbury Cake. | 


One pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, three quarters of a pound of butter, four eggs, 


one nutmeg. ut 
65. Clove Cake, — 


Three pounds of flour, one of butter, one of sugar, 
three eggs, two spoonfuls of cloves; mix it with mo- 


lasses. . 
66. Wonders. 


Two pounds of flour, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, half a pound of butter, nine eggs, a little mace 
and rose-water. 

67. Jumbles. 


Three pounds of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, 
eight eggs, with a little caraway seed; and a little milk, 
"if the eggs are not sufficient. 


68. Soft Cakes, 


One pound and a half of butter rubbed into two 
pounds of flour; add one wine-glass of preserve juice, 
~ one of rose-water, two of yeast, nutmeg, cinnamon, and 
currants, and bake in little pans. 


69. Composition Cake. 


One pound of flour, one of sugar, half a pound of but- 
ter, seven eggs, and half a pint of cream. 


“70. Common Flat-Jacks, No. 1. 


* One quart sour milk, thicken it with flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of saleratus, and a little salt. 


71, Indian Flat-Jacks, No, 2. 


Scald a quart of Indian meal; when lukewarm, stir in 
half a pint of flour, half a tea-cupful of yeast, and a little 


* 


26 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


salt; when light, fry them in just fat @enough to ee 
their sticking to the pan. 


72, Indian Griddle Cakes, or Flat-Jacks, No. 3. 


One pint of Indian meal, one cup of flour, a little salt 
and ginger, a table-spoonful of molasses, a tea-spoonful of 
saleratus, sour milk enough to make a stiff batter. Bake 
or fry them on a griddle, or in a spider, like buck-wheat 


cakes. 
73. Rice Flat-Jacks, No. 4. 


Boil some rice thin; add a pint of sour milk, then 
thicken it with flour; add a little salt and saleratus. 


74. Rice Griddle Cakes, No. 5 


Boil one large cup of whole rice quite soft in milk, and 
while hot stir/inga little flour, rice flour, or Indian meal ; 
when cold, add ‘two or three eggs, and a little salt. Bake 
it in small thin cakes on the griddle. 


7). Buck-Wheat Cakes. 


* Mix your flour with cold water; put in a cup of yeast, 
and a little salt; set it in a warm place, over night. If it 
should be sour in the morning, put in a little saleratus: 
fry them the same as flat-jacks; leave enough to rise the 


next mess. 
76. Dough Nuts, No. 1. 


* Two eggs, one cup of sugar, half a pint of sour 
milk, a little saleratus; salt and spice to your taste; a 
small piece of butter or cream is better, if you have it; 
mix the articles together one hour before you fry the 
cakes; mould with flour, 


77. Dough Nuts, No. 9. 


* Three cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of butter, 
one pint of buttermilk, one cup of cream, one nutmeg, 
saleratus sufficient for the buttermilk ; mould with flour. 


78, Dough Nuts, No. 3. 


One cup of molasses, one of sugar, one of sour milk, a 
piece of butter ox lard the size of an egg, two eggs, a 
large tea-spoonfu] of saleratus, a little salt, flour enough 
to mould it stiff. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. : 27 


79. Dough Nuts, No. 4, 


One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, 
quarter of a pound of sugar, five eggs, spice. 


80. Economical Dough Nuts, No. 6. - 


* One cup of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, one tea- - 
spoonful saleratus, flour enough to make it roll, salt and 
spice to suit your taste. T'wo or three plums in each 
cake improve them. 


é 


81, Apple Pancakes, No. 1. 


* One pint of sour milk, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, a 
tea-cup of fine Indian meal, a tea-cup of molasses, three 
sweet apples chopped fine and mixed in, and flour enough 
to make it the right thickness to drop from a spoon. Have 
your fat boiling hot. Cook till they slip from the fork. 


82. Pancakes, No. 2. 


Half a pint of milk, three spoonfuls of sugar, one or 
two eggs, a tea-spoonful of dissolved saleratus spiced 
with cinnamon or cloves, a little salt, and rose-water. 
Flour should be stirred in till the spoon moves around 
with difficulty. Have the fat in your skillet boiling hot, 
drop them in with a spoon, and cook till thoroughly 


brown. 
83. Plain Cake. 


Three pounds of flour, one of sugar, one of butter, half 
a pint of yeast, three gills of milk, three eggs, spice, 


rose-water. 
84. Plum Cake, No. 1. 


Mix together a pint of lukewarm milk, two quarts of 
sifted flour, a small tea-cup of yeast. Set it where it will 
rise quick. When quite light, work in with the hand four 
beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, two of cinnamon. 
Stir a pound of sugar with three quarters of a pound of 
_ butter; when white, work it imto the cake; add another 
quart of sifted flour, and beat the whole ten or fifteen 
minutes, and set it where it will rise again; when of a 
spongy lightness, put, it into buttered cake-pans, and let 
them stand fifteen or twenty minutes before baking. Add, 
if you like, a pound and a half of raisins, just before 
putting the ‘cake in the pans. 


for 
‘ ae 
i: SORE: 
: eo és 7 
Aan ae 
aa ee ; 
ate 


aed 
CZF 
: sage Cfete 
Velo tha bene 


aL 


ECE 
Ke frek Te aed 
bere te Ye 


4 
LL=— Wa. 7 ing Oe, SO ee 


foe: 
pT 
ce a 


28 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


8). Plum Cake, No. 2. 

Five pounds of flour, two of sugar, three quarters of a 
pound of lard, and the same quantity of butter, one pint 
of yeast, eight eggs, one quart of milk; roll the sugar 
into the flour; add the raisins and spice after the first 
rising. 

86. Temperance Cake, No. 1. 

* Three eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one 
tea-spoonful of saleratus, nutmeg, flour enough to make it 
pour into the pan; bake it about twenty minutes. All- 
spice and raisins, instead of nutmeg, make a good plum 
cake. 

87, Temperance Cake, No. 2. 


Two pounds of flour, three fourths pound of lard and but- 
ter, one pound powdered white sugar, one nutmeg grated. 
After the flour and butter have been incorporated, lay the 
sugar in, and pour upon it a small tea-spoonful of sale- 
ratus dissolved. Have six eggs well beaten, and with a 
spoon incorporate them well together, till it can be mould- 
ed with the hands. Roll it thin, cut with a tumbler, and 
bake in a few minutes, in a quick oven, without turning. 


. 88, Seed Cakes, No. 1. 
One tea-cup of butter, two cups of sugar rubbed into 
four cups of flour ; mix it with milk hard enough to roll, 
half a tea-spoonful of saleratus, and seeds to your taste. 


89, Seed Cakes, No. 2. 
* Eight cups of flour, three cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of cream, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, 
one egg; seeds to suit your taste. 


90. Seed Cakes, No. 3, 


* One cup of cream, one of sugar, one egg, and cara- 
way seeds; mix and roll out. 


91, Buns, No. 1. 


Rub four ounces of butter into {wo pounds of flour, 
four ounces of sugar, and a few caraway seeds, if you like 
them. Put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of 
yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above into 


/ 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 29 


a light paste; set it to rise, bake it on tins before a quick — 
fire. , 7 

+o 92. Buns, No. 2 ; 
* One cup of butter, one of sugar, half cup of yeast, 
half a pint of milk; make it stiff with flour; add allspice 
and nutmeg. 

93, Cookies, No. 1, 

Five cups of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one 
egg, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, and cut it with a tin 
into small cakes. 


94. Cookies, No, 9. 


One cup of butter, well mixed with two and a half cups 
of sugar, three eggs, one cup of milk, one tea-spoonful 
of saleratus, salt and spice to your taste, flour enough to . 
mould it. . 

| 95. Christmas’ Cookies, No. 3. 

* Take one pound and a half of flour, three quarters 
of a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, half a cup 
of milk, and two spoonfuls of caraway seeds; melt the 
butter before you put it in. It is rather difficult to 
knead, but it can be done. Roll it out and cut it in hearts 
and diamonds, and bake it on buttered tins, 


96. New Year’s Cake. 

A very good plain cake can be made without eggs. 
Take seven pounds of flour, two and a half pounds of 
sugar, two pounds of butter, one pint of water, and two 
tea-spoonfuls of saleratus well dissolved. Roll it out thin, 
and bake it on tin sheets. It will keep good a long time. 


97, Ginger Cake. 

* One cup and a half of sugar, half a cup of butter, 
two eggs, a cup of new milk, one tea-spoonful of salera- 
tus, one table-spoonful of ginger, and flour enough to 
make it hard; roll it thin, and cut it into rounds, or 
squares, as you choose. Bake quick. 


98. Ginger Snaps. 

* Boil a tea-cupful of molasses, and add two spoonfuls 
of butter, one spoonful of ginger, and one tea-spoonful of 
saleratus; stir the flour in when it is hot, roll it thin, cut 
it in rounds. Bake quick. 

3 


30 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


; 99, Currant Cake. 

* One cup of butter, two of sugar, three eggs, one cup 
of water or milk, half a tea-spoonful of saleratus, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a cup of currants. 


“100, Fruit Cake, No. 1, 


* Three pounds of flour, three pounds of sugar, three 
pounds of butter, six pounds of currants, three pounds of 
raisins, two eggs, one pound of citron, one ounce of 
mace, one ounce cinnamon, one ounce nutmegs, one gill 
molasses; beat the butter to a cream, then stir the sugar 
with the butter; beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, 
add the froth as it rises to the sugar and butter, then add 
the yolks, being beat well. 


‘101. Cheap Fruit Cake, No. 9, 


* One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, six eggs, 
one quart of molasses, one pint of cream, three and a 
half pounds of flour, two tea-spoonfuls of saleratus, one 
table-spoonful of ground cloves, the same of cinnamon, 
two nutmegs, three pounds of raisins. This quantity 
will make three loaves. 


102. Measure Cake, 


* Take one tea-cup of butter, and stir it to a cream, 
two tea-cups of sugar, then stir in four eggs that have 
been beaten to a froth, a grated nutmeg, and a pint of 
flour ; stir it till it is ready to bake. It is good baked in 
cups or pans. : 


103. Bedford Cake. 


* One pound of flour, one of sugar, one quarter pound 
of butter, four eggs, one tea-cup of sweet or sour milk, 
one tea-spoonful of saleratus, spice and fruit to suit your 
taste. 


104. Tea Cakes, 


* One pound of flour, half pound of butter, half pound 
of sugar, two cups of milk, one great spoonful of ginger, 
one tea-spoonful of saleratus ; ; made stiff enough to roll] and 
cut out with a tumbler. Bake in a quick oven. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 31 


105. Graham Cake. 


* Two tea-cups of buttermilk, two tea-cups of sugar, 
one nutmeg, one tea-spoonful of saleratus. 


106. Plain Cake. 


* Four cups of flour, two cups of sugar, two of butter- 
milk, one table-spoonful of butter, one tea-spoonful of sal- 
eratus, nutmeg and raisins to your liking. 


107. Gillet Cake. 


* Take two tea-cups of sugar, same of butter, two eggs, 
two tea-spoonfuls of saleratus dissolved in half a cup of 
milk, and flour sufficient to work it into a mass. : 


108. Rusk, 


* Half a pint of milk, one tea-cup full of good yeast, 
two eggs; stir in flour till it is as thick as pancakes; let it 
rise light, then add one tea-cup of butter, half a cup of 
sugar, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, one nutmeg ; mix the 
white of an egg with molasses, and rub on just before and 
after baking. 


109. Observations on making Puddings. 


The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disagree- 
ably, which arises by the cloth not being nicely washed, 
and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling 
water, squeezed dry, and floured, when to be used. If 
bread, it should be tied loose; if batter, tight over, 
The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in; 
and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingre- 
dients should not mix. Batter pudding should be strained 
through a coarse sieve, when all is mixed; in others, the 
eggs separately. ‘The pans and basins must be always 
buttered. A pan of cold water should be ready, and the 
pudding dipped in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and 
then it will not adhere to the cloth. ! 


110. Pudding Sauce. 

* One pint of sugar, one table-spoonful of vinegar, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg; boil fifteen minutes ; 
add one table-spoonfui of rose-water, a little nutmeg ; boil 
it, with the sugar, in nearly a pint of water, and a large 
table-spoonful of flour. 


32 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


lll, Cold Sauce. 


* Take equal quantities of powdered sugar and butter — 
knead them together, make the mixture in a lump, and 
grate a nutmeg on it. 


112, Bread Pudding. 


* Take a quart of milk, in which soak crumbs of dry 
bread, or cracker, till it is soft, and as thick as batter ; 
add three eggs, a little sugar, and a little saleratus; bake 
it about three quarters of an hour; serve up with sauce. 


113, Cracker Plum Pudding. 


* Split open your crackers, and spread them thin with 
butter; put a layer on the bottom of your pudding dish, 
cover them with raisins, place them in layers till the dish 
is nearly full. Then take four eggs and beat them well, 
and mix them with a quart of milk, and pour it over the 
pudding ; add a little salt, and serve up with sauce. Plain 
cracker pudding may be made in the same way, by omit- 
ting the plums. 


114, Boiled Apple Pudding. 


Line a basin with paste, tolerably thin, fill it with the 
apples, and cover it with the paste; tie a cloth over it, and 
boil it about an hour and a half, till the apples are dona 
soft. 


115. Boston Pudding, 


Make a good common paste. When you roll it out the 
last time, cut off the edges till you get it of a square 
shape. Have ready some fruit, sweetened to your taste. 
If cranberries, gooseberries, or dried peaches, they should _ 
be stewed. If apples, they should be stewed in a very 
little water, drained, and seasoned with some kind of 
spice to your liking. If currants, raspberries, or black- 
berries, they should be mashed with sugar, and put into the 
pudding raw. Spread the fruit thick, all over the sheet 
of paste, (which must not be rolled too thin.) When it is 
covered all over with the fruit, roll it up, and.close the 
dough at both ends and down the last side. Tie the 
pudding in acloth, and boil it. Eat it hot with sugar. 
Some use beef suet instead of butter for making the 
paste. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 83 


116. Boiled Bread Pudding. 


Grate white bread, pour boiling milk over it, and cover 
it close. When soaked an hour or two, beat it fine, and 
mix it with two or three eggs well beaten. Put it into a 
basin that will just hold it; tie a floured cloth over it, and 
put it in boiling water. Serve it up with nice sauce. 


117, Squash Pudding. 

Run your stewed squash through a sieve; take four 
eggs, one pint of milk ; sweeten it thoroughly ; ‘add a little - 
rose-water and cinnamon. Make a good paste, and pour 
the above ingredients into a deep pudding dish. 


118, Custard Pudding. 

‘Mix by degrees a pint of milk with a large spoonful 
of flour, the yolks of five eggs, and some grated lemon. 
Butter a basin that will exactly hold it ; pour the batter in, 
and tie a floured cloth over. Put it in boiling water over 
the fire, and turn it about a few minutes, to prevent the 
eggs from going to one side. Half an hour will boil it. 
Serve it with sweet sauce. 


119, Baked Rice Pudding, No. 1. 
Swell a coffee-cup of rice, add a quart of milk ; sweeten 
it with brown sugar, and bake it about an hour, or a little 
more, in a quick oven or baker. 


120, Baked Rice Pudding, No. 2. 
* Two cups of rice, two quarts of milk, half a cup of 
sugar, a large tea-spoonful of salt; bake it two hours; 
serve it up with butter. 


121. Fruit Rice Pudding. 

Swell the rice with milk over the fire, then mix fruit of 
any kind with it,— currants, gooseberries, or quartered 
apples; put one egg in to bind the rice; boil it well, and 
serve it with sugar and butter, beat together, with nutmeg, 
or mace. 

192, Plain Rice Pudding. 

Wash and pick your rice, tie it in a cloth, leaving plenty 

of room for it to swell. Boil it*an hour or more, as you 
3% 


34 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


prefer. When done, eat it with sweet sauce, or butter 
and sugar. ‘Two eggs put in while it is hot, well beaten, 
is an improvement. 


/ 
123. Suet Pudding, No. 1 
Chop a pound of suet, mix with it a pound and a quarter 
of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as 
little milk as will make it. Boil it four hours. It eats 
well next day, cut in slices and broiled. 


124. Suet Pudding, No. 2. 


* Sift your meal, chop your suet, and put it in the i 
dle of the meal; strew over a little salt, then pour on 
boiling water, and mix it very stiff; then soften it by 
putting in half a cup or more of molasses. Wet your 
bag in boiling water; put the pudding in and tie it up 
tight ; have the water boiling hot when you put it in; boil 
it an hour and a half. 


125. Baked Suet Padding, No. 3. 


* Put a quart of milk over the fire; put your suet in it, 
and a little salt; when it boils, stir in your meal, and make 
it very stiff; then stir m a cup of molasses, and thin it 
down with milk; bake it three hours, or, if convenient, 
let it stand in the oven over night. 


126. Plain Suet Dumplings, No. 4. 


Sift two pounds of flour into a pan, and add a salt- 
spoon of salt. Mince very fine one pound of beef suet, 
and rub it into a stiff dough with a little cold water. 
Then roll it out an inch thick, or rather more. Cut it 
into dumplings with the edge of a tumbler. Put them 
into a pot of boiling water, and let them boil an hour and 
a half. Send them to the table hot, to eat with boiled 
loin of mutton, or with molasses after the meat is removed. 


197, Suet Pudding, No. 4. 


Mince very fine as much beef suet as will make two 
large table-spoonfuls. Grate two handfuls of bread- 
crumbs; boil. a quart of milk, and pour it hot on the 
bread. Cover it, and set it aside to steep for half an 
hour; then put it to cool. Beat eight eggs very light; 
stir the suet, and three table-spoonfuls of flour alternately 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 33 


mto the bread and milk, and add, by degrees, the eggs. 
Lastly, stir in a table-spoonful of powdered nutmeg and 
_¢inmnamen mixed. Pour it into a bag that has been 
dipped in hot water and floured ; tie it firmly; put it into 
a potof boiling water, and boil it two hours. Do not take 
it up till immediately before it is wanted, and send it to 
the table hot. [Eat it with sauce, or with molasses, 


128. Green Corn Padding. 


Take one dozen and a half ears of green corn, split 
the kernels lengthwise of the ear with a sharp knife, then 
with a case knife scrape the corn from the cob, leaving 
the hulls on the cob; mix it with three to four quarts of 
rich sweet milk; add four eggs, well beat; two table- 
- spoonfuls of sugar; salt to the taste; bake it three hours. 
To be eaten hot, with butter. 


129, Sago Pudding, No. 1. 

Boil a pint and a half of new milk, with four spoon- 
fuls of sago, nicely washed and picked, lemon-peel, cin- 
namon, and nutmeg; sweeten to your taste ; then mix 
four eggs; put.a paste round the dish, and bake it slowly. 


130. Sago Pudding, No. 9. 


Half a cup of sago to one quart of milk; if the wizte 
sago, bake it two or three hours—if the brown, stew, 
before adding the milk; beat four eggs, adding salt; spice 
to your taste, and add more milk, if quite thick with sago. 
Bake it an hour. | 


131, Sago Pudding, No. 3. 


A large table-spoonful of sago, boiled in one quart of 
milk, the peel of a lemon, a little nutmeg, and four eggs. 
Bake it about an hour and a half. 


132. Bird’s Nest Sago Pudding, No. 4. 


Soak half a pint of sago in three pints of water, stirring 
it occasionally, until it is uniformly swelled. Pare and 
core ten or twelve apples; fill the holes in the centre, and 
put them, without piling them one over another, in a 
pudding dish, so that the sago will just‘cover them. ‘The 
~gago may then be poured on, and the pudding baked, until 
the apples are soft. 


36 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


133, Apple Dumpling, No. 1. 


* Set your tin pail or kettle on the stove, put in a cup 
of water, cut in four large apples, one pint sour milk, one 
large tea-spoonful saleratus; mould your crust and spread 
it over the top ; cover it tight; bake it one hour 


134. Apple Dumpling, No. 2, 


Select large, fair, pleasant sour, and mellow apples; 

are them, and take out the core with a small knife, and 
fill up the place with sugar; prepare some pie-crust, roll 
it out quite thick, and cut it into pieces just large enough 
to-cover one apple. Lay an apple on each piece, and 
enclose them entirely; tie them up in a thick piece of 
cloth that has been well floured, put them in a pot of boil- 
ing water, and boil them one hour; if the boiling should 
stop, they will be heavy. Serve them up with sweet 
sauce, or butter and sugar. 


135. Bird’s Nest Pudding. 


Put into three pints of boiling milk, six crackers 
pounded fine, and one cup of raisins; when cool, add 
four eggs well beaten, a little sugar, and four good-sized 
apples, pared, with the core carefully removed. To be 
baked, and eaten with warm sauce. 


136. Quaking Plum Pudding, very nice, 

* Take slices of light bread and spread them thin with 
butter, and lay in the pudding dish layers of bread and 
raisins, within an inch of the top; then take five eggs and 
beat them well, and mix them with a quart of milk, and 
pour it over the pudding; add salt and spice to suit your 
taste; you may put in a cup of sugar, and eat it with 
butter, or you may omit the sugar, and serve it up with 
sweet sauce. Bake it twenty or twenty-five minutes, 
Before you use the raisins, boil them in a very little 
water, and put it all in. 


137, Batter Pudding, No. 1. 


One quart of milk, three eggs, one table-spoonful of 
salt, flour enough to make a batter; beat the ingredients 
till free from lumps, and it will not Tope ; boil it one hour 
and a half; if the batter be quite thin, butter the bag. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 37 


138, Batter Pudding, No. 2 


* A pint of milk, four eggs, made thick with flour, a 
little thicker than cream. Boil it one hour; serve it up 
with sauce made of flour and water, butter, sugar, a little 
vinegar, or tart, with spice to your taste. 


be 139, Sunderland Pudding. 
Eight spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, one pint of milk; 
baked in cups about fifteen minutes; sweet sauce. 


140. Puddings in Haste. 


Chop your suet, and put with grated bread a few cur- 
rants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, some 
grated lemon-peel, and ginger. Mix and make it into 
little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a 
little flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and 
throw them in. ‘Twenty minutes will boil them; they 
will rise to the top when done. Serve them up with 
sweet sauce. Si aah 


141, Bread and Butter Pudding. | 


Slice bread, spread with butter, and lay it in a dish, 
with currants between each layer; add sliced citron, 
orange, or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over an un- 
boiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimentoes, 
and a very Tittle preserve, two hours, at least, before it is to 
be baked. A paste round the edge makes all puddings 
look better, but is not necessary. 


142. Baked Apple Pudding. 


Pare and quarter four large apples; boil them tender, 
with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when 
done, none may. remain; beat them quite fine in a mor- 
tar; crumb in a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, 
feur eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and sugar to your 
taste; beat all togethers and lay it in a dish with paste to 
turn out. Bake it an hour and a half. ; 


143, Tapioca Pudding. 
* Six table-spoonfuls of tapioca, one quart of milk, 
three eggs, sugar and spice to your taste; heat the milk 
and tapioca moderately; bake it one hour. 


38 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


144, Quince Pudding. 


Take six large ripe quinces; pare them, and cut out 
all the blemishes. ‘Then scrape them to a pulp, and mix 
the pulp with half a pint of cream, and a half a pound 
of powdered sugar, stirring them together cen? hard. 
Beat the yolks of seven eggs, (omitting all the whites ex- 
cept two,) and stir them gradually into the mixture, add- 
ing two wine-glasses of rose-water. Stir the whole well 
together, and bake it in a buttered dish three quarters of 
an hour. Grate sugar over it when cold. 


145, Rice Milk Pudding. 


Pick and wash half a pint of rice, and boil it, in a 
quart of water, till it is quite soft. Then drain it, and 
mix it with a quart of rich milk. You may add half a 
pound of whole raisins. Set it over hot coals, and stir it 
frequently till it boils. When it boils hard, stir in, alter- 
nately, two beaten eggs and four large table-spoonfuls. of 
brown sugar. 


146, Plain Rice Pudding, 


Boil three cups of rice in two quarts of milk till soft, 
then add two quarts of cold milk, eight eggs beat light, a 
quarter pound of butter, two nutmegs, and sugar to the 


taste. 
147. Bread Pudding, dl 


Cut one loaf of bread in fine pieces, sprinkle with a 
little salt, boil two quarts of milk and pour over; cover 
close until well soaked; mash it well; add six eggs, one 
pound of butter, some cinnamon or nutmeg; sweeten it; 
bake it, in a quick oven, one hour and a half. 


148. Flour Pudding, 


Beat one dozen eggs light; add two quarts of milk, a 
little salt, mix with wheat flour to a batter, beat it well, 
pour into a bag, and boil four hours; two pounds of 
currants added to it is a great improvement, but it is very 


good without. 
149, Apple Pudding. 
Pare and stew three pints of apples, mash them, add 
six eggs, half a pound of butter, sugar and nutmeg, or 
grated lemon-peel; bake on short crust. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 39 


150. Boiled Apple Pudding, 


Pare, core, and quarter, as many fine juicy apples as 
will weigh two pounds when done. Strew among them 
a quarter of a pound of brown sugar; add a grated nut- 
meg, and the juice and yellow peel of a large lemon. 
Prepare a paste of suet and flour, in the proportion of a 
pound of chopped suet to two pounds of flour. Roll it 
out of moderate thickness; lay the apples in the centre, 
and close the paste nicely over them in the form of a 
large dumpling; tie it in a cloth and boil it three hours. 
Send it to the table hot, and eat it with cream sauce, or 
_with butter and sugar. 


151. Plum Pudding boiled. 


Three quarts of flour, a little salt, twelve eggs, two 
pounds of raisins, one pound of beef suet chopped fine, 
one quart of milk; put into a strong cloth floured; boil 
three hours. Eat with sauce. 


162, Baked Indian Pudding, 


Scald four cups of Indian meal with boiling water ; add 
two cups molasses and milk, (each,) half pound raisins, a 
little suet chopped fine, four eggs, and some ground cin- 
namon. 


153. Rice Flour Pudding. 


Boil one pint of milk, mix two table-spoonfuls of rice 
flour with a little cold milk, stir it in while the milk is 
boiling ; afterwards add a small piece of butter, four eggs, 
one nutmeg, one glass of preserve juice, the juice and 
peel of one lemon, and sugar to your taste. 


wih 154. Bunn Pudding. 


* For a large pudding, take a card of bunns, separate 
them, and put them into a pudding-dish, and pour in a 
custard made of four or, five eggs, three pints of milk, 

and half a cup of sugar. Bake it one hour. 


155, Plain Pudding. 
Boil half a pint of milk with a bit of cinnamon, four 
eggs with the whites well beaten, the rind of a lemon 
grated, half a pound of suet chopped fine, as much bread 


40 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


as will do. Pour your milk on the bread and suet, keep 
mixing it till cold, then put in the lemon-peel, eggs, a 
little sugar, and some nutmeg iste fine. It may be 
either baked or boiled. . 


156. Ground Rise Pudding. 


Boil four ounces of ground rice in water till it be soft, 
then beat the yolks of ‘four eggs, and put to them a pint 
of cream, four ounces of sugar, and the same of butter ; 
mix them all well together; you may either boil or: 
bake it. 

157, Little Citron Puddings. 


Take half a pint of cream, one spoonful of fine flour, 
two ounces of sugar, a little nutmeg; mix them all well 
together, with the yolks of three eggs; put it in tea-cups, 
and stick in it two ounces of citron cut very thin; bake 
them in a pretty quick oven. 


158, Baked Bread iudateen 


Take a stale loaf of bread; cut off all the crust, and 
grate or rub the crumbs as fine as possible. Boil a quart 
of rich milk, and pour it hot over, the bread; then stir in 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same quantity of 
sugar, with a glass of rose-water. Or you may omit the 
latter, and substitute the grated peel of a large lemon. 
Add a table-spoonful of mixed cinnamon and nutmeg 
powdered. Stir the whole very well, cover it, and set it 
away for half an hour; then let it cool. Beat seven 
or eight eggs very light, and stir them gradually into the 
mixture after it is cold. Then butter a aeee, dish, and 
bake the padgng an hour. 


159, Wheatmeal Pudding. 


* One quart of boiling water, one large tea-spoonful of 
salt, made stiff with wheatmeal — served up with cream 
or” sweet. sauce. 


160. Indian Hasty Pudding. 


* Put in three pints of water and a table-spoonful of 
salt, and when it begins to boil, stir in about half enough 
meal; after boiling awhile, stir in more meal, and boil 
awhile longer, then stir in a little mare meal, and bol: it 
till it is thoroughly cooked. | 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. ~* 4} 


161. Common Paste for Pies. 


* Take a quantity of flour proportioned to the number 
of pies you wish to make, then rub in some lard and salt, 
and stir it up with cold water ; then roll it out, and spread 
on some lard, and scatter over some dry flour ; then double 


it together, and cut it in pieces, and roll it to.the thicke . 


ness you wish to use it. 


162, Eeonomical Pot Apple Pie, 


* Pare and slice your apples, put them into a pot or 
iron basin, such as may suit your convenience, or the 
convenience of your stove; make your crust of a half pint 
of sour milk, sweeten it with a little molasses; add a little 
allspice, lay it over the top of your apple, leave an opening 
for the stem to pass through, put a little water to your 
apple, let it stew slowly three quarters of an hour; when 
done, take up your crust in one dish, spice and sweeten 
your ‘apple in another, slice your crust, and cover it with 
your apples; to be eaten with butter while warm. 


163. Pork Apple Pie. 


-* Make your crust in the usual manner, spread it over 

a large deep plate, cut some slices of fat pork very thin, 
also some slices of apple; place a layer of apples, and 
then of pork, with a very little allspice, and pepper, and 
sugar, between — three or four layers of each, with crust 
over the top. Bake one hour. 


164. Veal Pie. 


* Cut your veal up in small pieces, boil it an hour, 
season it with salt, and pepper, and a small piece of butter ; 
mix your flour with sour milk, saleratus, and a small piece 
of lard, and mould it for the crust; line the sides of a tin 


dish or basin with the crust, put the meat in, and fill up 


the basin with the gravy as full as you can handle it; 


shake some flour in it, and cover it over with the crust,’ 


leaving a hole in the centre, for a vent. Bake from one 
and a half to two hours. If preferred, cream tartar crust 
may be used. See Cream Tartar Bread. 


¥- 165, Common Mince Pies. 
* Boil a piece of lean fresh beef very tender; when 
cold, chop it very fine; then take three times the quantity 
4 


@ 


42 ‘ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


of apples, pared and cored, and chopped fine; mix the 
meat with it, and add raisins, allspice, salt, sugar, cinna- 
mon, and molasses, to suit the taste; incorporate the 
articles well together, and it will improve by standing over 
night, if the weather is cool; a very little ginger improves 
the flavor. Small pieces of butter, sliced over the mince 
before laying on the top crust, will make them keep lenger. 
A tea-cup of grape sirup will give them a good flavor. 


166. Wisconsin Mince Pies. 


Take the usual quantity of meat, and substitute .beets 
for apples; put in only one third the quantity of the lat- 
ter; boil the beets, pickle them in vinegar twelve hours, 
chop them very fine, and add-the vinegar they were pickled 
in. Add one eighth of grated bread, and spice to suit 
your taste. 

167, Pumpkin Pie. 

* Take out the seeds and pare the pumpkin; stew, and 
strain it through a coarse sieve. Take two quarts of 
scalded milk and eight eggs, and stir your pumpkin into 
it; sweeten it with sugar or molasses. Salt it, and sea- 
son with ginger, cinnamon, or grated lemon-peel, to your 
taste. Bake with a bottom crust. Crackers, pounded 
fine, are a good substitute for eggs. Less eggs will do. 


168. Dried Pumpkin. 


Boil and sift the pumpkin, spread it out thin on tin 
plates, and dry hard in a warm oven. It will keep good 
the year round; when wanted for use, it may be soaked in 
~ milk. 
169. Apple Pie. 


* Peel the apples, slice them thin, pour a little mo- 
lasses, and sprinkle some sugar over them ; grate on some 
lemon-peel, or nutmeg. If you wish to make them 
richer, put a little butter on the top. 


170. Green Apple Pie. 
* Peel and stew the apples, mash them fine with sugar, 
a little butter, and grated nutmeg, or lemon-peel ; bake 
in rich crust and quick oven, but not hot enough te 
scorch. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 43 


171. Carrot Pie. - 


* A very good pie may be made of carrots in the same 
way that you make pumpkin pies. 


172. Rhubarb Pie. 


* Pull the rhubarb from the root instead of cutting it; 
peel off the skin from the stalk, and cut it into small 
pieces ; put them in the pie with plenty of brown sugar ; 
you can hardly put in too much. Cover the pie, and 
bake, like apple, in a deep plate. 


173. Mutton Pie. 


Cut steaks from a loin of mutton, beat them and re- 
move’ some of the fat; season it well, and put a little 
water at the bottom of the dish. Cover the whole with a 
pretty thick paste, and bake it. 


174. Chicken Pie. 

* Cut up your chicken, parboil it, season it in the pot, 
take up the meat, put in.a flour thickening, and scald the 
gravy ; make the crust of sour milk made sweet with sale- 
ratus, put in a piece of butter or lard the size of an egg ;- 
cream is preferable to sour milk, if you have it. Take a 
large tin pan, line it with the crust, put in your meat, and 
pour in the gravy from the pot; make it nearly full, cover 
it over with crust, and leave a vent; -bake it in a moderate 
oven two hours, or two and a half. 


175. Chicken Pot Pie. 


Wash and cut the chicken into joints ; boil them about 
twenty minutes; take them up, wash out your kettle, fry 
.two or three slices of fat salt pork, and put in the bottom 
of the kettle; then put in the chicken, with about three 
pints of water, a piece of butter the size of an egg; 
sprinkle in a little pepper, and cover over the top with 
a light crust. It will require one hour to cook, 


\ 176, Custard Pie. 

* For a large pie, put in three eggs, a heaping table- 
spoonful of sugar, one pint and a half of milk, a little 
salt, and some nutmeg grated on. _ For crust, use common 
pastry. 


44 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


177, Rice Pie. 


* Boil your rice soft, put one egg to each pie, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, a little salt and nutmeg. 


178. Custard without Eggs, 

One quart new milk, four table-spoonfuls of flour, two 
table-spoonfuls of sugar, season with nutmeg or cinna- 
mon, and add a little salt. Set the milk over the fire, and 
when it boils pour in the flour, which should be previously 
stirred up in a little cold milk. When it is thoroughly 
scalded, add the sugar,.spice, and salt, and bake it either 
in crust or cups. 


179, Rice Custard. 
Put into a pan over the fire three pints of new milk; 


mix, in a little cold milk, a tea-cupful of ground rice; and 
when the milk boils, pour in the rice and let it scald 


thoroughly ; then add half a cupful of sugar and a little - | 


salt, season with cinnamon, and bake as above. 


180. Baked Custard. 


Two quarts of milk, twelve eggs, twelve ounces sugar, 
four spoonfuls of rose-water, one nutmeg. 


181, Cream Custard.’ 


Eight eggs beat and put into two quarts of cream, 
sweetened to the taste, a nutmeg, and a little cinnamon, 


182, Cranberry Tarts. 


Stew your cranberries; when done, add same quantity 
of sugar; make a rich pastry, roll it thm, make small 
tarts, 

183. Whortleberry Pie. 

* Make common paste; line a deep plate with it, put 
in your berries, cover them over thick with sugar; a little 
butter sliced on adds to the flaver; cover it over with the 
crust, and*bake it an hour. Very good pies may be made 
in the same way of cherries, blackberries, or rasp- 
berries. 

184, Lemon Pie, 

* Take one lemon and a half, cut them up. fine, one 

cup of molasses, half a cup of sugar, two eggs; mix them 


> 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 45 


together, prepare your plate, with a crust in the bottom, 
put in half the materials, lay over a crust, then put in the - 
rest of the materials, and cover the whole with another 
crust. 


185. Heating the Gven. 


* For pies, cakes, and white bread, the heat of the oven 
should be sucW, that you can held your hand and arm in - 
while you count forty: for brown bread, meats, beans, 
Indian puddings, and pumpkin pies, it should be hotter, 
so that you can only Hold it in while you count twenty. 

X 


; 186. Roasting Meats. 

The first preparation for roasting is to take care that 
che spit be properly cleansed with sand and water; noth- 
ing else. When it has been well scoured with this, dry 
it with a clean eleth. If spits are wiped clean as soon as 
the meat is drawn from them, and while they are hot, a 
very little cleaning will be required. 

Make up the fire mtime. Let it be proportioned to the 
dinner to be dressed, and about three or four inches 
longer at each end than the thing to be roasted, or the 
ends of the meat cannot be done nice and brown. 

A cook must be as particular to proportion her fire to 
the business she has to do as a chemist: the degree of 
heat most desirable for dressing the different sorts of food 
ought to’be attended to with the utmost precision. 

Never put meat down to a burned-up fire, if you can 

possibly avoid it; but should the fire become fierce, place 
the spit at a considerable distance, and allow a little more 
time. 
Preserve the fat by covering it with paper for this pur- 
pose, called ‘‘ kitchen paper,” and tie it on with a fine 
twine. Pins and skewers can by no means be allowed ; 
they are so many taps to let out the gravy; besides, the 
paper often starts from them and catches fire, to the great 
injury of the meat. 

If the thing to be roasted be thin and tendef, the fire - 
should be little and brisk. When you have a large joint to 
roast, make up a sound, strong fire, equally good in every 
part, or your meat cannot be equally roasted, nor have 
that uniform color which constitutes the beauty of good 
roasting. 

4 ome 


46 . ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


Half an hour before your meat is done, make some 
gravy, and just before you take. it up, put it nearer the fire, 
to brown it. If you wish to froth it, paste it, and dredge 
‘it with flour carefully; you cannot. do this delicacy nice 
without a very good light. ‘The common fault seems to 
be, using too much flour. The meat should have a fine 
light varnish of froth, not the appearance of being covered 
with a paste. ‘Those who are particular about the froth 
use butter instead of drippings. 


187. Baking Meats. 


Baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient 
ways of dressing a dinner in small families; and I.may 
say, that the oven is often’ the only kitchen a poor man 
has, if he wishes to enjoy a joint of meat. 

I do not mean to deny the superior excellence of roast- 
ing to baking; but some joints, when, baked, so nearly 
approach to the same when roasted, that I have known 
them to be carried to the table and eaten as such with 
great satisfaction. 

Legs and loins of pork, legs of mutton, fillets of veal, 
and many other joints, will bake to great advantage, if 
the meat be good; I mean well-fed, rather inclined to be 
fat; if the meat be poor, no baking can give satisfaction. 

A pig, when prepared for bakmg, should have its,ears 
and tail covered with buttered paper ‘properly fastened on, 
and a bit of butter tied up in a piece of linen to baste the 
back with, otherwise it will be apt to blister. With a 
proper share of attention from the cook, I consider this 
way equal to a roasted one. 

A goose prepared the same as for roasting, taking care 
to have it on a stand, and when half done to turn the 
other side upwards. A duck the same. 

A ham (if not too old) put in soak for an hour, taken 
out and wiped, crust made sufficient to cover it all over, 
and baked in a moderately heated oven, cuts fuller of 
gravy, and of a finer flavor, than a boiled one. I have 
been in the habit of baking small codfish, haddock, and 
mackerel, with a dust of flour, and some bits of butter 
put-on them; eels, when large and stuffed; herrings and 
eprats, in a brown pan, with vinegar and a little spice, 
and tied over with paper. <A rabbit, prepared the same 
way as for roasting, with a few pieces of butter, and a 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 47 


little milk put into the dish, and basted several times, will 
be found nearly equal to roasting ; or cut it up, season it 
properly, put it into ajar or pan, and cover it over, and 
bake it in a moderate oven for about three hours. ' 
The time each of the above articles should take de- 
-pends much upon the state of the oven, of which the 
_cook must be the judge. The preparation of the articles, 
and the heating of the oven, should both be carried along 
together. 


* 188. Broiling Meats, 


Cleanliness is extremely essential in this mode of 
cookery. 

Keep your gridiron quite clean between the bars, and 
bright on the top: when it is hot, wipe it well with a 
linen cloth just before you use it, rub the bars with clean 
mutton suet, to prevent the meat being marked by the 
gridiron. 

Take care to prepare your fire in time, so that it may 
burn quite clear; a brisk, clear fire is indispensable, or 
you cannot give your meat that browning which consti- 
tutes the perfection of this mode of cookery, and gives a 
relish to food it cannot receive in any other way. 

The chops or slices should be from half to three quar- 
ters of an inch in thickness; if thicker, they will be done 
too much on the outside before the inside is done enough. 

Be diligently attentive to watch the moment that any 
-thing 1s done: never hasten any thing that is broiling, 
lest you make smoke and spoil it. 

Let the bars of the gridiron be all hot through, but yet 
not burning hot upon the surface; this is the perfect and 
fine condition of the gridiron. 

Upright gridirons are the best, as they can be used at 
any fire without fear of smoke ; and the gravy is preserved 
in the trough under them. 

N. B. Broils must be brought to table as hot as pos- 
sible; set a dish to heat when you put the chops on the 
gridiron, from whence to the mouth their progress must 
be as quick as possible. 


189, Boiling Meats,” 


. ~. 
This most simple of culinary, processes is not often per- 
formed in perfection. It does not require quite so much 


48 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


nicety and attention as roasting. ‘To skim the pot well, 
and keep it really boiling (the slower the better) all the 
while, to know how long is required for doing the joint, 
@&c., and to take it up at the critical moment when it is 
done enough, comprehends almost the whole art and 
mystery. This, however, demands a patient and perpet- 
ual vigilance, of which few persons are capable. 

The cook must take especial care that the water really 
boils all the while she is cooking, or she will be deceived 
in the time; and make up a sufficient fire at first to last 
all the time, without much mending or stirring. A frugal 
cook will manage with much less fire for boiling than she 
uses for roasting. 

When the pot is coming to the boil, there will always, 
from the cleanest meat and the cleanest water, rise a scum 
to the top of it, proceeding partly from the water; this 
must be carefully taken off as soon as it rises. 

On this depends the good appearance of all boiled 
things. When you have skimmed well, put in some cold 
water, which will throw up the rest of the scum. 

The oftener it is skimmed, and the cleaner the top of 
the water is kept, the sweeter and the cleaner will be 
the meat. 

If left alone, it soon boils down and sticks to the meat, 
which, instead of looking delicately white and nice, will 
have that coarse and filthy appearance we have too often 
to complain of, and the butcher and poulterer be blamed 
for the carelessness of the cook in not skimming her pot. 

Many put in mz/k, to make what they boil look white ; 
but this does more harm than good. Others wrap it up in 
a cloth; but these are needless precautions. IZf the scum 
be attentively removed, meat will have much more deli- 
cate color and finer flavor than it has when muffled up. 
This may give rather more trouble, but.those who wish to 
excel in their art must only consider how the processes 
of it can be most perfectly performed. A cook who has a 
proper pride and pleasure in her business, will make this 
her maxim on all occasions. 

It is desirable that meat for boiling be of an equal 
thickness, or, before thicker parts are done enough, the 
thinner will be done too much. 

Put your meat into cold water, in proportions of about a 
quart of water to a pound of meat; it should be covered 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 49 


with water during the whole process of boiling, but 
not drowned in it; the less water, provided the meat be 
covered with it, the more savory will be the meat, and the 
better will be the broth. | j 
The water should be heated gradually, according to 
the thickness, &c., of the article boiled. ‘For instance, a 
leg of mutton of ten pounds’ weight, should be placed 
over a moderate fire, which will gradually make the water 
hot, without causing it to boil for about forty minutes. If 
the water boils much sooner, the meat will be hardened, 
and shrink up, as if it was scorched. By keeping the 
water a certain time heating, without boiling, the fibres 
of the meat are dilated, and it yields a quantity of scum, 
which must be taken off as soon as it rises. 

The old rule of fifteen minutes to a pound of meat, we 
think rather too little; the slower it boils, the tenderer, 
the plumper, and whiter, it will be. 

For those who choose their food thoroughly cooked, 
(which all will, who have any regard for their stomachs,) 
twenty minutes to a pound for fresh, and rather more for 
salted meat, will not be found too much for gentle sim- 
mering by the side of the fire, allowing more or less time, 
according to the thickness of the joint and the coldness 
of the weather; to know the state of which, let a ther- 
mometer be placed in the pantry; and when it falls below 
forty degrees, give rather more time in both roasting and 
boiling, always remembering, the slower it boils the 
better. 

Without some practice it is difficult to teach any art; 
and cooks seem to suppose they must be right, if they put 
meat into a pot, and set it over the fire for a certain time, 
making no allowance whether it simmers without a bubble 
or boils at a gallop. 

Fresh-killed meat will take much longer time, in boil- 
ing, than that which has been kept till it is what, the 
butchers call ripe; and longer in cold than in warm 
weather ; if it be frozen, it must be thawed before boiling 
as before roasting; if it be fresh killed, it will be tough 
and hard, if you stew it ever so gently. In cold weather, 
the night before the day you dress it, bring it into a place 
of which the temperature is not less than forty-five de- 
grees of Fahrenheit’s thermometer. 

The size of the boiling-pots should be adapted to what 


50 ole ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


ee = 
they are to contain; the larger the saucepan, the more 
room it takes upon the fire, and a larger quantity of water 
requires a proportionate increase of fire to boil it. 

In small families we recommend block-tin saucepans, 
&c., as lightest and safest. If proper care be taken of 
them, and they are well cleaned, they are by far the 
cheapest—the purchase of a new tin saucepan being 
little more than the expense of tinning a copper one. 

Let the covers of your boiling-pots fit close, not only to 
prevent unnecessary evaporation of the water, but to pre- 
vent the escape of the nutritive matter, which must then 
remain either in the meat or inthe broth; and the smoke 
is prevented from insinuating itself under the i oe of the 
lid, and so giving the meat a bad taste. : 


190. Frying Meats. 


Frying is often a convenient mode of cookery.’ It may 
be performed by a fire which will not do for roasting or 
boiling ; and by the introduction of a pan between the 
meat and the fire, things get more equally dressed; good 
frying is, in fact, ‘boiling in fat. To make sure that the 
pan is quite clean, rub a little fat over it, and then make 
it warm, and wipe it out with a clean cloth. 

For general purposes, and especially for fish, pork fat 
is preferable to lard. 

To know when the fat is of a proper heat, according to 
what you are to fry, is the real secret in frying. 

To fry fish, potatoes, or any thing that is watery, your 
fire must be very clear, and the fat quite hot; which you 
may be pretty sure of, when it has done hissing, and is 
still. We cannot insist too strongly on this point; if the 
fat is not very hot, you cannot fry fish either to a good 
color, or firm and crisp. 


191, Noups. 


To extract the strength from the meat, long and slow 
boiling is necessary ; but care must be taken that the pot 
is never off the boil. All soups are better for being made 
the day before they are to be used, and they should then 
be strained into earthen pans. When soup has jellied in 
the pan, it should not be removed into another, as break- 
ing it will occasion its becoming sour sooner than. it 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER, ol 
_ 
would otherwise do: when in danger of not keeping, it 
should be boiled up. . 


192, To roast Pork. 


When you roast a loin, take a sharp penknife and cut 
the skin across, to make the crackling eat the better. — 
Roast a leg of pork thus: Take a knife and score it; stuff 
the knuckle part with sage and onion, chopped fine with 
pepper and salt; or, cut a hole under the twist, and put 
_ the sage, &c., there, and skewer it up; or, it is very good 
without stuffing. Roast it crisp. The spring, or hand 
of pork, if young, roasted like a pig, eats very-well ; other- 
wise, it is better boiled. ‘To every pound allow a quarter 
_ of an hour: for example, a joint of twelve pounds’ weight 
will require three hours, and so on. If it be a thin piece 
of that weight, two hours will roast it. 


a 193, To roast Veal, 


Be careful to roast veal of a fine brown color; if a 
large joint, have a good fire; if small, a little, brisk fire, 
If a fillet or loin, be sure to paper the fat, that you lose 
as little of that as possible: lay it at some distance from 
the fire till it is soaked, then lay it near the fire. The 
breast must be roasted with the caul on till it is done 
enough; skewer the sweetbread on the back side of the 
breast. When it is nigh done, take off the caul, baste 
it, and dredge it with a little flour. Veal takes about 
the same time in roasting as pork. 


194. To roast Beef. 


Wash it, rub it over slightly with salt, spit it, and roast 
it. A large piece will require two hours, a small piece 
from one hour to an hour and a half. 


195, To roast a Pig. 


Prepare some stuffing, the same as for a turkey, fill it 
full, and sew it up with acoarse thread; flour it well over, 
and keep flouring till the eyes drop out, or you find the 
crackling hard. Be sure to save all the gravy that comes 
out of it, by setting basins or pans under the pig in the 
dripping-pan, as soon as the gravy begins torun. When 
the pig is done enough, stir the fire up; take a coarse 


52 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 
2 


cloth with a piece of butter in it, and rub the pig over till 
the crackling is crisp; then take it up. Lay it in a dish, 
and with a sharp knife cut off the head, then cut the pig 
in two, before you draw out the spit. Cut the ears off 
the head, and lay them at each end; cut the under’jaw in 
two, and lay the parts on each side: melt some good but- 
ter, take the gravy you saved and put in it, boil it, pour it 
in the dish with the brains bruised fine, and some sage 
mixed together, and then send it to the table. If just 
killed, a pig will require an hour to roast; if killed the 
day before, an hour and a quarter; if a very vane one, 
an hour and a half. 


196. To roast Mutton and Lamb, 


In roasting mutton, the loin, haunch, and saddle, must 
be done as beef; but all other parts of mutton and lamb 
must be roasted with a quick, clear fire; baste it when 
you lay it down; and just before you take it up, dredge it 
with a little flour; but be sure not to use too much, for 
that takes away all the fine taste of the meat. A leg of 
mutton of six pounds will take an hour at a quick fire ; 
if frosty weather, an hour and a quarter: nine pounds, 
an hour and a half; a leg of twelve pounds will take two 
hours ;.if frosty, two hours anda half. _ 


197. To roast Venison. 


Spit a haunch of venison, and butter well four sheets 
of paper, two of which put on the haunch. Then make a 
paste with flour, butter, and water; roll it out half as big 
as the haunch, and put ‘it over the fat part; then put the 
other two sheets of paper on, and tie them with pack- 
thread ; lay it to a brisk fire, and baste it well all the time 
of roasting. If a large haunch of twenty-four pounds, it 
will take three hours and a half, unless there is a very 
large fire; then three hours will do : smaller in proportion 


198, Beef a-la-Mode. 


Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox, 
cut into long slices; some fat bacon, but quite free from 
yellow ; let each bit be near an inch thick ; dip them into 
vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready prepared, of salt, 
black pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in a fine powder, _ 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 53° 


with parsley, chives, siya: savory, and knotted mat- 
joram, shred as small as possible, and well mixed. With 
a sharp knife make holes deep enough to let in the 
larding, then rub the beef over with the seasoning, and 
bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot 
over a fire, or rather stove; three or four onions must be 
~ fried brown and put to the heet with two or three carrots, 
one turnip, a head or two of celery, and a small quantity 
of water; let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or till 
extremely tender, turning the meat twice; to be cut in 
slices, and eaten cold. 


199, To roast or bake a Leg of Veal 


Let the fillet be cut large or small, as best suits the 
number of your company. ‘T'ake out the bone, fill the 
space with fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite 
round; and place the large side uppermost. When half 
roasted, if not before, put a paper over the fat; and take 
care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a good distance 
from the fire, as the meat is very solid; serve with melted 
butter poured over it. 


900. To boil a Ham. 


Put a ham in the boiler, whilst the water is cold; be 
careful that it boils slowly. A ham of twenty pounds 
takes four hours and a half, larger and smaller in propor- 
tion. Keep the water well skimmed. A green ham 
wants no soaking; but an old one must be soaked sixteen 
hours, in a large tub of soft water. ® 


201. Baked Tongue. 


Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, 
pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, for a 
fortnight ; then take away the pickle, put the tongue in a 
small pan, lay some butter on it, cover it with brown 
crust, and bake slowly, till so tender that a straw would 
go through it. To be eaten when cold. It will keep a 


week. 
902. To bake a Pig. 


Lay it in a dish, flour it all over well, and rub it over 
with butter ; butter the dish you lay it in, and put it in the 
oven. When it is done, draw it out to the oven’s mouth 
and rub it over with a buttery cloth; then put it in the 

5 


54. ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


oven again till itis dry. Now take it out and lay it ina 
dish, cut it up, take a little veal gravy, and having taken 
off the fat in the dish it was baked in, there will be some 
good gravy at the bottom; put that to it with a little piece 
of butter rolled in flour; boil it up, and put it in the dish 
with the brains and sage in the belly. Some lke a pig 
brought whole to the table; then you are only to put what 
sauce you like in the dish. 


203. To keep Meat hot, 


If the meat is done before the company is ready, set 
the dish over'a pan of boiling water; cover a dish witha 
deep cover, so as not to touch the meat, and throw a cloth 
over all. ‘hus you may keep meat hot a long time, and 
it is better than over-roasting and spoiling it. The steam 
of the water keeps it hot, and does not draw the gravy 
out: whereas, if you set the dish of meat any time over 
coals, it will dry up all the gravy and spoil the meat. 


Ss 


904. To boil a Leg of Pork. 


Salt: it eight or ten days; when it is to be dressed, 
weigh it; let it he half an hour in cold water to make it 
white; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and 
half an hour over from the time it boils; skim it as soon 
as it boils, and frequently .after. Allow water enough. 
Some boil it in a nice cloth, floured; which gives a very 
delicate look. It should be small and of a fine grain. 


& 
203. Round of Beef 


Should be carefully salted, and wet with the pickle for 
eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, and 
the beef skewered and tied up, to make it quite round. 
It may be stuffed with parsley, if approved; in which 
case, the holes to admit the parsley must be made with 
a sharp-pointed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut and 
stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils it should be skim- 
med, and afterwards kept boiling very gently. Mutton 
may be prepared in the same way. 


206. To boil a Tongue. 


Put a tongue, if soft, ina pot over night, and do not 
let it boil till about three hours before dinner; then boil 


& 
ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 5D 


till dinner time; if fresh out of the pickle, two hours and 
a half, and put it in when the water boils. 


ra 207. Pressing Meat. 


* All boiled meats intended to be eaten cold, as beef, 
pork, mutton, &c., should be pressed between two boards, 
with a heavy weight. 


208. To make a Soup. 


* Take a shin of beef, and cut it into short pieces, and 
boil it in three quarts of water; add pepper and salt, and 
cut in two or three onions. About half an hour before 
you take it up, stir in a pint-bowlful of pounded crack- 
ers, moistened with cold water. Rice aa be used, in- 
stead of crackers. 


209, To boil a Calf’s Head and Pluck, 


* Clean the head very nicely, and soak it in water till 
it looks very white. The tongue and heart need longer 
cooking than the rest. Boil these an hour and a half, the 
head an hour and a quarter, and the liver an hour ; tie 
the brains in a bag, and boil them one hour. ‘Take up all 
at the same time; serve up the brains with pounded 
cracker, butter, pepper, vinegar, and salt. ‘T'o be eaten 

with butter gravy. 


910. Stuffing, No. 1. 


* Quarter of a pound of clear ie pork chopped fine, 
eight or ten crackers pounded fine, one or two eggs, one 
cup of flour, one pint of milk or water, sage, pepper, and 
salt, to suit your taste. 


911, Stuffing, No. 2. : 


* Take dry pieces of bread or crackers, chop them 
fine, put in a small piece of butter or a little cream, with 
sage, pepper, and salt, one egg, and a small quantity of 
flour, moistened with milk. 


219, Roast. Turkey. 


* Let the turkey be picked clean, and washed and 
wiped dry, inside and out. Have your stuffing, No. 2, 
prepared, fill the crop and then the body full, sew it up, 


gg> 


a” 
56 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


put it on a spit, and roast it, before a moderate fire, three 
hours. If more convenient, it is equally good when baked. 

Serve up with cranberry or apple sauce, turnip sauce, 
squash, and a small Indian pudding; or dumplings boiled 
hard is a good substitute for bread. 


913. Boiled Dish --- Meat, 


* Corned beef should be boiled three hours, pork two 
hours. Beets need as much boiling as the beef in the 
winter; one hour will do in the summer, when they are 
more tender; carrots, cabbage and turnips, each an hour, 
parsnips forty-five minutes, potatoes twenty to thirty 
minutes. 


914, To roast Geese and Ducks. 


Boiling water should be poured all over, and inside of a 
goose or duck, before you prepare them for cooking, to 
take out the strong oily taste. Let the fowl be picked 
clean, and wiped dry with a cloth, inside and out: fill the 
body and crop with stuffing, No. Lor2. If’ you prefer not 
to stuff it, put an onion inside ; put it down to the fire, and 
roast it brown. It will take about two hours and a half. 


915, Stewed Veal. 


* Cut your meat in pieces, wash them clean, put them 


‘into the dinner-pot, add three pints of water, put in one 


onion, some pepper and salt, let it stew one hour; then 
add potatoes sliced, gnd make a crust of sour milk, or 
cream tartar, and put in, and stew till the potatoes are 
done, about half an hour; the crust may be made into 
biscuits. Crumbs of any kind of fresh meat may be used 
in making a stew. 


916. Pot Pie or Soup. 


* Scraps and crumbs of meat make a very good dinner, 
when made into soup. Put all your crumbs of meat into 


_the dinner-pot. Slice in two onions, a carrot; put in a 
little salt and pepper, and water enough to cover it; then 


cover it over with a crust, made with cream tartar. See 
No. 9. Stew it one hour and a half, or two hours. 

A flour thickening should be put in five minutes before 
you take it up, You may bake your potatoes, or slice 
them, and cook them with the meat. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 57 


217. To boil a Turkey. 


* Prepare and stuff the turkey, the same-as for roasting ; 
boil it two hours, with a piece of striped pork, a nice 
head of cabbage, flat turnips, and potatoes. Serve up 
with butter gravy. 


918. To broil Beef-Steak. 


* Cut slices of beef as thick as your hand, put each on 
the gridiron, and set it over a bed of live coals free from 
any smoke, and broil ten minutes; when done, take it up 
on a platter or deep plate, and put pieces of butter over 
the meat ; it should be broiled the last thing before the 
family sit down, and brought to the table hot ; pour a very 
little hot water over the meat. 


919, To broil Pork. 


* Cut your pork in slices, pour on some boiling water, 
let it drain, roll it in some flour, and broil it brown 


220. To boil a Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters. 


Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days, bone 
it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded ; 
lay some oysters over it, roll the meat up tight, and tie 
it. Stew it in a small quantity of water, with an onion 
and a few pepper-corns, till quite tender. Have ready a 
- little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it; thicken 
this with flour and butter, and pour over the mutton when 
the tape is taken off. The stew-pan should be kept close 
covered. 


991, Gravy Sauce. 


Beef of good quality, and roasted with care, affords the 
best sauce for the meat. Free it of the sediment and fat, 
add a little salt “nd a little flour; and boil it. A little 
butter may be added to the gravy. For gravy sauce, No. 
2, see Thanksgiving Dinner. 


999, Boiled Flank. 


* To eat cold. — Take a piece of a flank of beef, six - 
or eight inches wide, and as long as you can cut it; 


sprinkle salt over it, and let it stand twenty-four hours ; 


then prepare stuffing, the same as for a turkey or chick- a ‘: 
5 * 


58 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


en, and spread, over it; then roll it up very tight, and tie 
a piece of cloth all over it, and boil it six hours; when 
you take it up, lay it between two boards to drain, and 
put a weight upon it, till it is cold. It will then cut up 
in beautiful slices. 


093. Sausage Meat. 


* Take the piece of pork designed for sausages, ‘and 
chop it up, and if it is too fat, add a little lean beef; sea- 
son with sage or summer savory, salt, and pepper ; then 
fry a small piece, to see if it is seasoned right. If you 
prefer not to stuff them into skins, you may take pieces 
of cotton cloth, eight or nine inches wide, and two or three 
feet long, and sew the sides together, and one end; then 
wet it, stuff your meat in as solid as you can, and hang 
them up in a cool dry place. It will keep as well, or better 
than in the skins: when used, peal the cloth down no 
farther than you slice off. 


994, Souse. 


* Take the chops, ears, feet, and head of a hog; 
have them thoroughly cleaned, boil them till they are 
tender, then take them up; put them in a pickle made of 
vinegar and water, add a little salt and a few cracked 
cloves; roll them in flour, and fry them brown; cover 
them over while frying, to prevent their snapping. 


290, Savory Meat, or Head Cheese. 


* To serve up in slices, on the tea-table.— Take a hog’s 
head, ears, and feet, and boil them till you can pick all the 
bones out; then season it with salt, pepper, and a little 
sage, or summer savory; put it in a round dish, or cheese- 
hoop, in a cool place, and press it; when cool, it is ready 
for use. _ 


996. Curing Meat. 


“The difference between doing a thing right, and doing it 
wrong, 1s perhaps nowhere more obviously shown than in 
curing salted provisions. ‘There are few people who do 
not relish a slice of nice ham or corned beef; and. many 
a good housewife can speak of the various advantages, in 
the mysteries of cookery, which belong to well-cured, 
clear, pickled pork. It is a very easy matter to have all 


. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 59 


these.things of good quality; yet it is too often the case 
that we find them put up or managed in so careless a 
manner, that they are actually unwholesome, or in such 
_ condition that they can only be eaten by persons of the 
strongest appetites. ; 

-Hams.—For every one‘liundred pounds of meat, take five 
pints of good molasses, (or five: pounds of brown sugar,) 
five ounces of saltpetre, and eight pounds of rock salt — 
add three gallons of water, and boil the ingredients over a 
gentle fire, skimming off the froth or scum as it rises. 
Continue, the boiling till the salt, &c., is dissolved. Have 
the hams, nicely cut and trimmed, packed in casks with 
the shank-end down, as the pickle will thus strike in 
better. When the pickle, prepared as above, is sufficiently 
cool, pour it over the hams. ‘They may lie in pickle 
from two to six weeks, according to the size of the pieces 
or the state of the weather, more time being required 
in cold than in warm weather. Beef or mutton hams, in- 
tended for smoking and drying, may be cured according 
to this mode, and will be found excellent. Much of the 
goodness of hams depends on smoking. ‘They should be 
hung at such a distance from.the fire as not to be heated. 
They should be hung up with the shank-end downward, 
as this will prevent the escape of their juices by dripping. 
Small hams, wanted for immediate use, will answer with 
two weeks’ smoking; but larger ones, and those wanted 
for keeping, should be smoked four weeks or more. 

Different articles are used for smoking. Perhaps saw- 
dust from hard wood, where it can be conveniently had, 
is, on the whole, to be preferred. Corn-cobs are first rate, 
and are said by some to make the “‘ sweetest” smoke of 
any thing. Chips of maple and hickory, or the small 
twigs and branches of those kinds of wood, do well. 

Another mode which we have seen practised. is to 
smoke the barrels or casks in which the hams are to be 
kept, and let them remain in pickle till wanted; only 
taking them out a sufficiently long time, before using, to 
allow them to drain properly. ‘The barrels are smoked 
by being placed over small fires of chips, cobs, éc., for 
several hours. The essence of smoke which is thus im- 
bibed by the barrel is imparted to the pickle, and thence 
to the meat. | 

Breer.— The best pieces for corning are-the ribs and 


60 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


briskets. Pack the pieces in casks, giving a very slight 
sprinkling of salt between each piece. ‘Then cover the 
meat with a pickle made by boiling together, in four gal- 
lons of water, eight pounds of salt, three pounds of 
brown sugar, three ounces saltpetre, one ounce saleratus, 
for one hundred pounds meat. Keep a heavy flat stone 
on the meat, that it may be well immersed in the pickle. 
Beef packed in this manner will keep a year, and will 
rather improve than grow worse. 

Another mode, recommended by a gentleman of long 
experience in the packing of beef and pork, is the follow- 
-ing: For one hundred pounds beef take four pounds 
brown sugar, four ounces saltpetre, and four quarts of fine 
Liverpool salt; mix all intimately together, and in pack- 
ing, sprinkle it evenly over the meat. Add no pickle; 
the dissolving of the salt, &c., with the juices of the 
meat, will be sufficient. Keep the meat closely pressed 
together by a good weight. We are assured that this is 
the best mode of packing beef that istintended for keep- 
ing over the summer, and that the quality of the meat is 
unexceptionably fine. 

Crear Porx.—For this we prefer salt and water. - 
After having divided the hog, take off the shoulders and — 
hams, and all the lean meat; cut the sides crosswise into 
strips, four or five inches wide, and, after covering the 
bottom of the cask with salt, pack the strips in layers set 
edgewise as closely as possible round the cask, with plenty 
of salt between each layer. When the cask is full, and . 
has settled for a day or two, put in cold water enough to 
fairly cover the pork. There is no danger of using too 
much salt for clear pork — no more will be taken up by 
the meat than is needed, and may be used in packing a 
new parcel. 

It has recently been discovered that aaceutad is a good 
substitute for saltpetre, in salting down meat. 


997, Tainted Beef, 


Salted beef that has begun to taint may be restored to 
its original sweetness by taking it out of the pickle and 
packing it over again in layers of charcoal; after which a 
new and sweet pickle, with a little saltpetre added, should 
be poured on it. The charcoal, it is said, will take out all 
taste of taint, in a week. 


/ 


¢ 
ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. g 61 


928. Cooking Potatoes, 


Select the potatoes you design for dinner the day pre- 
v..us; pare them, and throw them into cold water, and let 
the.n stand three o® four hours; then, at a proper time 
before dinner, put them into boiling water; and when 
they hhaie sufficiently boiled, turn off all the water, leave 
off the cover, and hang them over the fire to dry. ‘When * 
the steam nas passed off, they will then be in the best 
possible cond.tion for eating. By this mode, potatoes 
even of a watery and inferior quality become mealy and 


good. 


Another Way.— Put them in a pot or kettle without a 
lid, with water just sufficient to cover them. After the 
water has come nearly to boil, pour it off, and replace 
it with cold water, into which throw a good portion of salt. 
The cold water Sanus the heat from the surface to the 
heart, and makes the potatoes mealy. After they are 
boiled, and the water is poured off, let them stand on the 
fire ten or fifteen minutes, to dry. 


229. To boil Fish, 
& 


To boil fresh fish, lay it on a strainer, or sew up the 
fish in a cloth, to prevent its breaking to pieces when you 
take it up. Put it into cold water, skin side down; to six 
pounds fish put in three or four spoonfuls of salt, and a 
little vinegar may be put in the water, to make the fish 
more firm; boil from fifteen to thirty minutes. Serve up 
with butter gravy. 


930. To fry Fish. 


* The fat from salt pork is best; have enough to cover 
the fish, and it should be hot when the fish is laid in; it 
should be rolledein flour, or Indian meal, before frying, 
and when done brown, take it up. Pour the gravy over 
the fish.’ 

931, To broil salt Cod Fish. 

* Put your fish in soak over night; in the morning, let 

it drain and dry on the gridiron, front of the fire, a few 


minutes; grease your gridiron well, then broil your fish 
thoroughly brown on both sides; then put it on a board, 


a. 


rae 
62 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


and beat it with a pestle, or hammer, till it becomes en- 
tirely soft; then pour on boiling water, and after a minute 
drain it off. If the fish is very salt, repeat the boiling 
water two or three times, then pour over sweet cream, or 
a little butter. If the fish is not very salt, you may omit 
the soaking over night. 


232, To broil Shad, Mackerel, and Salmon. 


* Have the bars of the gridiron well greased with lard ; 
lay your fish on, flesh side down; when half done, turn it 
and finish, skin down ; when done, pour over sweet creas 
if you have it, or spread over a little butter. 


233. Chowder. y in 


* Cut some slices of pork very thin, and fry it out dry 
in the dinner-pot; then put in a layer of fish cut in slices, 
on the pork and fat, then a layer of onions, and then 
potatoes, all cut in thin slices; then fish, onions, and pota- 
toes again, till your materials are all in, putting some salt 
and pepper on each layer of onions; split some crackers, 
and dip them in water, and put them around the sides and 
over the top; put in water enough to come up in sight; 
boil about half an hour, till the potatoes are done; add 
half a pint of milk, or a tea-cup of sweet cream, five 
minutes before you take it up. 


7 


234. Chowder for Invalids. 

* Prepare your fish and potatoes in the same way as 
above, omitting the pork and onions; put in equal quan- 
tities of milk and water, a little pepper, and salt. Cream 
is preferable to milk, if you have it. 


935. Meat Broth. 


* Take from one to two pounds lean beéf, veal, or mutton, 
and put in from three to four quarts of water, and simmer 
it down to two thirds the quantity: add a little rice an 
hour before it is done boiling. Skim the fat off when it 
is cold. 

236., Chicken Broth 

* May be prepared in the same way: boil till the meat 

is very tender. , 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 63 


r : 937, Sago Gruel. 

* Two table-spoonfuls of sago to one pint of edia 
water, and a little salt; it will boil in a few minutes: 
when about done, add a little milk. Sweet cream is 
better. 


938, dian Gruel. 


* One quart of boiling water thickened with three table- 
spoonfuls of Indian meal, one tea-spoonful of salt; boil it 
and skim it till it is clear; add a little loaf sugar and 
nutmeg. 


939. To keep Apricots, Peaches, Plums, &c., fresh all the Year. 


Beat well together equal quantities of honey and spring 
water: pour it into an earthen vessel, put in the fruits all 
freshly gathered, and cover them up quite close. When 
the fruit is taken out, wash it in cold water, and it is fit 
for immediate use. | 


940. To dry Peaches. , 


The following mode of drying peaches is adopted by 
Thomas Belanjee, of Egg Harbor, New Jersey : — 

He has a small house with a stove in it, and drawers in 
the sides of the house, lathed at their bottoms. Each 
drawer will hold nearly half a bushel of peaches, which 


should be ripe, and not peeled, but cut in two and laid on: / — 


the laths, with their skins downwards, so as to save the 
juice. On shoving the drawer in, they are soon dried by 
the hot air of the stove, and laid up. Peaches thus dried 
eat like raisins. With a paring machine, which may be 
had for a dollar or two, apples or pears may be pared, 
and a sufficient quantity dried to keep a family in pies, 
and apple bread and milk, till apples come again. With 
a paring machine, one person can pare for five or six 
cutters. 


941, Peach Sauce. 


* Take one pint of water, one cup of sugar, wipe your 
peaches clean, and boil them in the water and sugar; 
boil an hour. This is a delicious sauce or preserve, but 
will not keep good more than two or three days. 


64 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


242, Preserved Peaches, 

Take ripe freestone peaches; pare, stone, and quarter 
them. To six pounds of the cut peaches allow three 
pounds of the best brown sugar. Strew the sugar among 
the peaches, and set them away in a covered vessel. 
Next morning, put the whole into a preserving kettle, and 
boil.it slowly about an hour and three quarters, or two 
hours, skimming it well. 


243, Preserved Raspberries. 

Choose raspberries not too ripe, take the weight of 
them in sugar, wet the sugar with a little water, and put 
in the berries, let them boil softly, take care not to break 
them; when clear, take them up, boil the sirup until it be 
thick enough; then put them in again; do not put them 
away until cold. 


944, To preserve Whortleberries, for Winter Use. 


Put-the berries in a bottle, then cork and seal it, place 
the bottle in a kettle of cold water, and gradually let it 
boil. As soon as it boils, take it off and let it cool; then 
take the bottles out and put them away for winter use. - 

Gooseberries, plums, and currants, may be preserved in 
the same manner. 


245. Apple Preserve. 


* Take some pleasant sour apples, pare them, take the 
core out at the bottom, and leave the stem in; make a sirup, 
of white sugar and water, to half cover the apples; bake 
or boil them till they are just done through. Serve them 
up whole, with loaf sugar and cream. 


246. Jelly from Apples. 


They are pared and quartered, and the core completely 
removed, and put into a pot without water, closely covered, 
and put in an oven or over the fire. When pretty well 
stewed, the juice is to be squeezed out through a cloth, 
to which a little white of an egg is added, and then the 
sugar. Skim it previous to boiling; then reduce it to 
a proper consistency, and an excellent jelly will he the 
product. ; 


ie 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 65 


247, Preserved Quinces. 

* Pare and core your quinces, take the cores and skins‘ 
and boil them an hour, then strain the juice all out 
through a coarse cloth ; boil your quinces in this juice till 
they are tender, then take them out; add the weight of 
the quinces in clean sugar to the sirup, boil and skim it 
till it is clear; then put in your quinces again, and boil 
them three hours, when they are done. Preserves should 
not be covered up till entirely cold. They should be set 
away in stone jars. 


248, Citron Preserves. 


** Pare your citrons and weigh them, then scald them 
with a piece of alum in the water the size of a large 
walnut toa pailful of water, till you can pierce them with 
a straw: cut them in slices half an inch thick with a 
sharp knife, pick out the seeds, let all the pulp remain, 
put as much weight of sugar as there is of citron; let it 
stand over night, pour off the sirup, scald it; when sufhi- 
ciently done, put in the citron and simmer it half an hour ; 


cool the citron and sirup separate, add mace and a sliced 


lemon. Some slice two or three lemons to one citron, and 
omit the mace. 


949, To preserve Grapes. 


ie a cask or barrel, inaccessible to the external air, 
see put into it a layer of bran, dried in an oven, or of 
ashes well dried and sifted. Upon this place a layer of 
grapes well cleaned and gathered in the afternoon of a 
dry day, before they are perfectly ripe. Proceed thus 
with alternate layers of bran and grapes, till the barrel is 
full, taking care that the grapes do not touch each other, 
and to let the last layer be of bran; then close the 
barrel, so that the air may not be able to penetrate, 
which is an essential point. Grapes thus packed will 
keep nine or even twelve months. Dry sawdust may be 
used, if you have it. 


950. Grape Sirup. 


* Fill a stone pot with ripe grapes; pour in molasses 
enough to cover them, set them in a cool place in a pan, 


a 


66 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


as, in working, it may run over. It will be ready for use in _ 
amonth, It is useful through the winter, for mince pies. 


901. Tomato Figs. 


_ ‘Take six pounds of sugar to one peck (or sixteen 
pounds) of the fruit. Scald and remove the skin of the 
fruit inthe usual way. Cook them over a fire, their own 
juice being sufficient without the addition of water, until 
the sugar penetrates and they are clarified. ‘They are 
then taken out, spread on dishes, flattened, and dried in 
the sun. A small quantity of the sirup should be occa- 
sionally sprinkled over them whilst drying; after which, 
pack them down in boxes, treating each layer with pow- 
dered sugar. The sirup is afterwards concentrated and 
bottled for use. They keep well from year to year, and 
retain surprisingly their flavor, which is nearly that of the 
best quality of fresh figs. The pear-shaped or single 
tomatoes answer the purpose best. Ordinary brown sugar 
may be used, a large portion of which is retained in 
sirup. 


952. Tomato Ketchup. 


* Take a gallon of skinned tomatoes, four table-spoon- 
fuls of salt, four of black pepper, and three of mustard. 
Grind these articles fine, and simmer them slowly in sharp 
vinegar, in a pewter basin, three or four hours, and then 
strain it through a wire sieve, and bottle close. It may 
be used in two weeks, but improves much by age. Use 
enough vinegar to make half a gallon of liquor when the 
process is over. 


253. Tomato Sauce, for present Use. 


* Pour boiling water on the tomatoes, take the skin off, 
cut them up in pieces, and cover them all over with loaf 
sugar. _Nomore should be prepared than you wish to use 
at once, as they will not keep good. 


954. Tomato Omelet. 


Skin and stew your tomatoes, then beat up half a dozen 
new-laid eggs, the yolk and white separate; when each 
is well beaten, mix them with the tomato; put them in . 
a pan, and heat them up, you have a fine omelet. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 67 


955. Tomato Preserves, No. 1. 


* Take them when quite small and green, put them in 
cold clarified sirup with an orange, simmer gently over a 
slow fire two or three hours. Equal weight of sugar and 
tomatoes, and more than water enough to cover the toma- 

toes used for the sirup; boiled down quite thick. 


956. Tomato Preserves, No. 9. 


* Pour boiling water on the tomatoes, and take the 
skins off; then add the weight of them in sugar, and some 
sliced lemons ; take a cup of ginger and tie it up in a bag 
loosely, and boil it in half a pint of water ; put this into the 
preserve, and boil the whole three hours, skimming off the 
froth as it rises. When cool, it is ready for use. 

} 


; 297, Preserved Pears, 


Take six pounds of pears to four pounds of sugar, boil 
the parings in as much water as will cover them, strain it 
through a colander, lay some pears in the bottom of your 
kettle, put in some sugar, and so on, alternately; then 
pour the liquor off the pear-skins over, boil them until 
they begin to look transparent, then take them out, let 
the juice cool, and clarify it; put the pears in again, and 
add some ginger, prepared as in the above receipt; boil 
till done ; let the liquor boil after taking them out, until 
it is reduced to a sirup. 


958. Preserved Currants for Tarts, 


* Get your currants when they are dry, and pick them; 
to every pound and a quarter of currants put a pound of 
sugar into a preserving pan with as much juice of cur- 
rants as will dissolve it; when it boils skim it, and put in 
_ your currants, and boil them till they are clear ; put them — 
into a jar, lay paper over, tie them down, and keep them 
in a dry place, 

959. To make Currant Jelly. 

Take the juice of red currants, and white sugar, equal 
quantities in weight. Stir it gently and smoothly for 
three hours, put it into glasses, and in three days it will 
concrete into a firm jelly. 


68 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. ~ 


ieee, 


260. To preserve Begs, 


Take a keg or pail, cover the bottom with half an 
inch of salt, and set your eggs close together, on the 
small end ; sprinkle them over with salt so as to cover them 
entirely, and then put down another layer of eggs, and 
cover with salt, till your keg is full; cover it tight, and 
put it where they will not freeze, and they will keep fresh 
aud good a year, or longer. The eggs must be new and 
fresh when put down. If you take eggs as soon as the 
hen has laid them, and smear the shells with lard or 
butter, they will keep as good as new-laid eggs for some 
time; but if you rub the shells with butter at any time, 
it will keep them good for months, and will prevent their 
being ‘hatched. 


61, To prepare and pickle Tripe. 


* Rinse it thoroughly in three or four clean cold wa- 
ters, then cut it in pieces about a quarter of a yard square, 
then throw it into lukewarm water, and let it lie two © 
hours. Have ready some boiling lime-water strong 
enough to cleanse it. This may be ascertained by plun- 
ging a piece of the tripe, on the prongs of a fork, into the 
kettle. Fasten the tripe to a board, and scrape the meat, 
as you would skins for sausages. If the lime-water is 
strong enough, it will be easily cleansed ; if not, add more 
lime. After this throw it into cold water, and let it lie 
three or four days, changing the water once or twice a 
day; then prepare a large kettle with water, into which 
put a spoonful of saleratus, and a handful of salt, and let 
it boil till it is so soft that you can thrust a straw through 
it easily; then, if you wish to salt it, put it in weak brine. 
If you wish to pickle it, put cloves, allspice, and vinegar, 
over it. 


962, Mangoes. 


* Take gréen muskmelons, and squash peppers before 
they become red; take out the seeds and put them in salt 
and water over night; then fill them with onions chopped 
fine, horseradish scraped fine, mustard seed and cloves; 
sew them up, and put them into vinegar. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. = — 69 


263. For making Pickles. 


* Throw them into some salt and water for a few days, 
or a week, then take them out and rinse them,*put them 
into a jar with vinegar, let them stand a few weeks, then 
turn your vinegar and pickles into a brass kettle with some 
alum, and let them scald slowly ; don’t let them come taga 
proper boil; they will then be green; add onions, horse- 
radish, mustard-seed, and pepper, as you choose. Oak 
leaves. scattered among the pickles, and covered over the 
top, will prevent the necessity of ever scalding them. 


et 964. Green Peas 


* Should be young and fresh shelled; wash them 
clean ; put them into fresh water, just enough to cover 
them, and boil them till they take up nearly all the water ; 
then take them up and all the water with them, and sea- 
son them with salt and butter. 


j 965. Baked Beans. 


* Dissolve a lump of saleratus as big as a walnut with 
your beans before baking, and you will find them greatly 


improved. 
966. Sassafras Mead. 


Mix gradually, with two quarts of boiling water, three 
and a half pounds of best brown sugar, a pint and a half 
of good molasses, and one fourth of a pound of tartaric 
acid ; stir it well, and when cool strain it into a large jug 
or pan, then mix in a quarter of an ounce of essence of 
sassafras; transfer it to clean bottles, (it will fill about 
half a dozen ,) cork it tightly, and keep it in a cool place. 
Have ready a box containing about one fourth of a pound 
carbonate of soda, to use with it. ‘To prepare a glass of 
it for drinking, pour. a little of the mead into a tumbler, 
fill three-fourths full of cold water, then stir in a small 
quantity of soda, and it will foam to the top. 


067. Ginger Beer, 


One cup of ginger, one pint of molasses, one pail and 
a half of water, and a cup of lively yeast. Most people » 
scald the ginger in half a pail of water, and then fill 1t up 
with a pailful of cold; but in very hot weather, some 
, 6 * 


70 ECONOMICAL * HOUSEKEEPER. 
o 
people stir it up cold. Yeast must not be put in till it is 
cold, or nearly cold. If not to be drank within twenty- 
four hours, it must be bottled as soon as it works. 
# ‘ 


968, Good, wholesome Small Beer. 

Take two ounces of hops, and boil them, three or four 
h€urs, in three or four pailfuls of water; and then scald 
two quarts of molasses in the liquor, and turn it off into 
a clean half-barrel, boiling hot; then fill it up with cold 
water ; before it is quite full, put in your yeast to work it; 
the next day you will have dgreeable, wholesome small 
beer, that will not fill with wind, as that which is brewed 
from malt or bran; and it will keep good till it is all 
drank out. 

269. Spruce Beer, 


Take three gallons of water, lukewarm, three half- 
pints of molasses, a table-spoonful of essence of spruce, 
and the same quantity of sugar; mix all together, and 
add a gill of yeast; let it stand over night, and bottle it 
in the morning. It will be ready to use in twenty-four 
hours. { ” 

270, Simple Remedy to purify Water, 

Pulverized alum possesses the property of purifying 
water. A large spoonful stirred into a hogshead of water 
will so purify it, that in a few hours it will be as fresh and 
clear as spring water. Tour gallons may be purified by a 
tea-spoonful. 


S71, Potato Starch. 


* Peel and grate a quantity of potatoes; put the pulp 
into a coarse cloth between two boards, and press it into a 
dry cake; the juice thus pressed out of the potato must 
be mixed with an equal quantity of water, and in an 
hour’s time it will deposit a fine sediment, on which pour 
boiling water, and your starch is ready for use. 


979, Cold Starch for Linen. 


There is economy in stiffening the collars and wrist- 
bands of shirts with unboiled starch. Take as much of 
the best raw starch as will fill half a common tumbler, 
or a half-pint cup. Fill it nearly up with very clear 
cold water. Mix it well with a spoon, pressing out all 


“ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 71 


the een, till you bik it thoroughly dissolved. Next add 
a tea-spoonful of salt, to prevent its sticking. Pour it into 
a broad earthen pan, and add gradually a pint of clear 
cold water, and stir and mix it well. Do not boil it. 

The shirts having been washed and dried, dip the 
wristbands into this starch, and then squeeze it out. Be- 
tween each dipping, stir it up from the bottom with a 
spoon. ‘Then sprinkle the shirts, and fold or roll them 
up, with the collars and wristbands folded evenly, inside. 
They will be ready to iron in an hour. 

This quantity of cold starch is sufficient for the collars 
and wristbands of a dozen shirts. Ladies’ collars may be 
done also with cold starch, if the muslin is not very thin. 


\ 


973. To make Coffee. 


* For a two-quart coffee-pot, put in a tea-cup of ground 
coffee, a small piece of fish-skin; fill the coffee-pot nearly 
full of boiling water, boil it from three quarters to one 
hour, then fill it up, and let it settle ten minutes. 


” Peas, roasted and ground, are an excellent substitute 
for coffee, and you would hardly know which was best. 


974, A COURSE OF DINNERS FOR A WEEK. 


* Monpay. ‘Tea, coffee, or cocoa, with mince meat, 
- and bread and butter, in winter; bread and milk in 
summer. 


Tuespay. Boiled dish, with apple dumplings. 


Weonespay. Roasted or baked meat, with bread 
pudding. 

Tuurspay. Broiled steak, or fresh fish, with baked 
rice pudding. 

Frmay. Baked beans, with baked Indian pudding. 

Sarurpay. Salt cod-fish boiled, with apple pie. 


Sunpay. Morning, hashed fish and coffee. Noon, 
bread and butter — cheese — pie — doughnuts. 


\ 


Re ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


| 


975. THANKSGIVING DINNER. 


* Roast Turkey, stuffed. 


A Pair or Cuickens stuffed, and boiled, with cabbage 
and a piece of lean pork. 


A Cuicxen Pir. 


Potatoes; turnip sauce; squash; onions; gravy and 
gravy sauce; apple and cranberry sauce; oyster sauce ; 
brown and white bread. 


Pium and Puain Puppine, with sweet sauce. 
Mince, Pumexin, and. Appie Pres. 


Cheese. 


_P.S. The chickens are to be prepared in the same 
manner as you would to roast them; fill the bodies and 
crops full of stuffing, and sew them up close; boil them 
an hour and a half, or two hours. 


For Turnip Sauce. — Boil your turnips and mash them 
fine; add the same amount of mealy mashed potatoes ; 
season with salt and pepper, moisten it with cream or 
butter. ; 

Squash. — Boil it, peel it, and squeeze it dry in a col- 
ander; mash it fine, season it with salt, pepper, and 
butter. 


Onions. — Boil them in milk and water, season them 
with salt, pepper, and butter. 


Gravy Sauce.— Boil the neck, wings, gizzard, liver, 
and heart of the fowls, till they are tender; put in a 
boiled onion, chop it all fine, then add two or three 
pounded crackers, a piece of butter, and a little flour 
thickening ; season it with pepper and salt. 


Cranberry Sauce. — Wash and stew your cranberrtés 
in water ; add almost their weight in clean sugar, just be- 
fore you take them from the fire. 

Oyster Sauce. — Put your oysters into a stewpan, add 
a little milk and water, and iet them boil; season with a 
little pepper and butter, and salt, if necessary. 


MEDICINAL DEPARTMENT. 


976. Asthma. 


When a person has an attack ofthis complaint, his feet 
should be immersed in warm ley water, or strong soap- 
suds. Some herb tea, made of catnip or pennyroyal, may 
be given at the same time, which will excite gentle perspi- 
tation, and will generally afford relief. 


Another remedy is to beat well three eggs, including 
the shells, and add to them one pint of vinegar; let it: 
stew till all is dissolved,'then add one pound of loaf. 
sugar, or one pint of molasses. Dose, — half a wine-- 
glassful, to be taken occasionally, at discretion. 


The fumes of burning paper, saturated with saltpetre,. 
have been known io give relief. It may be prepared by 
simply dipping in strong saltpetre water, and then dried. 
On the recurrence of a turn of the asthma, a piece may 
be burned in the room, or rolled up and smoked by the 
patient. A spoonful of mustard-seed, mixed with mo- 
lasses, taken several times a day, is good. 


977. Bleeding at the Nose. 


Young persons of sanguine habits are very liable to 
this complaint. The internal surface of the nostrils is 
jined with a net-work of blood-vessels, and covered with 
only a thin tegument; and they are easily ruptured by 
any determination of more than ordinary blood to the 
head. Generally, bleeding does not continue long ; but if 
it does, proper means should be taken to check it, by 
diverting the blood from the head; at such times the feet 
and hands will be found cold. 


. Remedies. — Soak the feet and hands in warm soap- 
suds, or water. Apply a cloth wrung out in cold water 
on the back of the neck, and on the cords behind the ears, 


74. ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


Salted dried beef, grated fine with a nutmeg-grater, and 
two or three pinches snuffed up the nose, it is said, will 
stop almost any fit of bleeding. 


Gum arabic, powdered fine and snuffed from your | 
fingers, or blown into the nose through a quill, is good. 


278, A Remedy to stop Blood. 


Soot, applied to a fresh cut or wound, will stop the 
blood, and abate the pain at the same time. 


N 979, Blow on the Head. 


In case of a blow on the head, or a fall causing insen- 
sibility, use a mustard paste on the back of the neck and 
pit of the stomach, and rub the body with spirits. After 
the .circulation is restored, bleeding is often necessary; 
‘but it is very dangerous to attempt it before. 


980. Burns and NSealds. 


Apply a poultice of elm bark (the powdered if to be 
had) and milk; spread it upon a piece of linen or muslin, 
and when ready, cover it with sweet oil; let the poultice 
be changed as often as it gets dry. If the elm bark is 
not at hand, scrape a potato fine and apply it. In the 
absence of all other remedies, or while they are being got 
ready, apply cold water, by wetting soft linen or muslin 
cloths, and change as often as they grow warm. 


Another. — Put as much alum in a bottle of cold water 
as will dissolve, and keep it ready to apply immediately to 
a burn. Weta cotton cloth in this solution, and lay it on 
the burn as soon as possible; when it becomes dry or 
warm, wet it again; it will ease the pain, and cure the 
burn in twenty-four hours, if applied before blisters are 
formed. The deepest burns have been cured in this way. 


* Every family should have on hand, ready mixed, 
half a pint each linseed oil and lime water, ready for use 
’ in case of a burn or scald; the bottle to be shaken pre- 
vious to the application, as the ingredients will separate ; 
a piece of linen to be applied to the burn, and kept 

constantly saturated with the liniment. 


- ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 15 


For a small burn, where the skin is not Preis: spirits 
of turpentine may be used. 


Poultice. —Indian meal poultice, covered over with 
young hyson tea, softened with hot water, and laid over 
' burns and frozen flesh, as. hot as it can be borne, will 
relieve the pain in five minutes; if blisters have not arisen 
before, they will not after it is put on, and one poultice is 
generally sufficient to effect a cure. 


981. Salve for a Burn. 


> Take a table-spoonful of lard, half a table-spoonful of 
spirits of turpentine, and a piece of resin as big as a wal- 
nut, and simmer them together till they are well incor- 
porated; when cool, keep it in a box. In case of a burn, 
warm this so that you can spread it over a piece of linen, 
and apply it to the burn. 


982, Accidents by Fire. 


If females and children must wear cotton and linen 
dresses and aprons in the winter, use the following pre- 
caution. The dresses, after being washed, should be 
dipped in strong alum water, which will prevent them 
from blazing, if they should take fire. 


488. Directions, in Case of a Person’s Clothes taking Fire. 


If a child’s or any person’s clothes should happen to 
be set fire to, they ought never to open the door and rush 
out into’ the street, but to lie down immediately, and, if 
they can, to roll themselves in a rug, carpet, coat, cloak, 
or any other woollen article which may be near. If any 
other persons are present, they should assist in doing the 
same, as the readiest way of putting out the flame. The 
reason is plain. By running about through the air, you 
fan the flame, and make it blaze more fiercely ; whereas 
the object should be to smother it. Do not drag the 
sufferer to a pump, or tear off the burnt clothes roughly ; 
but, having extinguished the flames, remove the clothes as 
gently as possible, and then sprinkle flour over the burnt 
part of the body, the great object being to keep the air 
from it as much as possible. Medical direction should, 
of course, be procured as quick as possible. 


\ 


76 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


984, To escape from, or go into, a House on Fire, 


Creep or crawl with your face near the floor, and 
althongh the room bé full off smoke to suffocation, yet 
near the floor the air ‘is pure, and may be breathed with 
pate ty HENS best escape from upper windows is a knotted 
rope; ‘but if a leap is unavoidable, then a bed should be 
thrown “out first, or beds prepared for the purpose. 


280. Frre-Hseape. c 

In nurseries, and in other rooms where little children 
sleep, there ought to be provided one or more strong 
sacks, about three feet and a half in ‘depth, and one and 
a half in diameter, kept open at the top with a thick 
wooden hoop, having along rope fastened to it: into these 
sacks, should an unhappy accident require it, the children 
may be put, and let down. ‘The person who manages the 
above, may descend by the same fire-escape fastened to 
the bedstead, or such other means as may be at hand 


286. To extinguish a recent Fire, 


A mop and a pail of water are generally the most effi- 
cacious remedies ; but if it has gained head, then keep out 


the air, and remove all ascending or perpendicular com- 


bustibles, up which the fire creeps and increases in force 
as it rises. ; 
987, To extinguish Fire in Chimneys, 
Put a wet blanket over the whole front of the fireplace, 


which soon stops the current of air, and extinguishes the 
flame. 


988. Blackberry Jam, 


* Take three pints of ripe blackberries, and jam them 


with your hands fine; add their weight in loaf sugar, 


stew them twenty minutes; set them away, with the 
mouth of the jar open, till they are cold. This is good 
for sore mouth, dysentery, and diarrhea. 


989. Colic. 


* For a person afflicted with the bilious colic, enlee 
the bran of corn meal, make it into a pudding, sprinkle 


' 


va 


_ ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 77 


mustard over it, and apply it, as hot as can be borne, to 
the bowels. It is said this will give relief. Drink hot 
peppermint water. 


990, Cancer. ° 


* Mix the yolk of an egg with fine salt, make it into a 
salve; spread it on a piece of soft leather, and apply it: 
_ change it every day, and a cure will soon be effected. 


* Another Remedy. — Use strong potash, made of the tey 
of the ashes of red oak bark, boiled down to the consistence 
of molasses, and cover the cancer with it, and in about an 
hour afterwards cover the plaster with tar, which must be 
removed after a few days; and if protuberances appear in 
the wound, apply more potash to them, and the plaster again, 
until they all disappear, after which, heal the wound with 
any common salve. This treatment has been known to 
effect a perfect cure. 


991, Cancers and Sores. 


* Indian Remedy. — Take the roots of pitch-pine sap- 
lings, chop them up fine, and boil a three-pail-potful, 
until all the strength i is exhausted — say twenty or thirty 
minutes ; then strain off the liquor, and boil it dowm to one 
gallon. —Use it as a regular drink, till a cure is effected, 
in one or two months. It may be ‘sweetened with honey, 
molasses, or loaf sugar. This will cure erysipelas, and 
other bad humors in the blood. 


999, Canker and Sore Mouth. 


Black Currant Jelly. — Pick your currants clean, mash 
them, stew them, and rub them through a sieve; add the 
same weight of loaf sugar, and simmer them over a slow 
fire thirty or thirty-five minutes. This-is an excellent 
remedy for canker and sore mouth. 


* Goldthread, made into a strong tea, thickened with | 
cream, and made sweet with loaf sugar, and applied with a» 
swab, made ofa linen rag, tied on the end of astick, is good. 


293. Consumption. 


“ Completely to eradicate this disease,” says a cor-& 
spondent of the U. S. Gazette, “ I will otapositively say 


if 


78 ~ ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. * Merere 


the following remedy is capable of doing; but I will ven- 
ture to affirm that by a temperate mode of living — avoid- 
ing spirituous liquors wholly — wearing flannel next to the — 
skin, and taking, every morning, half a pint of new milk, 

mixed with a wine-glassful of the compressed juice of 
green hoarhound, the complaint will not only be relieved,. 
but the individual shall procure to himself a length of 
days beyond what its mildest form could give room to 
hope for. 

‘“‘T am myself a living witness of the beneficial effects of 
this agreeable, and, though innocent, yet powerful appli- 
cation. Four weeks’ use of the hoarhound and milk re- 
lieved the pains in my breast; gave me to breathe deep, 
Jong, and free; strengthened and harmonized my voice; 
and restored me to a better state of health than I had 
enjoyed for years.” 


Dr. Coteren, of Paris, recommends the inhaling of the 
gaseous perfume of chloride of lime, for disease of — 
the lungs. It may be dissolved in ‘soft water, then 
pour into it a little vinegar, and apply it to the nose so as 
to inhale freely the perfumes which the mixture wil 
produce. cn 


The attention of a young Say apparently in the last 
stage of consumption, was called to the virtues of camo- 
mile, by observing from her window, early each morning, 
_a dog belonging to the house, with scarcely any flesh on 
his bones, constantly go and lick the dew off a camomile 
bed in the garden, in doing which the animal was noticed 
to alter his appearance, to recover strength, and finally 
looked plump and.well. The singularity of the cireum- 
stance was impressed strongly on the lady’s mind, and in- 
duced her to try what effect might be produced from fol- 
lowing the dog’s example. She accordingly procured the 
dew from the same bed of camomile, drank a small quan- 
tity each morning, and after continuing it for some time, 
experienced some relief; her appetite became regular, 
she found a return of spirits, and in the end was com- 
pletely cured, 


994, Croup. 


* This disease is peculsar to children, and generally. 
attacks them very suddenly in the night, by a very sharp, 
ra 


eee. ; TOMATORS, 


a few years has become a general favorite in this country, ~ 2 
_ Various are the methods which have been instituted for preparing this, 
article for diet, which adds to the variety of taste, and renders it in some 
pes that have come under our observation. 


do cucumbers, and eat away as fast as you can. 


left, put away in a jar for winter. $ 
Tomato Omelet.—When stewed, beat up a half dozen new-laid eggs, the 


tomato—put them in a pan and beat them up; you have a fine omelet. 
To keep them the year round.—Take them full ripe, and scald in hot water, 
of an inch thick, in the sun. ‘They will dry enough in three or four days to 


pack away in bags, which should be hung in a dry room. 


jin a jar, with garlics, mustard seed, horseradish, spices, &c., as you like, 
‘filling up the jar; occasionally putting a little fine salt, proportionally to the 


till all is covered, and then cork up tight and set away for winter. 


|put them in cold clarified syrup, with an orange cut in slices to every two 
‘pounds Of wimatoes. Simmer them over a slow fire for two or three hours. 
/There should be equal weights of sugar and tomatoes. If very superior pre- 
‘Serves are wanted, allow two fresh lemons to three pounds of tomatoes—pare 


‘toes, and put in a few peach leaves and powdered ginger tied upin bags. Boil 
‘the whole gently, for three fourths of an hour, take up the tomatoes, strain 
the liquor, and ah with it a pound and a half of white sugar for each pound 
of tomatoes. 

pears to have entered them. In the course of a week, turn the syrup from 


i 
‘ 


way, they resemble West India sweetmeats. 
N. 


B.—Dr. Bennett, a medical professor in ce of our colleges, considers |f 


the tomato an invaluable article of diet. He ascribes to it high medical 


\properties, and declares it to be one ofthe m.st powerful deobstruents ; | 
vand that when used as an article of diet, it is a vovereign remedy for dys-| 


|pepsia or indigestion, and all those affections of .1e liver and other organs 
jof the stomach.— Western Farmer. 


Wie eo? > TOMATO. FIGS.’ | 
Recrpz.—Take six pounds of sugar to one p*ck (or sixteen pounds) 
of the fruit. Scald and remove the skin of the fruit an the usual way. Cook 


them over a fire, their own juice being sufficient, without the addition of | 
water, until the sugar eae om and they are clarfied. They are then |§ 
nes, flattened and dried in the sun. A small quan-}} 


taken out, spread on dis 
tity of the syrup should be occasionally sprinkled over them whilst drying; 

fter which, pack them down in boxes, treating each jiayer with powdered 
sugar. The syrup is afterwards concentrated and botticd for use. They 


ag well for years, and retain surprisingly their flavor, wtuch is nearly that 
of t 


which is retained in the syrup.—American Farmer. . KLE. 


ae 


jone of its forms agreeable to every individual. We give the various reci-, 


when done put |} 


To pickle Tomatoes.—Pick them when they are ripe. Put them in layers 


| uantity laid down, and which is intended to preserve the tomato, When|f. 
ithe jar is full, pour on the tomatoes cold cider vinegar (it must be pure,}|§ : 


9) wake Tomato Preserves.—Take them while quite small and green— 


ut in the tomatoes and boil them gently till the syrup ap-|f 


‘them, heat it scalding hot, and turn'it on to the tomatoes. Prepared in this|f 


e best quality of fresh figs.—The pear-shaped or single tomatoes answer|{ 
the purpose best. Ordinary brown sugar may be used, a ia-ge portion of |f 


The Tomato has long been known and used.for culinary purposes i, A” 


many portions of Europe, in France, Italy, Germany, Holland, and witain{ 


Daily use of the Tomato,—Cut up with salt, vinegar, and pepper, as you| « 


| How to stew them.—Take your tomato from the vine ripe, slice up, put |g” 
in the pot over the fire, without water; stew them slow, Re 

in a small lump of butter, and eat as you do apple sauce. If you choose, a 
little crumb of bréad or pulverised crackers may be added. What you have|} 


yolk and white separated; when each are well beaten, mix them with the S 


to facilitate the operation of taking off the skin ; when skinned, boil well in|} 
a little sugar and salt, but no water, and then spread in cakes about an eighth} 


\thin the rind of the lemons, so as to get none of the white part; squeeze out |f 
‘the Juice, mix the parings, Juice, and cold water sufficient to cover the toma- | 


on the followin 
ink they are important enc 
eful Almanack, you will oblige a frier 


sters along the oe of Ca e ‘Codiabose that rema rs 
il low water were saved, Cape those. who attempted to  lanc 

e vessel struck the. beach, perished in the attempt. A very 
curred in that of the ship Mohawk, stranded near Poin Alde 
cet Beach; the crew remained by the ees the night; t 
morning they were all taken.on shore by a small boat, hardly wettin: 
feet, it being low water. The great loss of life is to be attributed to| 
eat haste in leaving the wreck. - Respectfully, yours, &c. 


osIAH Stureis, Captain U. S. Revenue oe “Hamilton.” 
Buide —— ns 
AGRICULTURAL FACTS. 4 


Th Ptewing eurious facts, showing the great variety of deacatacl pro- fe 
ctions, are taken from the statistics of agriculture, furnished by the gov- 
ment: — 

That wheat, oats, rye, Indian corn, potatoes, fay, and tobacco, are 
d in évery state and territory of the Union. 

That barley is raised in all except Louisiana. q 
hat buckwheat is raised in all except Louisiana and Florida. ‘ oe 
hat New England, New York, New Jersey, —. Michi-|# ~ 
and Hage do not raise cotton. 


Prin. | Int.{ Prin. ) Interest. ) Prin. | Interest. | Prin. | Interest. | a 
Dol. Len Dol. {d. c.j m. | Dol. jd. c.} m. | Dol. ( 3 


Cee e el Cee ee ee ee eae ee ln se Ey ES are 


49 808 | 73 1 | 200 97 

50 822 | 74 1 | 216 98 

51 8388 | 75 1 | 233 99 

52 855 | 76 1 | 249 100 

53 871 | 77 1 | 266 200 

54 883 }..78 |. 1 | 282 

55 -| 904 | “79 1 | 299 | 400 

56 921 80 1} 315 500 

57 937 | 81 1 |} 332 600 

58 ‘953 | 82 1 | 348 700 

59 970 | 83 1 | 364 800 

60 986 | 84 1 |. 331 900 | 

61 1} 003] 85 1 | 397 1000 | 

62 1} 019] 86 1 | 414} 2000" 

63 1 | 036} 87 1 | 480 | 3000 

64 1 | 052) 88 1 | 447 | 4000 

65 I | 068} 89 1 | 463 | 5000. 

66 1)} 085 | 90 1 | 479 6000 | 

67 1/{ 101 | 91 1! 496 | 7000 }1 

68 1/} 118] 92 1 | 512 | 8000-1 

69 1 | 134] 93 1 | 529 | 9000 j1 

70 1 | 151} 94 1 | 545 | 10000 /1 

PE | cd | 182 |e 98 |’ 1) ea Abo ot 

72. 184-1 96 1 | 578 | 12000 11 :. 
a persons do not readily Understand the above Table: we give the fol- 
; examples. Bo oe 


the i interest on 735 dollars for one day at 6 per cent. x 


Against 700 dollars y11507— 

and against 35 dollars . 5755 Nie j 
i aE PEL A 

Which piided arelcents, the’ ;12082 answer. 


What uses interest on 735 doligrs, for 200 days? 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 79 


shrill Cane and quick, laborious breathing, attended with 
_apeculiar whizzing noise. At the very “first notice, ac- 
tive measures should be pursued. Let no time be lost in 


‘giving an ‘emetic — immerse the feet in warm water, and 


put a poultice of yellow snuff, mixed with goose oil, 
or sweet oil, upon the stomach. Apply several thick- 
nesses of flannel, wet in hot water, over the throat, as hot 
_as can be borne, and change as often as it cools, Put 
onion poultices on the feet, after soaking them a little 
time; lose no time in sending for a physician. 


995, Corns. 


* Séak the feet in warm soap-suds, till the outer surface 
of the corn is quite soft; then wipe dry, and apply caustic all 
-_ over the corn; it will soon be dry; let them remain for 
- several days till you can remove the black skin without 
difficulty; then apply more caustic, and so continue till 
there is no corn left. 

Use a salve made of equal parts of roasted onions and 
soft soap; apply it hot. Or apply a sponge wet with a 
solution of pearlash. 


_* Wild turnip scraped and bound upon the corn, after 
tke corn has been cut and made tender, will cure it in a 
short time. 


Take-a small piece of flannel which has not been 
washed, wrap or sew it round the corn and toe. One 
thickness will be sufficient. Wet the flannel where the ~ 
corn is, night and morning, with fine sweet oil. Renew 
the flannel weekly, and at the same time pare the corn, 
which will very soon disappear. 


996. Cramp in the Stomach. 


Friction should be immediately employed where the 
pain is, and continued until a degree of heat is produced, 
and the pain subsides. Should this fail of giving relief, 
administer half a tea-spoonful of red pepper in half a tum- 
bler of water or tea; also, peppermint tea, or, as a sub- 
stitute, ‘any common herb tea. Bathe the feet in warm 
water, and apply a heated brick, covered with a cloth and 
wet with vinegar, to the breast, as hot as can be borne. 


80 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER, 


997, Cuts. 


In case of a common cut, bind the lips of the wound te- 
gether with a rag, and put nothing else on. If the cut be 
large, and so situated that it cannot be bound up, use stick- 
ing plaster cut in strips and laid obliquely across the cut. 
If necessary, take a stitch or two with a needle or thread 
on each lip of the wound, and draw the two sides together. 

If an artery be cut, it must be immediately tied up, or 
the person will bleed todeath. The blood from an artery 
is of a bright-red color, and spirts out, in regular jets, at 
each beat of the heart. ‘Take up the bleeding end of the 
artery, and hold it, or tie it up, till a surgeon arrives. 
When the artery cannot be found, and in all cases of bad 
cuts on any of the limbs, apply compression; when it can 
be done, tie a very tight bandage above the wound, if it 
be below the heart, and below, if the wound be above the 
heart. Put a stick into the band and twist it as tight as 
ean be borne till surgical aid can be obtained. 


998, Chilblains. 


* Take one part muriatic acid, mingled with seven 
parts water, with which the feet must be well rubbed for 
a night or two before going to bed, and perfect relief will 
be experienced. The application must of course be made 
before the skin breaks, and it will be found not only to 
allay the itching, but to prevent the further progress of 
the chilblains. 


Another good remedy is to dip the feet every night and 
morning in cold water, withdrawing them in a minute or 
two, and drying them with a hard, coarse towel. If the 
feet are frosted, put them in a pail of brine. 


299, Chapped Hands. 


Wash your hands with Castile soap; apply it with a 
flannel, and, if necessary, use a brush, in order to get the 
dirt from under and around the nails and fingers, till they 
are perfectly clean ; then rinse them in a little clean water, 
and, while they are wet, rub them well all over with about 
half a tea-spoonful of good honey; then dry them well, 
with a clean, coarse towel. This should be done once or 


: “ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 81 
‘twice a day, and always before going to bed. After 
washing clean, apply vinegar, and put on your gloves on 


going to bed. 


300. Castor Oil. 


To make it palatable to Children. —'Take the quantity 
of oil you propose for a dose, and boil it for a few minutes 
in an equal quantity of milk, and sweeten it with a little 
sugar: when cool, stir it, and give it to the child. The 
taste is quite pleasant — not disagreeable. 


ul. Dysentery. Arty pst 


_ Take two wine-glasses each, sweet oil, good molasses, 
~ and West India rum, and simmer them well together over 
a fire till it becomes the thickness of honey, so that the 
oil will not separate from the rest; while on the fire, keep 
it well stirred, and when taken off, continue the same till 
it is cold. A grown person should take a table-spoonful 
once an hour, till he finds the disease abating, then once 
in two hours, or as the judgment may suggest. Children 
to take in like manner, in proportion to their ages. 


* Take one tea-spoonful rhubarb, pulverized; one do. 
peppermint leaves, pulverized; one do. saleratus; half 
pint boiling water: when cold, add a wine-glass of 
brandy, and sweeten with loaf sugar. Dose —half a 
wine-glassful once in two or three hours, till the disease 
is checked. 


* Two ounces of fine salt in a pint of French brandy, 
and taken a tea-spoonful at a time two or three times a | 
day, will soon give relief. This is also good for the rheu- 
matism, dyspepsia, and indigestion. 


* Boiled milk, thickened with flour, and taken in the 
first stages of dysentery, is in all commori cases an inval- 
uable remedy. Boiled milk without flour is too harsh. 
Omit all other food, while using this. 


A table-spoonful of powdered charcoal, mixed with a 
little water, if taken in time, will check the dysentery. 


Take the yolks of three eggs, two ounces of loaf sugar, 
one gill of brandy, and one nutmeg grated; the whole to 
* 


82 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


be well mixed. A grown person to take a tea-spoonful 
every two or three hours; children less, according to age. 
This is said to be an excellent remedy for the dysentery. 
Blackberry jam is also good. 


302, Diarrhea. 


Toa wine-glass of warm water add one table-spoon- 
ful of vinegar, and one tea-spoonful of fine salt. Take 
this at one dose, and if it does not afford relief in half an 
hour, repeat the dose. The second dose is almost sure to 
give entire relief. ‘This is said also to give relief in case 
of bilious colic. 


Another remedy, more adapted to children, is to parch 
half a pint of rice until it is perfectly brown, then boil it 
down as is usually done, and eat it slowly, and it will stop 
very bad diarrhoea in a few hours. 


303. Dropsy. 


* Thoroughwort sirup, and also a tea made of mullein 
sage, or mountain cranberry, Pre ee with loaf sugar, 
will greatly relieve the dropsy. 


Common dandelion is said to be very good. It may be 
eaten as a salad with the usual dressing ; or the juice may 
be taken in the dose of half a wine-glassful, three times 
a day; or the leaves may be kept in the pocket, and fre- 
quently eaten in the course of the day. The afflicted 
will rest satisfied with the change of their feelings, which 
will be perceived after using the plant. 


304. Drowning. of 
The following directions are given by Valentine Mott, 
Surgeon-General of the American Shipwreck Society, in 
New York : — 


To bring the Drowned to Life.—Immediately, as soon as 
the body is removed from the water, press the chest sud- 
denly and forcibly downward and backward, and instantly 
discontinue the pressure. Repeat this without interruption, 
until a pair of common bellows can be procured. When 
ebtained, introduce the nozzle well upon the base of the 


“— 


- ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 83 


tongue. Surround the mouth with a towel or handkerchief, 
and close it. Direct a bystander to press firmly upon the 
projecting part of the neck, (called Adam’s apple,) and use 
the bellows actively. 'Then press upon the chest to expel 
the air from the lungs, to imitate natural breathing. Con- 
tinue this at least an hour, unless signs of natural breath- 
ing come on. { 

Wrap the body in blankets, place it near a fire, and do 
every thing to preserve the natural warmth, as well as to 
impart an artificial heat, if possible. very thing, how- 
ever, 1s secondary to inflating the lungs. ({y> Send for a 
medical man immediately. 

Avoid all frictions until respiration shall be in some de- 
gree restored. 


305, Deafness. 


Take a strong glass bottle, and fill it nearly full of pure 
clarified honey ; insert the bottle into the centre of a loaf 
of unbaked bread, first taking care to stop it tightly, and 
_bake the whole thoroughly in an oven. Pour a small 
quantity of the honey thus treated into your ears, and pro- 
tect them from the action of the external air by the use 
of cotton. 

806. Hyes, inflamed. 

Pour boiling water on elder flowers, and steep them; 
when cold, put three or four drops of laudanum into a 
small glass of the tea, and let the mixture run into the 
eyes several times a day. ‘They will become strong in a 
few days. 


* 807, Eye, to remove a Mote from. 


Take a horsehair, and form a loop by bending it round 
and bringing the ends together ; then raise the eyelid, and 
insert the loop between the lid and the eyeball, then let 
the lids fall again, draw the hair out, and with it what- 
ever may have got under the lid. 


308. Elderberry Sirup. 

Take of the juice of elderberry one quart; boil to one 
pint; strain, and add two pounds double-refined sugar; 
again place it over_the fire ; as soon as it shall have boiled, 
remove it from the fire; and when cold, bottle it for 


84 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


use, taking care to have it well corked. Should you neg- 
lect to put in the above quantity of sugar, there will be 
danger of its becoming mouldy. As a gentle purgative, 
this sirup is an excellent medicine, of very pleasant taste, 
and is particularly serviceable for children who are difficult 
about taking medicine. The dose for an adult is a wine- 
glassful. This is also good for humors in the blood. 


309, Elixir Pro. 


One ounce of gum myrrh, one ounce of canella alba, 
one ounce of saffron, one quart of brandy, one quart of 
W. L. rum, or alcohol, half an ounce of saleratus; the 
more age this has, the better. 


810. Elixir asthmatic. 


Take opium, one drachm; oil of anise, one drachm; 
gum camphor, two thirds of a drachm; extract of liquor- 
ice, one ounce; three gills of alcohol, and three gills of 
water : put the materials in a bottle with the alcohol, and 
Jet it stand three days before adding the water. Age 
improves this very much. 


dll, Earache. 


Soak the feet in warm water; roast an onion and put 
the heart of it into the ear as warm as can be borne; 
heat a brick, and wrap it up, and apply to the side of the 
head. When the feet are taken from the water, bind 
roasted onions on them. Lard, or sweet oil, dropped into 
the ear, as warm as it can be borne, is good. 


319, Felons. 


Soak the part in weak ley, (which can easily be made 
of a small piece of potash,) as hot as you can bear it, for — 
twenty or thirty minutes; shave down the skin on the 
part, but don’t make it bleed; then take a piece of clay, 
dry, pulverize and sift it, moisten it with strong camphor 
to the consistency of a poultice; apply it half an inch 
thick, and keep it moist with camphor, as much as it will 
absorb, for a day or two. This is said to be a sure cure, 
without disfiguring the part affected. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 85 


old, Fevers. 


* To prevent Infection. — Mix with a table-spoonful of 
vinegar, powdered chalk enough to destroy the acid; let it 
settle; then turn off the vinegar, and dry the chalk per- 
fectly: to purify a room, put in a few drops of sulphuric 
acid: the fumes in using it, arising from the chalk, should 
not be inhaled, nor the acid allowed to touch the gar- 
ments or furniture. 

The danger of infection will be much greater, to a 
person going directly from his own bed to the bedside of 
the patient, than to one who first takes the precaution of 
drinking, were it only a cup of coffee. 


Dr. J. C. Smith, of London, gained a reward of 5000 
pounds from parliament, for the following receipt, for the 
prevention of infection, from the typhus fever. 


Take six drachms of powdered nitre (saltpetre) and 
six drachms of sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol) ; mix them ina 
tea-cup. By adding one drachm of the acid at a time, a 
copious discharge of nitrous acid gas will take place. 
The cup to be placed, during the preparation, on a list 
hearth, or a plate of heated iron, and the mixture stirred 
with a tobacco-pipe. This quantity is sufficient for a 
common-sized room: less will do for a small room. 
Avoid breathing the gas as it rises from the cup. No 
injury to the lungs will happen when the air of the room 
- Is impregnated with the gas; and it cannot be too widely 
known that it possesses the property of preventing infec- 
tion from fever. 


314, Figs and Senna. 


* One pound of best figs, one ounce of senna; the 
senna to be- pounded and made fine as possible; the figs 
to be chopped fine; to be well incorporated together; a 
very little molasses to be added, to make it of a right 
consistency. This is a very gentle cathartic. To be 
taken in pieces as large asa chestnut. 


OL). Gravel. 


Lime-water, about a gill at a time, as a drink, and 
repeated often, is good in this disease. The warm bath 


86 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


should be used, and flannel wrung out of a decoction of 
warm herbs should be kept on the bowels. Drink mod- 
erate draughts of gum arabic warm. When the pain 
subsides, use gentle physic. 


A gentleman says he was relieved of this complaint, of 
a number of years’ standing, by sweetening his tea with 
half honey and half sugar. 


Take a large handful of smart-weed ; make a decoction, 
and add one gill of gin, and take the whole in twelve 
hours. This has been known to discharge a table-spoon- 
ful of gravel-stones at a time. — 


316. Hair Restorative. 


It is stated, in the Medical Journal, that a gentleman 
whose head was quite bald, had his hair entirely restored 
by the use of sulphate of copper, dissolved in brandy and 
applied to his head. 


Fine salt dissolved in water, and daily applied, it is 
said, will restore hair to the heads of those who, from 
fever or other causes, may have suffered its loss. 


. 317. Hydrophobia. 


Take oyster-shells, wash them clean, put them upon a 
bed of live coals, and keep them there till they are thor- 
oughly calcined, or burnt; then reduce them to fine 
powder, and sift it through a fine sieve. ‘Take three 
table-spoonfuls of this powder, or lime, and add a suffi- 
ciency of egg to give it the consistency of soft dough, — fry 
it in a little fresh butter, or olive oil. Let the patient eat 
this cake in the morning, and abstain from food or drink 
at least six hours. This dose repeated for three mornings 
in succession, is, in all cases, sufficient. 

A gentleman states that he is acquainted with six per- 
sons who were bitten, from eight to fifteen years ago, by 
dogs who were abundantly proved to be mad, from the 
fact that animals bitten, immediately after died with every 
symptom of hydrophobia; but by the use of this remedy, 
the six individuals are yet in perfect health. 

It is said that a man lying under the frightful tortures 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 87 


of hydrophobia was cured with some draughts of vine- 
gar, given him, by mistake, instead of another potion. 

This was afterwards tried upon a patient at the hospital, 
administering to him a pint of vinegar in the morning, 
another at noon, and a third at sunset, and the man was . 
speedily and perfectly cured. 

For the wound, take two table-spoonfuls of fresh ¢hlo- 
ride of lime in powder, mix it with half a pint of water, 
_ and with this keep the wound constantly bathed, and fre- 
quently renewed. It should be applied as soon as possi- 
ble after the bite. 


ls. ficcough. 


“ A camphor lozenge, or a little camphor in water, 
_will stop a hiccough at once. 


319, Heartburn. 


For heartburn take a tea-spoonful of carbonate of 
soda, dissolved in sweetened water. Magnesia or pre- 
pared chalk is also good. ‘ 


990. Nervous Headache. 


* One quart of cider, three table-spoonfuls of white mus- 
tard seed, three of burdock seed, a small horseradish root, 
well steeped together. To be kept in a bottle well 
corked; dose, a wine-glassful two or three times a day. 


* A ground mustard poultice, applied to the back of 
the neck, between the shoulders, is good. 


* For an ordinary headache, take a shovelful of clean 
wood ashes; put them into clean cold water: when it has 
settled, drink the water: it may cause vomiting; if it 
does, the headache will be relieved the sooner. 


821. Indigestion, Remedy for. 


Boil half a pint of white wheat three hours in a quart 
of water, or a little more if necessary. Drink half a pint 
of the liquid twice or three times a week. 


88 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


022. Lip Salve. 


i Thi table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, a piece of bees- 
wax the size of a hazel-nut, melted over a lamp, in a piece 
of Hittin large enough to hold it. 


323. Opodeldos. | 


Take an ounce of gum camphor, half a drachm oil of 
rosemary, half a drachm oil of origanum, two ounces 
Castile soap, cut small, and half a pint spirits of wine. 
Boil all together for half an hour. When cool, bottle it 
for use. It is good for bruises, sprains, stiffness of the 
neck and shoulders, and rheumatic pains. 


324. Pile Hlectuary. 


Take cream of tartar, one ounce; jalap pulverized, 
one ounce; electuary of senna, two ounces; flour of sul- 
phur half an ounce; nitrate of potash, half an ounce; add 
molasses sufficient to make a pill, or thick mass; make 
into pills of common size, and take four night and morn- 
ing. This is a sovereign remedy for blind or bleeding 
piles. Sometimes, when the tumors become very painful, 
and are attended with considerable inflammation, a poul- 
tice of slippery elm bark and milk will be found quite 
valuable and soothing. 


* A tea made of goldthread, sweetened with honey or 
loaf sugar, and taken half a wine-glass before eating, 
is good. 


325. Pile Ointment. 


Take excrescences which form upon the leaves of the 
sumach, very finely powdered, an-ounce; fresh lard, six 
ounces. Blend them together thoroughly. This is bene- 
ficial in piles, and often affords surprising relief. It may 
be confined to the parts by means of a bandage and a 
piece of lint.or folded rag. 


Burdock leaves, applied all round the parts and back, 
are good. 


4 


If the parts are very sore or‘irritable, an injection is 
good, which may consist of an infusion of raspberry, witch- 


ECONOMICAL . HOUSEKEEPER. 89 


hazel, or sumach leaves, rendered somewhat mucilaginous 
with slippery elm. The liquid should always be strained, 
or the sediment will tend to aggravate the complaint. 


326. Poison. 


Sweet oil, mixed with warm milk and water, drank 
until vomiting, is an antidote to poisons generally. 


Ground mustard, mixed with warm water, will also 
produce vomiting. 


327. Run-Round on the Finger, 


As soon as the swelling and inflammation begin, 
lay the finger flat on the table, and scratch the nail all 
over, first lengthways and then crossways, with the sharp 
point of scissors or penknife, so as to scratch up the 
whole surface of the nail, leaving it rough and white. 
This latter operation will not give the slightest pain, and 
we have never known it to fail of stopping the progress 
of the disease, all symptoms of which will disappear by 
the next day. 


328, Rheumatism. 


Take one quart of spirits of wine, two ounces of laud- 
anum, one ounce oil of amber, one ounce oil of penny- 
royal, one ounce spirits of hartshorn; mix the ingredients 
in a glass bottle. Bathe the parts affected two or three 
times a day, (rubbing in the liniment thoroughly with the 
hand,) and keep them covered with a flannel. Keep it 
well corked from the air, to prevent evaporation. This 
is excellent, also, for fresh cuts, sprains, and bruises. 


Half an ounce of saltpetre dissolved i in a pint of brandy, 
and taken one table-spoonful every day. ‘This is said, by 
those who have tried the experiment, to be a most excel- 
lent antidote for that painful complaint. ; 


329, Ringworm. 


Put some tobacco with some water, and boil it, and add 
some vinegar and strong ley to the liquor: wash the parts 
affected ofteny. 
8 


90 _ ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


330. Sore Throat. 


Mix a wine-glassful of good calcined magnesia and 
honey, to the consistence of paste or jelly, and take a 
spoonful once an hour through the day for a day or two. 
It is cooling, healing, and a very gentle cathartic. 


External Remedy. — Take a glass of olive or sweet oil, 
and half a glass of spirits of turpentine; mix them to- 
gether, and rub the throat externally, wearing flannel 
round it at the same time. It proves most effectual when 
applied early. ; 


* A slice of salt pork, covered over quite thick with 
red pepper, and bound on the throat on going to bed, will 
give relief. 


Bol. Sea. Sickness, 


For sea-sickness, drink copiously of strong green tea 
as often as the stomach will bear it. It is simple, but. 
effective. 


332, Salve for Burns, Bruises, Cuts, &e. . 


* Take Burgundy pitch, mutton tallow, and beeswax, 
each a piece the size of a walnut, and simmer in a tea- 
cupful of sweet oil. When cold, put it in a box, and 
set it away for use. 


333. Thoroughwort Sirup. 


* Make a strong tea of the herb: to a quart of the 
tea add a quart of molasses; boil it down to a thick sirup: 
when cool, bottle it for use, and keep it in a cool place. 


334. Toothache. 


Mix alum and common salt in equal quantities, flaky 
pulverized. Then wet some cotton, large enough to fill 
the cavity, which cover with salt and alum, and apply it. 
We have the authority of those who have tested it, to 
say it will prove a perfect remedy. 


* Opium, dissolved in the oil of cloves, droppea on 
cotton, and applied to a tooth, will relieve a jumping tooth- 
ache. 


aye 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. — ee 3 


The bark of wild poplar root steeped in water, and 
the liquid held in the mouth, it is said, will cure the 
toothache. 


* For the ague, boil some hops and bran, and make a 
stiff poultice ; put it in a bag, wet the inside with spirit, 
and apply it as hot as it can be borne. 


335. Tooth Wash. 


To four ounces of fresh prepared lime-water add a 
drachm of Peruvian bark; wash the teeth with this water 
before breakfast and after supper; it will effectually 
destroy the tartar, and remove the offensive smell from 
those which are decayed. 


Take of good soft water one quart; juice of lemon, 
two ounces; burnt alum, six grains; common salt, six 
grains. Mix. Boil them a minute in a cup, then strain 
and bottle for use. 


306. Vomiting, to stop. 


* Pound up gum camphor, pour on boiling water; 
sweeten it with loaf sugar, and let the patient take a 
spoonful every ten minutes. A drink made of common 
pigweed is also said to be a good remedy; also,a mus- 
tard poultice applied to the pit of the stomach; spear- 
mint water sweetened a very little with loaf sugar, and 
taken hot, is good. 


837. Warts. 


Dissolve as much common washing soda as the water 
will take up —then wash the hands or warts with this for 
a minute or two, and allow them to dry without being 
wiped. This, repeated for two or three days, will gradu- 
ally destroy the most irritable wart. 

The bark of willow, burned to ashes, mixed with good 
vinegar, and applied to warts, it is said, will remove them. 


338. Coughs. 


For a cough, boil a tea-cup of flaxseed in a quart of 
water to a pint; add one gill of molasses or honey. Sim- 


92 ' - ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


mer ten minutes, and cool. Add a few ere of lemon- 
juice. Take a wine-glass three times a day. 


For hoarseness, mix scraped horseradish with loaf 
sugar. After standing twenty-four hours, add water, 
boil to a sirup, and strain. One tea-spoonful every two 
hours. 


In hard, unyielding coughs, the following recipe will 
be useful: One gill of molasses, one gill new rum, two 
tea-spoonfuls of pulverized liquorice, and a piece of alum 
as large as a walnut. : 


839. Whooping-Cough. 


This complaint is mostly confined to children, and will 
have aregular run. A little saleratus, and occasionally 
a little bloodroot, will be found greatly to alleviate the 
paroxysms. 


* A gentleman, who has tried it, says that yellow pond- 
lily root, dried and pulverized, mixed with an equal 
quantity of honey, and taken a tea-spoonful at a time, 
several times in a day, will not only relieve the whooping- 
cough, but will cure it in a short time. 


Take two wine-glasses of vinegar, two of honey, two 
of water, and one onion sliced. Simmer onehour. Dose 
—three tea-spoonfuls night and morning for a child 
eight years old. 


External application for the same: Sweet oil and 
brandy, simmered with one onion sliced, and anoint the 
spine, chest, and soles of the feet, night and morning. 


_ MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 


340. To Keep Apples for Winter Use. 


Put them in casks or bins, in layers well covered with 
dry sand, each layer being covered. This preserves them 
from air, from moisture, and from frost; it prevents their 
perishing by their own perspiration, their moisture being 
absorbed by the sand; at the same time it preserves the 
flavor of the apples, and prevents their wilting. Pippins 
- have been kept in this manner sound and fresh till mid- 


summer ; and how much longer they would have kept is , 


not known. Any kind of sand will answer, but it must 
be perfectly dry. | 


If apples are immersed in grain of any kind, they will 
keep good all the year round, and the grain will not in 
any way be the worse for it. This does not need any 
preparation or expense, as the apples may be put into a 
corn-bin, or into a tub, and the corn intended for food for 
horses or poultry may as well be stored in this way as 
any other. 


841, Shoe-Blacking, No, 1. 


* Three ounces of ivory black ; two ounces of brown 
sugar; half an ounce each of oil of vitriol and muriatic 
acid; one large spoonful of sweet oil; one pint of good 
vinegar. Mix the ivory black, oil, sugar, and vinegar, 
and then add the vitriol and acid mixed together. 


342, Shoe-Blacking, No. 9. 


Take eight ounces of ivory black, six ounces of mo- 
lasses, six table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, and three of oil 
of vitriol: mix all together with a quart of vinegar, and 
bottle it. It will be ready for use in a week. 

> * 


z 


4 


94 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


343. Nhoe-Blacking, No. 3. 

Take elder-berries; mash them in a kettle of water ; 
place the kettle for a few days in the shade until the. 
liquid ferments, then boil it for half a day, filling up with 
water occasionally; set it aside to cool, then strain it 
through a coarse, thin cloth, then boil it down to the 
thickness of molasses, and it is fitfor use. Put a small 
quantity on a brush with a feather, and rub the shoe until 
you bring it to a fine gloss. Good writing ink may be 
made in the same way. 


344, To make Boots water-proof. 


Put a pound of tallow and half a pound of resin 
into a pot on the fire; when melted and mixed, warm the 
boots, and apply the hot stuff with a painter’s brush, until 
neither the sole nor upper-leather will suck in any more. 
If it is desired that the boots should immediately take a 
polish, dissolve an ounce of beeswax in an ounce of 
spirits of turpentine, to which add a tea-spoonful of Jamp- 
black. A day or two after the boots have been treated 
with tallow and resin, rub over them the wax in turpen- 
tine, but not before the fire. ‘Thus the exterior will have 
a coat of wax alone, and shine like a mirror. Boots or 
shoes should be so large as to admit of wearing in them 
cork soles. Cork is so bad a conductor of heat that, 
with it in the boot, the feet are always warm on the 
coldest stone floor. 


345, Cheap Bed of Husks. 


The husks are gathered as soon as they are ripe, and 
on a clean, dry day. ‘The outer husks are rejected, and 
the softer, inner ones are collected and dried in the shade, 
and when dry, the hard ends, that were attached to the 
cob, are cut off. ‘They are then drawn through a hatchel 
or comb, so as to cut them into narrow slips. These, 
enclosed in a sack, or formed into a mattress like prepared 
hair, will be found almost equal to the best moss or hair 
mattresses, and are so durable, that, with any ordinary 
‘ care, they will last from five to ten years. 


346. Good Butter in Winter. 


Before setting the milk, pour a sufficient quantity of boil- 
ing water into it to make it nearly as hot as it can be borne 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 95 


by the finger. Keep the cream from freezing, and when 
it is ready to churn, add the juice of a middling-sized 
carrot to four quarts of cream. 


Yellow butter in winter is made by putting in the yolk 
of eggs near the termination of churning. This also 
makes very fine and sweet butter. It has hitherto “‘ been 
kept a secret by many, but its great value requires pub- 
licity.”: ' 

. 347, Cologne Water. 


Take two drachms of oil of rosemary, two of the oil of 
lemon, one of lavender, ten of cinnamon, one tea-spoon- 
ful of rose-water. Pour on these one quart of alcohol; 
put all in a glass bottle, and shake it up well; to have it 
very clear, put some cotton in a tunnel, and place a piece 
of clean tissue or printing paper over it, and strain the 
contents through it. 


Another Way. — One pint alcohol, sixty drops lavender, 
sixty of bergamot, sixty of essence of lemon, sixty of 
orange-water. ‘I'o be corked up, and well shaken. It is 
better for considerable age. 


348, Chloride of Lime. 


To correct the most impure and offensive atmosphere 
in a few moments, and to restore it to its purity, it is only 
necessary to procure one pound of chloride of lime, which 
will cost but one shilling, put it into a bucket of water, 
mix it up, and throw it into a receptacle of filth. A sup- 
ply may be had at almost any of the apothecaries. 


349. To preserve Corn for Boiling. 


Pluck the corn when fit for eating, strip down the husk 
so as to remove the silk, and then replace it — pack it 
away in a barrel, and pour on a strong pickle, such as 
used for meat, with a weight to keep it down, and you 
will have a good sea stock —parboiled and then boiled, 
to make it perfectly fresh and sweet as when taken from 
the salt. 


350. To remove Flies from Rooms. 


Take half a tea-spoonful of black pepper, in powder — 
one tea-spoonful of brown sugar, and one table-spoonfu 


96 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


of cream. Mix them well together, and place them in a 
room on a plate where the flies are troublesome, and they 
will soon disappear. 


351, To prevent Horses being teased by Flies. 


Take two or three small handfuls @f walnut leaves, on 
which pour two or three quarts of cold water; let it infuse 
one night, and pour the whole, next morning, into a kettle, 
and boil for quarter of an hour ; when cold, it is fit for 
use. Moisten a sponge with it, and before the horse goes 
out of the stable, let those parts which are most irritable 
be smeared over with the liquor. Pennyroyal, prepared in 
the same way, is equally good. Flies will not alight a 
moment on the spot to which this has been applied. 


352, A cheap Method of preserving Cucumber Plants from re 
small Fly or Bus. 


Break off the stocks of onions which have been set 
out in the spring, and stick down five or six of them in 
each hill of cucumbers, and the bug will immediately 
leave them. It would be well, after a few days, to renew 
them; but one application has frequently been found to 
be completely effectual. 


353. To take Ink out of Linen. 


Dip the spotted part in pure melted tallow; then wash . 
out the tallow, and the ink will come out with it. Thisis 
said to be unfailing. 


304. Neratches in Horses. 


Mix white lead and linseed oil in such proportions as 
will render the application convenient, and I never have 
known more than two or three applications necessary to 
effect a common cure. 


800. How te fatten Fowls, 


Confine your fowls in a large airy enclosure, and feed 
them on broken Indian corn, Indian meal, or mush, with 
raw potatoes cut into small pieces, not larger than a 
filbert, placing within their reach a quantity of charcoal 
broken into small pieces. Boiled rice is also good,” 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 97 


356. Destroying Rats. 


OS. thin as sixpences, roasted or stewed 
in their tracks; or dried sponge in 
dipped in honey, with a little oil of 
ne _ in their haunts, will stick to 


ma ais put to escape in the 
oe 1 Sebi 


ra fiend sith: raw eggs, which is the 
la they will all get in, if there is 


- chloride of Hits, and scatter it dry 
and place that they visit, in the cellar 
of the house, in and under the cellar-wall, 
soon leave you. Don’t put it on or very 
“ge family Provisions. 


To make good Black Ink. 


9gwood, | one ounce; nutgall, three ounces; 
gre ounces; sulphate of iron, (green cop- 
ounce; rain-water, two quarts. Boil the 
od together until the liquid is reduced one 
dd the nutgalls coarsely bruised, and when 
the sulphate of iron and gum ; stir it frequently 
ys, then let it settle ; then pour it off, and 
se in a glass battle, 


$60. Indelible i, 


Siok of lunar caustic, and having put 
phial full of vinegar, and a very little sap- 
ht and hang it inthe sun. In a couple 
il be fit for use. 

@ preparation for the above, take a lump of 


98 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


pearlash, of the size of a chestnut, and dissolve it in a gill 
of rain-water. 

The part of the muslin to be written upon ‘is to be wet 
with the preparation, and dried and glazed with a warm 
flat-iron ; immediately after which, it is ready for marking. 


361, To keep up Sash Windows. 


This is performed by means of cork, in the simplest 
manner and with scarcely any expense. Bore three or 
four holes in the sides of the sash, into which insert 
common bottle corks, projecting about the sixteenth part 
of aninch. ‘These will press against the window-frames, 
along the usual groove, and by their elasticity support 
the sash at any height which may be required. 


362, To take out Pitch, Tar, Resin, Paint, &e, 


If any of these happen to get on a garment, either 
linen or woollen, pour a little alcohol on the place, and 
let it soak in about half an hour. Then rub it gently, 
and you will find the alcohol has soaked out the glutinous 
quality, so that it will easily crumble out. — 


363. A strong Cement tp China or (tana 


With a small camel-hair brush, rub the broken edges 
with a little carriage-oil varnish; and if neatly put 
together, the fracture will hardly be perceptible, and when 
thoroughly dry will stand both fire and water. 


364. To prevent Lamps from Smoking, 


Dip the wick-yarn in strong hot vinegar, and dry it, 
before putting it in your lamp. 


30). To make Vinegar. 


Boil slowly, for one hour, three pounds of very coarse 
brown sugar in three gallons of water; work it with a 
little yeast, the same.as you would beer ; then put it into a. 
cask, and expose it to the sun, with a piece of brown 
paper pasted over the bung-hole, and it will soon become 
fine vinegar, fit for pickling or any other purpose. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 99 


\ 


366, Mosquitoes. 


Attach a piece of flannel or sponge to a thread, made 
fast to the top of the bedstead; wet the flannel or sponge 
with camphorated spirits, and the mosquitoes will leave 
the room. 


867, Smelling Salts. 


Sub-carbonate of ammonia, eight parts. Put it in coarse 
powder into a bottle, and pour on it oil of lavender, 
one part. ; 


368. To mend Iron Pots, 


_ To repair cracks, &c., in iron pots or pans, mix some 
finely-sifted lime with well-beaten whites of eggs, till 
reduced to a paste; then add some iron file dust, apply 
the composition to the injured part, and it will soon 
become hard and fit for use. 


| 309, Frozen Pumps. 


* Nothing is more discouraging, in a cold winter morn- 
ing, when the thermometer is ten or fifteen degrees below 
zero, than to find your pump-handle immovable, and be 
obliged to spend all the forenoon before you can water 
your cattle, or have“any water from this source for family 
purposes. A careful housekeeper will always, in this 
weather, keep a pailful in a place where it will not freeze. 
If your pump is copper or any kind of metal, all you 
have to do is to take your tea-kettle from the fire, 
pour some boiling water on the outside of the pump and 
pipe as far as it is frozen, and you will find immediate 


relief. 
370, A brilliant Stucco Whitewash. a 


Six quarts of clean lime, slacked in boiling water, two 
quarts of salt, five gallons of water; boil and skim; then 
add one pound of copperas and three fourths pound of 
saleratus gradually, and four quarts sifted wood ashes; 
color to taste or fancy; applied while hot. 


- 2d. Clean, fresh-burnt lime, same as above; one fourth 
pound burnt alum, powdered; one pound sugar; three 


100 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


pints rice flour, the into a jelly; one pound clean glue, 
first dissolved ; five gallons water. 

This wash is applied, where particular neatness is re- 
quired, with a painter’s brush. It must be put on while 
warm, if upon the outside of the building —if within 
doors, cold. It will retain its brilliancy for many years. 
There is nothing of the kind that will compare with it. 
About one pint of this mixture will cover a square yard 
upon the outside of a house, if properly applied. 


371, Red Ants, 


* To keep them away from your cupboards. Keep 
one pint of tar, in two quarts of water, in an earthen vessel 
in your closets, and you will not be troubled with little 
red ants. When first mixed, pour the water on hot. 


372. To raise the Surface of Velvet. 


Warm a flat-iron moderately ; cover it with a wet cloth, 
and hold it under the velvet; the vapor arising from the 
heated cloth will raise the pile of the velvet with the 
assistance of a rush-whisk. . 


d7d To clean Looking-Glasses. 


Take a newspaper, fold it small, dip it in a basin of 
clean cold water. When thoroughly wet, squeeze it out 
as you do a sponge; then rub it pretty hard all over the 
surface of the glass, taking care that it is not so wet as to 
run down in streams; in fact, the paper must only be 
completely moistened, or damped, all through. Let it 
rest a few minutes, then go over the glass with a piece of 
fresh dry newspaper, till it looks clear and bright. 

_ The insides of windows may be cleaned in the same 

y; also spectacle-glasses, lamp-glasses, &c. 


* $74, To prevent Flies from injuring Picture. Frames, 
Glasses, &e. 


Boil three or four onions in a pint of water; then with 
a gilding brush do over your glasses and frames, and the 
flies will not alight on the article so washed. This may 
be used without apprehension, as it will not do the least 
injury to the frames. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 101 © 


=_- 


875. To clean lee from Stone Steps and from the Sidewalks. 


Salt strewed upon the door-steps in the winter will 
cause the ice to crack, so that it can be easily removed. 


a To soften old, hard Putty when a Glass is broken. 


_ Put soap on the putty for a short time. 
Panes of glass may easily be removed, by the applica- 
- tion of soft soap for a few hours, however hard the putty 
_-has Beene. 


| : 877, To make Soft Soap, 


* ‘Ten pounds of potash, twenty pounds of grease; put 
one pail of soft water to the potash, and let it stand an 
i %, hour and a half; melt the grease, and strain it hot into 

your potash, and stir it well and often; you can put in 
_ more potash, and it will make it stronger ; ; then temper it 
with: soft water. 


378, To sues cracked Stoves. 


Pics | in stoves and stove-pipes are readily closed by 
“past made of ashes and salt with water. Iron turnings 
or filings, sal ammoniac, and water, make a harder and 

more durable cement. 


* 4 __ 879, To prevent Gates from creaking. 


f 
Gates work much better for having the hinges and 
latches greased. ‘T’o keep them so, bore a hole and plug 
up a quantity of grease in the gate post, where it may 
_ always be at hand when wanted. * 


380. To break Horses, 


To prevent horses, which are disposed to break their 
. bridles, from doing so, place a pad within the strap which 
“passes back of the head, the inside of which is lined 
with cotton or linen, and in which the points of three or 
four very sharp nails, pointing inwards, are concealed. 
When the horse draws hard upon his bridle, these prick 
him, and cause him to desist. 
% 9 


BT CR. a 


ee ee ee 
 Ovursme Wuitrwase. — Raueerinae 
| New-York: A water-proof outside whitewash, 
|that is very durable and cheap is made 
as follows: Half a bushel of fresh lime 
slaked in boiling water, in a barrel, which is 
ered to keep in the steam, The liquid lime 
strained through a doubled sack, and the fol- 
g are added to it, viz: Seven pounds of 


— 


lved in warm water ; three pounds of 
€ Sos tens a ee iste arr stirred 


cpnceda ap 


yey KNAwine THE Bark.—E. R. ; 
Rand “lp iS ae ee Ht is is easy to prevent rab- 
bits fi gnawing the bark of fruit trees. 

Now Now that Thote food is becoming somewhat 

@ animals will soon be attacking 
the y the young Gana eat the bark. This they 
ves oubt, on account of an instinctive | 
esire ic some bitter substance to aid in diges- 


lage, fai more in fact than the very small 
|| value of their flesh compensates for. 


_ FRuit-TREeE Peppiers.—E. R., Wester-— 
ley, R. I.: Itis not safe to purchase trees from | 
dang is agents unless they represent, and > 
ae pore by, responsible nurserymen, 
sually give printed forms of a bill of 

ee. in ehh the Bg t is reserved to substitute 
| other varieties for those ordered in case these 
_may not be in stock. This opens the door to_ 
| frat md in the widest manner, for a purchaser 
may get-none of the kinds he wanted, and sev- 
-eral kinds that may be worthl s to him. 
. as are plenty of good nurserymen who’ can | 
furnish trées as they are ordered, and one can- 
not be too careful in buying from any others, 
and should especially avoid dealing with tray- 
-eling agents who are unknown. 

— ——e 1 DWareta Feed Randan~ NawA 


If it is ostred xf 
warm, ar seahie brown can” 


med umber, and a gray’ can be» 
ig a little jamp- ack. ; ; 


Pei 


pi 
‘ee! 


Ww 


ae 


»| boiling water scald one quart of corn flour, 


Iypian Musi Caxes—With thice pints of 


when,cold stir in. half a pint of wheat flour 
and one tea-spoonful of salt, stir very hard 
and hake the batter immediately, Milk may. 


{} be used instead of water, The most expedi- 


tious and economical way to. make Indian’ 
cakes, 


Jounny Caxes.—Scald a quart of’ corn 
flour with a quart of boiling water, add a 
tea-spoonful of salt, mix into a batter, and | 
beat it till quite light. Place it in an inclined | 
position before the fire, or bake it in an 


| oven. 


Recerrr KOR Tanta up GENTLEMEN'S LINEN. 


{ —Take 2 oz. fine white Gum Arabic powder, 
| put it in a pitcher and pour on a pint or more 


of boiling water, and then, having covered 
it, let it stand all night; in the morning pour 
it earefully into a clean bottle, cork it anc 
keep it for use. A table-spoonfal of gun 
water stirred into a pint of starch, will m 


| muslins, prints, &c., look like new. > 


ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS. 


——_—_—_— u 

WINE FROM RuEevBARB.—B. L., Middle- 
town, Ohio: Wine has been and can be made 
from rhubarb. One acre of plants will yield 
as much gs 1,700 gallons of wine, counting in 
the wate! and sugar to be added. The stalks 
are crushed and the juice is filtered, To each 
gallon of juice one gallon of soft water and 
seven pounds of white sugar areadded. The 
mixture is fermented in casks with the bung 
out, and as it works over the bung-hole the 
loss is replaced with sweetened water. When 
the liquor is clear it is closely bunged up or 


bottled. The stalks furnish three-fourths of ay: 


their weight in juice. 


Keeping GrRApPES.—J. C., Wexford 
County, Mich; Grapes may be kept for several 
months if well packed in boxes and put away 
in a dry, airy place. All unripe or damaged — 
grapes aula be picked out and none but per- 
fectiy sound ones packed. They should be 

acked closely in dry hard-wood sawdust, | 
aked in an oven before it is used. 


Wuat ts A BarreL?—H. 8. B., Essex | 
County, N. Y.: A barrel is declared by the , 
| law of New-York to be of the capacity of 100 | 
3) quarts dry measure, or 3 bushels and 4 quarts. | 
yA dry measure quart is 67 1-5 cubic inches, | 

which is nearly 10 cubi¢e inches larger than a 
— wine quart, (this is 578{ inches.) The penalty 
f| for pete or making, knowing it to be used, any 
i) barrel of less size than this for packing apples, 
ii pears, quinces, or patoes is $5 for each barrel | 
3} so used or made; the penalty may be recovered 
§ before a Justice of the Peace. 


An Icse-Houss.—J. B. Y., Farmington, 
Me.: If an ice-house 1s to be built it may be 
made better now thanin the Wizster. The lo- 
| cation should be high and dry and the stone 
walls should be a foot below the surface. The 
earth dug out may be thrown inside to raise 
the floor and help the drainage. Stone will 
make a good material for the wall, and the 
wall should be 18 inches thick. It will do no 


| harm if the eaves are left open under the 


rafters, as top ventilation is necessary. No } 
doubling of the wall is required, and when the 
ice is packed it may be laid solidly in the cen- 
tre, one foot from the wall all around, and this 
space is filled with sawdust, dry swamp muck, 
or leaves from the woods well trodden down. 
The top is covered with two feet of the same 
material. Waste tan bark is a good protec- 
tion. The door is to be made double, and the 
space between should be filled with straw. The 
packing should be gathered before the Winter 
and kept dry. 


VaLue or ArpLeE Pomace.—J. BE. §&., 
Newport, Vt.: Apple pomace is of little 
use as a fertilizer; it may be mixed with lime)! 
to neutralize the acid and decompose it, and | 
| may then be spread as a top-dressing on an | 
| orchard or on grass lands, and what value it | 
possesses will be made available. It is useful | 
for fodder for cattle, horses, pigs, or sheep, | 
| and may be preserved for this purpose in casks | 
| orin pits dug in the Hien Jt. should be | 
firmly trodden, and wili keep all the Winter. 
| Its effect will be more as an alterative or laxa- 
| tive on. the digestive organs than for produc- 
| ing milk, ae 
} Sronr Dratns.—J. P., Fairfield County, 
| Conn.: The best use to which the stone ona 
| wet field can be put is to fill drains. The 
| drains may be made 30 inches deep and 18 
| inches wide. The stone should be carefully 
| laidso as to makea clear channel, and may 
then be thrown in without order on the top of 
the first, taking care notto disturb these. It 
| will be a saving of trouble to throw the earth 
from the drains on one side only of the ditch, 
and the stone can then be drawn to the other 
side and handled pa greater ease, 

3 ADuU_DA ne ¥ TAA 


MINTY 


102 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


dol. To preserve Potatoes till Spring. 


Put a quantity of powdered charcoal in the bottom of 
the potato bin: it will preserve their flavor, and prevent . 
the sprouts from shooting out so early as they otherwise 
would. 


082. Watery Potatoes. 


Put into the pot a piece of lime as large as a hen’s egg, 
and however watery the potatoes may be, when the water . 
is poured off they will be perfectly dry and mealy. 


383. To preserve Cheese from Inseets, . 


Cover the cheese, before you cut it, with a paste made 
of wheat flour ; then wrap a cloth round it, and rub 
more paste on the cloth. Keep the cheese in a ‘dry place, 
if possible in a current of air. Cheese that has no skip- 
pers in it, used in this way and kept till cold weather, will 
be clear of them, and improved in flavor. 


384, Boil your Molasses. 


When molasses is used in cooking, it is a very great 
improvement to boil and skim it before you useit. It takes 
out the unpleasant raw taste, and makes it more like sugar. 


38). Cheap Paint for a Barn. 


An excellent and cheap paint for rough wood-work is 
made of six pounds of melted pitch, one pint of linseed 
oil, and one pound of brick-dust, or yellow ochre. 


* 886. Cement for Crockery. 


Gum ammoniac, added to the solution of gum arabic 
in proof spirits, very much improves cement. It answers 
for joining glass and porcelain. 


387. To prevent a Crust forming on Tea-Kettles. © 


Keep an oyster-shell in your tea-kettle. The crust 
that forms on copper kettles, where the tinning has melted 
off, is injurious to health. 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 103 


dso, To extract Ink from Floors, 


Scour the place with sand wet with spirits of vitriol 
and water. — When the ink is extracted, wash the floor 
with strong pearlash water, and put the vitriol, ‘‘ labelled, ' 
where children cannot have access to it. 


389, To pickle Cucumbers, 


Take two or three hundred, lay them on a dish, salt 
them, and let them remain eight or nine hours; then 
drain them, and, laying them in a jar, pour boiling vine- 
gar upon them. Place them near the fire, covered with 
vine-leaves. If they do not become sufficiently green, 
strain off the vinegar, boil it, and again pour it over them, 
covering with fresh leaves. Continue to do so till they 
become as green as you wish. 


390. To pickle Red Cabbages. 


Slice them into a sieve, and sprinkle each layer with 
salt. Let the whole drain three days, then add some sliced 
beet-root, and place the whole in a jar, over which pour 
boiling vinegar. ‘The purple red cabbage is the finest. 
Mace, bruised ginger, whole pepper, and cloves, may be 
boiled with the vinegar, and will make a great im- 
provement. 


891. Lavender-Water. 


Take a quart of highly-rectified spirits of-wine, essen- 
tial oil of lavender two ounces, essence of ambergris five 
drachms; put it all into a bottle, and shake it till perfectly 
incorporated. 

Or, — Put two pounds of lavender-blossoms into nr 
a gallon of water, and set them in a still over a slow fire; 
distil it off gently till the water is all exhausted ; repeat 
the process a second time, then cork it closely down in 
bottles. 


: 892, Rose-Water. 


When the roses are in full blossom, pick the leaves 
carefully off, and to every quart of water put a peck of 


104 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER, 


them Put them in a cold still over a slow fire, and distil 
_ very gradually; then bottle the water, let it stand in the 
bottle three days, and then cork it close. 


093. To take out Mildew from Linen. 


Mix some soft soap with powdered starch, half as much 
salt, and the juice of a lemon; lay it on the part on both 
sides with a brush, then let it lie on the grass day and 
night till the stain comes out. 

Iron-moulds may be removed by the essential salt of 
lemons. Many stains may be removed by dipping the 
linen in sour buttermilk, and drying it in a hot sun; then 
wash it in cold water. Repeat this three or four times. 
Stains caused by acids may be removed by tying some 
pearlash up in the stained part; then scrape some soap in 
some cold soft water, and boil the linen till the stain 
is gone. 


394, To extract Oil from Boards or Stone. 


Make a strong ley of pearlash, to which add as much 
unslacked lime as it will take up; mix it well, let it settle, 
and then bottle it for use. When you use it, weaken it 
with water, and scour the boards or stone, which should 
always be done quickly, or it will take out the color 
from the boards. 


395, Portable Glue. 


Take half a pound of fine glue, boil and strain it clear ; 
then boil two ounces of isinglass; put it in a double glue- 
“pot, with four ounces of fine brown sugar, and boil it 
pretty thick; then pour it out into plates. When cold, 
¢ them into small pieces for the pocket, and dry them. 

his is an excellent cement for paper, as it instantly dis- 
solves in warm water, and fastens the paper very firmly. 


296. To remove Grease-Spots, 


In a quart of spring water dissolve two ounces of pure 
pearlash, to which add two lemons cut into small pieces. 
Mix this well, and keep it in a warm state two days, then 
strain it off, and keep it in a bottle closely stopped for use, 


ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 105 


‘4 e ~ . e 
To use it, pour a little upon the stained part; and the mo- 
ment the spot disappears, wash the part in cold water. 
This is a most useful article to remove pitch, grease, &c. 


097. A good Rule, 


Whenever you enter an apartment occupied by another 
individual, if the door is closed before you enter, close it 
_ @fter you. If, on the contrary, it stands invitingly open, 
let it remain so. 


7 098. A Hint to the Working Classes. 


If a man, twenty-one years of age, begin to save a 
dollar a week, and put it to interest every year, he would 
‘have, at thirty-one years of age, six hundred and fifty 
dollars ; at forty-one, one thousand six hundred and eighty ; 
at sixty-one, six thousand one hundred and fifty; and at 
seventy-one, eleven thousand five hundred dollars. When 
we look at these sums, and when we think how much 
temptation and evil might be avoided in the very act of 
saving them, and how much good a man in humble cir- 
cumstances might do for his family by these sums, we 
cannot help wondering that there are not more savers of 
one dollar a week. 


899, Jefferson’s Two Rules. 


Two rules of Jefferson are very applicable to the times : 
—‘‘Never spend your money before you get it;” and 
“* Never buy what you do not want because it is cheap.” 


400.° Family Tool Closet: by Miss Leslie. . 


Much inconvenience and considerable expense would 
be saved, if it was the universal custom to keep in every 
house a few tools for the purpose of performing at home | 
what are called small jobs; instead of being always 
obliged to send for a mechanic, and pay him for execu; 
ting little things, that might be sufficiently well done by a 
man or boy belonging, to the family provided that the 
proper instruments were at hand. The cost of these 
articles is very trifling, and the advantages of having them ~ 
in the house, (particularly in the country,) are beyond 

9 * 


7 | 


106 ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


all price. In a small private family, it may not be neces- 
sary to keep more than a few of these things; but those few 
are almost indispensable to comfort. For instance, there 
should be an axe, a saw, (a wood-saw also, where wood is 
burned, ) a claw-hammer, a mallet, a ginvblet, a screw-driver, 
a small plane, a carpet-fork or stretcher, one or two jack- 
knives, a pair of large scissors or shears, and a trowel. 
If there were two gimblets and two screw-drivers, (large 
and small,) it would be better still. Also, an assortment 
of hooks and nails of different sizes, from large spikes 
down to small tacks, not forgetting a portion of brass- 
headed nails, some large and some smaller. Screwsyalso, 
will be found very convenient. The nails and screws 
should be kept in a wooden box, with divisions or par- 
titions to separate the various sorts, for it is very trouble- 
some to have them mixed. 

No house should be without glue, chalk, putty, paint, 
cord, twine, and wrapping-paper; and care should be 
taken that the supply is not suffered to run out, lest the 
deficiency might cause delay and inconvenience at a time 
when most wanted. 

It is well to have, in the lower part of the house, a deep 
closet, appropriated entirely to tools and things of equal 
utility, for executing at once such little repairs as conve- 
nience may require, without the delay or expense of 
sending for an artisan. ‘This closet should have only one 
large shelf, and that not more than three feet above the 
floor. Beneath the shelf may be a deep drawer, divided 
in two. ‘This drawer may contain cakes of glue, pieces 
of chalk, hanks of manilla-grass cord, and balls of twine - 
of different size and quality. There may be small shelves 
at the sides of the closet for glue-pots, paste-pots, and 
brushes ; pots for black, white, green, and red paint, cans 
of painting oil, éc. On the wall above the large shelf 
let the tools be suspended, or laid across nails or hooks of 
proper size to support them. ‘This is much better than to 
keep them in a box, where they may be injured by rubbing 
against each other, and the hand may be hurt by feeling 
among them to find the one that is wanted. When hung ~ 
against the closet-wall, each tool may be seen at a glance. 
We have been shown an excellent and simple contrivance, 
for designating the exact places of these things. On the 


wall directly under the nails that support the tools, is 


ECONOMICAL IIOUSEKEEPER. 107 


drawn, with a small brush dipped in black paint or ink, an 
outline representation of the tool or instrument appro- 
priated to that particular place. For instance, under each 
saw is sketched the outline of a saw; under each gimlet 
is a sketch of a gimlet; under the screw-drivers are 
slight drawings of screw-drivers: so that when any tool 
is taken away for use, and afterwards brought back again, 
the exact spot to which it belongs may be found in a 
moment; and all confusion in putting them up, and _find- 
ing them again, is thus prevented. We highly recom- 
mend this plan. : 
Wrapping-paper may be piled on the floor under the 
jarge shelf. It can be bought very low, by the ream, at 
the wholesale paper stores; and each house should be 
supplied with it in several varieties. For instance, 
coarse brownish paper for common things. That denom- 


inated ironmonger’s paper, which is strong, thick, anid in 


large sheets, is useful for enclosing heavy articles. Nan- 
_ keen paper is best for putting up nice parcels, such as 


books and things of fine quality. What is called shoe- 
paper (each ream containing a variety of colors, red, 
blue, white, and buff) is very useful also for wrapping nice 
articles, as it is soft, and not brittle. This paper is 


_ cheapest of all. 


Old waste newspapers are unfit for wrapping any other 
articles than glass, china, brass, and tin — things whose 
surfaces are so hard and polished that the printing-ink 


does not rub off on them — also they can be easily washed. 


Waste newspapers had best. be used for lighting fires, 
singeing poultry, and cleaning windows and mirrors. 
Waste written paper is of little use but for allumettes, or 
lamp-lighters. It is well to keep a large jar, or bag, to 
receive scraps of old paper, as it sells for a cent a pound ; 
and these cents may be given to a poor person. 

We have seen people, when preparing for a journey, or 
putting up things to send away, “at their wit’s end” for 
want of a sheet of good wrapping-paper, a string of: 
twine, a few nails, or a little paint to mark a box. We 
have seen a door kept open during the whole of a 
cold day and a cold night, for want of a screw-driver, to 
fix a disordered lock. It seems scargely credible that 
any respectable house should be without a hammer; yet 
we have known persons whose sole dependence for that 


. 


> 


108 ‘- ECONOMICAL HOUSEKEEPER. 


indispensable article was on borrowing of a neighbor 
And when.the hammer was obtained, there were perhaps 
no nails in the house of the size that was wanted. 

The attention of boys should be early ‘directed to the 
use of common tools. And if they had tools at hand, 
there are few boys, in our country, that would not take 
pleasure in using them. By seeing carpenters, glaziers, 
locksmiths, and bell-hangers, at work, they may véry soon 
learn to be passably expert in these arts; and frequently 
a smart and observant boy will acquire great amateur 
proficiency.in them. In a house whiere, among other 
tools, there were always a glazier’s diamond, knife, &c., 
we have seen a pane of glass put into a broken window 
as neatly as if done by a professor of the art. 

We have known boys who could make a box, or a 
bench, or a little table; who could hang and repair bell- 
wires, mend locks and hinges, paper or paint a small 
room, mend a broken window-cord, re-lay a brick hearth, 
repair the yard pavement ; — and find great amusement in 
doing these things. 

We once knew a family of four boys living in Phila- 
- delphia, who entirely, and with their own hands, built for 
themselves, in a large yard, what they called a play-house ; 
that is, a house to play in when the weather was bad. It 
was a one-story, one-room structure, made of boards, 
with a shingle roof. It had a well- fitted door, and two 
glazed windows; and they papered the walls of the room 
with newspapers. 


WEIGHT AND MEASURE. 


Wheat Flour, one pound is one quart. 

Indian Meal, one pound two ounces is one quart. 

Buiter, when soft, one pound is one quart. 

White Sugar powdered, one pound one ounce is one quart. 
Best Brown Sugar, one pound two ounces is one quart. 


Liquids, 
Sixteen large table-spoonfuls are half a Pi 
Fre jes 6? oe ef are one gil 
Four ol + be are half a gill, or one glass. 


‘Twenty-five drops are equal to one tea-spoonful. 
A common wine-glass to half a gill. 
A conimon tumbler to half a puts 
e ' 
& i ae 


Baar pocc ann cooc a odocp can coonT coacsnECoad 


: Boo ksellery : 


ar Gee ‘USUALLY: 


B00) 
gious Cee the 
/ the di 


mies a new. article of. of 0 D Vier ‘Otis yf one 
rent designs, _ The following notice of th em ‘is from the W. 
£ q - : 


exe pie attention to th 


. manufactured. and sold .by Mr : 
, ont will give him.a call, and ex: 
‘themselves. He manufacture py th 
-- whose delicate metallic point’ the: various | 
, can be filled up with the name: of the: pers 
“sp Sppear on no common ‘card,’ 
Si Fable: ae an as ‘ 


