LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


1  LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 

!  ®{ptp+ ..1: i  §xtpjri$i  f  0  

I  Shelf\.M.4.r14.  I 

|  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


/ 


/ 


THE 


w  Kentucky  Home  Kook  Book 


Compiled  by  the  Ladies  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal 
Church,  South,  Maysville,  Ky. 


"Civilized  man  cannot  do  without  cooks." — Lucile. 

"  Further,  as  man  is  known  by  feeding 
From  brutes,  so  men  from  men,  in  breeding 
Are  still  distinguish'd  as  they  eat; 
And  raw  in  manners  raw  in  meat. 
Look  at  the  polished  nations,  hight 
The  civilized — the  most  polite 
Is  that  which  bears  the  praise  of  nations 
For  dressing  eggs  two  hundred  fashions; 
Whereas  at  savage  feeders  look — 
The  less  refined  the  less  they  cook."— Hood. 


NASHVILLE,  TENN. : 
SOUTHERN  METHODIST  PUBLISHING  HOUSE. 
1884. 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1SS4, 

By  The  Ladies  of  the  M.  E.  Church:,  South, 
Maysyille,  Ky., 

in  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington. 


PREFACE. 


The  question  of  food  is  probably  of  more  importance  to  man's 
■welfare  and  .  happiness  than  any  other  purely  secular  subject; 
upon  it  depends  not  only  his  physical  and  mental  well-being,  but 
morality,  the  aesthetic  faculty,  and  all  of  the  higher  emotions  of  the 
mind;  for  all  of  these  are  conditioned  by  alimentary  influences. 
'•'Bad  dinners  go  hand  in  hand  with  total  depravity,  while  a  well-fed 
man  is  already  half  saved."  Yet  it  has  ever  been  the  habit  with  the 
learned  world  to  classify  cooking  among  the  ignoble  crafts.  It  is 
only  of  late  that  its  consideration  has  been  transferred  from  the  un- 
tutored servant  to  the  domain  of  science;  and  as  intelligence  more 
and  more  recognizes  the  necessity  of  accurate  practical  knowledge  in 
this  direction,  we  may  confidently  expect  to  see  a  like  increase  of 
interest  and  skill  in  the  culinary  art.  To  the  furtherance  of  this 
knowledge  we  add  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book,  not, 
certainly,  as  a  didactic  treatise,  but  a  collection  of  choice  receipts, 
and  we  believe,  to  such  as  put  them  into  practical  use,  teeming  with 
good  things. 

The  ladies  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church,  South,  of  Mays- 
ville,  Ky.,  for  the  purpose  of  raising  means  to  build  a  parsonage, 
undertook  the  laborious  task  of  compiling  this  volume  in  the  autumn 
of  1883 ;  but  the  collection  of  material  has  not  been  confined  to  any 
denomination,  and  we  take  great  pleasure  in  acknowledging  the 
valuable  contributions  of  many  ladies  outside  of  our  Church.  (See 
List  of  Contributors.) 

The  aim  throughout  has  been  to  make  such  a  collection  from  the 
experience  of  representative  housekeepers  as  would  accurately  illus- 
trate home  life  in  Kentucky  under  the  new  regime,  and  to  give  a 
faithful  presentation  of  the  cooking  and  service — in  a  word,  of  the 
whole  routine  of  entertaining  as  practiced  in  Kentucky — in  such  clear 
and  simple  language  as  would  enable  those  who  feel  the  need  of  such 
help  to  follow  its  directions  successfully. 

The  receipts  we  present  our  readers  are  not  the  formulas  of  book- 
makers, but  the  tried  and  approved  precepts  of  those  who  have  used 

(3) 


4 


Preface. 


them,  noted  down  and  kept  for  their  real  value  and  excellence. 
And  we  believe  an  examination  will  show  that  wre  have  collected  a 
large  variety,  both  of  rich  and  elegant  dishes  and  of  the  plain, 
healthful  viands  suited  to  those  who  wish  to  combine  comfort  with 
economy.  But  throughout  we  have  sought  to  find  that  happy  mean 
between  too  much  and  too  little,  to  include  whatever  was  useful,  and 
not  burden  our  book  with  superfluous  matter.  We  have  therefore 
excluded  every  thing  which  has  not  been  tested  and  found  to  be  the 
best;  and  have  given  special  directions  as  to  bills  of  fare,  menu,  and 
the  art  of  entertaining,  besides  a  miscellaneous  chapter  that  pertains 
rather  to  housekeeping  than  to  cooking,  the  pertinence  of  which  is 
apparent.  It  will  also  be  found  that  each  department  has  a  special 
introduction  intended  to  be  complete  within  itself. 

We  know  but  too  well  that  women  are  slow  to  learn  from  the  ex- 
perience of  others;  and  too  often  the  young  housekeeper  begins  as  a 
novice,  and  blunders  into  practical  knowledge  only  after  many  la- 
borious and  costly  experiments.  To  such  we  offer,  in  The  New 
Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book,  what  we  believe  will  be  an  almost 
perfect  guide.  And  if,  in  its  compilation,  we  have  succeeded  in 
lightening  the  task  and  making  more  pleasant  the  labyrinthine 
round  of  household  duties,  and  in  adding  to  the  home  joys  of  our 
sisters,  we  shall  feel  ourselves  abundantly  rewarded. 

Maysville,  Ky.,  May  7,  1884. 


LIST  OF  CONTRIBUTORS. 


Miss  Bet  tie  Adamson  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  M.  F.  Adamson  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Alderson  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Waller  Allen  Sharpsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Andrews  Flemingsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Jane  Andrews  Flemingsburg,  Ky. 

Judge  Watson  Andrews  Flemingsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Watson  Andrews  Flemingsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Ash  ton   Flemingsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Jennie  Atwoocl  Louisville,  Ky. 

Walter  Baker  &  Co. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Joshua  Barnes  Orangeburg,  Ky. 

Miss  Allie  Bascom  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Allie  C.  Bascom  Covington,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Allen  Bashford  Paris,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Berry  Springlield,  111. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Bierbower  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  Sue  Bierbower  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Jos.  Black.  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  Mattie  Black . ,  Dover,  Ky. 

Mrs.  George  W.  Blatterman  Denver,  Colorado. 

Miss  Louie  Brewer  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Amanda  Bridges  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Broadwell  Manchester,  Ohio. 

Miss  Fannie  Broderick  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Forman  Broderick  Maysville,  Ky'. 

Mrs.  Jos.  F.  Broderick  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Thos.  J.  Bruce. .  .Bruce's  Landing,  Lewis  county,  Ky. 

Mrs.  E.  T.  Buffington.  Huntington,  West  Va. 

Mrs.  Maria  Bull  Terre  Haute,  Ind. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Calvert  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Calista  Carroll  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  C.  Carroll  Maysville,  Ky. 


6  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


Dr.  Chenoweth  Decatur,  111. 

Miss  Julia  Chenoweth  Harrodsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Julia  Chenoweth  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  N.  T.  Chenoweth  Harrodsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  T.  J.  Chenoweth  .  *.  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Miss  Mollie  Chiles  Lexington,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Brutus  Clay  Paris,  Ky. 

Mary  Cole  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Belle  Conner  Owensville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  K.  M.  Connor  Owingsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Cosby  Lexington,  Ky. 

Grandmother  Cox  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Sallie  Cox  Lexington,  Ky. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Darnall  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Darrow. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Davis   . .  .Kectorville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  George  Davis  .  Paris,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Davis  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Desha. 

Mrs.  Laura  Dim  mitt  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Madison  Dimmitt  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Charles  C.  Dobyns  Mavsville,  Ky. 

,  Mrs.  W.  O.  Dodd  Louisville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Downing  Lexington,  Ky. 

Miss  Alice  Ficklih  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Kobt.  Ficklin  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  T.  J.  Fisher.  Harrodsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Fleming  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Alice  Forsythe. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Galbraith   .Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Geisel  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  Gilman  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Mrs.  Victor  C.  Gilman  St.  Paul,  Minn. 

Mrs.  A.  K.  Glascock  Mavsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  N.  A.  Glascock  Mt.  Carmel,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Nannie  B.  Green.  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  Emma  Griffith  Cynthiana,  Ky. 

Mrs.  W.  K.  Griffith  Cynthiana,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Cary  Hall  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Hall  Maysville,  Ky. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


7 


Mrs.  James  Hall,  sr  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  George  Hamilton  Mount  Sterling,  Ky. 

Miss  Harrison  Paterson,  N.  J. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Harrison  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Lee  Hathaway  Winchester,  Ky. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Henderson  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Jeff.  Henry  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Kobert  Hiner  Shelbyville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Holton   .Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Abner  Hord  Mason  county,  Ky. 

Household  . . . .  Brattleboro,  Vt. 

Mrs.  America  Howe  Flemingsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  George  T.  Hunter  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Benjamin  Hurt  Sangamon  county,  111. 

Miss  Fannie  B.  Hurt  Sangamon  county,  111. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Huston  Lexington,  Ky. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Jackson  Winchester,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Jackson  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  Kate  James  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Emma  January  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Horace  January  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Emily  A.  Johns  Lexington,  Ky. 

Miss  Bettie  Johnson  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Johnson  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Jones  Esculapia  Springs,  Ky. 

Miss  Sallie  Keckley  Hillsboro,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Keith  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Lacy  Owingsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Mary  Lane  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Schultz  Leach  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Annie  Lee  Maysville,  Ky. 

Aunt  Kitty  Lightfoot  Owingsville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Lovel  Concord,  Ky. 

Mrs.  K.  B.  Lovel  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Mannen  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Paxton  Marshall  .-.  Mason  county,  Ky. 

Mrs.  William  Massie  Paris,  Ky. 

Miss  Carrie  McAtee  Fern  Leaf,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Pad.  McCarthy   .Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Win.  McClanahan  Maysville,  Ky. 


8 


List  of  Contributors. 


Mrs.  W.  H.  McConnell  Flemingsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Howard  N.  McCreary  Springfield,  111. 

Miss  Jennie  McCullough  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  Mary  McCullough  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Sarah  P.  McDowell  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Miller  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Miller  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Z.  T.  Moffett  Bath  county,  Ky. 

Miss  Lizzie  Moo  res  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Moores   Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  John  Morgan  Carlisle,  Ky. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Morris  Louisville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Nuckole  Terre  Haute,  Ind. 

Mrs.  George  Owens  »  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  E.  R.  Paddock  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  Tina  Paddock   Maysville^  Ky. 

Maria  Parloa  » *  New  York. 

Mrs.  Frank  Peale  Carlisle,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Peele. 

Mrs.  J.  F»  Perrie   Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Judge  B.  J,  Peters  Mt.  Sterling,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Dr.  John  Phister  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Henry  Pogue  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  Julia  Porter  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Powell  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Power  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  Marian  Power  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  John  B.  Poynts  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  M.  D.  Reynolds  Weatherford,  Texas. 

Mrs.  Holt  Bicheson   Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Kobertson    Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  James  F.  Kobinson  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Worthington  Robinson  Louisville,  Ky. 

Grandma  Rogers  Louisville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  James  Rogers  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Russell  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mr.  M.  C.  Russell  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Charles  Sadler  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Clay  Sadler  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Sol.  Seaton  Honey  Grove,  Texas. 


List  of  Contributors. 


9 


Mrs.  W.  C.  Shackleford  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Shumaker. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Stockwell  Flemingsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Dr.  J.  T.  Strode  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  George  Sulser  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Judge  Sumrall  Danville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Tabb  .  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Tate  Virginia. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Tate   Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Mr.  Frank  Taylor. 

Aunt  Jane  Taylor  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  O.  XI.  P.  Thomas  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Sallie  Thomas  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Allie  Thompson  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Thornley  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Traxcl  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Amanda  Turemari  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Miss  Mamie  Turner   Mt.  Sterling,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Turner  Mt.  Sterling,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Kose  Yauden  Covington,  Ky. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Wadsworth  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Wadsworth,  jr  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Wadsworth,  sr  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Walker  Carrollton,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Wall  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  G.  S.  Wall  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Virginia  Wilgus  Lexington,  Ky. 

Mrs.  David  Wilson  Flemingsburg,  Ky. 

Mrs.  James  Wilson. 

Mrs.  William  Winn  Mason  county,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Wood  Mason  county,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Belle  Wood. 

Mrs.  George  Wood  Mason  county,  Ky. 

Miss  Lottie  Wood  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  Phoebe  Wood  Maysville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  Alfred  Worick  Maysville,  Ky. 

Miss  Mary  Wormald  Eooneville,  Mo. 

Mrs.  Nannie  Yeaman  Louisville,  Ky. 


INDEX  TO  GENERAL  SUBJECTS. 

  PAGE 

Beverages   306 

Bills  of  Fare   335 

Bread   131 

Cakes    264 

Candy   325 

Canned  Fruits  and  Vegetables   190 

Catsups  and  Sauces   30 

Cheese..   186 

Cook's  Time-table  ,   378 

Creams,  Custards,  etc.    251 

Dinner  Giving,  Chapter  on   13 

Eggs   181 

Filling  for  Cakes   392 

Fish   30 

Ices   295 

Meats   43 

Menus  ,   351 

Miscellaneous  . . .   362 

Oysters   35 

Pastry   217 

Pickles    87 

Preserves  and  Jellies   196 

Puddings  and  Sauces   235 

Salads..,...*  k  ,   121 

Sick-room,  Hints  for  the   354 

Soups   20 

Vegetables  154 

Weights  and  Measures   261 

When  Food  is  in  Season   .  329 


TO  THE 

LADIES  OF  KENTUCKY  ArTD  SISTER  STATES 

This  Book 
Is  Eespectfi'lly  Dedicated 
By  the  Compilers. 


THE  NEW  KENTUCKY  HOIE  gOOK  BOOK, 


CHAPTER  ON  DINNER  GIVING. 


IN  placing  this  volume  before  the  public,  we,  as  represent- 
atives of  Kentucky  homes,  desire  to  merit  the  approba- 
tion of  all  who  may  become  purchasers,  by  its  intrinsic 
worth  as  a  faithful  guide  either  for  matron  or  maid,  how- 
ever inexperienced  they  may  be  in  the  culinary  department. 
May  we  not  hope  to  sustain  the  reputation  of  Kentucky 
homes  for  hospitality,  not  only  by  the  excellence  of  its 
viands,  as  shown  in  the  carefully-written  and  well-tested 
receipts  given,  but  also  by  the  simplicity  and  clearness  of  all 
directions  pertaining  to  its  several  departments?  While  we 
confess  a  certain  pride  in  the  quality  and  correctness  of  our 
receipts,  we  are  forced  to  acknowledge  that  there  are  other 
items,  essential  to  the  comfort  and  pleasure  either  in  the 
home  circle  or  in  the  entertainment  of  friends,  which  de- 
mand some  notice.  It  will  be  well  for  one  to  remember 
that  a  repast  may  be  prepared  sumptuously  as  far  as  the 
combining  of  ingredients,  and  receive  all  necessary  care  and 
attention  from  an  experienced  cook,  and  yet  if  not  served 
with  taste  and  delicacy  it  will  fail  to  tempt  the  appetite  or 
please  the  eye.  We  will  therefore  mention  a  few  items  nec- 
essary in  the  arrangement  of  a  repast  that  will  gratify  any 
mind  that  is  capable  of  comprehending  the  beautiful.  And 
while  attending  to  the  minutiee  of  the  arrangement  for  such, 
let  us  remember  that  "  attention  to  trifles  makes  perfection, 
and  perfection  even  in  the  matter  of  an  entertainment  is 

(13) 


14  Tlie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


no  trifle."  If  we  accustom  ourselves  to  have  the  table  pre- 
pared for  daily  use  with  as  much  neatness  as  if  guests  were 
to  be  present,  and  teach  servants  or  members  of  the  family 
to  wait  upon  the  table  by  daily  practice,  we  will  overcome 
all  awkwardness,  and  a  meal  in  such  a  household  becomes 
at  once  an  unalloyed  pleasure.  In  preparing  for  a  dining, 
let  all  the  appointments  of  the  table  be  scrupulously  neat 
and  clean,  the  linen  of  the  finest  texture  and  whiteness,  and 
the  china  without  flaw.  Here  one  has  almost  unbounded 
scope  for  displaying  exquisite  taste,  such  is  the  great  variety 
of  beautiful  ware  which  comes  in  the  different  sets  suitable 
for  every  course.  These  handsome  decorated  goods  give  a 
diversity  to  the  dinner  at  once  pleasing  and  attractive;  yet 
to  those  who  may  wish  to  practice  the  virtue  of  economy, 
whether  from  necessity  or  otherwise,  the  plain  white  china 
is  preferable,  as  a  broken  piece  may  be  easily  replaced  at  a 
comparatively  slight  expenditure.  In  setting  the  table  it  is 
quite  indispensable  to  use  a  felt  cloth,  or  something  thick 
and  soft,  upon  which  to  lay  the  table-cloth;  it  prevents 
noise,  and  also  preserves  the  linen  cloth  from  wear.  The 
table-linen  should  contain  but  little  or  no  starch,  and  noth- 
ing is  more  disagreeable  than  a  stiff  napkin. 

Among  the  pretty  refinements  of  the  table  there  is  none 
that  affords  more  pleasure  than  natural  flowers,  in  the  ar- 
rangement of  which  another  opportunity  is  given  for  the 
exercise  of  one's  taste,  but  usually  an  epergne  of  flowers  is 
placed  in  the  center  of  the  table.  Avoid  overloading  it, 
however,  in  such  a  way  as  to  conceal  the  faces  of  opposite 
guests.  The  combination  of  the  flowers  used  in  decorating 
of  course  depends  on  the  facilities  for  obtaining  what  one 
might  desire  to  use,  but  a  few  suggestions  may  not  be  out 
of  place  in  this  article.  Quite  a  pleasing  effect  is  obtained 
by  using  flowers  of  only  one  color — for  instance,  any  of  the 
bright-hued  geraniums  or  carnations.    In  the  selection  of 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cooh  Booh. 


15 


roses,  so  beautiful  are  they  in  their  unbounded  variety,  it 
would  be  a  nice  point  to  decide,  but  a  mass  of  the  gorgeous 
Jacqueminot  or  of  the  delicately  fragrant  Glorie  de  Dijon, 
placed  in  a  fringe  of  ferns  or  trailing  smilax,  cannot  fail  to 
give  satisfaction  to  the  most  fastidious.  The  dessert — such 
as  fruits,  nuts,  and  cakes — are  placed  around  the  floral  dec- 
oration as  they  are  to  remain  throughout  the  dinner.  Place 
a  small  bouquet  at  the  plate  of  each  guest,  which  is  appro- 
priated immediately  upon  being  seated.  Place  knives, 
forks,  and  spoons  at  the  side  of  each  plate  to  correspond 
with  the  number  of  courses  to  be  served.  This  is  not  im- 
perative— simply  a  matter  of  taste,  and  only  to  be  com- 
meuded  on  account  of  its  great  convenience.  A  napkin 
should  be  placed  upon  each  plate,  with  a  flat  roll  or  slice 
of  bread  between  its  folds,  and  at  the  side  of  the  plate  a 
glass,  which  should  be  filled  with  water  just  before  dinner 
is  announced,  unless  carafes  (or  bottles)  are  used,  which  will 
require  one  for  the  use  of  two  or  three  persons.  These  are 
also  to  remain  on  the  table  during  the  meal.  As  the  din- 
ner-caster is  a  thing  of  the  past,  pepper  and  salt  stands,  to- 
gether with  vinegar  and  oil  bottles,  should  be  placed  on 
either  side,  with  table-spoons  crossed  by  them.  •  Have  ready 
on  the  sideboard  the  number  of  plates  requisite  for  the  dif- 
ferent courses — those  intended  for  dessert  should  have  a 
finger-bowl  on  each  plate,  with  a  fruit  napkin  or  doily  un- 
der the  bowl,  which  should  be  half  filled  with  water  having 
in  it  a  slice  of  lemon  or  a  fragrant  leaf;  a  flower  may  also  be 
introduced  by  sticking  the  stem  through  the  leaf  which 
floats  upon  the  water.  After  the  guests  are  all  assembled, 
the  hostess  quietly  informs  each  gentleman  which  lady  he 
is  designated  to  escort.  When  dinner  is  ready  to  be  served, 
the  announcement  of  which  should  be  made  by  the  dining- 
room  maid,  the  host  offers  his  arm  to  the  lady  guest  of  hon- 
or, the  hostess  taking  the  arm  of  the  gentleman  guest  of 


16 


Tlie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


honor.  The  host  leads  the  way,  the  respective  guests  fol- 
lowing ;  the  hostess,  with  her  escort,  being  the  last  to  leave 
the  drawing-room.  The  hostess  being  seated,  the  guests  find 
their  respective  places  as  quietly  as  possible.  The  soup  is 
then  placed  before  the  hostess  to  serve,  as  is  also  the  salad 
and  dessert  in  their  order.  As  each  dish  is  served,  the  but- 
ler or  maid,  placing  in  the  spoon,  presents  it  at  the  left  side 
of  the  guest.  AVhen  one  signifies  that  he  or  she  has  finished 
any  course,  the  servant  removes  the  plate  at  once,  without 
waiting  for  others  to  finish.  Cheese  is  served  just  before 
the  dessert,  with  wafers  and  butter.  Cheese  omelets  and 
cheese  cakes  furnish  a  nice  cheese  course.  The  crumb- 
brush  is  to  be  used  just  before  the  dessert  is  served.  After 
dinner,  coffee  may  be  served  either  at  the  table  or  perhaps 
a  little  while  afterward  in  the  drawing-room  or  library. 
Let  it  be  very  strong.  It  may  be  served  black,  or,  if  pre- 
ferred, with  sugar  and  cream,  always  using  the  small  cups 
designed  for  this  refreshment.  The  hostess  gives  the  signal 
to  retire  from  the  table  by  pushing  back  her  chair.  Serv- 
ants should  be  well  and  thoroughly  trained  in  this  depart- 
ment of  their  service,  so  that  no  anxiety  may  exist  in  the 
mind  of  the  hostess,  either  during  the  meal  or  in  her  ab- 
sence in  the  drawing-room.  The  waiters  should  appear 
neatly  attired — if  men,  in  black  dress-coats,  white  tie  and 
vest;  if  women,  in  a  fresh  calico  dress,  with  a  white  apron. 
They  should  be  as  noiseless  as  possible  during  their  attend- 
ance, nothing  being  more  indicative  of  a  well-appointed 
household  than  the  quiet  and  easy  manners  of  servants  dur- 
ing a  meal.  It  is  well  to  have  a  second  person  near  the 
door  to  receive  and  hand  the  dishes,  as  this  prevents  delay 
or  confusion.  The  dinner  may  be  served  in  courses,  for 
which  see  menu,  pages  351-353;  or  it  may  all  be  placed  at 
once  upon  the  table,  excepting  soup  and  fish,  of  course. 
If  the  dinner  is  very  elaborate,  have  bills  of  fare,  which, 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


17 


with  a  card  with  the  guest's  name,  is  to  be  placed  at  each 
plate.  AVhile  many  persons  entertain  finely  without  any 
apparent  effort,  yet  to  acquire  this  art  there  are  many  things 
to  be  practiced.  Little  they  may  be  in  themselves,  but  it 
is  only  by  being  attentive  to  the  minor  details  that  we  gain 
perfection  in  the  whole. 

As  it  is  quite  necessary  in  preparing  an  entertainment  to 
know  the  number  of  guests,  it  is  well  to  send  invitations. 
If  the  invitation  is  written,  it  of  course  requires  a  written 
answer.  The  note  of  invitation  and  the  response  to  such 
should  be  Avritten  in  the  simj3lest  form,  as  this  is  always  in 
good  taste.  If  a  less  formal  invitation  is  extended,  send  a 
servant  with  the  message,  through  whom  the  party  is  ex- 
pected to  accept  or  decline — at  once  enabling  the  hostess,  if 
any  one  declines,  to  extend  invitations  to  a  corresponding 
number  of  other  friends,  if  she  so  desires. 

In  entertaining  at  a  lunch,  the  dishes  may  be  served  much 
after  the  manner  of  dinner  parties,  either  in  courses  or  by 
placing  every  thing  upon  the  table  at  once ;  save  the  soup, 
and  the  dessert,  such  as  ices,  etc.  A  lunch  not  particularly 
fine  may  consist  simply  of  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter, 
cold  meat,  pickles,  or  a  salad  (receipts  for  which  can  be 
found  on  pages  121-130),  together  with  tea,  coffee,  or  choco- 
late. These  are  served  by  the  hostess,  the  cream  and  sugar 
being  carried  by  the  maid.  Colored  table-cloths  are  gen- 
erally used. 

A.  tea-table  set  in  the  greatest  simplicity,  perfectly  neat 
in  all  its  appurtenances,  decorated  it  may  be  with  only  a  dish 
of  ferns,  may  be  made  the  occasion  of  an  exquisite  pleas- 
ure, as  beautiful  surroundings  cannot  but  be  productive  of 
beautiful  and  elevating  thoughts ;  hence,  why  may  we  not 
make  the  entertainment  of  friends  a  study,  since  it  is  quite 
as  sure  a  proof  of  cultured  taste  to  like  beautiful  service 
and  tempting  food  as  to  like  any  thing  else  that  is  artistic? 
2  . 


18 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


Every  lover  of  good  cheer  will  hail  with  delight  the  re- 
vival of  the  long  neglected  supper.  In  the  home  circle 
there  is  no  meal  that  brings  so  much  real  comfort  and  sat- 
isfaction as  that  at  which  the  loved  ones  meet  after  the  day's 
labor  is  ended.  As  they  gather  around  the  cheerful  board, 
with  what  relish  do  they  partake  of  the  nice  delicacies  pre- 
pared with  loving  care!  It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  mention 
the  best  way  of  serving  this  pleasant  meal,  so  many  suitable 
dishes  present  themselves  to  one's  mind.  Many  delicious 
ones  may  be  prepared  from  the  remains  of  the  noonday  re- 
past, directions  for  which  can  be  found  in  the  bills  of  fare 
written  out  for  the  day,  as  given  on  pages  334-350.  In  mak- 
ing a  supper  as  an  entertainment,  the  same  directions  for  serv- 
ing may  be  carried  out  as  given  for  dinner  or  lunch,  omit- 
ting the  soup.  The  same  painstaking  care  should  be  evinced 
in  the  preparation.  Have  the  silver,  glass,  china,  and  all 
the  adjuncts  of  the  table,  as  neat  and  elegant  as  possible, 
however  informal  the  supper  may  be. 

Hoping  that  we  have  been  sufficiently  explicit  in  the  di- 
rections given  to  serve  as  a  guide  to  those  needing  instruc- 
tion in  this  department,  we  submit  our  work  for  your 
careful  inspection,  feeling  assured  that  a  trial  of  our  "  New 
Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book"  will  gain  your  coveted  ap- 
probation. 


SOUPS. 


Always  use  cold  water  in  making  soups.  Skim  well, 
and  to  help  the  scum  rise  pour  in  a  little  cold  water  now 
and  then  when  the  soup  reaches  the  boiling  point.  Thick- 
ened soups  require  more  seasoning  than  thin,  and  soups 
which  form  the  principal  part  of  a  meal  should  be  richer 
than  those  which  precede  a  heavier  course. 

The  best  base  for  soup  is  lean  uncooked  meat,  to  which 
may  be  added  chicken,  turkey,  or  beef  bones,  well  crushed. 
The  legs  of  all  meats  are  rich  in  gelatine,  an  important  item 
in  soups. 

The  best  herbs  and  spices  for  soups  are  sage,  thyme,  sweet 
marjoram,  parsley,  cloves,  mace,  and  celery-seed. 

Rice,  pearled  barley,  vermicelli,  and  macaroni  are  desir- 
able additions  to  meat  soups.  The  barley  should  be  soaked 
overnight,  and  boiled  in  a  little  water  until  tender,  and  the 
others  require  half  an  hour's  boiling  in  the  soup. 

For  coloring  soups  use  browned  flour,  fried  onions,  meat 
browned  with  butter,  cloves. 

Poached  eggs  are  an  excellent  addition  to  some  soups. 
They  should  be  added  just  before  serving. 

Cold  vegetables  left  from  the  day  before,  that  would  oth- 
erwise be  thrown  away,  can  be  used  in  place  of  fresh  ones. 

If  soup  boils  too  low  add  boiling  water,  being  careful  not 
to  put  in  too  much. 

In  serving  crackers  with  soup  always  have  them  heated. 
Soup  should  always  be  made  in  a  porcelain  kettle  if  possible. 

Do  not  put  salt  in  soup  until  after  the  meat  is  thoroughly 
cooked,  as  it  hardens  it,  making  it  tough  and  less  juicy. 

(19) 


20 


The  JSTeiv  Kentucky  Some  Cook  Book. 


Vegetable  soup  is  better  the  second  day  than  the  first, 
heating  it  rather  slowly,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  scorch. 

STOCK. 

The  meat  should  be  lean  and  juicy.  Put  it  into  cold 
water  and  heat  moderately  for  the  first  half  hour.  Two 
and  a  half  pints  of  water  to  each  pound  of  beef  and  bone. 
Beef  makes  good  stock,  but  chicken  and  veal  are  more  del- 
icate. 

Good  soup  can  be  made  of  bits  of  cold  meat,  bones  of 
meat  or  fowl,  a  little  fried  onion  with  a  clove  stuck  in,  pars- 
ley, and  carrots. 

Skim  often.  Simmer  slowly  and  steadily  for  four  or  five 
hours.    Very  little  salt,  until  the  last.    Always  strain. 

ANOTHER  STOCK. 

Five  pounds  of  lean  beef;  five  quarts  of  water.  Let  it 
come  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  and  skim  well.  Add  a  lit- 
tle salt,  set  back  and  boil  gently  for  six  or  seven  hours,  or 
until  the  meat  drops  to  pieces.  Add  pepper,  strain  and  set 
aside  to  cool,  and  remove  all  the  grease. 

To  make  soup  from  stock,  put  in  as  much  as  is  needed ; 
add  seasoning,  water,  and  vegetables.  The  vegetables 
should  be  cooked  first,  as  too  much  boiling  injures  the  flavor 
of  the  stock. 

BEEF  SOUP. 

Use  a  large-sized  soup  bone,  with  plenty  of  flesh  attached. 
Wash  carefully,  place  in  a  closely  covered  dinner-pot,  which 
has  been  well  scraped  and  cleaned.  Pour  over  the  meat 
three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  as  it  begins  to  boil  skim 
frequently  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise;  let  it  simmer  or 
boil  slowly  for  four  or  five  hours;  add  a  small  pod  of  red 
pepper,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper  ground.  Pare 
and  slice  three  good-sized  potatoes,  put  them  in  half  an 
hour  before  dinner,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  salt.    Stir  into 


TJie  Xeiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  21 


the  soup  three  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  mixed  smoothly  with 
milk  or  water,  boil  gently  a  few  minutes,  and  just  before 
serving  add  a  pint  of  rich  milk  or  cream. 

Mrs.  Charles  Tare, 

NOODLE  SOUP. 

Take  beef  bone  or  chicken,  put  into  one  gallon  of  cold 
water,  and  boil  three  hours;  skim  well.  Onions,  cabbage, 
corn,  tomatoes,  and  turnips,  in  small  quantities,  chopped 
fine,  a  little  parsley,  and  about  three  cloves ;  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste. 

To  make  noodles  for  soup,  take  three  eggs,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  as  thin  as  possible,  and 
cut  very  fine.  They  must  be  added  just  five  minutes  before 
the  soup  is  served. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Boil  a  small  piece  of  beef  (or  beef  bone)  in  a  half  gallon 
of  water.  Let  it  simmer  two  or  three  hours,  add  four  or 
five  medium-sized  potatoes,  one  quarter  of  a  can  of  tomatoes, 
two  ears  of  corn,  one  turnip,  one  quarter  of  a  small  head  of 
cabbage.  Chop  vegetables  fine,  and  score  your  corn.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. .  Thicken  with  cream  and  flour,  if  pre- 
ferred. Mrs.  Henry  Pogue. 

INDIAN  OR  MULLAGATAWAY  SOUP. 

v  Cut  up  a  chicken,  wash  well;  put  into  a  soup-kettle  with 
a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  carrot  and  an  onion  sliced,  also  a  few 
celery-tops,  and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley;  cover  with  a 
gallon  of  cold  water.  When  the  pieces  of  chicken  are  near- 
ly done  take  them  out  and  trim  neatly  to  serve  with  the 
soup.  Let  the  veal  continue  to  simmer  for  three  hours, 
then  fry  in  a  little  butter  a  carrot,  a  small  onion,  and  a  stalk 
of  celery  sliced  thin.  When  nearly  clone,  stir  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  cook  together  for  a  minute  or  two,  add 
some  of  the  veal  broth  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  curry-powder, 


22 


The  Xev:  Kentucky  Rome  Cook  Booh 


pour  all  together  into  the  soup-kettle,  simmer  for  one  hour, 
then  strain,  skini  off  the  fat ;  add  the  pieces  of  chicken,  with 
a  tea-cupful  of  boiled  rice,  a  table-spoonful  of  salt,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper;  cook  for  a  half  hour,  and  serve 
with  toasted  crackers. 

OX  TAIL  SOUP. 
Take  two  large  tails,  divide  them  at  the  joints,  rub  with 
salt,  and  soak  overnight  in  salt  and  water.  Put  them  into 
a  soup-kettle,  with  one  gallon  of  cold  water ;  cover  closely, 
and  simmer  for  three  hours ;  then  add  one  good-sized  onion, 
one  or  two  carrots,  one  or  tvro  turnips,  a  stalk  of  celery,  and 
a  bunch  of  parsley,  all  sliced  thin,  with  a  table-spoonful  of 
salt  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper ;  boil  one  hour,  or  until 
the  vegetables  are  well  cooked:  run  through  a  colander; 
thicken  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  made  smooth  with 
a  tea-cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk ;  let  it  boil  a  minute  or 
two;  and  serve  with  the  joints  one  to  each  person ;  or,  if  pre- 
ferred, the  joints  may  be  left  out. 

Mes.  Willie  "Wheeeek. 
POOR  MAN'S  SOUP. 

Take  the  bones  from  a  roast  or  steak  and  crush  them; 
put  them  in  one  gallon  of  water,  and  let  them  boil  slowly 
for  two  hours;  slice  four  potatoes,  one  onion,  and  three  to- 
matoes chopped:  stir  in  one  tea-cupful  of  thickening;  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.  Mrs.  Henry  Poole. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. 

To  one  egg  add  a  little  salt  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Roll  into  a  thin  sheet  and  dredge  with  flour  to 
prevent  sticking.  Eoll  as  tor  a  dumpling,  and  shave  down 
in  very  small  pieces  just  as  you  would  for  slaw. 

Mrs.  S  a  tele  Cox. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Take  one  good-sized  chicken,  and  dress  and  wash  it  care- 


is 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


23 


fully;  boil  it  three  hours  in  one  gallon  of  water;  when  it  is 
almost  done,  put  in  nearly  half  a  tea-cupful  of  rice  and  four 
small  potatoes;  thicken  with  half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  with 
four  tea-spoonfuls  of  flour ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mrs.  H.  Pogue. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Get  a  fat  hen ;  after  washing,  put  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
with  one  gallon  of  water,  and  boil  three  hours;  slice  three 
or  four  Irish  potatoes,  one  large  onion  chopped,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  celery-seed,  some  parsley,  and  a  little  summer 
savory  (if  you  have  it),  half  of  a  red  pepper-pod ;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  When  the  soup  has  boiled  two  hours,  add 
the  vegetables,  and  when  nearly  done  put  in  a  pint  of  new 
milk.  Mrs.  Axxie  Lee. 

DRESSING  FOR  CHICKEN. 

Take  one  pint  of  the  soup,  one  table-sjDOonful  of  butter 
and  one  tea-spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  together,  four  hard- 
boiled  eggs  chopped  fine ;  let  it  boil  five  minutes.  Cut  up 
the  chicken,  place  it  in  a  well-heated  dish,  and  pour  the 
dressing  over  it.    Serve  hot. 

CAKES  FOR  SOUP. 

Take  one  pint  of  flour,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  lard,  a  little 
Bait,  and  cold  water  enough  to  mix  so  as  to  roll  very  thin ; 
cut  it  in  small  squares,  put  them  in  the  soup,  and  let  it  boil 
ten  minutes ;  thicken  with  cream  and  flour ;  boil  up  once, 
and  serve.  Mrs.  A.  Lee. 

TOMATO  SOUP 

One  chicken  fried  brown,  one  large  onion  cut  up  and 
fried  in  the  same  lard  as  the  chicken,  half  a  gallon  of  peeled 
and  chopped  tomatoes,  one  small  pod  of  red  pepper,  salt  to 
taste;  boil  all  together  until  the  tomatoes  are  thoroughly 
cooked.  Take  out  the  chicken,  separate  it  from  the  bones, 
chop  it  fine,  and  return  it  to  the  kettle.    If  it  is  not  thick 


24  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


enough,  stir  about  one  dessert-spoonful  of  flour  in  a  half 
cup  of  cream.  If  you  desire,  add  a  few  pods  of  okra  and 
a  little  butter.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Take  one  quart  of  peeled  tomatoes,  add  half  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  soda,  and  let  them  stew  until  the  tomatoes  are  thor- 
oughly cooked ;  bring  one-half  gallon  of  milk  to  a  boiling, 
and  stir  in  the  tomatoes;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  before  taking  it  up, 
thicken  a  little  with  rolled  cracker. 

FRENCH  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Take  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  three  points  of  boiling  water, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  one  small  onion  chopped  fine,  and  one  quart 
of  milk;  pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  tomatoes  and  on- 
ion, and  boil  until  the  vegetables  are  nearly  done  (fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes);  strain  and  rub  them  through  a  sieve; 
meanwhile  boil  the  milk,  and  stir  into  it  the  soda  and  but- 
ter; after  it  boils  up  once,  set  it  back  to  keep  hot;  put  the 
pepper  and  salt  with  the  tomatoes,  and  let  them  simmer  five 
minutes ;  then  stir  in  the  milk.  Serve  at  once.  The  onion 
may  be  omitted. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

Take  half  a  dozen  medium-sized  potatoes,  boil  and  mash 
them  fine;  take  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  one 
heaping  tea-spoonful  of  flour ;  rub  the  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether, and  add  to  the  potatoes,  and  beat  in  a  small  cup  of 
cream ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  add  boiling  water  until 
sufficiently  thin.  Mrs.  E.  Ficklin. 

,(       BEAN  SOUP. 

Take  one  pint  of  beans,  half  a  gallon  of  water,  a  small 
slice  of  middling,  one  pod  of  red  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste; 
boil  them  well ;  if  too  thick  before  done,  add  more  boiling 


The  Xeiv  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Booh  25 


water,  being  careful  not  to  add  too  much;  thicken  with  a 
little  flour  in  a  half  cup  of  cream.  A  very  good  soup  can 
be  made  by  boiling  the  beans  without  the  meat ;  when  the 
beans  are  done,  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  sweet  milk ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  thicken  to  suit  the  taste. 

PEA  GOUP. 

Boil  a  small  piece  of  lamb  in  one  gallon  of  water  for  one 
hour;  add  one  quart  of  peas,  and  let  it  boil  half  an  hour 
longer;  season  with  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  thicken  with  cream  and  flour,  and 
if  desired  add  dumplings  about  ten  minutes  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Eobt.  Lovel. 
BRUNSWICK  STEW. 

Take  one  chicken  or  squirrel,  to  be  cut  up  after  it  is  pre- 
pared; one  pint  of  tomatoes,  skinned  mid  cut  fine;  one-half 
pint  of  potatoes ;  one-half  pint  of  corn  grated,  cut,  or  scraped ; 
one-half  pint  of  butter-beans;  one-half  of  a  lemon,  peeled 
and  sliced:  one  slice  of  fat  bacon,  not  very  large;  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put 
all  on  together  except  the  tomatoes,  cover  closely,  stew  slowly 
for  two  and  one-half  hours,  stirring  it  often  from  the  bottom  ; 
add  the  tomatoes  and  cook  one  hour  longer ;  just  before 
taking  it  from  the  fire,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour ;  boil  a  moment,  and  then  serve.    Eaten  as  soup. 

Mrs.  Geo.  T.  Hunter. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW. 

Put  one  chicken  in  one-half  gallon  of  water ;  boil  it  until 
tender  enough  to  pick  to  pieces;  remove  the  bone,  then  put 
back  in  the  water,  and  add  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  three 
Irish  potatoes  cut  up,  a  half  dozen  ears  of  corn  cut  off,  one 
pint  of  butter-beans,  a  small  slice  of  fat  bacon,  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  slice 
one-half  of  a  lemon  very  thin.    When  all  the  vegetables  are 


26 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


well  done,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  made  with  milk.  If  too 
thick  add  a  little  boiling  water.  Mrs.  Teos.  Jackson. 

FRENCH  GUMBO. 

To  a  good-sized  chicken  fried  brown  add  two  quarts  of 
water,  one  and  one-half  pint  of  okra  sliced  thin,  a  slice  of 
middling,  one  pod  of  red  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste;  let  it 
simmer  two  hours.  Always  serve  rice  plainly  cooked  with 
ffumbo.  Mrs.  Sallie  Cox. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP. 

To  not  more  than  two  gallons  of  water  put  one  calf's 
head  or  four  veal  shanks ;  one  table-spoonful  of  cloves  and 
allspice,  mixed  and  tied  in  a  cloth;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste; 
onions,  tomatoes,  and  carrots  to  suit  the  taste;  cook  well  to- 
gether, and  after  the  meat  is  perfectly  done,  take  it  out, 
chop  fine,  and  return  to  the  soup;  thicken  with  a  little 
browned  flour  if  necessary.  Before  removing  it  from  the 
stove,  and  to  give  the  soup  a  bright,  rich  color,  take  one- 
half  tea-cup  of  sugar  and  burn  it  in  a  pan,  mix  it  with  a 
pint  of  boiling  water  and  pour  it  in;  then  add  three  or  four 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  one  lemon  chopped  fine;  stir  in  well, 
and  your  soup  is  ready  to  be  served,  and  when  properly 
made  cannot  be  told  from  the  genuine  turtle  soup. 

Mrs.  A.  YVadsworth. 
TURTLE  SOUP. 

Take  two  green  turtles  that  have  been  dressed  the  day 
before,  one  gallon  of  water,  and  two  pounds  of  beef.  Put 
the  turtles  in  a  kettle  and  boil  until  thoroughly  done — must 
go  on  about  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning.  With  a  skimmer 
lift  the  turtles  out  and  bone  them,  then  return  to  the  kettle 
and  add  the  following  ingredients:  Two  onions  and  one  or 
two  carrots  cut  fine,  the  juice  of  twTo  lemons  and  the  rind 
of  one  chopped  fine,  a  few  Irish  potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces, 
about  a  quart  of  tomatoes,  several  ears  of  corn  cut  off  the 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


27 


cob,  a  little  parsley,  celery,  and  summer  savory,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon  and  one  of  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  a  tea- 
cupful  of  good  -\vine,  and  the  beef  well  chopped.  Boil  four 
hours.  Just  before  taking  off  the  fire,  add  a  pint  of  sweet 
milk  and  a  little  thickening  made  of  cream  and  flour;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  If  the  soup  boils  too  low  before  you 
thicken  it,  add  a  little  boiling  water,  being  careful  not  to  add 
too  much.  Serve  with  rolled  crackers  and  three  hard-boiled 
eggs  cut  in  small  pieces.  Miss  Alice  Ficklin. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP. 

Make  as  above,  substituting  a  calf's  head  or  a  piece  of 
veal  for  the  turtle  or  beef.  Remove  the  brains  before  boil- 
ing the  head;  let  it  boil  until  the  meat  will  slip  easily  from 
the  bones;  chop  the  meat,  tongue,  and  brains  which  have 
been  boiled,  and  return  them  to  the  kettle;  then  add  the 
vegetables  and  seasoning.  Miss  A.  Ficklin. 

BOUILLON. 

Purchase  about  six  pounds  of  beef  and  bone  (soup  bone) ; 
cut  up  the  meat  and  break  the  bones;  add  two  quarts  of 
cold  water,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  until  all  the  strength 
is  extracted  from  the  meat.  This  will  require  about  five 
hours.  Strain  through  a  sieve,  removing  every  particle 
of  fat;  and  if  there  is  more  than  ten  cupfuls,  reduce  it  by 
boiling  to  that  quantity.  Season  only  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve  in  cups.  Mrs.  Charles  Tabb. 

JULIENNE  SOUP. 

Make  a  good  stock,  using  beef-shank.  Boil  in  one  gallon 
and  a  half  of  water  for  six  hours,  skimming  carefully ;  and 
if  it  boils  too  low,  add  more  hot  water.  Set  it  away  until 
next  morning,  and  remove  every  particle  of  grease  and  the 
shank.  About  an  hour  before  you  wish  to  make  your  soup, 
put  the  stock  on  the  fire,  take  two  carrots,  one  turnip,  one 


28  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


quarter  of  a  good-sized  head  of  cabbage,  one  pint  and  a  half 
of  green  corn,  one  head  of  celery  or  one  tea-spoonful  of  cel- 
ery-seed, and  one  quart  of  tomatoes.  Chop  the  vegetables 
fine,  and  boil  all  together,  except  the  cabbage  and  one  car- 
rot. Boil  the  cabbage,  changing  the  water  once.  Boil  the 
remaining  carrot  whole  by  itself  until  entirely  done.  When 
the  vegetables  are  well  cooked,  add  them  to  the  soup  in  the 
water  in  which  they  are  boiled,  with  the  exception  of  the 
cabbage,  which  must  have  the  water  well  drained.  Boil  it 
an  hour  and  strain  through  a  colander,  only  shaking,  as  the 
soup  will  not  be  clear  if  pressed  too  much.  Cut  the  re- 
maining carrot  into  small  dice,  and  drop  into  the  soup  just 
as  you  serve.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  desired,  add  a 
few  sweet  herbs,  which  must  be  boiled  in  the  soup.  A  glass 
of  sherry  imparts  a  delicious  flavor.    Serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Dmmitt. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Take  one-half  of  a  can  of  large  fresh  oysters ;  put  them 
in  a  colander,  strain  them  well,  and  pour  one  pint  of  cold 
water  over  them ;  add  this  water  to  the  liquor  put  into  a 
kettle;  boil,  and  skim  closely  all  the  scum  that  rises;  put 
in  one-half  gallon  or  more  of  fresh  unskimmed  milk,  one 
and  a  half  tea -cupful  of  butter,  fifteen  butter  crackers 
rolled  very  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  As  soon  as  this 
becomes  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  oysters,  and  when  they  begin 
to  boil,  take  up  at  once,  and  serve  immediately.  Do  not 
add  salt  until  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve,  as  it  is  apt  to  cur- 
dle the  milk.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Take  one  quart. of  oysters,  one  quart  of  milk,  and  one 
quart  of  water;  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pint  of  rolled  crackers,  one  even  table-spoonful  of 
salt,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  pepper.    Let  the  water  and  the 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


29 


liquor  come  to  a  boiling,  and  skim  carefully  all  the  scum  that 
rises ;  then  add  the  milk,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  put  in 
the  oysters;  when  they  begin  to  curl,  put  the  butter  in  a 
tureen  and  pour  the  soup  over  it.  Serve  with  rolled  crack- 
ers. Mrs.  Charles  Tabb. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

After  having  carefully  picked  over  a  half  can  of  oysters 
to  remove  the  shells,  strain  the  liquor  back  over  them,  and 
put  them  into  a  kettle  on  the  stove.  In  another  kettle  put 
three  pints  of  milk  and  half  a. pound  of  butter.  When  the 
oysters  commence  boiling,  skim  them;  when  they  begin  to 
curl,  take  them  off  and  pour  them  into  the  milk ;  let  them 
just  come  to  a  boiling.  Have  in  a  tureen  eighteen  butter 
crackers  rolled  very  fine,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  pour 
over  this  the  soup,  and  serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Wadsworth,  Jr. 


FISH. 


In  buying  fish,  see  that  the  flesh  is  firm,  the  gills  red,  arid 
the  fins  stiff.  The  greatest  merit  of  a  fish  is  freshness.  It 
should  be  cleaned  as  soon  as  it  comes  from  market,  and  put 
on  ice  until  the  time  of  cooking.  Do  not  soak  a  fish,  as  it 
greatly  impairs  the  flavor.  If  frozen,  put  into  ice-cold 
water  to  thaw.  If  the  fish  is  to  be  fried,  wash  it  before  cut- 
ting up.  Have  plenty  of  lard  in  the  skillet,  and  have  it 
very  hot  before  commencing  to  cook.  A  fish  is  sufficiently 
cooked  when  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones. 

BOILED  FISH— EGG  DRESSING. 

Wash  the  fish  carefully,  rub  it  with  salt,  wrap  it  in  a 
strong  cloth,  and  boil,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  each 
pound  for  cooking.  When  it  is  done,  take  it  out  of  the 
cloth  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  it,  and  place  it  on  a  heat- 
ed dish.  Boil  nine  eggs  hard;  take  one  pint  of  the  water 
the  fish  was  boiled  in,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  salt; 
mash  the  yelks  of  six  eggs  in  the  butter,  which  roll  in  a 
little  flour ;  then  pour  in  the  broth  gradually,  set  it  on  the 
stove,  and  let  it  boil  until  it  thickens.  Slice  the  remaining 
three  eggs  into  rings,  which  put  over  the  fish,  then  pour 
over  it  the  dressing.    Serve  at  once. 

BAKED  FISH. 

Wash  carefully,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Season  some 
bread  crumbs  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  chopped  onion,  and 
a  table-spoonful  of  butter;  with  this  stuff  the  fish,  fasten 
securely  so  as  to  keep  it  together.  Put  it  in  a  baking-pan, 
with  one  pint  of  water.  Season  the  fish  with  salt,  pepper, 
(30) 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh 


31 


and  butter;  dredge  it  well  with  flour,  aud  baste  frequently. 
Bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  when  it  is  done  garnish 
it  with  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings,  and  parsley.  Serve 
with  potatoes. 

TO  FRY  FISH. 

Thoroughly  cleanse  and  wash  the  fish ;  lay  it  in  salt  and 
water  an  hour  or  two ;  if  it  is  large,  cut  it  crosswise  into 
nice-sized  pieces  for  serving;  leave  the  smaller  ones  whole. 
Roll  in  corn-meal,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  to  a  nice  brown. 
Season  while  cooking  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  fish 
on  a  dish,  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  over  them.  If  pre- 
ferred, use  cracker  crumbs  instead  of  the  corn-meal. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Keith. 

TO  BOIL  FRESH  MACKEREL. 

After  thoroughly  cleaning  and  washing  the  mackerel,  put 
them  into  boiling  water,  the  skin  up ;  add  a  little  salt,  and 
boil  ten  minutes;  put  them  on  a  well-heated  dish,  and  pour, 
over  them  some  melted  butter,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 

Cook  salt  mackerel  in  the  same  manner,  after  soaking 
overnight  in  clear  water. 

Then,  to  broil  either  salt  or  fresh  mackerel,  after  preparing 
as  above,  put  them  on  a  hot  gridiron,  well  greased,  and  broil 
a  few  moments  on  each  side;  put  them  on  a  heated  dish, 
and  pour  melted  butter  over  them,  seasoned  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper. 

BROILED  COD-FISH. 

Soak  salt  cod-fish  twenty-four  hours,  changing  the  wrater 
once  or  twice ;  put  into  fresh  water,  and  boil  half  an  hour. 
Serve  wuth  drawn  butter  sauce. 

COD-FISH  BALLS. 

After  soaking  a  cod-fish  as  directed  above,  boil  it  un- 
til it  falls  to  pieces ;  pick  it  into  shreds,  take  out  all  the 
bones,  and  drain.    To  about  one  pound  of  fish,  after  being 


32 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


prepared,  allow  one  dozen  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed 
line;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  tea-cup  of  sweet  milk, 
and  one  egg;  mix  all  well  together,  make  into  balls,  and 
fry  a  light  brown.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Sadler. 

BROILED  SHAD. 
After  cleaning  and  splitting  open  the  shad,  wash  it  and 
wipe  it  dry.  Grease  the  gridiron,  and  put  on  the  fish,  In- 
side downward ;  place  it  over  a  clear  tire,  and  cook  twenty 
minutes,  turning  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other. 
Serve  on  a  well-heated  dish,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  melted 
butter  poured  over  it. 

BOILED  SALMON. 

Having  had  the  salmon  carefully  dressed,  wash  it,  wipe 
dry,  and  rub  with  salt  and  pepper;  sew  it  up  in  a  strong 
cloth,  not  too  thick;  put  it  into  a  fish-kettle,  cover  it  well 
with  cold  water,  and  boil  until  thoroughly  done,  allowing 
fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound  for  cooking.  Make  a  cream- 
sauce,  using  one  pint  of  sweet  cream,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  one  table-spoonful  of 
butter  rolled  in  one  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  little  minced 
parsley;  boil  two  or  three  minutes.  Take  up  the  fish,  being 
careful  not  to  break  it;  place  it  on  a  heated  dish,  and  pour 
over  it  the  sauce;  garnish  it  with  parsley  and  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings. 

BROILED  SALMON. 

Wash  the  salmon  carefully  and  wipe  perfectly  dry;  grease 
the  gridiron,  place  on  it  the  salmon,  and  cook  it  quickly, 
constantly  turning  that  it  may  brown  on  both  sides ;  place 
it  on  a  heated  dish,  and  pour  melted  butter  over  it,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Or,  place  the  salmon  in  a  baking-pan,  with  the  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt;  the  under  side  up ;  after  it  cooks  awhile, 
turn  it  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  it;  brown  it  nicely,  and 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  33 


place  it  on  a  heated  dish,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter 
poured  over  it.    Serve  at  once. 

SALMON  WITH  CREAM  DRESSING. 

Heat  the  salmon  (canned),  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  place  it  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast.  The  dressing 
is  made  of  oue  pint  of  milk,  thickened  on  the  fire  by  stirring 
into  it  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  a  table-spoonful  of  butter, 
and  salt  and  pepper.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Manxex. 

BOILED  HALIBUT. 

Halibut  is  rarely  ever  boiled  whole,  it  being  very  large. 
Four  or  five  pounds  are  sufficient  for  most  families.  After 
carefully  washing  it  in  cold  water,  put  it  in  a  fish-kettle 
with  salt-water  enough  to  cover  it  well;  boil  it  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  When  well  done,  place  it  on  a  well-heated 
dish,  and  serve  with  egg  sauce,  either  poured  over  the  fish  or 
in  a  sauce-boat. 

BROILED  HALIBUT. 

Cut  the  halibut  into  steaks  about  an  inch  thick,  and  sea- 
son well  writh  pepper  and  salt ;  dip  each  piece  into  beaten 
egg,  then  into  grated  cracker ;  fry  to  a  nice  brown,  and  serve 
with  maitre  oVhotel  sauce. 

FISH  FRITTERS. 

Take  the  remains  of  any  fish  which  has  been  served  the 
previous  day,  remove  the  bones,  mince  fine,  add  bread 
crumbs  in  equal  quantities  with  the  fish ;  mix  together  half 
a  tea-cupful  of  cream  with  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little 
Cayenne  pepper,  and  anchovy  or  any  kind  of  sauce  pre- 
ferred ;  beat  thoroughly ;  mix  all  together,  make  into  small 
cakes,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 

FISH  CROQUETTES. 

Take  any  kind  of  cold  cooked  fish ;  mince  fine  and  moisten 
with  a  little  cream;  beat  an  egg  light,  mix  with  it  a  little 


34  The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 

milk  and  flour  into  a  smooth  cream;  mix  this  with  the  fish; 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  a  lit- 
tle lemon  juice;  make  with  the  hands  into  pear-shapes,  dip 
into  beaten  egg,  then  into  bread  crumbs ;  fry  brown  in  hot 
lard;  garnish  with  parsley;  serve  with  thin  slices  of  but- 
tered brown  bread. 

CHOWDER. 

Take  any  kind  of  firm  fresh  fish — cod  or  haddock  is  gen- 
erally used;  cut  it  into  slices;  boil  some  salt  pork  about 
half  done,  and  cut  it  into  as  many  pieces  as  you  have  fish. 
Put  a  layer  of  pork  into  the  bottom  of  an  iron  pot,  a  layer 
each  of  fish,  sliced  potatoes,  minced  onion,  and  crackers 
soaked  for  a  few  minutes  in  milk,  a  little  salt  and  pepper; 
and  so  on,  until  all  the  chowder  is  used,  having  a  layer  of 
buttered  crackers  on  top;  cover  with  boiling  water,  and 
cook  half  an  hour.  Take  out  the  chowder  with  a  perforated 
skimmer ;  put  it  into  a  tureen ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  one 
table-spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  one  table-spoonful  of  flour ; 
boil  a  moment,  and  add  a  little  more  seasoning;  pour  the 
gravy  over  the  chowder,  and  serve  at  once,  with  either 
sliced  lemon  or  tomato  catsup. 

FROGS. 

Use  only  the  hind-legs ;  skin  them  as  soon  as  possible,  and 
lay  them  in  salt  and  water  a  few  moments.  Fry  or  broil 
them  as  you  would  chicken,  or,  if  preferred,  fricassee  them. 


OYSTERS. 


Always  buy  the  freshest  and  best  brand  of  oysters. 
Pick  the  oysters  over  carefully,  and  strain  the  liquor  to  re- 
move bits  of  shell.  Oysters  when  cooked  too  long  are  tough 
and  tasteless.  In  cooking  oysters,  where  milk  or  cream  is 
used,  the  salt  should  be  added  after  taking  from  the  stove, 
as  there  is  danger  of  curdling  even  the  freshest  milk.  An 
iron  heater  is  the  best  utensil  in  which  to  fry  oysters,  and 
should  be  kept  for  that  purpose. 

BOILED  OYSTERS. 
Put  in  a  skillet  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  let  it  melt,  and 
squeeze  into  it  part  of  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Take  large 
fresh  oysters,  and  lay  them  on  a  clean  towel  to  drain.  Drop 
the  oysters  in  the  butter,  and  let  them  stay  just  long  enough 
to  cook  through.  Have  ready  a  meat-dish  covered  with 
toast;  lift  the  oysters  carefully,  and  cover  each  slice  with 
them;  butter  the  toast,  garnish  with  tender  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley, and  pour  over  the  whole  the  butter  in  which  the  oysters 
were  cooked.  Use  a  pie-knife  to  serve,  as  each  piece  can  be 
lifted  without  disturbing  the  oysters. 

STEWED  OYSTERS. 

Strain  all  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  and  thicken  the 
liquor  with  stale  bread  crumbs,  some  whole  pepper  and 
mace,  and  some  grated  nutmeg,  Boil  the  liquor  without 
the  oysters,  adding  butter  rubbed  in  flour.  Lay  a  slice  of 
buttered  toast  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish,  and  surround 
the  sides  with  small  slices  cut  into  three-cornered  or  pointed 
pieces.    All  the  crust  must  be  cut  from  the  toast.    Put  the 

{?>:) 


86 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


raw  oysters  into  the  dish  of  toast;  when  the  liquor  has 
boiled,  pour  it  scalding  hot  over  them.  Cover  the  dish 
closely  and  let  it  stand  for  five  minutes  before  sending  to 
the  table.  This  will  cook  them  sufficiently,  swell  them  to 
a  larger  size,  and  cause  them  to  retain  their  flavor.  Do  not 
make  the  liquor  too  thick  with  the  bread  crumbs. 

Mes.  Paxton  Marshall. 

OYSTER  SAUSAGE. 

Chop  one  pint  of  oysters,  one-fourth  pound  of  veal,  and 
some  bread  crumbs;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  pound 
them  in  a  mortar,  make  into  small  cakes,  dip  into  a  beaten 
egg,  then  in  meal,  and  fry  dry.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Cosby. 

OYSTER  AND  CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Chop  some  chicken  very  fine,  and  add  to  it  the  same 
quantity  of  oysters  chopped  fine,  with  half  a  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs  or  grated  crackers,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if  liked,  a  little 
mace ;  moisten  with  one  or  two  well-beaten  eggs,  form  into 
long  slender  rolls,  and  fry  in  good  lard  to  a  light  brown. 
Serve  on  a  napkin,  and  garnish  with  celery-tops  or  parsley 
and  slices  of  lemon. 

CREAM  OYSTERS. 

Drain  well  two  quarts  of  large  oysters;  in  a  hot  kettle 
melt  a  cup  of  butter ;  put  the  oysters  into  the  butter,  and 
let  them  stay  long  enough  to  -plump  them;  lift  them  out 
with  a  skimmer  into  a  hot  platter.  A  good  deal  of  juice 
will  come  out  into  the  butter ;  to  this  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  also  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk ;  thicken  smoothly  with 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour.  When  this  boils,  turn  back  the 
oysters,  and  let  them  stay  long  enough  to  get  hot.  Have  a 
hot  dish,  in  which  are  some  thin  slices  of  toast  cut  any  fancy 
shape;  pour  in  the  oysters  and  gravy,  and  serve  immediate- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


37 


ly.  If  the  liquor  should  get  too  thick,  add  a  little  more 
milk  or  cream.  Mrs.  Victor  C.  Gilman. 

OYSTER  STEW. 
To  one  quart  of  oysters  add  one  table-spoonful  of  butter, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  cut  a  few  stalks  of  fresh  celery 
in  small  pieces ;  put  all  in  a  stew-pan,  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boiling.    As  soon  as  done  serve  with  rolled  crackers. 

Miss  Alice  Ficklix. 

STEWED  OYSTERS. 

Put  two  quarts  of  oysters,  with  a  little  of  the  liquor,  into 
a  kettle.  As  soon  as  they  come  to  a  boiling,  remove  the 
scum ;  stir  in  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  and  add  pepper  to 
taste ;  let  them  simmer  gently  until  the  butter  melts ;  then 
stir  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  rich  milk,  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boiling,  stirring  all  the  time.  Mrs.  Chas.  Tabb. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Take  either  soda  or  butter  cracker  crumbs,  place  a  layer 
of  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  wet 
them  slightly  with  oyster  liquor  and  cream  mixed;  next 
put  in  a  layer  of  oysters ;  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  small  pieces  of  butter;  then  put  in  another  layer  of 
crumbs  and  oysters  alternately  until  the  dish  is  full.  The 
top  layer  must  be  of  crumbs.  Beat  an  egg  and  mix  with  a 
small  quantity  of  fresh  milk  and  butter  to  pour  over  the 
top.  Cover  with  paper,  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  hot 
oven.  Remove  the  paper  a  few  minutes  before  taking  from 
the  stove  to  brown.  Mrs.  Axxie  Lee. 

OYSTER  LOAVES. 

Take  eight  small  French  rolls ;  make  a  hole  in  the  top 
by  slipping  a  sharp  knife  under  the  crust,  lifting  it  care- 
fully ;  scrape  out  the  crumb  with  a  fork.  Put  one  pint  of 
oysters  into  a  pan  with  their  liquor,  add  butter  the  size  of  a 
large  egg,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    When  removed 


38 


Hie  New  Kentucky  Home  CooJ:  Book. 


from  the  fire,  add  one  table-spoonful  of  cream  and  half  a 
pint  of  rolled  cracker.  Fill  the  rolls  with  the  oysters,  lay 
the  crust  on  them,  and  place  in  the  oven  to  crisp.  Serve 

hot.  MuS.  THOB3TLY. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Line  small  tin  pans  with  rich  pie-crust  (see  Pastry  page). 
Put  them  in  the  stove  and  brown  quickly.  Take  one  quart 
of  oysters,  half  a  jDOund  of  butter,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  the 
liquor;  put  them  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  salt  and  pepper;  let 
it  become  boiling  hot.  Fill  the  pans,  putting  rolled  cracker 
crumbs  over  the  oysters;  cover  with  upper  crust.  Serve 
hot.  Mbs.  Laura  Dimmitt. 

OYSTER  PATES. 

Make  some  nice  puff-paste,  and  cut  a  round  from  it  with 
a  cooky-cutter ;  with  a  cutter  of  a  smaller  size  cut  out  the 
middle  of  the  round,  thus  leaving  a  ring.  Make  two  more 
rings,  and  pile  the  three  neatly  on  top  of  a  complete  round 
cut  by  the  largest  cutter.  This  forms  a  little  cup  of  paste. 
Bake  them  to  a  nice  brown  in  a  quick  oven,  then  brush 
them  over  with  a  beaten  egg,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  a 
minute  to  glaze.  Take  them  out  and  fill  them  with  oysters 
cooked  thus:  Let  a  pint  of  oysters,  with  their  liquor,  just 
reach  a  boiling;  add  fresh  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg, 
half  a  cupful  of  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  the  oys- 
ters into  three  pieces  before  cooking.         Miss  Hakrisox. 

SPICED  OYSTERS. 

Scald  some  large  oysters,  but  do  not  let  them  boil.  Then 
take  one  pint  of  clear  vinegar,  one  dozen  blades  of  mace, 
two  dozen  whole  cloves,  two  dozen  whole  black  peppers,  and 
one  red  pepper-pod  broken  in  small  pieces.  Lift  the  oysters 
from  the  kettle,  and  to  the  liquor  that  remains  in  the  kettle 
add  the  vinegar  and  spices;  let  it  come  to  a  boiling,  and 
when  cool  pour  it  over  the  oysters. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Drain  and  dry  large  oysters  on  a  towel.  Have  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Dip  the  oysters  first  in 
the  egg,  then  in  sifted  corn-meal  in  which  a  little  black  pep- 
per has  been  mixed.  Fry  them  slowly  in  hot  lard  until 
they  become  a  light  brown.  When  the  oysters  are  done 
add  salt,  and  place  them  on  a  hot  dish. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Take  large  oysters,  drain  and  lay  them  on  a  clean  towel. 
Sprinkle  them  with  pepper;  beat  an  egg;  dip  the  oysters 
first  in  the  egg  then  in  sifted  corn-meal  or  sifted  cracker 
crumbs ;  fry  them  in  lard  boiling  hot,  and  salt  when  done. 
Serve  in  a  warm  dish.  Mes.  Paxton  Marshall. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Place  some  oysters  in  a  colander,  and  thoroughly  drain 
oil  all  the  liquor  ;  then  lay  the  oysters  in  a  napkin,  cover- 
ing with  another  until  all  the  juice  is  absorbed.  To  every 
quart  allow  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  two  eggs.  Stir  the 
oysters  into  the  eggs  until  all  are  covered ;  then  turn  them 
into  a  dish  of  sifted  cracker  crumbs,  and  stir  them  around 
until  they  are  coated.  Fry  in  enough  boiling  lard  to  cover 
them.   Salt  them  when  done,  otherwise  they  will  not  brown. 

Mes.  Chas.  Tabb. 
OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

Take  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  eggs  beaten  very  light,  a 
little  salt,  and  flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter;  to  this  add  one 
cupful  of  chopped  oysters,  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Fry 
a  light  brown  in  hot  lard.  As  soon  as  done  serve  on  a 
warm  dish. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

Make  a  thick  batter  with  two  eggs,  some  crumbs  of  stale 
bread,  a  little  flour,  and  a  small  measure  of  milk;  season 
this  with  pepper  and  salt.    Have  in  a  frying-pan  lard  boil- 


40 


The  New  Kentucky  Some  Cook  Book. 


ing  hot.  Dip  out  a  table-spoonful  of  batter,  put  a  large 
oyster  into  it,  and  lay  it  carefully  into  the  lard.  Fry  it  on 
both  sides  a  light  brown.  This  is  an  excellent  way  to  serve 
oysters  for  breakfast. 

STEWED  OYSTERS  ON  TOAST. 

Drain  off"  the  liquor  and  lay  the  oysters  in  a  steamer  over 
a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  steam  them  about  five  minutes. 
Have  ready  in  a  hot  dish  a  little  of  the  liquor,  some  rich 
cream,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Use  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  to  a  half  can  of  oysters.  Serve  on  buttered  toast 
as  soon  as  done.  Mrs.  Chas.  Tabb. 

A  RICH  OYSTER  PIE. 

Take  one  quart  of  oysters;  strain  the  liquor  from  the 
oysters  and  put  it  on  to  boil,  with  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of 
butter;  add  a  little  nutmeg,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  black 
pepper,  and  salt;  as  it  boils,  stir  in  a  thickening  made  of 
one  scant  table -  spoonful  of  flour  and  one  pint  of  milk. 
Put  the  oysters  in  to  heat  through;  then  take  them  from 
the  stove  and  add  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Do 
not  put  the  eggs  in  wrhile  boiling,  or  it  will  curdle.  Line  a 
shallow  dish  with  puff-paste  and  bake  it ;  take  it  from  the 
oven,  fill  it  with  oysters,  and  cover  with  the  paste ;  then  re- 
turn it  to  the  oven  to  brown.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Paxton  Marshall. 

OYSTER  OMELET. 

Take  twenty-four  large  oysters,  eight  eggs,  one  small  cup 
of  cream,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and 
chopped  parsley ;  chop  the  oysters  fine ;  beat  the  eggs  sepa- 
rately very  light;  mix  all  together,  stirring  the  whites  in 
last  lightly;  fry  in  fresh  lard  or  butter  until  the  omelet 
is  of  a  light  brown.  Serve  hot.  Omelet  thus  prepared  is 
delicious. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  41 


RAW  OYSTERS. 


Raw  oysters  may  be  served  in  small  oyster  plates  or  upon 
the  lower  half-shell. 

To  serve  raw  oysters,  cut  small  squares  of  ice,  and  with  a 
hot  flat-iron  melt  a  place  large  enough  in  which  to  lay  a 
raw  oyster  and  a  small  quantity  of  chopped  celery.  Guests 
can  season  according"  to  their  own  taste. 


MEATS. 


Great  care  should  be  exercised  in  the  selection  of  meats. 
Good  "wholesome  meat  will  be  firm,  and  show  no  signs  of 
dampness,  while  bad  meat  will  be  moist,  almost  wet.  Good 
meat  has  very  little  smell,  and  will  increase  in  size  in  boil- 
ing, while  bad  meat  will  shrink  very  much. 

All  meats  are  much  improved  by  being  kept  two  or  three 
days  before  being  cooked — in  winter,  longer  would  be  bet- 
ter; in  summer,  so  soon  as  taken  off  the  ice  it  should  be 
cooked. 

Put  salt  meats  to  cook  in  cold  water.  It  requires  longer 
to  cook  salt  than  fresh  meat,  and  more  water.  Fresh  meats 
should  be  put  in  hot  water  to  cook,  which  should  be  done 
quickly,  though  they  should  not  be  boiled  too  hard  or  too 
long,  as  it  will  make  them  tough. 

Tough  meats  and  poultry  are  made  more  tender  by  put- 
ting a  little  vinegar  or  a  few  slices  of  lemon  in  the  water  in 
which  they  are  boiled.  Never  boil  meats  or  poultry  you 
wish  to  bake,  as  it  makes  them  tasteless. 

In  buying  beef  to  roast  or  bake,  the  sirloin  and  rib  are 
the  choicest  pieces;  to  corn,  the  round  is  best;  for  steaks, 
the  porter-house  is  best  for  small  families,  as  there  is  but 
little  bone.  A  tenderloin  is  by  far  the  most  desirable. 
Round  and  rump  steaks,  if  well  beaten  and  cooked  quickly, 
have  the  best  flavor. 

Never  season  steak  until  after  it  is  cooked. 

For  mutton  roasts,  take  the  shoulder,  saddle,  loin,  and 
haunch.  The  leg  is  best  for  boiling.  Small  rib  chops  are 
best, 

(42) 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


43 


The  best  veal  roasts  are  the  loin,  breast,  or  shoulder, 
Veal  chops  are  best  for  frying.   Cutlets  are  apt  to  be  tough. 

All  fowls  must  be  properly  dressed,  seeing  especially  that 
they  are  carefully  drawn,  or  they  will  soon  become  tainted. 
Fowls  and  game  should  be  kept  at  least  twenty-four  hours 
after  being  dressed,  before  cooking. 

Frozen  meats  and  fowls  must  be  laid  in  cold  water  to 
thaw. 

In  the  receipts  given,  there  will  be  found  many  ways  of 
using  cold  meats  and  fowls,  all  of  which  are  excellent,  hav- 
ing been  tried  by  old  housekeepers,  and  rendered  so  simple 
that  even  the  most  inexperienced  can  make  most  appetizing- 
dishes  out  of  small  pieces  heretofore  wasted  in  many  house- 
holds. 

SADDLE  OF  VENISON. 
Parboil  the  venison,  if  not  very  young  and  tender,  in  salt 
and  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  to  take  away  the  strong  taste. 
Place  it  in  a  baking-pan,  underside  up ;  dredge  it  over  with 
flour,  and  salt  and  pepper ;  put  half  a  gallon  of  water  in  the 
pan ;  cook  for  two  hours,  basting  continually,  and  have  it  a 
nice  brown.  Take  it  out  of  the  stove,  turn  it  over,  and  with 
a  sharp  knife  make  incisions  an  inch  long  and  deep  all  over 
the  top  and  sides.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  salt, 
pepper,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  and  mix  well;  take 
a  slice  of  fat  middling,  five  or  six  inches  long  and  two  or 
three  broad,  and  one  bunch  of  parsley;  chop  them  very 
fine,  and  add  to  the  bread  crumbs;  and  fill  each  incision 
with  the  dressing.  Rub  the  meat  all  over  well  with  butter ; 
put  it  back  in  the  stove,  adding  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter to  the  gravy ;  baste  very  often,  and  cook  one  hour  longer, 
or  until  it  is  a  rich  brown.  Place  it  on  a  heated  dish,  and 
set  it  where  it  will  keep  warm.  Add  to  the  gravy  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  jelly-glass  of  acid  jelly,  and  one 
jelly-glass  of  wine — sherry,  claret,  or  Madeira — and  boil  a 


44 


Tie  New.  Kentucky  mine  Cook  Boot 


moment.  Serve  at  once,  as  venison  is  not  good  unless  very 
hot.  Aunt  Jaxe  Taylor. 

HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 

If  the  outside  is  hard,  wash  it  off  carefully  with  lukewarm 
water ;  rub  it  well  with  butter ;  cover  the  sides  and  top  with 
a  thick  flour  paste;  over  this  put  a  sheet  of  heavy  paper 
well  greased,  and  tie  it  on  securely ;  put  one  quart  of  water 
in  the  pan  with  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  butter ;  salt  and 
pepper  it,  and  cook  for  four  hours,  basting  constantly. 
About  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  it  is  done, 
take  off  the  paste  and  paper,  and  let  it  brown ;  add  to  the 
gravy  currant  jelly,  butter,  and  claret  wine;  baste  with  this 
a  few  times.  If  the  gravy  is  not  thick  enough,  dredge  in  a 
little  flour.  Serve  in  a  gravy-bowl  and  at  once,  as  venison 
is  not  good  unless  hot.  If  wished,  put  jelly  over  the  haunch 
when  served. 

VENISON  STEAKS. 

Have  the  gridiron  hot  and  well  greased  with  butter ;  broil 
the  steaks  quickly;  place  them  on  a  heated  dish  and  pour 
over  them  melted  butter,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  currant 
jelly  in  it.  A  little  sherry  or  Madeira  wine  put  into  the 
heated  dressing  is  a  delightful  addition. 

ROAST  BEEF. 

Place  the  roast  in  a  baking-pan,  with  water  enough  to 
keep  it  from  burning;  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  it. 
Allow  fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound,  if  you  wish  it  rare — 
more  time,  if  you  wish  it  well  cooked.  Just  before  taking 
it  up,  dredge  a  little  flour  over  the  roast  and  in  the  gravy. 
Baste  it  frequently,  so  as  not  to  cook  dry,  hard,  or  to  burn. 
Take  the  roast  out  and  place  it  on  a  well-heated  dish;  skim 
off  the  greasy  part  from  the  gravy,  add  a  little  flour,  stir  it 
in  smoothly,  and  cook  for  a  few  moments;  pour  part  of  it 
over  the  roast,  and  the  rest  in  a  gravy-bowl. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


45 


FILLET  OF  BEEF. 

Have  your  butcher  properly  prepare  your  fillet  of  beef; 
lard  it  only  on  the  upper  side;  put  it  into  a  baking-pan, 
with  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  some  pieces  of  fat  pork 
chopped  fine;  sprinkle  it  veil  with  salt  and  pepper;  baste 
frequently;  have  the  oven  very  hot,  and  cook  one  hour. 
Serve  with  mushroom  sauce. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

Take  a  round  of  beef  six  to  eight  inches  thick,  wash  and 
wipe  it  well,  and  remove  the  bone.  Make  a  rich  dressing 
of  bread  crumbs,  minced  onion,  and  plenty  of  salt  and  pep- 
per. With  this  fill  the  place  from  which  the  bone  was 
taken.  Make  deep  gashes  through  the  meat,  in  which  put 
pieces  of  fat  pork  cut  in  strips  and  rolled  in  ground  spices 
— mace,  nutmeg,  and  cloves — and  salt  and  pepper.  Tie  up 
the  beef  with  a  broad  strip  of  strong  cotton  to  keep  it  in 
good  shape.  Put  it  in  the  baking-pan  with  a  half  gallon  of 
water,  and  bake  five  hours.  Put  some  of  the  mixed  spices 
over  the  top  of  the  beef  before  it  commences  cooking;  baste 
frequently,  putting  some  butter  and  flour  in  the  water. 
When  done,  take  it  up,  adding  to  the  gravy  either  tomato 
or  walnut  catsup,  or  wine  if  you  wish ;  boil  it  a  moment  and 
serve. 

TO  CORN  BEEF. 

Take  six  gallons  of  water,  nine  pounds  of  salt,  three 
pounds  of  coarse  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of  molasses,  three 
ounces  of  saltpeter,  and  one  ounce  of  pearlash;  mix  and 
boil  well,  taking  care  to  skim  off  all  the  impurities  which 
rise  to  the  surface.  When  the  meat  is  cut,  it  should  be 
slightly  rubbed  with  salt  and  allowed  to  lie  thirty-six  hours, 
that  the  salt  may  extract  the  blood ;  it  may  then  be  packed 
in  a  tight  cask,  and  the  pickle,  having  become  cold,  poured 
upon  it,  and  should  cover  the  meat.    A  top  to  fit  the  inside 


46 


The  New,  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Booh. 


of  the  cask  should  be  laid  on,  and  a  weight  put  on  it  in  order 
to  keep  the  meat  at  all  times  covered  with  pickle.  In  the 
spring  the  pickle  must  be  poured  off,  boiled  with  some  ad- 
ditional salt  and  molasses,  skimmed,  and  when  cold  returned 
to  the  cask.  Mr.  Cham.es  Sadler. 

TO  CORN  BEEF. 

Take  one  hundred  pounds  of  beef,  six  pounds  of  coarse 
salt,  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  saltpeter,  one  pound  of 
light  brown  sugar,  and  four  and  one-half  gallons  of  water; 
pack  the  beef  in  a  barrel  or  tub,  and  pour  the  liquid  over 
it,  and  cover  with  a  board  or  barrel-top.  This  beef  is  ready 
for  use  from  the  day  it  is  corned  until  all  is  used  up. 

Mr.  Frank  Taylor. 

TO  COOK  CORNED  BEEF. 

Take  a  piece  of  the  beef  out  of  the  pickle,  the  size  you 
wish,  wash  it  through  three  or  four  waters,  put  it  in  a  pot, 
and  cover  well  with  cold  water.  Do  not  boil  it  too  hard, 
allowing  at  least  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound  for  cooking. 
If  the  beef  is  not  a  good  shape,  tie  it  up  securely  before 
cooking.  Let  it  remain  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked 
until  cold,  which  makes  it  juicy,  and  prevents  it  from  turn- 
ing dark. 

BROILED  STEAK. 

Gash  the  steak  all  round  the  edges  to  keep  it  from  curl- 
ing up.  Take  a  small  piece  of  the  fat,  put  it  in  a  hot  skil- 
let, and  when  melted  enough  to  grease  the  bottom  of  the 
skillet  put  in  the  steak,  turning  it  constantly.  It  will  cook 
in  a  very  few  moments.  Have  ready  a  heated  dish,  with 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  warm  water  or  hot  fresh 
coffee;  put  the  steak  in  the  dressing,  and  serve  at  once. 

FRIED  STEAK  AND  GRAVY. 

The  second  or  third  cut  of  the  round  steak,  cut  about 
one  and  one-half  inch  thick,  is  the  best  ;  but  any  good  steak 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


47 


will  do.  Trim  off  all  the  fat  and  gristle,  wash  with  cold 
water,  and  wipe  dry;  salt  and  pepper  it  well,  and  chop 
thoroughly  on  both  sides.  Have  ready  a  hot  skillet,  in 
which  is  half  a  pint  of  boiling  lard;  flour  the  steak  well  on 
both  sides,  put  it  in  the  boiling  lard,  cover  it  closely  to  keep 
in  the  steam,  and  fry  quickly  until  brown  on  both  sides. 
Take  out  the  steak,  put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  cover  to  keep 
it  warm.  Take  the  skillet  from  the  stove,  put  into  the  lard 
left  in  it  one  level  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
pepper,  one  heaping  table-spoonful  of  flour,  and  stir  until 
smooth ;  put  it  back  on  the  stove  and  pour  into  it  one  pint 
of  cream  or  new  milk ;  let  it  boil  until  as  thick  as  you  like 
your  gravy;  pour  it  over  the  steak,  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  0.  H.  P.  Thomas. 
FRIED  STEAK. 
After  beating  well,  cut  the  steak  into  small  pieces,  dip  each 
piece  in  well-beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  it  in  hot  lard  a  nice  brown.  Mrs.  Lucy  Keith. 

STEAK  WITH  TOMATO  DRESSING. 

Take  a  sirloin  steak,  and  after  greasing  the  meat-pan  well, 
lay  it  out  full  length,  putting  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper  on 
both  sides ;  open  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  put  over  it,  or  fresh 
tomatoes  sliced ;  dredge  a  little  flour  over  the  tomatoes,  and 
bake.  Mrs.  James  H.  Hall,  Sr. 

STEAK  A  LA  MODE. 

Put  in  a  skillet  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  salt  and  pep- 
per, three  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  coffee-cup  of  Chilli 
sauce  or  tomato  catsup,  one  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  mixed 
mustard,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar;  boil  well  for  a 
few  moments ;  but  in  the  well-beaten  steak  or  slices  of  cold 
beef;  cook  for  a  few  moments.  Have  a  well-heated  meat-dish 
on  which  to  put  the  steak  or  beef;  take  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  acid  jelly  cut  into  small  bits  and  put  over  the 


48 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


steak,  and  pour  over  the  dressing;  if  it  is  not  thick  enough, 
stir  in  a  little  flour  mixed  smoothly  in  a  little  cold  water ; 
boil  a  moment,  and  then  serve.        Mrs.  Thomas  Turner. 

STEAK  DRESSED  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Beat  the  steak  well ;  take  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper,  and  put  in  a  skillet ;  when  hot,  put  in 
the  steak;  let  it  cook  for  a  few  moments  and  turn  it  over; 
then  put  the  oysters  on  the  steak,  and  cover  closely,  and  let 
it  cook  five  minutes.    Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Henry  Pogue. 
STEAK  AND  ONIONS. 

Have  either  lard  or  fried  middling,  very  hot,  in  a  skillet; 
beat  the  steak  well,  gash  the  edges,  dredge  it  on  both  sides 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour,  and  fry  very  quickly  for  a  few 
moments;  have  a  well-heated  meat-dish,  put  the  steak  on  it, 
and  cover  it  closely.  The  onions  must  be  sliced,  and  it 
w7ould  be  better  to  lay  them  for  awhile  in  salt  and  water, 
drain  them  well,  put  them  in  the  skillet,  and  fry  a  nice 
brown.  Or,  broil  the  steak,  then  fry  the  onions,  and  when 
ready  to  serve  put  the  onions  on  the  steak. 

STUFFED  STEAK,  OR  MOCK  DUCK. 

Beat  and  roll  a  round  steak,  sprinkle  it  well  with  pepper 
and  salt;  make  a  dressing  of  rolled  cracker  or  dry  biscuit, 
with  a  tea-spoonful  of  minced  onion,  salt,  pepper,  very  little 
sage,  and  a  good  table-spoonful  of  butter;  moisten  it  with  a 
little  water;  spread  it  over  the  steak,  roll  it  up,  and  tie  it 
securely;  put  it  in  a  baking-pan,  with  a  little  water,  and 
cook  it  quickly,  basting  it  very  often ;  take  it  up ;  add  a 
small  piece  of  butter  and  some  cracker  crumbs  to  the  gravy;, 
boil  it  a  moment,  and  pour  it  over  the  steak.  Serve. 
STEWED  HASH. 

Chop  any  kind  of  cold  meat  very  fine ;  add  a  little  minced 
onion,  pepper,  and  salt;  slice  some  Irish  potatoes  thin;  put 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


all  in  a  stew-pan,  with  water  enough  to  keep  it  from  burn- 
ing, and  boil  it  thoroughly ;  before  taking  it  off  of  the  stove, 
season  it  with  a  little  parsley  or  celery  chopped  fine ;  thick- 
en with  a  little  flour  rubbed  smoothly  in  cream. 

Miss  Alice  Ficklin. 

BAKED  HASH. 

Make  as  for  stewed  hash,  adding  bread  crumbs  and  an 
egg  or  two  well  beaten ;  put  it  in  a  baking-dish  and  bake. 

Miss  Alice  Ficklin. 
HASH  ON  TOAST. 

Take  any  kind  of  cold  meat — one,  two,  or  three  kinds — 
that  you  may  happen  to  have;  take  out  all  the  gristle, 
bones,  and  fat ;  chop  it  very  fine,  or,  what  is  better,  grind  it 
in  a  sausage-grinder.  To  twTo  pounds  of  meat  add  one  and 
one-half  pint  of  cold  water,  or  enough  to  make  it  rather 
thin ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  about  one  table-spoonful 
of  each;  put  it  into  a  skillet  and  boil,  adding  a  very  little 
minced  onion.  Have  a  large  meat-dish,  covered  with  slices 
of  buttered  toast.  Add  to  the  mixture  on  the  stove  half  a 
pint  of  melted  butter,  half  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  boil  it  a 
moment,  and  pour  it  over  the  toast.  Serve  at  once  while  the 
toast  is  still  crisp.  Mrs.  George  T.  Hunter. 

TO  COOK  BEEF  HEELS. 

Put  them  in  hot  water  and  boil  until  the  hoof  comes  off 
easily ;  soak  them  in  salt  and  water  all  night ;  boil  until  the 
bones  come  out ;  add  a  pod  of  red  pepper  while  cooking ; 
take  the  meat  and  roll  it  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until 
a  nice  brown.  Mrs.  B.  M.  Conner. 

FLANK  STEAK. 

Prepare  a  flank  steak  by  scoring  it  on  both  sides ;  season 
it  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour;  place 
it  in  a  baking-pan,  with  water  enough  to  cover  it  well;  peel 
potatoes,  either  sweet,  Irish,  or  both,  and  put  in  the  pan 
4 


50 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


with  the  steak ;  make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  plenty  of 
butter,  and  salt  and  pepper;  put  it  over  and  around  the 
steak,  and  bake  it;  baste  it  quite  often. 

Miss  Julia  Porter. 
TO  COOK  DRIED  BEEF. 

Beef  not  too  dry  and  hard  is  the  best  for  broiling.  Slice 
it  thin,  and  lay  it  in  warm  water  for  half  an  hour ;  wipe  it 
dry  and  roll  it  well  with  the  rolling-pin ;  put  a  small  piece 
of  butter  in  a  hot  skillet,  put  in  the  beef,  and  cook  it  for  a 
very  few  moments;  take  it  out  and  pour  over  it. drawn  but- 
ter, well  seasoned  with  pepper.  Or,  after  it  is  taken  out  of 
the  water,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  put  it  in  a  skillet  with  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  and 
some  pepper ;  stew  for  a  few  moments. 

TO  COOK  LIVER— FRENCH  MODE. 

Slice  the  liver  thin,  lay  it  in  salt  and  water  for  one  hour, 
wipe  it  dry,  and  dip  it  in  flour  well  salted  and  peppered. 
Fry  as  many  slices  of  breakfast  bacon  as  of  liver.  Fry  the 
bacon  first,  then  put  in  the  liver  and  fry  it  a  nice  brown. 
Serve  with  a  piece  of  the  breakfast  bacon  on  each  slice  of 
liver.  If  wished,  a  nice  cream  gravy  can  be  made  and 
served  with  it.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tare. 

CALF  HEART. 

Take  a  calf's  heart,  wash  it  well,  but  do  not  let  it  lie  in 
the  water  and  soak ;  stuff  it  with  a  force-meat  stuffing  or  a 
dressing  made  of  bread  crumbs,  well  seasoned  as  for  turkey ; 
tie  a  buttered  paper  over  the  opening  that  the  dressing  may 
not  escape;  put  it  into  a  baking-pan,  with  a  tea-cupful  of 
hot  water,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper ; 
bake  for  two  hours,  basting  frequently.  When  done,  place 
it  in  a  meat-dish ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour,  boil 
for  a  few  moments  on  top  of  the  stove,  adding  more  water  if 
necessary;  pour  this  on  the  dish,  around  the  heart.  The 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  51 


dish  may  be  garnished  with  onions,  baked  or  boiled.  Horse- 
radish sauce  is  also  nice  served  with  the  heart. 

PRESSED  BEEF. 

Boil  beef  of  any  kind,  so  it  is  good,  until  the  meat  falls 
to  pieces;  pick  it  over  carefully,  removing  all  bones  and 
gristle ;  chop  it  very  fine,  and  season  it  well  with  salt  and 
pepper,  adding  such  herbs  as  the  taste  suggests ;  put  it  in  a 
pan  and  press  with  a  heavy  weight;  when  cold  slice  and 
serve.  Veiy  tough  and  cheap  pieces  of  beef  may  be  made 
delicious  by  this  mode  of  preparation. 

TO  BOIL  A  BEEF  TONGUE. 

Soak  the  tongue  overnight;  wash  it  and  put*it  in  a  pot 
of  water,  with  a  pod  or  two  of  red  pepper,  a  few  cloves,  all- 
spice, and  grain  pepper ;  let  it  boil  quickly  on  the  front  of 
the  stove  for  awhile,  then  set  it  back  and  let  it  simmer  for 
four  hours ;  set  it  away  to  cool ;  trim  off  the  skin  nicely ; 
slice  very  thin  when  served.  This  makes  delightful  sand- 
wiches. Mrs.  Lucy  Keith. 
STEWED  BEEF  TONGUE. 

Take  a  fresh  beef  tongue  and  stew  it  in  enough  water  to 
cover  it;  boil  it  five  hours,  and  when  nearly  done  add  half 
a  tea-cupful  of  brown  sugar,  two  lemons  (juice  and  pulp — 
seeds  all  taken  out),  a  wine-glass  of  strong  vinegar,  half  a 
pound  of  seeded  raisins,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  and  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  butter ;  boil  until  done.  Serve  hot,  with 
the  gravy  poured  over  it.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Wadsworth. 

BEEF  PIE. 

Take  cold  sliced  beef,  four  Irish  potatoes,  five  tomatoes, 
butter,  salt,  pepper,  parsley.  Let  the  potatoes  be  sliced 
and  boiled  for  a  few  moments;  the  beef  should  be  sliced 
thin;  the  potatoes  skinned  and  cut  fine.  Line  a  round 
baking-pan  (such  as  is  used  for  chicken-pie)  with  pastry, 


52  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


place  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  moments;  take  it  out,  and  lay 
in  layers  the  meat,  potatoes,  and  tomatoes,  sprinkled  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  flour;  add  small  lumps  of  butter  and  a 
little  parsley  on  each  layer;  small  pieces  of  the  pastry  are 
nice  also ;  use  the  potato-water  for  the  gravy ;  cover  the  top 
with  pastry,  and  bake.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Shackleford. 

TO  FRY  BEEF  KIDNEY. 

Wash  it  carefully;  slice  it,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  dip  each  piece  in  flour ;  fry  in  hot  lard  a  nice  brown ; 
when  done,  take  it  out,  lay  it  on  a  heated  dish,  and  drain 
off  the  lard.  Put  in  the  skillet  a  table-spoonful  of  butter 
rolled  in  o^e  dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  add  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  tea-cupful  of  water,  and  boil  a  moment,  until  it  thickens. 
Add  to  the  gravy  either  mushroom  sauce  or  tomato  catsup. 

BEEF  WITH  CATSUP. 

Have  the  skillet  hot,  put  in  it  one  tea-spoonful  of  lard, 
lay  in  the  cold  sliced  beef,  and  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  over 
it  ;  pour  over  this  half  a  pint  of  catsup  and  boiling  water 
mixed ;  lastly,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Shackleford. 

TONGUE  TOAST. 

Take  cold  boiled  tongue,  and  mince  it  fine;  mix  it  with 
cream,  and  to  every  half  pint  of  the  mixture,  add  the  well- 
beaten  yelks  of  two  eggs;  place  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it 
simmer  a  moment  or  two;  have  ready  some  nicely  toasted 
slices  of  bread  buttered,  place  them  on  a  well-heated  dish, 
and  pour  the  tongue  over  it.    Serve  hot. 

TO  PREPARE  TRIPE 

Have  ready  a  pot  of  hot  water,  a  sharp  knife,  and  a  clean 
board;  cut  the  tripe  into  several  small  pieces;  scald  one 
piece  at  a  time,  and  lay  it  on  the  board  and  scrape  off  the 
dark  part;  make  a  moderately  strong  brine,  and  lay  the 


Tlie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


53 


tripe  in  it  for  several  days;  take  it  from  the  brine,  and  wasli 
it  in  clean  water;  boil  it  in  plenty  of  water  all  day  long 
over  a  slow  fire;  put  in  the  water  several  pods  of  red  pep- 
per. When  it  is  done,  spread  it  on  dishes,  and  keep  it  in  a 
cool  place.  Miss  Julia  Porter. 

STEWED  TRIPE. 

Cut  the  boiled  tripe  into  strips  three  inches  long  and  one 
inch  wide;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  water  to  cover  it, 
salt,  pepper,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  parsley  to  taste; 
boil  for  a  short  time ;  then  make  a  thickening  of  flour  and 
cream;  before  serving,  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar. 
Serve  very  hot.  Miss  Julia  Porter. 

TO  FRY  TRIPE. 

Make  a  batter  with  one  egg,  a  little  soda,  buttermilk,  and 
flour;  have  your  lard  boiling  hot;  dip  the  tripe  in  the  bat- 
ter, and  fry  it.  Mrs.  B.  M.  Coxxer. 

TO  STEW  TRIPE  AS  OYSTERS. 

Cut  the  cooked  tripe  into  small  pieces;  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan,  with  drawn  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  vine- 
gar; stew  them  until  thoroughly  heated.  Serve  in  a  cov- 
ered dish.  Mrs.  B.  M.  Coxxer, 

ENGLISH  PIE. 

Take  any  cold  meat,  mince  fine  like  sausage;  chop  half 
an  onion  fine;  pepper,  salt,  mustard;  cut  fine  a  pepper  pod; 
two  eggs  well  beaten;  very  little  nutmeg,  the  juice  and  rind 
of  one  lemon,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter  (you  can  use 
wine  or  catsup  when  lemon  cannot  be  got) ;  mix  all  well  to- 
gether, put  into  a  baking-pan.  Take  the  bones  of  the  meat, 
cover  with  water,  boil  half  an  hour.  Cover  the  top  with 
bread  crumbs  and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings ;  pour  over 
it  the  water  in  which  the  bones  were  boiled;  bake. 


54  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


ROAST  OF  MUTTON. 

Wash  the  roast  carefully,  put  it  in  a  baking-pan  with 
water  enough  to  keep  it  from  burning.  Salt  and  pepper; 
cook  slowly,  basting  frequently.  When  done,  take  out  the 
roast,  skim  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  thicken  with  a  little 
flour,  boil  a  moment,  and  serve  hot  in  a  gravy-bowl.  Mut- 
ton must  be*  well  cooked,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  each 
pound.    Serve  with  currant  or  some  acid  jelly. 

MUTTON-CHOPS. 

Beat  them  well,  pepper  and  salt  on  both  sides,  roll  in 
flour ;  fry  in  hot  lard.  Must  be  well  cooked,  nicely  browned, 
and  melted  butter  poured  over  them.    Serve  at  once. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

Put  the  mutton  on  in  cold  water,  with  enough  to  cover  it 
well;  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  salt;  boil  three  hours.  Boil 
four  eggs  hard ;  take  two  of  them,  mash  fine  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Take  one  pint  of  the  water  in  which 
the  mutton  was  boiled,  stir  smoothly  into  it  a  table-spoonful 
of  flour,  pour  this  over  the  eggs,  cook  a  moment,  and  add 
one  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Slice  the  remaining  two  eggs 
into  thin  slices,  lay  over  the  mutton,  and  pour  over  the 
dressing. 

STUFFED  SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON. 

Have  the  butcher  to  take  out  the  bone;  fill  the  place 
from  which  it  was  taken  with  a  good  force-meat  of  bread 
crumbs,  minced  pork,  salt,  pepper,  sweet  herbs,  and  one  raw 
egg.  Mix  all  well  together.  After  the  stuffing  is  put  in, 
sew  up  the  edges  of  the  skin  to  keep  the  dressing  in.  Allow 
fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound  for  cooking.  Baste  often  at 
first  with  the  water  you  have  put  in  the  pan.  Just  before 
the  mutton  is  done  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  baste  again, 
then  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  it  and  give  a  nice  brown. 


Tlie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


55 


Skim  all  the  flit  from  the  gravy,  thicken  with  flour,  and 
boil  a  moment.    Serve  hot,  with  some  acid  jelly. 

MUTTON  OR  LAMB  CHOPS. 

Trim  the  chops  nicely;  salt  and  pepper  them  well;  fry  in 
hot  lard.  Or,  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  then  in  beaten 
egg,  again  in  the  bread  crumbs;  fry. 

MUTTON  POT-PIE. 

Make  pie-crust,  line  the  pan,  put  into  the  stove  and  let  it 
brown  slightly;  take  slices  of  mutton,  a  few  small  Irish  po- 
tatoes or  sliced  ones,  a  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter. 
Make  dumplings  of  biscuit  dough  rolled  thin,  and  cut  into 
strips  an  inch  and  a  half  long ;  salt  and  pepper.  Just  when 
ready  to  put  on  upper  crust  pour  in  warm  water  enough  to 
cover  the  filling,  then  the  upper  crust ;  bake. 

ROAST  OF  VEAL. 

Have  the  butcher  prepare  the  roast  for  dressing  by  run- 
ning a  sharp  knife  under  the  skin,  so  as  to  allow  the  dress- 
ing to  be  put  on.  Make  a  nice  rich  dressing  of  bread 
crumbs  or  rolled  cracker,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  minced  pars- 
ley or  sage,  mixing  well  together  with  butter.  Put  this  all 
over  the  roast,  just  under  the  skin.  Put  in  a  pan,  with 
water  enough  to  keep  it  from  burning,  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  butter.  Baste  very  frequenlly.  Yeal  must  be  thor- 
oughly cooked  to  be  good,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  each 
pound. 

VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Trim  the  cutlets,  gash  the  edges  to  keep  them  from  curl- 
ing up;  salt,  pepper,  and  dip  them  in  flour;  fry  in  hot  lard 
to  a  nice  brown,  and  thoroughly  cook.  Or,  beat  two  eggs 
very  light,  dip  the  cutlets  in  the  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs; 
fry  as  above  directed. 

Cook  veal  chops  in  the  same  wav. 


56  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


VEAL  LOAF. 

Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  veal  cutlet,  three  slices,  or 
about  five  cents'  worth,  of  pickled  pork ;  one  tea-cupful  of 
powdered  crackers,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  table-spoonful 
of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  half  tea-spoonful 
of  chopped  onion,  one-third  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  half  tea-spoonful  of  ground  allspice.  Chop  the  raw 
veal  and  pork  together,  to  which  add  the  other  ingredients, 
then  add  a  cupful  of  milk.  Knead  well  together,  and 
make  out  into  the  form  of  a  loaf.  Cover  the  top  with 
powdered  cracker,  put  bits  of  butter  here  and  there  over 
it.  Bake  for  two  hours,  putting  in  the  pan  either  milk  or 
water  with  which  to  baste  very  frequently. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Atwood. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Three  pounds  lean  veal  chopped  as  fine  as  sausage;  three 
eggs  well  beaten,  one  tea-cupful  of  rolled  crackers,  a  lump 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  table-spoonful  of  black  pep- 
per, one  table-spoonful  of  salt.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  to- 
gether, and  form  into  a  loaf.  Put  into  a  pan  with  one  and 
a  half  pints  of  water;  bake  two  hours  and  a  half;  baste 
frequently.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Ciiappell. 

FRICANDEAU. 

Three  pounds  of  uncooked  veal,  yelks  of  three  eggs,  one 
tea-cupful  of  cream,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  juice  of  two 
lemons,  grated  rind  of  one,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  sweet 
marjoram  rubbed  fine.  Make  into  a  roll,  rub  with  butter, 
strew  cracker  crumbs  over  it  ;  bake  two  hours.  When  cold, 
slice.    Delightful  for  lunch. 

MOCK  TERRAPIN. 

Two  pounds  of  veal,  boiled  until  thoroughly  cooked ;  chop 
it  fine ;  one  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  one  table-spoonful  of  but- 
ter; mix  with  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of 


TJw  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  57 


nutmeg,  one  table-spoonful  of  allspice,  one  table-spoonful  of 
cloves;  add  to  this  a  table-spoonful  of  the  liquor  in  which  the 
meat  was  boiled ;  then  mix  all  together  and  cook  ten  minutes. 
After  taking  off  of  the  fire,  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  wine 
and  a  little  lemon  juice.    Slice  a  lemon  and  lay  on  top. 

Mrs.  Virginia  Wxlgtjs. 

ROAST  OF  PORK. 

Wash  the  roast  carefully,  score  the  skin  crosswise,  salt 
and  pepper  it  well.  Put  into  the  pan  a  very  little  water, 
as  the  meat  will  soon  become  heated,  the  fat  melted,  and 
there  will  be  gravy  enough  to  baste  the  roast  with,  which 
must  be  done  very  frequently  to  keep  it  from  becoming  hard 
and  dry.  Pork  must  be  thoroughly  cooked  to  be  good,  al- 
lowing at  least  twenty  minutes  to  each  pound.  Take  up 
the  roast,  skim  off  the  greasy  part  from  the  gravy,  add  a 
little  flour,  stir  it  in  smoothly,  boil  a  moment,  put  in  salt 
and  pepper.  Serve  at  once.  Apple  sauce  is  excellent  with 
pork. 

PORK  STEAKS  OR  CHOPS. 

Beat  them  a  little,  dip  in  flour,  in  which  put  salt  and 
pepper.  Fry  in  hot  lard  until  well  cooked  and  nicely 
browned.  Or,  dip  them  in  well-beaten  egg,  then  in  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs.    Fry  as  above  directed. 

ROAST  PIG. 

A  pig  not  over  six  weeks  old  is  the  nicest  size  for  cooking 
whole.  Have  it  carefully  prepared,  wash  well,  wrap  a  cloth 
around  it,  which  keep  wet  to  make  it  white.  It  must  be 
kept  twelve  or  twenty-four  hours  before  cooking.  Make  a 
rich  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  butter,  powdered  sage,  a  lit- 
tle onion,  with  plenty  of  pepper,  and  salt.  Stuff  the  pig  so 
it  will  be  well  shaped  and  plump.  Sew  up.  Bake  two 
hours  and  a  half.  Put  but  a  little  water  in  the  pan,  with  a 
small  piece  of  butter  to  baste  with  at  first,  as  very  soon  the 


58 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Bool:. 


drippings  will  be  sufficient  to  use.  Baste  frequently,  and 
once  or  twice  after  the  pig  is  thoroughly  heated  and  cook- 
ing, rub  it  well  with  a  little  butter  to  keep  the  skin  soft. 
Bend  the  legs  under  the  pig,  the  fore  ones  back,  the  hind 
ones  forward,  so  it  will  set  nicely  on  the  dish,  which  must 
be  garnished  with  parsley.  Skim  the  gravy  carefully,  add 
a  little  flour,  pepper,  and  salt,  boil  a  few  moments,  and  serve 
in  a  gravy-bowl. 

SCRABBLE. 

Boil  four  pounds  of  fresh  pork  until  thoroughly  cooked. 
When  ready  to  fall  to  pieces,  take  the  meat  from  the  pot, 
chop  fine  (skin,  fat,  and  lean),  remove  all  pieces  of  bone;  put 
it  back  into  the  pot  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  stir 
into  it  one  pint  of  sifted  meal,  one  tea-cupful  of  buckwheat 
flour,  season  the  whole  with  salt,  black  and  red  pepper,  and 
pulverized  sage  to  taste.  Cook  aud  stir  like  mush.  When 
the  mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the  vessel  it  is  done.  Pour 
into  fiat  crocks.  When  cold,  cut  into  slices  and  fry  to  a  nice 
brown.  If  vou  wish,  sprinkle  a  little  dry  meal  over  the 
slices  before  frying.  Fresh  pork  is  preferable,  but  salted  or 
pickled  pork  can  be  used.  Miss  Jttlia  Porter. 

PIG'S  FOOT  SOUSE. 

Boil  the  feet  until  very  tender.  When  cold,  cut  all  the 
meat  and  gristly  part  from  the  bones,  chop  fine.  To  one 
dozen  feet  allow  one  pound  of  tender-loin  boiled  tender  and 
chopped  fine ;  season  well  with  salt,  black  and  red  pepper. 
"When  the  meat  is  all  prepared,  take  part  of  the  water  in 
which  the  feet  were  boiled  which  has  become  jellied,  put 
into  a  pot  with  the  meat  and  half  a  tea-cupful  of  good  cider 
vinegar,  stir  all  together  thoroughly,  put  into  flat  crocks; 
when  cold,  pour  over  more  vinegar  and  a  few  grains  of 
black  pepper.    It  will  keep  until  late  in  the  spring. 

Miss  Jxjxia  Porter. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


59 


SAUSAGE.  » 

Forty  pounds  of  meat,  fat  included  (one-third  fat),  one 
and  a  half  cupful  of  salt  heated  and  rubbed  very  fine,  four 
table-spoonfuls  of  black  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  red  pep- 
per, ten  table-spoonfuls  of  sage  rubbed  line  and  sifted.  Have 
the  meat  ground  very  fine,  mix  the  seasoning  in  thoroughly 
with  the  hands.    Fry  in  small  cakes. 

Mrs.  Julia  S.  Chenoweth. 

A  NICE  DISH  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

One  pound  of  sausage,  one  table-spoonful  of  grated  crack- 
ers, two  wTell-beaten  eggs ;  mix  well  together,  form  into  small 
cakes,  dip  them  in  grated  cracker  crumbs,  put  it  into  a  hot 
skillet  and  cook.  No  lard  is  needed.  Keep  covered  while 
cooking. 

BACKBONE,  OR  CHINE. 

Wash  carefully,  put  into  a  pot  with  water  enough  to 
cover  well;  a  pod  of  red  pepper,  salt.  Boil  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Or,  put  the  chine  into  a  baking-pan,  with  a 
cup  of  water,  salt  and  pepper.    Bake  same  length  of  time. 

PIG'S  FEET. 

Have  them  carefully  cleaned,  washed,  and  put  on  to  boil, 
well  covered  with  water ;  a  pod  of  red  pepper,  salt.  Cook 
five  hours.  When  cold,  cut  in  two  and  place  in  a  stone  jar; 
cover  well  with  vinegar,  in  which  has  been  boiled  one  dozen 
cloves,  three  dozen  whole  black  pepper,  and  half  a  dozen 
blades  of  mace.  Pour  over  hot.  If  you  wish  them  for 
breakfast,  make  a  thin  batter,  dip  each  piece  in,  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  to  a  nice  brown. 

SPARE-RIB. 

Wash  carefully,  put  into  a  baking-pan  with  a  cupful  of 
water,  salt,  and  pepper.  Cook  half  an  hour,  unless  very 
thick,  then  cook  longer. 


60  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


BRAINS. 

Hog's  brains  are  the  best,  Take  one  quart,  lay  in  salt 
and  water  for  an  hour  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Pick  them 
over  carefully,  taking  out  all  small  pieces  of  bone  or  any 
membranous  matter  that  may  be  in  them.  Wash  through 
cold  water,  drain  well,  put  a  heaping  table-spoonful  of  but- 
ter into  a  heated  skillet,  pour  in  the  braius,  add  two  beaten 
eggs,  a  level  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  pep- 
per.  Cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly.    Serve  at  once. 

BRAIN  CAKES,  OR  MOCK  OYSTERS. 

Take  hog's  brains  and  clear  them  of  the  strings  and  pieces 
of  bone.  Wash  carefully;  beat  them  with  the  yelks,  of  two 
eggs,  some  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  chopped  parsley,  a 
table-spoonful  of  cream,  and  one  of  flour.  When  well 
mixed,  drop  with  a  spoon  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  hot 
lard  in  it  ;  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Mrs.  Marshall. 

TO  CURE  HAMS. 

Trim  the  large  end  of  the  ham  round  and  smooth.  To 
each  half  gallon  of  common  molasses  put  half  pound  of 
Cayenne  pepper ;  with  this  baste  the  hams  well.  This  will 
baste  twenty-five  of  ordinary  size.  Place  the  hams  on  a 
shelf  or  table,  cover  them  with  salt.  Over  each  one  sprinkle 
a  small  quantity  of  saltpeter — just  a  pinch  will  give  the 
meat  a  good  color.  If  the  weather  is  very  cold,  the  meat 
should  remain  in  salt  six  wreeks;  if  soft  and  warm,  four  weeks 
will  be  long  enough.    Then  hang  up  and  smoke. 

Judge  Watson  Andrews. 

TO  KEEP  HAMS  IN  SUMMER. 

Make  bags  of  heavy  cotton  for  the  hams ;  dip  them  in  salt 
water  and  dry,  dip  them  again  and  dry ;  repeat  this  three  or 
four  times.  By  this  means  the  bags  become  crystallized,  and 
prevent  the  flies  from  getting  through.    Before  fly  time  put 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Bool: 


61 


the  hams  in  the  bags,  tie  up  securely,  and  pack  closely  in 
barrels,  with  finely  powdered  charcoal. 

BOILED  HAM. 
It  is  better  to  soak  the  ham  overnight,  especially  if  a  large 
one.  Wash  carefully,  put  into  a  boiler  with  the  skin  side 
down.  Cover  well  with  cold  water,  and  boil  for  four  hours, 
or  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  each  pound.  When  well 
cooked,  take  out,  dip  immediately  into  cold  water,  and  let  it 
stand  until  cold.  Then  take  out  the  hock  bone,  skin  and 
trim  nicely.  If  you  wish  to  bake  it,  rub  well  in  the  fat  one 
table-spoonful  of  ground  mustard,  two  of  sugar,  cover  the 
top  and  sides  well  with  rolled  cracker  or  bread  crumbs. 
Bake  slowly  until  nicely  browned. 

BOIL  A  HAM  IN  CIDER. 

Soak  the  ham  overnight,  wash  carefully,  place  in  the 
boiler  skin  side  down.  Cover  well  with  cold  water  and  ci- 
der— one-third  cider,  two-thirds  water;  sharp  cider  is  the 
best.  Allow  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound  for  cooking. 
When  well  cooked,  dress  as  above  directed,  and  bake. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

BONED  HAM. 

Soak  the  ham  overnight,  put  into  the  boiler  skin  side 
down.  Cover  well  with  cold  water.  Boil  a  medium-sized 
ham  four  hours,  large  ones  require  much  longer.  Take  out, 
trim  nicely,  skin,  and  turn  the  under  side  up.  By  a  little 
cutting  the  small  bones  at  each  end  of  the  ham  will  come 
out.  Take  a  sharp  narrow-bladed  carving-knife,  cut,  fol- 
lowing the  bone  closely ;  run  the  knife  around  the  bone  and 
it  will  come  out  without  any  trouble.  Make  a  dressing  of 
rolled  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  well  seasoned  with  pepper, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  minced  onion,  just  enough  water  to  bind 
the  crumbs  together.  Put  in  the  dressing  and  tie  up  the 
ham  closely.    Take  one  dozen  cloves,  one  dozen  allspice, 


62 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Boole. 


one  dozen  grains  of  black  pepper,  rub  them  well  into  the 
fat  on  the  sides  and  top;  then  rub  one  table-spoonful  of 
ground  mustard  well  over  it.  Rolled  cracker  with  a  little 
sugar  mixed  in  it  must  be  put  all  over  the  sides  and  top. 
Bake  at  least  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  letting  it  brown 
nicely.  Or,  make  a  batter  of  corn-meal  and  cover  the  sides 
and  top  of  the  ham  well  with  it.  Bake  four  or  five  hours. 
Take  off  the  batter  carefully,  skin,  trim,  dress,  and  bake  as 
above  directed.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dtmmitt. 

MRS.  BLEDSOE'S  PREMIUM  HAM. 

Take  a  ham  that  weighs  sixteen  pounds,  wash  very  care- 
fully, lay  it  in  a  boiler  the  skin  side  down.  Cover  with  hot 
water,  adding  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  the  kind  used  in 
making  molasses.  Boil  rather  slowly  for  five  hours;  take 
out,  skin,  trim,  dress,  and  bake  to  a  light  brown. 

FRIED  HAM  WITH  EGGS. 

Slice  the  ham  thin,  and  lay  it  in  warm  water  for  a  few 
moments,  or  longer  if  salty.  Put  into  a  hot  skillet  and  fry 
quickly.  Take  out  the  ham,  break  the  eggs  into  a  saucer, 
slip  them  unbroken  into  the  drippings,  cook  a  moment  or 
two,  and  place  on  the  ham  in  a  well-heated  dish. 

BROILED  HAM. 

Cut  the  slices  very  thin,  lay  them  in  boiling  water  for  fif- 
teen minutes,  wipe  dry,  roll  with  a  rolling-pin,  and  cook 
quickly  in  a  hot  skillet.  Put  it  on  a  well-heated  dish,  and 
pour  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  over  it.   Serve  at  once. 

DEVILED  HAM. 

Chop  cold  ham  very  fine,  mix  with  one  pint  of  the  meat 
half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter,  one  table-spoonful  of  salad 
oil,  one  table-spoonful  of  ground  mustard,  the  yelk  of  one 
egg  well  beaten,  a  little  pepper.    Mold  for  table,  garnish 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  'Book. 


63 


with  sliced  lemon,  or  spread  on  bread  sliced  thin  and  but- 
tered. 

DRESSING  FOR  SANDWICHES. 

Beat  thoroughly  the  yelk  of  one  egg,  add  half  a  tea-cup- 
ful of  vinegar ;  boil  until  thick,  then  add  half  a  tea-spoonful 
of  mixed  mustard,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  celery-seed,  sufficient 
minced  ham  to  make  it  thick  enough  to  spread  on  thin  slices 
of  buttered  bread. 

TURKEY  DRESSED  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Wash  the  turkey  carefully,  rubbing  it  well  inside  and 
out  with  salt;  place  it  in  a  pan,  with  one  quart  of  water, 
salt,  pepper,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  butter ;  cook  for  two 
hours,  basting  frequently;  make  a  dressing  of  one  and  one- 
half  pint  of  oysters,  salt,  pepper,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  with  rolled  cracker  enough  to  bind  them  together. 
In  putting  in  the  dressing,  be  careful  to  fill  up  around  the 
neck,  so  as  to  give  it  a  good  shape,  and  fasten  up  securely 
by  tying  a  string  around  the  neck  to  keep  in  the  dressing. 
Put  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  in  the  pan,  cook  the  turkey 
one  hour  longer,  basting  frequently.  When  done,  take  it 
up,  dredge  a  little  flour  in  the  gravy,  add  half  a  pint  of 
oysters,  boil  a  moment,  and  serve  at  once.  If  the  dressing 
is  put  in  at  first,  the  oysters  will  be  tough,  and  the  turkey 
will  have  a  strong,  disagreeable  taste. 

BAKED  TURKEY. 

Have  the  turkey  properly  dressed ;  wash  it  carefully,  rub- 
bing it  inside  and  out  with  salt.  Make  a  dressing  of  rolled 
cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  and  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter;  if  you  wish,  add  a  little  minced  onion  and 
sage.  Yfhen  putting  the  dressing  in  the  turkey,  be  careful 
to  fill  up  around  the  neck  so  as  to  make  it  a  good  shape. 
If  the  turkey  is  not  very  fat,  before  rubbing  on  the  salt  or 
putting  in  the  dressing,  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  to  plump 


64 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


it.  If  the  turkey  is  young  and  tender,  allow  ten  minutes  to 
the  pound  for  cooking;  if  old  and  tough,  let  it  cook  longer. 
Put  it  in  a  pan,  with  one  quart  of  water  and  salt  and  pep- 
per; a  few  slices  of  middling  are  a  nice  addition ;  baste  it  very 
frequently,  and  cook  it  a  nice  brown  all  over.  Take  out 
the  turkey ;  dredge  a  little  flour  in  the  gravy,  and  boil  it  a 
few  moments.  Cut  up  the  giblets,  which  must  be  put  in  the 
pan  when  the  turkey  is  first  put  on;  pour  the  whole  into  a 
gravy-bowl.  Boil  eggs  hard ;  pour  part  of  the  gravy  over 
them,  which  is  very  nice,  helping  one  egg  with  each  slice 
of  turkey. 

DRESSING  FOR  A  TURKEY. 

Take  the  crumb  of  one  large  loaf  of  bread  rubbed  fine, 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  butter,  one  tea- 
cupful  of  celery  chopped  fine,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and 
one  of  pepper. 

ANOTHER  DRESSING. 

Take  either  bread  crumbs  or  rolled  cracker,  one-fourth 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  half  a  pound  of  seed- 
ed raisins. 

SCALLOPED  TURKEY. 

Take  cold  turkey,  white  and  dark  meat,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  and  rolled  cracker  or  bread  crumbs;  grease  the  dish 
with  butter,  put  in  a  layer  of  crumbs,  and  then  a  layer  of 
turkey;  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter;  fill  up  the  dish  in 
this  wa3r,  finishing  with  the  crumbs  on  top,  with  a  little 
more  butter;  pour  water  or  some  of  the  gravy  over  it; 
bake  half  an  hour.  A  little  of  the  dressing  mixed  in  is 
very  nice. 

TURKEY  HASH. 

Cut  the  turkey  into  small  pieces,  and  put  them  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  one  pint  of  water,  salt  and  pepper;  add  the 
dressing  and  gravy  left;  boil  twenty  minutes;  if  too  thick, 
add  more  boiling  water;  if  too  thin,  put  in  one  dessert- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


65 


spoonful  of  flour  mixed  smoothly  in  a  little  cream.  Have 
ready  pieces  of  bread  nicely  toasted;  pour  the  hash  over 
them,  and  serve  at  once. 

DEVILED  TURKEY. 

Take  the  legs  and  wings  of  the  turkey,  joint  them,  put 
them  into  a  baking-pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  salt,  pep- 
per, one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of  made 
mustard,  and  a  little  of  the  dressing  may  be  added ;  cook 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and  baste  well  and  often  while 
cooking.    Serve  hot. 

BAKED  CHICKEN. 

Wash  very  carefully  the  chicken  to  be  cooked,  salt  it  well 
inside  and  out;  make  a  dressing  of  either  rolled  cracker  or 
bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter ;  fill 
the  chicken  well,  so  as  to  look  nice  and  plump ;  put  one 
pint  of  water  in  the  pan,  salt,  pepper,  and  two  thin  slices 
of  middling;  bake  one  hour  and  a  half.  When  done,  take 
it  up,  add  a  little  flour  to  the  gravy,  and  boil  a  moment. 
Serve. 

BOILED  CHICKEN— EGG  DRESSING. 

Wash  the  chicken  very  carefully;  put  it  into  a  large 
stew-pan,  with  hot  water  enough  to  cover  it  well,  and  salt 
and  pepper ;  cook  it  until  tender  (try  it  by  sticking  a  fork 
into  it) ;  boil  three  eggs  until  hard ;  mash  the  yelks  of  two 
with  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  adding  to  the  eggs  and 
butter  half  a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  chicken  was 
cooked,  and  salt  and  pepper ;  cook  for  a  few  moments ;  slice 
the  remaining  egg,  and  lay  it  over  the  chicken ;  then  pour 
over  the  dressing. 

FRIED  CHICKEN— KENTUCKY  STYLE. 

Cut  the  chicken  up ;  wash  it  carefully,  wipe  it  dry,  and 
roll  each  piece  well  in  flour  in  which  there  are  salt  and  pep- 
per ;  fry  in  hot  lard  or  middling  drippings  until  thoroughly 


06 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


cooked  and  a  nice  brown;  cream  Irish  potatoes,  and  drop 
by  the  spoonful  into  the  drippings  (after  the  chicken  lias 
been  taken  out) ;  this  browned  is  nice  to  garnish  the  dish 
with.  Or,  mush  cut  in  slices  and  fried  a  nice  brown,  and 
put  in  the  dish  with  the  chicken,  is  excellent.  Make  the 
gravy ;  take  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  put  in  the  hot  lard 
or  drippings,  stir  it  well,  cook  a  moment,  then  add  one 
quart  of  sweet  milk,  and  pepper  and  salt;  stir  it  constantly, 
and  boil  for  a  moment;  serve  either  in  a  gravy-bowl  or 
poured  over  the  chicken. 

BROILED  CHICKEN. 

When  the  chicken  is  dressed,  cut  it  down  the  back ;  take 
a  rolling-pin  and  roll  it  well,  so  it  will  lie  flat;  put  it  in  a 
broiler  and  cook,  having  the  underside  toward  the  fire; 
turn  it  frequently  and  cook  quickly.  When  done,  put  it  in 
a  pan,  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  ;  set  it  in  the  oven  a 
moment  to  melt  the  butter ;  baste  well ;  serve  hot.  If  you 
wish,  put  the  chicken  in  a  pan,  with  very  little  water,  a 
table-spoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper,  the  under  side 
of  the  chicken  up;  cook  quickly,  basting  often;  just  after 
it  is  nicely  browned,  add  another  spoonful  of  butter.  Serve 
at  once. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  BROIL  A  CHICKEN. 

Put  two  slices  of  bacon  in  a  skillet ;  put  in  the  chicken, 
with  salt  and  pepper;  cover  closely. with  a  pan,  and  put  a 
flat-iron  on  the  pan ;  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  cook 
slowly ;  turn  it  over'  when  brown  on  one  side ;  when  thor- 
oughly done,  pour  over  it  melted  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  America  Howe. 

KENTUCKY  CHICKEN,  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Wash  the  chicken  well,  and  salt  it  inside  and  out  ;  fill  the 
chicken  with  one  quart  of  oysters,  well  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  one  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter ;  put  it  in 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


07 


a  bucket,  and  cover  it  closely ;  set  the  bucket  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  and  boil  one  hour  and  a  half,  or  until  tender. 
Take  it  out,  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  bucket  one  hard-boiled 
egg  mashed.  Do  not  put  any  water  in  the  bucket.  When 
the  chicken  is  done,  it  will  be  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Bieebower. 
CHICKEN  PIE. 
When  the  chicken  has  been  cut  up  and  well  washed,  put  it 
into  a  sauce-pan,  with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  adding  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter ;  boil  it  until 
tender';  make  a  good  pie-crust,  line  a  pan  with  it,  put  it  in 
the  oven,  and  bake  quickly  a  light  brown ;  then  put  in  the 
chicken,  dredge  a  little  flour  over  it,  pepper  and  salt ;  pour 
in  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked,  put  on  the  top  crust, 
and  bake.  Many  add  sliced  Irish  potatoes,  slices  of  mid- 
dling, or  dumplings  made  of  the  pie-crust  cut  in  strips  and 
laid  in  with  the  chicken. 

CHICKEN  PUDDING. 

Cut  up  the  chickens,  and  parboil  them  until  tender ;  take 
six  eggs,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  salt,  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  thin  batter;  grease  a  pan  with  lard,  lay  in  the 
chicken,  season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter;  pour  over  the  batter,  and  bake  one 
hour.  Veal  or  beef  makes  a  nice  pudding,  prepared  in  the 
same  way.  The  batter  need  not  be  so  rich,  requiring  no 
butter.  Cut  slices  of  ham,  after  it  is  not  fit  to  appear  upon 
the  table,  make  a  batter  as  directed  above,  put  on  the  ham, 
and  bake  in  a  pan. 

CHICKEN  STEWED  WITH  GREEN  CORN. 

Cut  up  the  chicken,  and  season  it  well  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; have  green  corn  cut  off  the  cob;  put  a  layer  of  chicken 
in  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan,  then  a  layer  of  corn,  and  so  on 
until  all  the  chicken  is  in;  sprinkle  in  salt,  pepper,  and 


68  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


parsley  minced  fine,  one  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter; 
cover  with  water ;  put  on  a  paste,  with  slits  cut  in  it.  Let 
it  boil  one  hour.  When  done,  lay  the  crust  in  a  deep  dish, 
dip  out  the  chicken  and  corn,  putting  them  in  the  crust; 
stir  in  the  gravy  a  thickening  of  milk  and  flour ;  when  this 
boils  up,  pour  it  over  the  corn  and  chicken. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Take  one  pair  of  chickens,  and  cut  them  uj)  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  boil  them  in  as  little  water  as  possible 
until  they  begin  to  fall  to  pieces;  then  scrape  from  the 
bones,  leaving  the  white  meat  rather  coarse,  the  dark  meat 
rather  fine.  In  the  meantime  let  the  liquor  simmer  down, 
then  return  the  chicken  to  the  pot,  add  one  package  of  gel- 
atine and  a  very  little  caraway-seed;  take  it  from  the  fire, 
and  pour  into  a  bowl  or  pan,  with  a  plate  for  a  weight.  Put 
it  in  a  cool  place.    Slice  for  use.  Mrs.  Watts  Cooke. 

FRICASSEED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  the  chicken,  and  wash  it  carefully;  put  it  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  just  water  enough  to  cover  it;  cook  it  slowly 
until  tender.  Take  out  the  chicken ;  add  to  the  liquor  a 
few  grains  of  allspice,  half  a  lemon,  part  of  the  peel  grated, 
half  a  carrot  chopped  fine,  a  little  parsley,  a  little  ham 
chopped  fine,  red  and  black  pepper,  salt.  Koll  the  pieces 
of  chicken  in  cracker  crumbs,  dip  in  the  prepared  liquor, 
then  roll  again  in  the  crumbs.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

CHICKEN  PUDDING  WITH  RICE. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  in  small  pieces,  parboil  it  until  tender, 
and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  one  pound  of 
rice  until  soft,  butter  it  while  hot,  and  add  half  a  pint  of 
sweet  milk ;  when  nearly  cold,  add  three  well-beaten  eggs. 
Put  in  a  dish  alternate  layers  of  rice  and  chicken ;  put  it  in 
the  oven,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 


The  Xew  Kentucky  Home  Cool-  Booh. 


69 


CHICKEN  PATES. 

Line  small  pate-pans  with  puff-paste,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  :  stir  minced  chicken,  well  seasoned,  into  a  good  white 
sauce,  and  beat  all  well  together;  fill  the  shells,  and  bake 
in  the  oven  until  slightly  browned.  Serve  at  once.  The 
remains  of  cold  fowls,  game,  or  veal  may  be  served  the  same 
way.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

CHICKEN  FOR  SUPPER. 

Boil  a  chicken  in  as  little  water  as  possible  until  the  meat 
falls  from  the  bones ;  chop  it  very  fine,  and  season  highly 
with  salt  and  pepper;  put  into  the  bottom  of  a  mold  some 
slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  then  a  portion  of  the  chicken, 
then  sliced  egg,  and  so  on  until  the  mold  is  full.  Boil  the 
chicken-water  down  to  a  cupful,  season  it,  and  pour  it  over 
the  chicken.  Let  it  stand  on  ice  six  or  eight  hours  for  the 
jelly  to  congeal.  If  there  is  any  fear  that  it  will  not  be 
firm  enough,  soak  a  little  gelatine,  and  add  it  to  the  stock. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Maxxex. 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Have  the  duck  properly  dressed,  lay  it  in  salt  and  water 
for  two  or  three  hours,  wash  it  carefully  in  cold  water,  and 
wipe  it  dry  iuside  and  out.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread 
crumbs  or  rolled  cracker,  very  little  salt,  pepper,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  onion,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  butter. 
Put  the  duck  into  the  baking-pan,  with  one  pint  of  water,  and 
cook  one  hour  and  a  half,  basting  frequently.  Two  or  three 
slices  of  middling  laid  in  the  pan  while  cooking  is  very  nice. 
Take  up  the  duck,  put  it  on  a  well-heated  dish,  add  one 
table-spoonful  of  flour  to  the  gravy,  and  cook  until  brown. 
If  too  thick,  add  boiling  water,  and  do  not  put  in  the  flour. 
Whole  onions  put  in  the  pan  and  baked  with  the  duck  make 
a  nice  garnish  for  the  dish  when  served. 


70 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Booh. 


GOOSE 

Is  cooked  and  dressed  in  the  same  manner  as  duck,  letting 
it  bake  longer,  and  adding  a  little  more  onion  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  sage  to  the  dressing. 

BROILED  BIRDS. 

Have  the  birds  carefully  dressed,  cut  them  down  the  back, 
lay  in  salt  and  water  one  hour,  wash  them  well,  put  into  a 
broiler  before  a  quick  fire,  turn  them  frequently.  Have 
ready  a  pan  of  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  to  baste  them 
with.  After  cooking,  put  them  in  the  dressing,  set  them  in 
the  stove  for  a  few  moments,  basting  well.  Serve  hot.  Or, 
put  the  birds  into  a  pan,  the  under  side  up,  very  little  water, 
salt  and  pepper,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  butter  for  each  bird. 
After  they  have  cooked  twenty  minutes,  turn  them  over, 
brown  nicely,  baste  constantly.    Serve  at  once. 

ROASTED  BIRDS. 

Dress  and  wash  the  birds,  prepare  dressing  as  for  chick- 
ens, fill  the  birds,  put  them  into  a  pan,  cook  quickly  in  a  hot 
oven,  sprinkle  with  salt,  baste  with  butter  and  water  until 
nicely  browned. 

BIRDS  DRESSED  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Prepare  and  cook  them  same  as  broiled  birds,  putting  the 
liquor  from  the  oysters  instead  of  water.  Just  before  serv- 
ing them,  put  one  quart  of  large  oysters  to  one  dozen  birds 
into  the  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper ;  cook  five  minutes. 
Serve  around  the  birds. 

ROAST  PIGEONS. 

Dress  carefully,  wash,  and  stuff  as  roasted  birds,  put  them 
into  a  pan  with  a  little  water  to  keep  from  burning,  adding 
one  dessert-spoonful  of  butter  to  each  pigeon ;  salt  and  pep- 
per ;  baste  well ;  cook  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  a  little  flour,  boil  for  a  moment,  pour  it  into 


The' New  Kentucky.  Home  Cook  Booh. 


71 


the  gravy-bowl.  The  pigeons  should  be  placed  closely  to- 
gether on  the  dish.    Serve  at  once. 

BROILED  PIGEON  OR  SQUAB. 

Young  pigeons,  or  "squabs,"  should  be  carefully  dressed, 
split  down  the  back,  washed,  and  wiped  dry;  broiled  as  di- 
rected for  birds.    If  for  invalids,  less  butter  should  be  used. 

STEWED  RABBIT. 

After  properly  dressing  the  rabbit,  lay  it  in  salt  and  wa- 
ter one  hour  to  draw  out  the  blood;  put  into  a  stew-pan 
with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  boil  until  tender,  skimming 
constantly.  Make  a  gravy  of  part  of  the  water  in  which 
the  rabbit  was  boiled,  one  tea-cupful  of  sweet  cream,  a  little 
parsley  chopped  fine,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  a  little  flour  to  thicken ;  boil  a  few  moments ;  pour 
it  over  the  rabbit.    Serve  at  once. 

FRIED  RABBIT. 

After  the  rabbit  has  been  properly  dressed  and  laid  in 
salt  and  water  one  hour,  put  into  boiling  water,  let  it  boil 
ten  minutes,  drain  well ;  when  cold,  cut  it  up,  dip  the  pieces 
into  beaten  egg,  then  cracker  crumbs,  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Fry  in  butter  over  a  slow  fire  fifteen  minutes. 
Boil  the  heart  and  liver,  mince  fine,  make  a  gravy  with  a 
heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  not  quite  so  full  of 
flour,  add  the  minced  heart  and  liver,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  cream;  boil  a  moment.  Serve  with  the  rabbit  very  hot. 
Or,  fry  just  as  you  would  chicken. 

SMOTHERED  RABBIT  WITH  ONION. 

Have  the  rabbit  nicely  dressed,  lay  it  in  salt  and  water 
one  hour;  wash  carefully;  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water; 
cook  until  tender.  Peel  one  dozen  large  onions,  boil  them 
in  a  skillet;  when  done,  pour  off  the  water  and  add  one  pint 
of  sweet  cream;  when  it  comes  to  a  boiling,  thicken  with 


72 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


butter  rolled  in  flour,  salt  aucl  pepper.  Entirely  cover  the 
rabbit  with  the  sauce. 

SMOKED  RABBIT. 

Clean  the  rabbit  nicely,  cut  off  the  head,  wash  well  in 
salt  and  water,  hang  up  and  smoke  well  over  a  chip  or  cob 
Are.  Do  not  let  it  hang  after  being  smoked,  or  it  will  be- 
come hard  and  dry.  Before  cooking,  wash  carefully,  put  it 
into  a  pan  with  a  little  water,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  butter.  Bake  one  hour,  basting  frequently  with  the 
drippings. 

BARBECUED  RABBIT. 

Wash  a  nice  young  rabbit  carefully,  lay  it  in  salt  and 
water  half  an  hour.  Place  it  in  a  broiler,  cook  quickly, 
basting  with  butter  two  or  three  times  to  keep  from  getting 
dry.  When  tender  and  nicely  browned,  place  it  in  a  pan, 
season  with  plenty  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  set  it  in  the 
stove,  let  it  remain  for  ten  minutes,  turning  it  constantly 
that  it  may  soak  up  the  dressing.  Heat  thoroughly  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar  or  tomato  catsup,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  made  mustard;  pour  it  over  the  rabbit,  baste 
well,  let  it  stand  a  moment.    Serve  hot. 

BROILED  SQUIRREL. 

Dress  and  lay  in  salt  and  water  to  draw  out  the  blood. 
Put  into  a  broiler,  and  cook  quickly  over  a  clear,  hot  fire. 
When  done,  put  it  on  a  well-heated  dish,  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  it  over  several 
times  in  the  dressing,  then  cover  with  a  hot  dish.  Let  it 
stand  a  few  moments  before  serving. 

MEAT  CROQUETTES. 

One  pound  of  cold  meat  chopped  fine,  half  a  pound  of 
bread  crumbs,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  five  eggs,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  one  small  onion  minced,  half 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


73 


a  tea-spoonful  of  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  over  the 
bread  crumbs  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  boil  until 
perfectly  smooth,  break  into  it  the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  stir- 
ring all  the  time ;  cook  dry  enough  to  ball  on  the  spoon ;  set 
aside  to  cool.  Mix  the  other  ingredients,  add  them  to  the 
bread  crumbs,  break  in  two  eggs,  work  the  mass  until  very 
light;  add  to  the  two  remaining  whites  one  whole  egg,  beat 
well.  Make  the  dough  into  twenty  croquettes,  dip  them  into 
the  beaten  egg,  then  into  the  bread  crumbs,  drop  into  boil- 
ing lard,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  James  H.  Kogers. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

One  solid  pint  of  finely  chopped  cooked  chicken,  one  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion,  one  tea-spoonful  of  parsley 
chopped  fine,  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  over  which  pour 
one  pint  of  the  chicken  broth,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  butter; 
boil  until  it  thickens  like  mush,  break  in  four  eggs,  stir 
well,  set  aside  to  cool;  then  add  the  chicken  with  the  season- 
ing, mix  thoroughly  with  a  fork.  When  cold,  make  into 
shape,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  then  in  the  yelks  of  three  well- 
beaten  eggs,  then  again  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  lard 
to  a  light  brown.  Miss  Kate  James. 

FRIED  SWEET-BREADS. 
Trim  off  all  the  fat,  put  into  cold  water  for  awhile  to 
draw  out  the  blood,  boil  for  a  few  moments,  lay  them  in  cold 
water  until  firm,  trim  carefully,  slice,  and  dip  each  piece  in 
flour,  using  a  fork  to  handle  them  with;  dust  off  the  flour, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  grated  bread  crumbs,  in  which 
put  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  in  hot  lard.  Have  ready  a  heated 
dish,  with  pieces  of  well-buttered  toast,  on  which  lay  the 
sweet-breads.  Garnish  the  dish  with  parsley.  Serve  at 
once.  Mrs.  J.  IT.  Tate. 


74 


Tiie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


SWEET-BREADS. 

Sweet-breads  spoil  very  quickly.  As  soon  as  purchased 
they  should  be  put  into  cold  water  for  one  hour,  then  into 
salted  boiling  water  and  boiled  twenty  minutes.  When 
thoroughly  done,  throw  into  cold  water  for  a  few  moments. 
Trim  them  nicely,  removing  the  skin  and  little  pipes;  put 
them  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  cook.  Veal  sweet-breads 
are  the  best. 

BAKED  SWEET-BREADS. 

Prepare  them  as  above  directed,  put  them  iuto  a  stove- 
pan  with  a  tea-cupful  of  stock,  or  hot  water,  two  or  three 
slices  of  salted  pork,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  laid  on  the 
sweet-breads,  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Have  ready  some 
small  slices  of  bread  fried  in  a  little  hot  butter  in  the  center 
of  a  well-heated  dish,  on  which  place  the  sweet-breads.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

SWEET-BREAD  FRITTERS. 

After  they  have  been  properly  dressed,  parboiled,  and  cut 
into  good  shapes,  half  an  inch  thick,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  them  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  cracker  crumbs. 
Fry  in  boiling  lard.    Serve  with  French  peas. 

STEWED  SWEET-BREADS  AND  PEAS. 

Prepare  as  for  frying,  put  them  in  a  little  water,  stew  for 
a  few  moments  until  tender ;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  butter,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  cream,  for 
each  sweet-bread.  Let  them  simmer  in  this  dressing  for  five 
minutes.  Have  ready  cooked  and  seasoned  the  peas,  put 
them  in  the  center  of  a  dish,  place  the  sweet-breads  around 
them.    Serve  immediately.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Tate. 

BROILED  SWEET-BREADS. 

Parboil  until  done,  cut  into  good  shapes,  half  an  inch 
thick,  spread  a  little  butter,  on  each  piece,  place  them  on 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  75 

the  gridiron,  put  before  a  clear  fire,  turning  first  oue  side 
then  the  other,  uutil  richly  browned.  Have  peas,  cauli- 
flower, or  asparagus,  in  the  center  of  a  well-heated  dish, 
place  the  sweet-breads  around,  or  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

SWEET-BREADS  WITH  MACARONI. 

Two  pounds  of  sweet-breads,  half  a  pound  of  macaroni, 
one  small  onion,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  little  minced 
parsley,  salt,  and  pepper.  W ash  the  sweet-breads,  lay  them 
in  salt  and  wTater  a  few  moments ;  stew  them,  with  the  onion 
cut  iuto  small  pieces,  in  one  pint  of  cold  water  a  little  salt 
until  done.  Break  the  macaroni  into  small  bits,  cook 
slowly  in  the  water  in  which  the  onion  and  sweet-breads 
were  cooked,  until  tender;  stew  in  a  pan  set  in  hot  water; 
chop  the  sweet-breads,  stir  the  butter  into  the  macaroni, 
add  the  sweet-breads,  pepper,  salt,  and  parsley ;  cover  close- 
ly, leave  a  few  moments.    Serve  in  a  deep  dish. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Sogers. 


MEAT  SAUCES. 


SAUCE  REM  ON  LADE. 

Given  to  Mrs.  William  Massie,  at  Hotel  Belle  Vue,  Munich. 

Put  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  into  a  bowl,  with  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  beat  in  olive-oil  until  it 
thickens,  then  pour  in  tarragon  vinegar  and  oil  alternately 
until  half  a  liter  (half  a  pint)  has  been  used ;  chop  fine  five 
eschalots,  one  table-spoonful  of  capers,  five  small  cucumber 
pickles,  a  little  tarragon  and  spinach,  beat  them  together 
(with  a  table-spoonful  of  mustard)  into  the  prepared  sauce. 
Add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper, 
as  this  sauce  should  be  piquant.  Excellent  for  cold  chick* 
en,  or  meats. 


76 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


MAITRE  D'HOTEL  SAUCE. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  juice  of  half  of  a  small  lemon, 
two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley  chopped  very  fine,  pepper, 
and  salt ;  mix  all  together,  spread  over  any  broiled  meat  or 
fish,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  a  few  moments  that  the  butter 
may  penetrate  the  meat.  This  sauce  is  excellent  over  beef- 
steak, fish,  or  boiled  meat,  Mrs.  A.  A.  Manned. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  even  table-spoonful  of  flour. 
Keep  it  white.  Put  in  a  cupful  of  strong  hot  veal  stock,  a 
cupful  of  boiling  cream,  a  little  nutmeg ;  let  it  simmer,  stir- 
ring for  a  few  moments,  strain  it,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Maxxex. 

CHICKEN  SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  FOWLS. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  bright  sauce-pan ;  when  it 
bubbles,  add  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  cook  it,  add  a  little 
less  than  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  when  smooth,  take  it 
off  the  fire ;  add  the  beaten  yelks  of  two  or  three  eggs,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Maxxex. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Pat  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg  into  a  stew-pan ;  when 
it  bubbles,  add  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  stir  with  an  egg- 
whip  until  the  flour  is  cooked  without  coloring.  Mix  in 
well  a  half  pint  of  water,  or  white  stock ;  strain  it  through 
a  sieve,  stir  in  one  tea-spoonful  more  of  butter  cut  in  pieces. 
This  makes  one  pint  of  sauce.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Maxxex. 

BOILED  EGG  SAUCE. 

Add  to  half  a  pint  of  drawn  butter  sauce  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs  chopped  not  too  fine.  Pickle  sauce  can  be  made 
in  the  same  way,  substituting  finely  chopped  cucumber 
pickle  for  the  eggs.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Maxxex. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


77 


MINT  SAUCE  FOR  ROAST  LAMB. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  mint  chopped  fine,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  powdered  sugar,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  vinegar.  Mix  vinegar,  sugar,  and  salt  together, 
then  add  the  mint.  Set  in  a  cool  place  for  fifteen  minutes 
before  serving.  It  is  best  to  lay  the  mint  in  ice  water  for 
an  hour  before  using,  as  this  makes  it  fresh  and  tender. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

SAUCE  HOLLANDAISE. 

Put  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg  into  a  sauce-pan; 
when  it  bubbles,  stir  in  with  an  egg- whisk  one  even  table- 
spoonful  of  flour;  when  well  cooked,  stir  in  a  half  pint  of 
boiling  water  or  stock.  When  it  boils,-  take  it  off  the  fire, 
stir  in  gradually  the  beaten  yelks  of  four  eggs;  return  to 
the  fire  for  a  moment  to  set  the  eggs,  not  allowing  it  to  boil. 
Take  it  off  again,  stir  in  a  little  lemon  juice,  fresh  butter 
(the  size  of  a  walnut)  cut  into  small  pieces,  beat  all  togeth- 
er with  the  egg-whisk.    A  nice  sauce  for  boiled  fish. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Mannen. 
OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Make  a  drawn  butter  sauce,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar.  Drain  the  oysters  from  their  liquor,  add 
to  the  drawn  butter,  let  all  come  to  a  boiling.  To  be  poured 
over  the  fowl  or  fish  when  served.  This  sauce  is  much 
better  made  with  part  cream  when  the  acid  is  omitted. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabs. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

One  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  two  or  three  cloves,  a  little 
parsley,  a  few  pepper-corns,  one  small  onion,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Put  the  tomatoes 
Avith  all  the  ingredients  (except  the  flour  and  butter)  over 
the  fire,  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  then  strain  through  a 
sieve.    Put  the  butter  into  a  stew-pan ;  when  it  bubbles,  stir 


78 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


in  the  flour;  let  it  cook  a  few  moments,  stirring  constantly, 
then  pour  in  the  tomatoes.  When  well  mixed  it  is  ready 
for  use.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 

One  tea-cupful  of  milk,  heated  to  the  boiling  point  in  a 
custard-kettle,  one  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  corn  starch  wet  . 
with  a  little  cold  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  one  table-spoonful  of 
butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Stir  the  corn  starch  into  the 
boiling  milk ;  when  it  thickens,  add  the  butter,  pepper,  salt, 
and  parsley.  This  is  a  delicious  sauce  for  steamed  or  stewed 
oysters.    Make  a  little  thicker  for  oysters  than  for  meats. 

Mrs.  C,  E.  Tabb. 

A  FINE  SAUCE  FOR  MUTTON. 

One  tumblerful  of  currant  jelly,  one  tumblerful  of  tomato 
catsup,  one  tea-cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  tumblerful  of 
wine,  a  wine-glassful  of  brandy,  and  half  a  pint  of  the  mut- 
ton gravy  after  the  oil  has  been  skimmed  off.  Add  a  little 
ground  spice,  thicken  with  very  little  flour. 

Mrs.  Robinson,  Lexington,  Ky. 

HORSE-RADISH  SAUCE. 

Three  table-spoonfuls  of  grated  horse-radish,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  five  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Put  all 
in  a  tumbler,  and  fill  to  the  top  with  cream.  This  sauce  is 
nice  with  any  fresh  meat.         Mrs.  Robinson,  Lexington. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

Have  perfectly  fresh  mushrooms,  take  off  the  stems,  skin 
them,  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan,  with  water  to  cover  well. 
Cook  until  tender,  drain  off  the  water,  being  careful  not  to 
break  them.  Add  two  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  butter 
with  one  tea-spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  into  it,  one  pint  of 
sweet  cream,  a  little  salt,  very  little  nutmeg,  one  blade  of 
mace ;  boil  until  it  thickens.  Serve  with  boiled  or  broiled 
chicken.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dlmmitt. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


79 


JELLY  SAUCE. 
Yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  made 
mustard,  one  tea-spoonful  of  butter,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  the 
gravy  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
acid  jelly,  one  small  cucumber  cut  fine.  A  delicious  sauce 
for  any  kind  of  meat. 

PEPPER  SAUCE. 
Fill  a  pint  bottle  one-third  full  of  small  green  or  red 
peppers;  if  they  cannot  be  got,  take  larger  ones  and  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Add  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  fill  the  bottle  with  the  best  cider  vine- 
gar. Let  it  stand  several  days  before  using.  Excellent 
with  soup,  fish,  or  cold  meats. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE. 
To  one-half  pint  of  drawn  butter  add  three  table-spoonfuls 
of  essence  of  anchovy  and  one  table-spoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

CAPER  SAUCE. 

Make  a  drawn  butter  sauce,  while  hot  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  capers,  one  table-spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  one 
table-spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy. 

SHRIMP  SAUCE. 

To  a  drawn  butter  sauce  add  half  a  pint  of  canned 
shrimps,  cut  in  pieces  not  too  fine,  a  very  little  lemon  juice, 
a  little  Cayenne  pepper.    Mix  well,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 


CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES. 


TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Take  three  gallons  of  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  out  the  blemishes, 
scald  and  strain  through  a  cloth,  not  allowing  the  pulp  to 
press  through.  To  ten  pints  of  juice  add  two  pints  of  vine- 
gar, three  table-spoonfuls  of  salt,  five  of  sugar,  and  one  pint 
of  chopped  onions,  in  a  muslin  bag;  put  it  into  a  preserv- 
ing-kettle, and  boil  to  one  quart,  or  thick  as  boiled  custard. 
Just  before  taking  it  off  the  fire,  stir  in  half  a  tea-spoonful 
each  of  ground  cloves,  mace,  allspice,  cinnamon,  and  black 
pepper,  one-fourth  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper,  and 
one  tea-spoonful  of  Lexington  mustard.  Bottle  it  while  hot, 
putting  a  tea-spoonful  of  salad  oil  in  each  bottle,  and  seal. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  McConnell. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 
Boil  one  bushel  of  tomatoes  until  soft,  strain  them  through 
a  fine  sieve ;  add  one-half  gallon  of  vinegar,  half  a  pint  of 
salt,  two  ounces  of  ground  cloves,  one-fourth  of  an  ounce  of 
allspice,  one-fourth  of  an  ounce  of  Cayenne  pepper,  three  ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of  black  pepper,  and  five, heads  of  garlic  peeled 
and  separated;  mix  well,  and  boil  until  reduced  to  one-half; 
then  bottle  without  straining.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Huston. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Pare  and  grate  the  cucumbers.  To  one  quart  of  cucum- 
bers add  three  large  onions  grated,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  one  tea-spoonful  of  ground  pepper;  drain  through  a 
sieve;  measure  the  juice,  and  add  the  same  quantity  of  vin- 
egar.   It  must  be  closely  sealed,  as  it  is  hard  to  keep. 

Mrs.  Julia  Chenoweth. 

(SO) 


TJie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  81 


MIXED  CATSUP. 

Take  three  dozen  large  cucumbers  and  one  peck  of  green 
tomatoes  sliced ;  sprinkle  salt  over  them,  and  let  them  stand 
overnight ;  then  slice  six  large  onions  and  one  dozen  bell- 
peppers  ;  grind  all  together  in  a  sausage-grinder,  squeeze  dry 
with  the  hands,  and  add  one  table-spoonful  of  ground  black 
pepper;  put  in  self-sealing  jars,  fill  them  half  full  with  the 
ingredients,  then  fill  up  with  pure  cider  vinegar. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

RED  CATSUP. 

To  half  a  bushel  of  peeled  tomatoes  add  one  quart  of  good 
cider  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  two  small  boxes 
of  mustard,  two  ounces  of  allspice,  one-half  ounce  of  cloves, 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  red  pepper,  one-half  pound  of  salt, 
twenty  cloves  of  garlic,  and  one  handful  of  peach-tree  leaves. 
Boil  all  together  for  four  hours,  and  then  strain.  If  not 
thick  enough,  boil  longer,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
sticking  to  the  kettle.    Bottle  while  hot,  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Downing,  Lexington,  Ky. 

FRENCH  CATSUP. 

Take  one  dozen  cucumbers,  two  dozen  green  tomatoes,  two 
dozen  onions,  one  dozen  green  peppers,  two  heads  of  cab- 
bage ;  chop  all  very  fine,  drain  in  a  colander,  and  press  out 
all  the  water  with  the  hands »  mix  all  together  well,  and 
season  highly  with  mustard  and  cloves. 

Miss  Fannie  Brodrick. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Slice  and  boil  ripe  tomatoes  until  soft,  press  out  the  juice, 
put  it  on  a  brisk  fire,  and  boil  four  gallons  at  once;  add  four 
table-spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  level  table-spoonful  of  mace,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  oil 
of  cloves,  and  one  quart  of  pure  cider  vinegar ;  a  little  sugar 
may  be  added  if  desired.  Boil  it  until  thick,  and  bottle  it 
and  seal  it  while  hot.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Ashton. 

6 


82  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


WALNUT  CATSUP. 

Take  fifty  tender  white  walnuts  that  can  be  easily  pierced 
with  a  pin ;  mash  and  put  them  in  a  gallon  of  vinegar ;  boil 
it  down  to  three  quarts  and  strain  it;  add  half  an  ounce  of 
ground  allspice,  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  cloves,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper  to  each 
quart;  boil  it  twenty  minutes,  skimming  it  well.  Bottle  it, 
and  seal  up  hot.  Mrs.  W.  S.  Moores. 

CURRANT  CATSUP. 

Take  five  pounds  of  stemmed  currants  mashed  through  a 
sieve,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
allspice,  two  of  cloves,  two  of  cinnamon,  one  table-spoonful 
of  black  pepper,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  one  quart  of  vinegar; 
mix  all  together,  and  stir  well ;  then  put  in  a  preserving- 
kettle,  and  boil  half  an  hour.    Bottle,  and  seal  tightly. 

CHERRY  OR  PLUM  CATSUP. 

One  peck  of  cherries,  damsons,  or  plums,  three  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  three  half-pints  of  good  vinegar,  one-fourth  of 
an  ounce  of  ground  mace,  and  one-fourth  of  an  ounce  of 
cloves;  boil  two  hours,  then  take  out  the  fruit;  boil  the 
sirup  half  an  hour,  and  pour  over  the  fruit.    Seal  up  hot. 

Mrs.  Julia  Chexowetii. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Take  twelve  large  ripe  tomatoes,  and  peel  and  slice  them ; 
chop  fine  four  sweet  peppers,  ripe  or  green,  and  two  onions ; 
place  all  together  in  a  preserving-kettle,  adding  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  two  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  vinegar;  simmer 
two  hours,  or  until  quite  thick.    Bottle,  and  seal. 

Mrs.  B.  Hurt. 

COLD  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Take  a  half  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  and  drain  through 
a  colander  twenty-four  hours,  then  mash  them,  add  one  tea- 
cupful  of  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  one  small  tea-cupful  of  white 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  83 


mustard-seed,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  horse-radish  grated, 
two  dozen  stalks  of  celery  chopped  fine  or  one-half  ounce 
of  celery-seed,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  black  pepper 
or  one  of  black  and  one  of  red,  and  one  quart  of  strong 
vinegar  cold ;  stir  well.    Bottle,  and  seal. 

Mrs.  George  Suxser. 

CHILLI  SAUCE. 

Twenty-four  ripe  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  fine,  eight  onions 
and  six  green  peppers  chopped  fine ;  put  them  in  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  add  eight  coffee-cupfuls  of  vinegar,  one  tea-cupful 
of  Lexington  mustard,  eight  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
one  ounce  of  cinnamon  in  sticks  (take  out  when  done),  one 
ounce  of  ground  allspice,  two  ounces  of  cloves,  one  grated 
nutmeg,  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  two  hours,  or  until  thick. 
Bottle,  and  seal.  Mrs.  Amanda  Trueman. 

CHILLI  SAUCE. 

Twenty-four  large  ripe  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  fine, 
or  enough  small  ones  chopped  fine  to  make  a  gallon,  eight 
green  bell-peppers,  and  four  large  onions;  chop  all  fine, 
then  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  cloves,  one  of  ginger,  one  of 
cinnamon,  one  of  grated  nutmeg  (use  the  ground  spices), 
eight  table-spoonfuls  of  brown  sugar,  six  of  salt  (not  heap- 
ing), and  eight  coffee-cupfuls  of  vinegar.  Boil  all  together 
until  tolerably  thick.  Just  before  taking  up,  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  celery-seed.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

CHILLI  SAUCE. 

One  gallon  and  a  half  of  ripe  tomatoes,  measured  after 
being  peeled  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  two  pints  of  onions, 
three  pods  of  red  pepper  chopped  fine,  eight  table-spoonfuls 
of  salt,  ten  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  of  cinnamon,  and 
one  of  ginger,  one  tea-spoonful  of  mace  and  one  of  cloves, 
and  a  handful  of  horse-radish  grated;  put  all,  except  the 
spices,  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  boil  until  reduced  to 


84  The  JSfetv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


one-half,  or  quite  thick ;  add  the  spices  five  minutes  before 
taking  up.    Put  in  jars  while  hot,  and  seal. 


Slice  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  them  with  a 
little  salt,  put  them  in  a  basket  or  bag  and  let  them  drain 
overnight;  peel  and  slice  two  dozen  large  white  onions, 
sprinkle  them  with  a  little  salt,  and  let  them  drain  over- 
night, separate  from  the  tomatoes.  Put  in  alternate  layers 
in  a  porcelain  kettle,  adding  one  ounce  of  whole  cloves,  one 
of  black  mustard-seed,  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  three 
pods  of  red  pepper  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  one  box  of 
ground  mustard;  cover  well  with  good  vinegar,  and  boil 
hard  for  twenty  minutes.  .  Mrs.  Bruce. 


Mrs.  M.  H.  McConnell. 


BURNET  HOUSE  SAUCE. 


PICKLES. 


In  making  pickles,  use  none  but  the  best  cider  vinegar, 
it  being  not  only  the  most  wholesome  but  it  will  preserve 
pickles  or  catsups  a  longer  time  than  any  other.  Use  a 
porcelain  kettle,  but  if  a  brass  one  is  used  it  must  be  scoured 
with  sand  or  ashes,  washed  and  wiped  dry,  then  scoured 
with  vinegar  and  salt ;  and  the  pickles  or  catsups  must  be 
poured  from  the  kettle  the  instant  it  is  taken  from  the  fire, 
or  they  will  canker.  Keep  pickles  in  a  dry,  cool  cellar,  in 
glass  or  stone  ware ;  look  at  them  frequently,  and  remove 
all  soft  ones.  If  white  specks  appear  in  the  vinegar,  drain 
off  and  scald,  adding  a  tea-cupful  of  sugar  to  each  gallon, 
then  pour  again  over  the  pickles.  A  little  horse-radish  and 
a  few  cloves  assist  in  preserving  the  life  of  the  vinegar.  If 
put  in  large  stone  jars,  invert  a  saucer  or  plate  over  the  top 
of  the  pickles  to  keep  them  well  under  the  vinegar.  Xever 
put  pickles  in  any  thing  that  has  held  any  kind  of  grease, 
and  never  let  them  freeze.  The  nicest  way  to  put  up  pickles 
is  bottling,  sealing  while  hot,  and  keeping  in  a  cool,  dark 
place.  Use  a  cask  or  large  stone  jars  for  pickles  in  brine, 
keep  them  well  under,  and  have  more  salt  than  will  dissolve, 
so  that  there  will  always  be  plenty  at  the  bottom  of  the  ves- 
sel. The  brine  for  pickles  should  be  strong  enough  to  bear 
an  egg.  Make  it  in  the  proportion  of  a  heaping  pint  of 
coarse  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water.  In  scalding  cucumber 
pickles  to  green  them,  use  cabbage,  grape  leaves  or  grass, 
covering  the  bottom,  sides,  and  top  of  the  kettle,  and  a  large 
table-spoonful  of  pulverized  alum  to  a  gallon ;  it  will  assist 
in  greening  and  render  them  crisp  and  tender.    In  scalding 

(85) 


86 


Tlie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


pickles  always  use  weak  vinegar,  mixing  about  half  water 
and  half  vinegar.  Pickles  should  never  boil  when  greening, 
but  only  simmer,  or  keep  scalding  hot,  until  green.  Pickles 
are  not  very  wholesome,  even  when  made  with  the  greatest 
care,  but  if  they  must  be  eaten,  it  is  best  to  make  them  at 
home,  as  those  sold  in  market  are  often  colored  a  beautiful 
green  with  sulphate  of  copper,  which  is  a  deadly  jDoison;  or 
cooked  in  brass  or  copper  vessels,  which  produces  the  same 
result  in  an  indirect  way.  Always  use  pure  cider  vinegar, 
and  as  heating  weakens  vinegar  it  should  only  be  brought 
to  a  boiling  point  and  immediately  poured  on  the  pickles. 
Keep  pickles  from  the  air,  and  see  that  the  vinegar  is  at 
least  two  inches  over  the  top  of  the  pickles  in  the  jar.  A 
dry  wooden  spoon  should  be  used  in  handling  pickles.  Vin- 
egar prepared  in  the  spring,  by  putting  in  spices  and  keep- 
ing in  the  sun  until  fall,  is  the  best  for  pickling. 

To  Prepare  Greex  Pickle  Vinegar. — Take  two  gal- 
lons of  vinegar,  one  pint  of  black  mustard-seed,  four  ounces 
of  ginger,  three  ounces  whole  allspice,  one  ounce  of  cloves, 
four  ounces  of  whole  black  pepper,  one  ounce  of  celery- 
seed,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  two  handfuls  of  scraped 
horse-radish,  one  handful  of  garlic,  three  sliced  lemons. 
Prepare  in  May,  and  sun  all  summer. 

Yellow  Pickle  Vinegar. — Take  two  gallons  of  pure 
cider  vinegar,  one  pint  of  black  mustard-seed,  one  pint  of 
white  mustard-seed,  two  ounces  of  ground  mustard,  four 
ounces. of  white  ginger,  three  ounces  of  black  pepper,  three- 
ounces  of  allspice,  one  ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce  of  cloves, 
two  ounces  of  tumeric,  one  large  handful  of  horse-radish, 
one  dozen  onions,  one  level  table-spoonful  of  salt,  one  gill 
of  celery-seed,  six  lemons,  five  pounds  of  sugar.  This  should 
be  mixed  in  the  spring,  and  set  in  the  sun  three  months,  or 
all  summer. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


87 


CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Take  cucumbers  fresh  from  the  vine,  put  them  in  strong 
salt  water  for  forty-eight  hours ;  then  put  them  iu  a  wooden 
vessel  with  a  layer  of  grass  or  grape  leaves  at  the  bottom. 
To  five  gallons  of  cucumbers  put  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
pulverized  alum,  one  tea-cupful  of  whole  black  pepper,  the 
same  of  black  mustard-seed,  and  a  handful  of  horse-radish 
sliced.  Sprinkle  the  alum  and  spices  through  the  cucum- 
bers with  a  layer  of  the  grass  or  grape  leaves  on  top.  Boil 
vinegar  and  water,  mixed  about  half  and  half,  or  vinegar 
off  of  old  pickles  will  do,  and  pour  over  while  boiling 
enough  to  cover  them  well ;  let  stand  until  next  day,  then 
pour  the  vinegar  off,  boil  it  and  pour  over  again.  Repeat 
this  for  three  mornings,  then  put  the  cucumbers  in  stone 
jars,  with  one  table-spoonful  of  pulverized  alum,  a  fourth 
of  a  pound  of  whole  black  ])epper,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
black  mustard-seed,  a  handful  of  sliced  horse-radish,  one 
large  pod  of  red  pepper  or  two  small  ones,  and  five  pounds 
of  brown  sugar,  all  sprinkled  through  the  cucumbers.  Then 
pour  over  cold  enough  of  good  cider  vinegar  to  cover  them 
well,  and  tie  up  closely.   Will  be  ready  for  use  in  ten  days. 

Mrs.  James  H.  Hall. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

If  small  cucumbers  are  used,  put  them  into  brine  that 
will  bear  an  egg,  for  three  days ;  but  if  large,  keep  in  eight 
days.  Then  wash  in  cold  water  and  put  into  a  porcelain 
kettle  with  grape,  horse-radish,  or  cabbage  leaves,  putting  a 
layer  of  leaves  and  a  layer  of  cucumbers,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  pulverized  alum  to  each  gallon  of  cucumbers. 
Cover  with  vinegar  equally  mixed  with  water,  set  on  a  slow 
fire  and  scald  for  one  hour — do  not  let  them  boil.  If  they  do 
not  green,  put  in  a  table-spoonful  of  pulverized  saltpeter,  and 
add  more  leaves.    When  they  are  greened  nicely,  wipe  dry 


88 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


and  place  in  a  jar.  To  one  gallon  of  cider  vinegar  add  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar  and  let  it  come  to  a  boiling ;  take  one 
ounce  of  cinnamon  bark,  one-half  ounce  of  cloves,  two  roots 
of  horse-radish  sliced,  one  pod  of  red  pepper  cut  in  pieces. 
Sprinkle  the  spices  through  the  cucumbers,  and  pour  the 
boiling  vinegar  over  them,  and  tie  up  while  hot. 

Mrs.  Amanda  Thermal 

SPICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Two  and  a  half  gallons  of  apple  vinegar,  five  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  one  pound  of  white  mustard-seed,  one  box  of 
Lexington  mustard,  one-half  pound  of  black  pepper,  two 
ounces  of  cloves,  two  ounces  of  celery-seed,  two  ounces  of 
allspice,  two  nutmegs  grated ;  boil  all  together  in  a  half  gal- 
lon of  the  vinegar,  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  vinegar 
and  one  pound  of  scraped  horse-radish,  one-half  dozen  sliced 
lemons,  two  dozen  onions  sliced  and  sprinkled  with  salt  and 
drained  a  day.  If  the  cucumbers  are  fresh  from  the  vine 
let  them  lay  in  strong  salt-water  twenty-four  hours,  then 
wipe  dry  and  drop  them  in  plain  vinegar  and  let  them  stay 
two  weeks,  then  drain  for  a  day  and  put  in  the  spiced  vine- 
gar. Mrs.  Dr.  Joshua  Barnes,  sr. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

If  the  cucumbers  are  direct  from  the  vines,  lay  them  in 
brine  twenty-four  hours,  then  scald  in  weak  vinegar  or  half 
vinegar  and  water.  To  one  gallon  of  cucumbers  take  one 
pint  of  sugar,  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them,  one  ounce  of 
white  mustard-seed,  one  pod  of  red  pepper,  one-half  ounce 
of  nutmeg,  one  ounce  of  celery-seed ;  boil  all  together  and 
pour  it  over  the  cucumbers.    Tie  up  while  hot. 

Mrs.  Abner  Hord. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Lay  the  cucumbers  in  brine  two  or  three  weeks,  or  until 
it  may  be  convenient  to  use  them ;  then  take  out  of  brine, 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


89 


drain,  and  lay  in  water  for  a  day  and  night,  changing  the 
water  once.  Take  two  pints  of  vinegar,  if  very  strong ;  if 
not,  three,  and  one  pint  of  water;  scald  the  cucumbers  in 
this,  and  let  them  stay  in  it  for  two  weeks,  then  take  out, 
drain,  and  pack  in  a  jar.  Sprinkle  grated  horse-radish  and 
black  mustard-seed  on  each  layer  of  cucumbers.  Take  suf- 
ficient vinegar  to  cover  them,  make  it  very  sweet,  and  boil  in 
it  one  ounce  each  of  cloves,  white  mustard-seed,  sliced  gin- 
ger, coriander-seed,  and  mace,  a  tea-cupful  of  black  pepper,  a 
few  pods  of  red,  which  must  be  laid  in  brine  a  few  days. 
Pour  the  vinegar  over  the  cucumbers  boiling  hot.  This 
vinegar,  with  some  fresh  added,  will  be  good  for  two  years. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  Tate,  Virginia. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

To  two  gallons  of  good  cider  vinegar  add  six  and  a  half 
ounces  each  of  black  pepper,  ginger,  and  allspice,  three 
and  one-fourth  ounces  of  mace,  three  and  one-fourth  ounces 
of  celery-seed,  three  and  one-fourth  ounces  of  tumeric,  four- 
fifths  of  a  pint  of  black  mustard-seed,  four-fifths  of  a  pint 
of  white  mustard-seed,  six  and  a  half  pounds  of  brown  su- 
gar, five  fresh  lemons  sliced  and  the  seeds  taken  out,  a  little 
garlic,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  handful  of  dried  horse-radish. 
Bruise  the  spices  before  putting  in  the  vinegar.  Put  the 
tumeric  in  a  muslin  bag.  Prepare  this  vinegar  in  June, 
put  it  in  a  stone  jar  or  jug,  and  set  it*in  the  sun  on  a  plank 
floor  until  fall.  After  the  cucumbers  are  prepared  for  pick- 
ling, boil  them  in  plain  vinegar.  When  cold  and  well 
drained,  drop  them  into  the  spiced  vinegar. 

Mrs.  Paxton  Marshall. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Peel  the  cucumbers  and  slice  as  for  the  table,  sprinkle 
with  salt  as  you  place  them  in  jars.  Allow  one-third  on- 
ions (small  white  ones  sliced),  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  lay  in 


90 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


separate  jars;  let  them  stand  six  or  eight  hours,  drain 
through  a  colander,  then  place  them  back  in  the  jars,  mix- 
ing the  onions  with  the  cucumbers.  Sprinkle  all  kinds  of 
spices  between  the  layers.  Pour  enough  cold  vinegar  over 
to  cover  them  well.  Mrs.  J  axe  Andrews. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Pare  the  cucumbers  and  slice  them  lengthwise  the  fourth 
of  an  inch  thick,  mix  a  few  slices  of  onions  with  the  cucum- 
bers, salt  them  and  let  stand  one  day  and  night,  then  ^\  ash 
in  cold  water,  wipe  dry,  and  put  in  jars.  To  each  quart 
add  one  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  alum  and  one  of  ground 
black  pepper.   Pour  over  cold  vinegar  enough  to  cover  well. 

Mrs.  James  H.  Hall. 

TO  MAKE  OVER  BOUGHT  PICKLES. 

To  make  one  gallon,  take  enough  cucumbers  out  of  vine- 
gar, and  add  eight  medium-sized  onions;  slice  the  onions, 
and  let  them  soak  in  salt-water  all  night;  then  rinse  them 
ofF,  and  mix  with  the  cucumbers.  Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
two  and  a  half  pints  of  best  cider  vinegar,  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  tumeric,  half  an  ounce  of 
cinnamon,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  one  table-spoonful  of 
black  and  one  of  white  mustard-seed,  half  an  ounce  of  cel- 
ery-seed, and  a  few  blades  of  mace;  then  put  in  the  cucum- 
bers and  onions ;  boil  until  the  pickles  are  a  rich  citron 
color.    Let  them  cool,  and  tie  or  seal  up.  Delicious. 

Mrs.  A.  R  Glascock. 

BOTTLED  PICKLES. 

Wash  and  wipe  half  a  bushel  of  small  cucumbers,  suita- 
ble for  pickling;  pack  them  close  in  a  stone  jar,  sprinkle 
over  them  one  pint  of  salt,  and  pour  on  them  enough  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  them ;  tie  a  cloth  over  the  jar  and  let  it 
stand  until  cold.  If  prepared  in  the  evening  let  it  stand  all 
night.    Drain  them,  and  place  a  gallon  at  a  time  on  the 


f 

The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh.  91 


stove  in  enough  of  weak  vinegar  to  cover  them,  adding  a 
table-spoonful  of  alum.  Have  on  the  stove,  in  a  porcelain 
kettle,  a  gallon  of  the  best  cider  vinegar,  to  which  add  one 
pint  and  a  half  of  brown  sugar.  Have  large-mouthed  bot- 
tles cleansed  and  placed  to  heat  on  the  stove  in  a  pan  of 
cold  water;  take  one  medium-sized  pod  of  green  pepper  and 
one  of  red  and  slice  in  rings,  two  roots  of  horse-radish 
washed,  scraped,  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  white  mustard-seed,  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark 
broken  in  pieces,  and  one-fourth  of  an  ounce  of  cloves. 
When  the  pickles  come  to  a  boiling,  take  them  out  and 
pack  in  bottles,  putting  in  a  layer  of  cucumbers  and  a  layer 
of  spices  (a  few  small  white  onions  may  be  added  if  liked) ; 
shake  the  bottles  occasionally  so  as  to  pack  tightly ;  when 
they  are  full,  cover  with  the  boiling  vinegar.  Go  over  them 
a  second  time,  and  fill  them  up,  in  order  to  supply  shrink- 
age, for  the  pickles  must  be  entirely  covered  with  the  vinegar. 
Put  in  the  corks,  which  should  fit  very  closely.  If  the  corks 
seem  too  small,  throw  them  into  boiling  water;  if  two  large, 
pound  the  sides  with  a  hammer;  the  tighter  they  fit  in  the 
bottles,  the  better  for  the  pickles.  Seal  closely.  The  easi- 
est way  is  to  wrap  a  towel  around  the  bottle  to  prevent 
burning  the  hands,  and  dip  the  corked  end  into  the  hot  seal- 
ing-wax ;  let  it  cool,  and  dip  it  the  second  time  into  the  wax 
so  that  it  may  be  perfectly  secure.  Mrs.  W.  S.  M. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

To  one  hundred  cucumbers  add  one  pint  of  salt;  pour 
over  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them ;  tie  up  closely  to 
keep  the  steam  from  escaping;  let  them  stand  twenty-four 
hours ;  then  wipe  them  dry,  taking  care  not  to  break  the 
skins;  lay  them  in  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  over  them  boiling 
vinegar  enough  to  cover  them  well.  Tie  them  up  closely,  and 
they  will  be  good  for  use  in  a  few  days. 

Mrs.  J.  Henry. 


92  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh 


CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Make  a  strong  brine,  heat  it  hot,  and  pour  it  over  the  cu- 
cumbers to  cover  them  well.  Let  them  stand  a  day  and 
night,  if  they  are  small;  if  large,  let  them  remain  until  they 
taste  salty  when  cut  open.  Then  take  them  out  of  the  brine, 
wash  them  in  clear  water,  drain  them,  and  put  them  in  a 
preserving-kettle;  cover  them  with  pure  cider  vinegar,  add- 
ing to  every  gallon  of  the  vinegar  three  ounces  of  alum, 
three  pounds  of  sugar,  four  ounces  of  white  mustard-seed, 
two  ounces  of  cinnamon  bark,  two  ounces  of  allspice,  one 
ounce  of  mace,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce  of  celery- 
seed,  and  six  very  small  red  peppers;  then  place  over  the 
top  a  thick  layer  of  grape  leaves,  and  gradually  heat  for 
three  or  four  hours,  but  do  not  boil;  then  remove  the  grape 
leaves,  and  put  the  pickles  in  jars  while  hot,  covering  them 
well  with  vinegar.  Cover  them  with  a  plate  until  cool; 
then  tie  them  up  closely  with  thick  paper. 

Mrs.  Pad.  McCarthey. 

TO  KEEP  PICKLES. 

"When  the  vinegar  in  pickles  becomes  white  on  the  top, 
add  to  it  a  tea-cupful  of  whisky  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
brown  sugar  to  every  gallon. 

GRAPE  PICKLE. 
Fill  a  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  sugar  and  bunches  of 
ripe,  freshly  gathered  grapes.    Cover  with  cold  vinegar. 

Mrs.  Clay  Sadler. 

MARTIN EAU  PICKLE. 

Gather  when  young  and  tender,  wipe,  and  drop  into  strong 
brine  until  you  wish  to  pickle :  soak  them  in  clear  water 
twenty-four  hours,  then  let  them  lie  in  weak  vinegar  twen- 
ty-four hours,  and  put  them  into  a  gallon  jar.  Slice  two 
roots  of  horse-radish,  and  add  one  ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce 
of  allspice,  one  ounce  of  race -ginger,  one  ounce  of  celery- 


The  JSfeiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


93 


seed,  one  ounce  of  white  mustard-seed,  one-half  dozen  small 
green  peppers,  and  two  pounds  of  sugar.  Sprinkle  these  all 
through  the  pickle.  Boil  cider  vinegar,  and  pour  enough 
of  it  over  the  pickle  to  cover  it  well.  Tie  it  up  while  hot, 
and  it  will  be  fit  for  use  in  two  weeks. 

*  Mrs.  S.  P.  McDowell. 

ONION  PICKLE. 

Sprinkle  one  quart  of  salt  over  one  peck  of  small  white 
onions;  pour  over  them  boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand 
three  or  four  days;  then  skin,  wash,  and  pack  them  in  jars, 
putting  two  small  red  peppers  in  each  jar.  Boil  enough 
vinegar  to  cover  them  with  one  ounce  of  white  mustard-seed, 
one-half  ounce  of  celery-seed,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark, 
one-half  ounce  of  mace,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Pour  over  the 
onions,  and  tie  up  while  hot.  Mrs.  Bierbower. 

ONION  PICKLE. 

Pour  hot  salt-water  over  one-half  peck  of  small  white 
onions,  let  them  stand  until  cold,  then  skin  them  and  scald 
them  a  few  minutes  in  weak  alum-water;  put  one-half  pound 
of  sugar  to  three  pints  of  vinegar,  flavor  with  spices  to  taste ; 
put  all  in  a  kettle,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boiling.  Tie  up 
closely  while  not.  Mrs.  Sarah  Miller. 

ONION  PICKLE. 

Take  one  peck  of  small  white  onions,  lay  them  in  salt 
overnight,  then  scald  in  sweet  milk,  and  carefully  skin  them, 
and  boil  in  good  cider  vinegar,  with  pepper  and  white  mus- 
tard-seed. Mrs.  Abner  Hord. 
ONION  PICKLE. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  silver-skin  onions,  then  remove 
the  outside  skin,  and  lay  in  strong  salt-water  for  nine  days ; 
soak  in  fresh  water  three  days,  changing  the  water  each  day ; 
then  remove  another  layer  of  skin,  together  with  the  little 
ends  of  the  onions.    To  one  gallon  jar  of  onions,  take  good 


94  The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Bool. 


cider  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them  well,  one-half  ounce  of 
mace,  one  small  pod  of  red  pepper,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
white  mustard,  two  coffee-cupfuls  of  sugar,  and  half  a  cup- 
ful of  ground  cinnamon;  put  the  spices  in  a  muslin  bag, 
and  boil  them  in  the  vinegar ;  when  cold,  pour  over  the 
onions.  Mrs.  S.  P.  McDowell. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Take  one-half  bushel  of  green  tomatoes  and  twelve  green 
23eppers,  and  chop  them  fine ;  sprinkle  over  them  one  pint 
of  salt,  and  let  them  stand  overnight ;  then  drain  them  two 
hours,  cover  with  vinegar,  cook  slowly  one  hour,  drain,  and 
pack  in  a  jar.  Take  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  table-spoonful  of  allspice,  one  of 
cloves,  one  of  pepper,  and  one  of  celery-seed,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  ground  mustard  or  two  cupfuls  of  mustard-seed,  one 
pint  of  grated  horse-radish,  and  vinegar  to  mix  them.  Pour 
over  the  pickles  boiling  hot.  Excellent. 

Mrs.  George  Hunter. 

QUICKLY  MADE  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes  sliced,  one -half  peck 
of  onions  sliced,  a  handful  of  green  peppers  chopped,  one 
ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  ounce  of  ground  mustard,  one  ounce 
of  mustard-seed,  one-half  ounce  of  cloves,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  black  pepper,  one  table-spoonful  of  tumeric,  one  pound 
of  sugar,  and  one  gallon  of  cider  vinegar ;  mix  the  ground 
mustard  in  a  little  water,  and  pour  over  the  pickles  before 
pouring  the  spiced  vinegar  over  them. 

Mrs.  John  Morgan,  Carlisle,  Ky. 

FROSTED  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Slice  one  peck  of  slightly  frosted  green  tomatoes,  six  large 
onions,  and  two  pods  of  red  pepper;  put  them  in  jars  sepa- 
rately, sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  them  stand  twenty-four 
hours,  then  put  into  a  bag  and  let  them  drain  all  night. 


The  Xew  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


95 


Take  two  Table-spoonfuls  of  mace,  two  of  cinnamon,  two  of 
ginger,  two  of  ground  mustard,  one  table-spoonful  of  all- 
spice, one  pound  of  brown  sugar ;  beat  the  spices  very  fine. 
Put  the  pickle  into  a  porcelain  kettle  with  a  layer  of  toma- 
toes, onions,  and  spices  alternately;  rill  the  kettle  up  with 
good  cider  vinegar,  and  let  them  boil  until  tender.  When 
cold,  it  is  ready  fur  use.  Cabbage  can  be  used  instead  of 
tomatoes.  M*s.  A.  A.  Wadswokth. 

WALNUT  PICKLES. 

Gather  the  walnuts  about  the  tenth  or  twentieth  of  June, 
when  they  are  sufficiently  tender  to  be  pierced  with  a  pin. 
Make  a  brine  of  a  pint  and  a  half  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of 
water;  pour  it  over  boiling  hot,  let  them  stand  six  days; 
then  soak  in  clear  water  overnight,  rub  them  off  with  a 
coarse  cloth,  put  them  on  dishes  to  air  in  the  sun  until  they 
become  black,  turning  them  over  once;  then  put  into  a 
stone  jar  (the  proportion  is  one  hundred  walnuts  to  a  gallon 
of  vinegar).  Boil  one  gallon  of  cider  vinegar  about  ten 
minutes,  adding  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  half  an  ounce 
each  of  whole  cloves  and  allspice,  half  an  ounce  of  pepper- 
corns, and  a  dozen  blades  of  nit.ce.  Pour  over  the  walnuts 
hot;  in  three  days  draw  off  the  vinegar;  boil  and  pour  over 
again  hot.  After  three  days,  repeat  the  process.  They  will 
be  ready  to  eat  in  a  month,  and  will  keep  for  years. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Mooees. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  ground  in  a  sausage-mill  or 
chojoped  very  fine,  four  medium-sized  heads  of  cabbage  cut 
fine,  half  a  dozen  cucumbers  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  two 
green  peppers  and  three  onions,  each  chopped  fine.  Mix  all 
well  together,  and  sprinkle  over  them  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt.  Put  into  a  sack  and  let  it  drain  overnight, 
then  add  lour  ounces  of  white  mustard-seed,  half  an  ounce 


96 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


of  celery-seed,  one  nutmeg  grated,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
ground  cloves,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon,  and 
one  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Add  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
best  cider  vinegar  to  cover  well,  and  boil  it  ten  minutes. 

aLrs.  William  McLaxahax. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Take  one-half  bushel  of  sliced  tomatoes,  twelve  onions 
sliced,  a  few  heads  of  garlic,  twelve  pods  of  green  peppers 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  set  all  night, 
then  drain  well  and  add  two  ounces  of  allspice,  two  ouuces 
of  race-ginger,  one  ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce  of  tumeric. 
Put  into  a  kettle  with  layers  of  pickle  and  spices  alternately 
and  add  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  strong  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  well.    Boil  until  tender.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Strode. 

PEACH  PICKLE. 

Select  large  cling  peaches  that  are  ripe  but  not  the  least 
soft,  wash  and  rub  off  the  fuzz  with  a  coarse  cloth,  put 
them  in  strong  salt-water  and  let  them  stand  two  or  three 
days,  then  soak  in  clear  water  overnight,  wipe  dry  and  put 
into  a  gallon  jar,  sprinkling  through  them  one  pound  of 
sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon 
bark,  pour  over  them  enough  of  good  cider  vinegar  to  cover, 
invert  a  saucer  over  the  top  of  the  pickles,  so  as  to  keep 
them  well  under  the  vinegar.  Mrs.  W.  S.  M. 

YELLOW  PICKLE. 

Take  three  dozen  medium-sized  cucumbers  peeled  and 
sliced  lengthwise,  three  dozen  onions  sliced,  one  dozen  small 
heads  of  cabbage  cut  into  quarters.  Put  them  into  a  basket 
with  a  clean  cloth  in  the  bottom ;  put  first  the  onions,  then 
a  layer  of  cucumbers  and  cabbage  alternately ;  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  on  each  layer,  hang  up  the  basket  for  twenty-four 
hours,  then  wash  off  the  salt  and  drain.    Put  into  a  jar, 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


97 


with  two  ounces  of  white  mustard-seed,  two  ounces  of  black 
mustard-seed,  two  ounces  of  celery-seed,  three  ounces  of 
ground  cinnamon,  one-half  ounce  of  mace,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  ground  cloves.  Boil  two  gallons  of  vinegar  with  six 
pints  of  sugar  and  two  ounces  of  tumeric,  and  pour  it  over 
the  pickles.  The  vinegar  must  be  drawn  off,  boiled,  and 
poured  over  again  for  four  mornings. 

Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmit. 

YELLOW  PICKLE. 

Take  a  table-spoonful  of  cloves,  a  tea-spoonful  of  mace, 
four  ounces  of  white  mustard-seed,  one  ounce  of  tumeric  in 
a  muslin  bag,  two  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  all  in  one  gallon 
of  vinegar  and  set  in  the  sun  or  by  the  fire ;  stir  it  up  every 
day,  and  rub  the  tumeric  in  the  vinegar  until  the  vegetables 
are  ready  to  pickle.  Take  three  large  heads  of  cabbage,  or 
more  if  small,  cut  them  in  quarters,  one  dozen  and  a  half 
of  cucumbers  sliced  lengthwise,  add  small  young  green 
beans,  radish-pods,  small  white  onions.  Sprinkle  one-half 
pint  of  salt  over  them,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then 
drain  and  put  them  in  the  sun ;  when  they  are  perfectly  dry, 
wash  the  in  clear  vinegar.  Put  them  in  a  jar,  and  boil  the 
prepared  vinegar  and  pour  over.    Miss  Fanxie  Brodrick. 

CABBAGE  PICKLE. 

Shred  very  fine  one  large  red  cabbage,  pack  it  down  with 
a  little  salt  sprinkled  between  each  layer  in  a  large  stone 
jar.  The  jar  should  be  three-quarters  full  of  the  cabbage. 
Put  into  a  very  thin  muslin  bag  two  table-spoonfuls  of  whole 
black  pepper,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cloves,  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  cinnamon  broken  very  small  but  not  powdered,  and 
a  dozen  blades  of  mace.  Put  two  quarts  of  the  best  cider 
vinegar  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  throw  in  the  bag  of  spices, 
let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  take  out  the  bag  of  spices  and  pour 
the  vinegar  hot  over  the  cabbage  in  the  jar,  stirring  it  up 


98  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


from  the  bottom,  so  that  the  vinegar  may  get  well  through 
it.  Mrs.  Fannie  Beery. 

CABBAGE  PICKLE. 

For  a  two-gallon  jar  take  cabbage  enough  quartered  to 
fill  it,  then  pour  on  it  hot  brine  and  let  it  remain  four  days, 
then  squeeze  out  of  the  brine  and  pour  weak  vinegar  over 
it;  let  it  stand  several  days.  Take  good  cider  vinegar 
enough  to  cover  it  well,  and  put  in  it  two  ounces  of  cinna- 
mon bark  broken  in  pieces,  essence  of  cloves  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  two  ounces  of  tumeric.  Pour  this  over  the  cab- 
bage, and  tie  up  closely.  Mrs.  Clay  Sadler. 

CABBAGE  PICKLE. 

Slice  the  cabbage  and  put  it  into  a  stone  or  wooden  ves- 
sel, sprinkling  each  layer  with  salt.  Let  stand  twenty-four 
hours,  then  rinse  off  the  salt,  and  drain.  Put  into  jars, 
adding  one  pound  of  sugar,  half  an  ounce  each  of  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  and  allspice,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  ground 
mustard,  one  ounce  of  white  mustard-seed,  one  ounce  of 
horse-radish  to  a  gallon.  Sprinkle  the  spices  and  sugar 
over  each  layer  of  cabbage  as  you  place  it  in  the  jars.  Pour 
over  cold  vinegar  enough  to  cover  well. 

Aunt  Kittie  Lightfoot,  Owingsville,  Ky. 

BELLOW  CABBAGE  PICKLE. 

Shred  the  cabbage,  make  a  strong  brine  and  pour  over 
boiling  hot.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours ;  take  it  out  of 
the  brine  and  put  into  a  porcelain  kettle;  pour  cold  vinegar 
over  and  let  it  come  to  a  boiling,  then  take  off  of  the  fire  and 
let  it  stand  until  cold  enough  to  lift  out  with  the  hands.  To 
two  gallons  of  the  cabbage  add  one  ounce  of  black  mustard- 
seed,  one  ounce  of  white  mustard-seed,  one  ounce  of  ground 
allspice,  one  ounce  of  whole  cloves,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon 
broken  in  small  pieces,  one  ounce  of  celery-seed,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  ounce  of  tumeric.    Mix  the 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


tumeric  with  the  spices,  put  the  cabbage  in  a  stone  jar  in 
alternate  layers  with  the  spices,  sweeten  the  vinegar  to  taste> 
and  boil  with  it  a  pod  of  red  pepper  and  pour  over  boiling 
hot  enough  to  cover  well. 

CELERY  PICKLE. 

Take  one  quart  of  white  cabbage  chopped  fine  and  one 
quart  of  celery  cut  into  small  pieces ;  cover  well  with  best 
cider  vinegar  into  which  put  one  table-spoonful  of  tumeric* 
one  table-spoonful  of  salt,  five  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
table-spoonful  of  sliced  ginger-root,  one  ounce  of  white  mus- 
tard-seed. Put  all  into  a  porcelain  kettle;  and  boil  slowly 
until  tender.    Stir  frequently  to  keep  from  burning. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  D. 

CAULIFLOWER  PICKLE. 

Select  cauliflower  that  is  fully  grown,  take  off  all  the 
leaves  and  cut  the  flower  into  nice-sized  bunches,  make  a 
strong  brine,  pour  over  it,  and  let  stand  tw7o  days,  then  wash 
in  cold  water  and  drain  well.  Put  it  into  self-sealing  jars, 
boil  enough  good  cider  vinegar  to  cover  well ;  mix  in  it  two 
ounces  of  celery-seed,  two  ounces  of  whole  black  pepper, 
three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  two  ounces  of  white  mustard- 
seed,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark  broken  into  small  pieces, 
and  pour  it  over  the  cauliflower.    Seal  up  while  hot. 

Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmit. 

ROUGH  AND  READY  PICKLE. 

Peel  and  slice  six  dozen  cucumbers,  one  dozen  large  white 
onions,  half  a  dozen  green  peppers.  Chop  all  together  fine 
and  sprinkle  with  half  a  pint  of  salt;  let  it  stand  twenty- 
four  hours,  then  hang  up  in  a  bag  and  drain  all  night.  To 
each  gallon  of  pickle  add  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  pound  of  white  mustard-seed,  one  ounce  of  whole  clovesr 
one  ounce  of  mace,  four  sticks  of  cinnamon,  two  ounces  of 
celery-seed,  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  ground 


100 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


allspice  tied  in  a  muslin  bag.  Cover  with  vinegar,  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boiling.    Seal  up  while  hot. 

Mrs.  Sallie  Cox. 

PICCALILLI. 

Take  four  crisp  heads  of  cabbage  chopped  fine,  one  quart 
of  chopped  onions.  Pack  the  cabbage  and  ouions  in  alter- 
nate layers,  sprinkling  salt  between  them,  and  let  them  lay 
overnight;  then  drain,  and  take  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  two 
pounds  of  sugar,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  mustard,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cinnamon, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  celery-seed,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
tumeric,  one  table-spoonful  of  allspice,  one  table-spoonful  of 
mace,  one  table-spoonful  of  alum.  Let  it  come  to  the  boil- 
ing and  pour  over  the  pickle  for  three  mornings;  on  the 
fourth,  put  it  all  on  the  fire,  and  boil  five  minutes. 

Mrs.  William  Winn. 

PICCALILLI. 

Slice  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes  into  a  jar  with  enough 
salt  to  wilt  them.  Slice  one-half  peck  of  onions  into  a  sep- 
arate jar,  with  the  same  quantity  of  salt.  Let  them  remain 
all  night,  then  wash  them  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  and 
press  them  dry.  Take  one  dessert-spoonful  each  of  mace, 
cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice,  and  black  pepper;  put  a  layer 
of  tomatoes,  onions,  and  spices  alternately  into  a  porcelain 
kettle  until  all  are  in.  Cover  with  good  cider  vinegar,  add 
two  pints  of  brown  sugar,  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  K.  Griffith. 

BRIC-A-BRAC  PICKLE. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one-half  peck  of  ripe 
tomatoes,  one  dozen  green  or  red  peppers,  one  dozen  onions, 
three  good  heads  of  cabbage.  Chop  all  together,  put  into  a 
jar,  mix  thoroughly,  and  sprinkle  with  salt;  let  it  stand 
overnight,  then  drain  through  a  sieve  or  colander;  put  into 


Tlie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


101 


a  porcelain  kettle,  and  to  two  gallons  of  the  pickle  add  two 
pounds  of  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  ground  black  pepper, 
one  table-spoonful  of  cloves,  one  table-spoonful  of  allspice, 
one  table-spoonful  of  mace,  one  table-spoonful  of  celery-seed, 
one-half  pint  of  white  mustard-seed,  and  one  tea-cupful  of 
horse-radish  grated.  Cover  with  vinegar,  and  boil  for  one 
hour.  Mrs.  Paxtox  Marshall 

HOTCHPOTCH. 
Take  one  head  of  cabbage,  two  dozen  cucumbers,  one-half 
dozen  white  onions,  two  dozen  green  tomatoes,  three  dozen 
green  peppers.  Chop  the  onions,  and  put  them  in  cold 
water  for  fifteen  minutes;  chop  the  other  ingredients,  and 
sprinkle  with  salt;  let  them  stand  for  one  hour,  then  drain 
and  mix  well  together,  and  cover  with  vinegar;  let  it  re- 
main twenty-four  hours,  then  drain.  To  one  gallon  of  mixt- 
ure add  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  one- 
half  ounce  of  mustard-seed,  one-half  ounce  of  black  pepper, 
and  enough  cider  vinegar  to  cover  it  well.  Put  it  on  the 
fire,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boiling.  Mrs.  Carroll. 

CHOPPED  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Chop  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  large  onions, 
eight  bell  peppers ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  them  stand 
twenty-four  hours;  drain  off,  and  put  into  a  bag,  let  them 
drip  all  night ;  then  soak  in  weak  vinegar  twenty-four  hours ; 
then  drain  and  put  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  add  one  small 
box  of  Coleman's  mustard,  four  ounces  of  white  mustard- 
seed,  two  ounces  of  celery-seed,  half  a  pint  of  grated  horse- 
radish, two  ounces  of  tumeric,  one  pound  of  sugar;  pour 
over  cider  vinegar,  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  time,  so  it  will  mix  well.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Husxox. 

CHOPPED  PICKLE. 

Take  one  gallon  of  chopped  cabbage,  one  gallon  of  chopped 
green  tomatoes,  one  gallon  of  chopped  cucumbers,  one-half 


102  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


gallon  of  chopped  onions,  six  green  peppers  chopped. 
Sprinkle  two  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  salt  over  each  gal- 
lon; let  it  stand  twelve  hours  separately;  then  press  dry 
with  the  hands.  Mix  all  together  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with 
one  ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ounce  of  cin- 
namon bark,  one  ounce  of  black  mustard,  one  ounce  and  a 
half  of  white  mustard-seed,  three  pounds  of  sugar.  Cover 
well  with  good  cider  vinegar,  and  boil  till  tender.  Use 
whole  spices— bruise  cloves  and  cinnamon,  or  break  in  small 
pieces.  Mrs.  W.  S.  Moores. 

CHOPPED  PICKLE. 

Measure  an  equal  quantity  of  cabbage  and  green  toma- 
toes, after  they  have  been  chopped  fine,  and  half  as  much 
cucumbers,  one  dozen  green  peppers  or  one-half  dozen  red 
peppers  without  seed,  two  quarts  of  onions.  Sprinkle  salt 
over 'each  layer,  and  let  it  stand  all  day;  put  it  into  a  bag, 
and  let  drain  all  night ;  drain  the  onions  in  a  separate  bag, 
then  mix  all  together  and  cover  with  weak,  vinegar.  Let  it 
remain  six  hours,  then  drain  and  season  with  a  tea-cupful 
each  of  white  and  black  mustard-seed,  a  wine-glassful  of 
mace,  allspice,  and  cloves  mixed,  and  one  ounce  of  celery- 
seed.  Add  sugar  to  the  taste,  and  cover  well  with  boiling 
vinegar.  Mrs.  Carrie  Harrisox. 

MIXED  PICKLE. 

Take  one-half  peck  of  green  tomatoes  sliced,  two  large 
heads  of  cabbage  shreded,  fifteen  onions  peeled  and  sliced 
or  cut  in  quarters,  twenty-five  medium-sized  cucumbers  cut 
into  small  pieces,  seven  green  peppers  chopped.  Mix  all  to- 
gether, sprinkling  in  three-fourths  of  a  pint  of  salt.  Let  it 
stand  overnight,  press  dry  with  the  hands,  and  pour  over 
weak  vinegar.  Let  it  remain  two  days,  then  drain,  and 
place  into  a  jar  in  alternate  layers  with  the  following  spices: 
one-half  pound  of  white  mustard-seed,  one  ounce  of  celery- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


103 


seed,  two  ounces  of  tumeric,  one-half  ounce  of  cinnamon 
bark,  and  a  coffee-cupful  of  grated  horse-radish.  Dissolve 
three  pounds  of  sugar  in  half  a  gallon  of  cider  vinegar  heat- 
ed to  boiling,  and  pour  over  it.  Mrs.  Judge  Peters. 

HYDEN  SALAD. 

Take  one  gallon  of  cabbage,  one  gallon  of  green  tomatoes, 
one  pint  of  peppers  (take  out  the  seed),  one  quart  of  onions, 
all  chopped ;  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt ;  let  drain  overnight, 
add  five  table-spoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard,  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  ground  ginger,  one  table-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 
table-spoonful  of  cloves,  one  table-spoonful  of  celery-seed, 
three  table-spoonfuls  of  tumeric,  three  pounds  of  sugar. 
Mix  well,  cover  with  good  vinegar,  and  boil  until  tender. 
The  vegetables  must  be  all  chopped  fine,  sprinkled  with  salt, 
and  drained  overnight  before  measuring. 

Miss  Phcebe  Wood. 

MIXED  PICKLE. 

Take  one  dozen  medium-sized  cucumbers  cut  in  slices,  one 
dozen  small  heads  of  cabbage  cut  in  quarters,  four  dozen 
small  seed  onions,  one  dozen  large  white  onions  sliced,  one 
pint  of  young  string  beans,  one  dozen  very  young  ears  of 
corn.  Make  a  strong  brine  and  pour  over  boiling  hot  (scald 
the  onions  separate  from  the  other  vegetables),  let  them 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  wash  well  and  let  stand  in 
cold  water  one  hour;  then  drain  dry,  and  pack  in  jars  with 
alternate  layers  of  spices,  one-half  pint  of  white  mustard- 
seed,  two  ounces  of  celery-seed,  two  ounces  of  cinnamon,  one- 
half  ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce  of  juniper-berries,  one  ounce 
of  coriander-seed,  two  ounces  of  ginger,  two  ounces  of  tu- 
meric, two  pounds  of  sugar,  and  one  gallon  of  good  cider 
vinegar,  or  enough  to  cover  the  pickle  well.  Boil  the  sugar 
and  tumeric  in  the  vinegar,  and  pour  it  over  the  pickle  hot 
for  four  morninos.  Mrs.  John  B.  Poyxtz. 


104  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book, 


MIXED  YELLOW  PICKLE. 

Take  two  dozen  large  cucumbers  peeled  and  sliced  length- 
wise, two  dozen  large  onions  peeled  and  sliced,  and  four 
heads  of  cabbage  quartered.  Use  cauliflower,  if  preferred 
to  cabbage.  Salt  down  in  a  basket  alternately,  putting  the 
onions  at  the  bottom ;  hang  up,  and  let  it  drip  twenty-four 
hours,  then  shake  off  the  salt,  put  into  jars,  and  mix  well 
with  it  celery-seed,  and  all  kinds  of  spices  to  suit  the  taste ; 
take  two  gallons  of  cider  vinegar,  six  pints  of  brown  sugar, 
and  one  ounce  of  tumeric  in  a  muslin  bag.  Boil,  and  pour 
over  hot  for  four  mornings,    Tie  up  closely. 

Mrs.  J  axe  Andrews. 

YANKEE  MIXED  PICKLE. 

Take  two  dozen  cucumbers,  three  quarts  of  onions,  two 
cauliflowers,  six  green  peppers,  two  quarts  of  green  toma- 
toes. Cut  up,  sprinkle  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  let  it 
stand  overnight;  in  the  morning  scald  in  the  same  water, 
drain  through  a  colander,  and  mix.  Dissolve  in  three 
quarts  of  cider  vinegar,  one-half  pound  of  ground  mustard, 
one-fourth  of  a  coffee-cupful  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  cupful 
of  sugar,  four  tea-spoonfuls  of  celery-seed ;  let  it  come  to  a 
boiling,  and  pour  it  over  the  pickle.  This  is  very  nice 
without  the  cucumbers,  using  cabbage  instead  of  cauliflower, 
if  preferred.  Patersox,  New  Jersey. 

BOILED  CHOWCHOW. 

Take  all  young  vegetables  except  salsify,  slice  or  chop, 
and  put  into  a  basket  with  a  layer  of  salt  between  each  lay- 
er of  vegetables;  let  drip  overnight;  in  the  morning  boil 
salsify  well  done  and  slice  or  chop,  then  shake  the  salt  off  of 
the  vegetables  and  put  all  into  a  kettle  together.  Prepare 
a  dressing  of  one-quarter  pound  box  of  mustard  (mixed  the 
day  before)  to  each  gallon  of  vinegar,  and  all  kinds  of 
spices,  white  and  black  mustard-seed,  red  and  black  pepper. 


The  ±\Teiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh.  105 


Cover  well  with  good  vinegar  sweetened  to  taste ;  boil  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Mas.  Jane  Andrews. 

SUPERIOR  MIXED  PICKLE. 

Cut  up  cabbage,  cucumbers,  tomatoes,  and  all  kinds  of 
fruit  that  you  have,  add  small  ears  of  corn,  beans,  onions 
small  and  sliced;  cover  with  salt,  let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours;  drain  then  from  this  brine,  and  add  all  kinds  of 
spices,  one  ounce  of  each.  To  two  gallons  of  pickle  allow 
four  pounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  and  the  yelks  of 
one  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs  mashed  or  creamed  with  the 
spices.    Boil  all  well  with  the  best  cider  vinegar. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Stockwell,  sr.,  Flemlxgsburg,  Ky. 

CHOWCHOW. 

Take  one-half  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  two  dozen  large 
cucumbers,  one  dozen  white  onions,  one-half  dozen  green 
peppers,  two  roots  of  horse-radish,  all  chopped  together. 
Sprinkle  a  little  salt  through  it,  and  put  into  a  colander. 
Let  it  remain  a  few  hours  to  drain  off  the  water;  season 
with  ground  spices — namely,  black  pepper,  mustard,  and 
cloves — to  the  taste.  Put  all  in  a  jar,  and  pour  over  just 
enough  cold  cider  vinegar  to  cover  well.  Sweeten  the  vin- 
egar, if  preferred.  Mrs.  Amanda  Tuerman. 

TOMATO  CHOWCHOW. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  large  cucum- 
bers pared,  one  dozen  large  onions,  six  large  red  peppers, 
one  large  head  of  cabbage,  chopped  separately  and  sprinkled 
with  salt ;  let  stand  separately  one  night,  then  drain  and 
mix  all  well  together  in  a  large  bowl,  with  one-half  tea-cup- 
ful each  of  black  and  white  mustard-seed,  one  tea-cupful  of 
grated  horse-radish,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  black 
pepper,  one  table-spoonful  of  celery-seed.  Cover  with  good 
cider  vinegar  cold,  and  mix  well  before  putting  in  jars. 

Mrs.  S.  P.  McDowell. 


106  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


CHOWCHOW, 

Take  two  dozen  large  cucumbers,  one  dozen  onions,  one 
dozen  green  peppers,  two  large  heads  of  cabbage.  Chop  all  • 
together  and  sprinkle  with  salt ;  let  it  stand  overnight ;  then 
drain  and  take  one  gallon  of  cider  vinegar,  add  three  pounds 
of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  white  mustard-seed, 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  black  mustard-seed,  one-fourth 
of  a  pound  of  ground  mustard;  pour  it  over  the  pickle  and 
boil  until  tender.  Add  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  celery- 
seed  after  it  is  boiled.  Mrs.  Paxton  Marshall. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Slice  half  a  bushel  of  cucumbers,  peel  and  slice  a  small 
peck  of  onions.  Cover  them  with  salt,  and  let  them  stand 
all  night.  Wash  in  cold  water,  and  drain  through  a  colan- 
der, then  mix  with  the  followiug  spices:  Half  a  tea-cupful 
of  celery-seed,  a  small  tea-cupful  of  white  mustard-seed,  a 
table-spoonful  of  allspice,  a  table-spoonful  of  cloves,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mace,  a  handful  of  ciuuamon  bark,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper,  eight  red  peppers  cut  in  small 
pieces,  a  tea-spoonful  of  alum,  two  ounces  of  tumeric,  and 
three  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  all  into  a  porcelain  kettle, 
cover  with  vinegar,  and  let  it  thoroughly  scald.  Use  whole 
spices.  Mrs.  W.  O.  Dodd. 

MUSX-MELON  MANGOES. 

Have  the  melons  young  and  tender.  Cut  a  piece  out  of 
the  side  the  length  of  the  melon,  and  take  out  the  contents. 
Secure  one  end  of  each  to  its  own  melon  by  a  stitch  made 
with  a  needle  and  white  thread.  Put  them  in  cold  brine 
for  ten  days,  then  soak  them  in  fresh  water  twenty-four 
hours,  drain,  and  wipe  them  dry,  and  then  fill  them  with 
the  following  mixture:  Half  a  pound  of  black  and  white 
mustard-seed,  half  a  pound  of  grated  horse-radish,  sliced 
onions,  one  ounce  each  of  black  pepper,  mace,  cloves,  tu- 


The' New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  107 


meric,  race-ginger  cut  fine,  and  red  or  green  pepper  chopped 
fine.  Moisten  the  mustard-seed  with  hot  vinegar;  mix  all 
well  together ;  put  two  small  cloves  of  garlic  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  in  each  melon;  press  the  filling  in  firmly, 
and  sew  in  the  piece  with  strong  Avhite  thread;  then  lay 
them  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  with  a  lump  of  alum  the  size  of 
a  walnut;  pour  over  them  enough  weak  vinegar  to  cover 
them  well,  and  let  them  come  to  a  boiling  over  a  slew  fire. 
"When  cold,  take  them  out  and  drain  them,  pack  them  in  a 
jar,  and  cover  them  with  cold  vinegar  sweetened  to  taste. 

Mrs.  America  Hove. 

OIL  MANGOES. 

Take  green  tender  melons,  cut  them  open,  take  out  the 
seed,  fill  them  with  salt,  and  let  them  lie  twenty-four  hours. 
Make  a  filling  of  one  pound  of  white  mustard-seed,  one 
pound  of  grated  horse-radish,  half  a  pound  of  garlic,  one 
ounce  of  green  peppers  chopped  fine,  one  ounce  of  race-gin- 
ger cut  fine,  two  ounces  of  allspice,  one  ounce  of  mace,  two 
ounces  of  celery-seed,  and  four  table-spoonfuls  of  pure  olive- 
oil  ;  mix  all  together  well.  Clean  the  salt  out  of  the  melous, 
fill  them,  sew  together,  and  put  them  in  jars.  If  any  of  the 
filling  is  left,  put  it  in  the  jars  with  the  mangoes.  Cover 
with  boiling  vinegar.  Fresh  butter  can  be  used  instead  of 
olive-oil.  Mrs.  Adxa  A.  YVadsvtorth. 

CUCUMBER  MANGOES. 

Take  two  dozen  large  green  cucumbers ;  cut  a  piece  out 
of  the  side  and  fasten  it  to  the  cucumber  with  a  stitch  taken 
with  a  needle  and  strong  thread;  scrape  out  the  seeds  and 
all  the  pulp,  and  lay  them  in  weak  salt-water  five  hours. 
Make  a  dressing  of  two  large  heads  of  cabbage  and  four 
green  peppers  chopped  fine,  two  ounces  of  eelery-seeel,  two 
ounces  of  white  mustard-seed,  one  ounce  of  ground  black 
pepper,  one  ounce  of  salt,  and  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar.  In 


108  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


filling  the  cucumbers,  squeeze  the  water  from  the  dressing, 
put  two  onion  sets  and  two  small  beans  in  each  cucumber, 
put  back  the  piece  and  tie  a  strip  of  cotton  an  inch  wide 
around  the  cucumber  to  hold  it  in  place;  then  put  them  in 
a  porcelain  kettle,  with  a  layer  of  grape  or  cabbage  leaves 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  alum  alternately.  Cover  with  vin- 
egar, and  scald  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  then  lift  them 
out  into  jars,  adding  spices  to  taste.  To  a  gallon  of  the  best 
cider  vinegar  put  one  and  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  boil 
fifteen  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  mangoes;  if  not  enough 
to  cover  them  well,  add  cold  vinegar.  Tie  up  closely  or 
seal.  ^  Splendid.  Mrs.  Clay  Sadler. 

PEACH  MANGOES. 

Select  large  cling  peaches,  ripe  but  not  soft;  lay  them  in 
weak  brine  for  three  days,  soak  them  two  hours  in  fresh 
water,  wipe  them  with  a  coarse  linen  towel  to  take  off  the 
fuzz;  cut  them  nicely  from  the  seed,  and  fill  them  with  a 
little  chopped  cabbage,  white  mustard-seed,  cinnamon,  and 
one  small  garlic  to  each  peach ;  sew  or  tie  them  together, 
put  them  in  jars,  and  pour  over  them  boiling  vinegar  made 
very  sweet  with  brown  sugar.  A  table-spoonful  of  olive-oil 
added  to  the  filling  is  an  improvement. 

Mrs.  Bettie  Johnson. 

PEPPER  MANGOES. 

Take  large  bell-peppers  (the  best  variety  is  the  sweet), 
green  and  tender ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  side,  take  out  the  seed 
and  pulp,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them ;  let  them  stand 
twenty-four  hours,  and  drain  off  the  water.  Take  half  a 
pint  of  salt  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  saltpeter,  boil  in  weak 
vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  peppers,  scalding  them  every 
morning  for  five  or  six  days,  or  until  green.  Keep  them 
well  covered  with  grape  or  cabbage  leaves.  Then  drain 
them  and  wipe  dry,  and  fill  them  with  a  dressing  made  of 


The  New  Kentucky  Rome  Cook  Book.  109 


two  heads  of  cabbage  chopped  fine,  half  a  pint  of  white 
mustard-seed,  one  tea-cupful  of  grated  horse-radish,  one  tea- 
cupful  of  black  mustard-seed,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  celery- 
seed,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  ginger;  mix  well  to- 
gether, and  add  small  white  onions,  small  cucumbers,  string- 
beans,  and  nasturtiums;  sew  up,  place  in  jars,  and  pour 
boiling  vinegar  over  them.  Put  one  whole  nutmeg  in  each 
jar  after  the  peppers  are  in.  Keep  the  peppers  well  cov- 
ered with  vinegar,  or  they  will  become  soft. 

Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 

MANGO  PICKLE. 

Take  twenty-six  mangoes;  cut  them  open,  and  take  out 
the  seed ;  put  them  in  strong  vinegar  for  five  days.  Make 
a  dressing  of  one-half  a  pound  each  of  grated  horse-radish, 
black  mustard-seed,  white  mustard-seed,  chopped  onions, 
and  ginger,  half  a  pint  of  mixed  mustard,  half  an  ounce 
of  tumeric,  and  half  an  ounce  of  cloves;  mix  well;  fill  the 
mangoes,  and  tie  or  sew  them  together.  Put  them  in  a  jar, 
and  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them  every  day  for  a  week. 

Mrs.  Sallie  Cox. 

SPANISH  PICKLE. 

Put  one  quart  of  tender  corn  to  soak  in  weak  salt-water ; 
and  the  same  morning  chop  two  heads  of  cabbage,  sprinkle 
a  little  salt  over  it,  put  it  on  a  large  dish  a  little  slant  with 
a  weight  on  top,  and  let  it  stand  until  next  morning ;  then 
chop  one  dozen  onions,  and  cut  one  dozen  cucumber  pickles 
into  pieces  about  one  inch  long;  then  squeeze  the  corn  out 
of  the  brine,  and  squeeze  the  cabbage  dry ;  mix  all  together, 
and  add  one  ounce  of  celery-seed,  half  an  ounce  of  white 
mustard-seed,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  mustard,  one- 
half  ounce  of  mace,  one-half  ounce  of  cinnamon,  two  pints 
of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  and  cider  vinegar  enough 
to  cover  all.  Put  into  a  kettle,  and  simmer  half  an  hour. 
Seal  up  in  small  jars  while  hot.  Mrs.  Bierbower. 


110 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


SPANISH  PICKLE. 

Take  one  dozen  and  a  half  of  cucumbers;  put  them  in 
brine,  and  let  them  remain  four  or  five  clays;  then  slice 
them  in  large  slices;  chop  two  heads  of  cabbage,  sprinkle 
with  a  little  salt,  and  let  them  drain  with  the  cucumbers 
twenty -four  hours.  Slice  eight  green  peppers  in  large 
thin  slices;  scald  and  peel  two  dozen  small  white  seed- 
onions,  and  put  them  in  salt-water  the  night  before  making; 
squeeze  them  all  dry  with  the  hands;  put  them  into  a  por- 
celain kettle,  with  alternate  layers  of  the  vegetables  and  the 
following  spices:  Two  ounces  of  white  mustard-seed,  one 
ounce  of  celery-seed,  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  one-fourth  of  a 
pound  of  Coleman's  English  mustard,  and  one  and  a  half 
pound  of  sugar;  mix  well  with  the  best  cider  vinegar.  Boil 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Seal  up  while  hot.  This  makes 
one  gallon  and  a  half.       Mbs.  Waleeb,  Suabpsbubg,  Ky. 

SPANISH  PICKLE. 

Slice  one  dozen  and  a  half  large  cucumbers  in  large  pieces, 
chop  fine  two  large  heads  of  cabbage,  three  dozen  very  small 
onions,  and  eight  green  bell-peppers ;  sprinkle  salt  over  all, 
and  let  it  stand  twelve  hours;  press  it  out  dry  with  the 
hands.  Put  into  a  porcelain  kettle  alternate  layers  of  vegeta- 
bles and  the  following  spices :  Two  ounces  of  white  mustard- 
seed,  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  one  ounce  of  celery-seed,  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  Coleman's  English  mustard,  and  two 
pounds  of  sugar.  Cover  all  with  the  best  cider  vinegar,  and 
boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken.    Seal  up  while  hot. 

Mbs.  Laeea  C.  Demmitt. 

SPANISH  PICKLE. 

Gather  young  vegetables  through  the  summer,  as  you  can 
get  them  —  corn,  beans,  little  cucumbers,  onions,  nastur- 
tiums, young  melons,  cabbage,  and  tomatoes.    Put  all  to- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool-  Booh. 


Ill 


gether  in  brine  as  they  are  gathered,  except  the  cabbage 
and  tomatoes;  they  must  be  chopped  with  eight  green 
peppers  and  sprinkled  with  salt  the  night  before  making. 
Soak  the  other  vegetables  until  fresh,  then  mix  all  together, 
adding  one  ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce  of  ginger  sliced,  one 
ounce  of  white  mustard-seed,  one  ounce  of  celery-seed,  half 
an  ounce  of  tumeric,  half  a  pound  of  Coleman's  mustard, 
two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  and  one  small  tea-cupful  of 
grated  horse-radish.  Pour  over  them  one  gallon  of  vinegar, 
or  enough  to  cover  them  well,  and  boil  until  the  vegetables 
are  tender  and  the  mass  thickens. 

Mrs.  Jaxe  Axdeews. 

SPANISH  PICKLE. 

Take  a  dozen  and  a  half  large  cucumbers,  and  cut  them 
in  large  slices ;  chop  fine  two  large  heads  of  cabbage  and 
eight  green  bell-peppers;  scald  and  peel  three  pints  of  onion 
sets;' sprinkle  salt  over  them,  and  let  them  stand  all  night; 
then  press  them  dry  with  the  hands,  and  put  them  into  a 
porcelain  kettle,  with  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
quarter  pound  box  of  Coleman's  English  mustard,  one  ounce 
of  tumeric,  one  ounce  of  celery-seed,  and  two  ounces  of  white 
mustard-seed ;  cover  it  well  with  the  best  cider  vinegar,  and 
let  it  boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken.    Seal  up  in  small  jars. 

Mrs.  Scexltz  Leach. 

SPANISH  PICKLE. 

One  dozen  large  cucumbers  cut  in  pieces  about  an  inch 
thick,  one-half  peck  of  green  tomatoes  cut  in  slices,  two 
dozen  small  onions  sliced  •  sprinkle  them  thickly  with  salt, 
and  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours;  then  wash  the  salt 
from  them,  and  add  four  large  cauliflowers  (or  six,  if  small) 
scalded  in  salt-water,  eight  green  peppers  sliced  in  small 
pieces,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  horse-radish  grated.  Put 
them  into  a  large  bowl,  and  rub  through  them  one  pound 


112  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


of  white  mustard-seed,  one  pound  of  ground  mustard,  two 
ounces  of  tumeric,  one-ounce  bottle  of  salad-oil,  two  ounces 
of  celery-seed ;  mix  well,  then  put  into  jars,  and  pour  over 
them  boiling  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them  well ;  add  sugar 
to  taste,  stir  the  pickle  every  day  for  two  weeks,  and  they 
are  ready  for  use.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Brodrick. 

SPANISH  PICKLE. 

Take  one  dozen  and  a  half  large  cucumbers — if  fresh,  put 
in  brine  four  or  five  days ;  if  in  brine,  soak  in  fresh  water 
twenty-four  hours — and  slice  them  in  large  pieces;  chop  fine 
two  heads  of  cabbage,  and  let  it  lie  in  salt  eight  hours;  three 
dozen  seed-onions  or  one  dozen  large  ones  chopped,  and  seven 
pods  of  green  peppers.  Soak  in  salt-water  eight  hours;  then 
squeeze  them  out,  and  put  them  into  a  kettle,  in  alternate 
layers  with  the  seasoning,  composed  of  two  ounces  of  white 
mustard-seed,  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  one  ounce  of  celery-seed, 
one-half  tea-spoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  ginger,  one-half  pound  of  Coleman's  English  mustard, 
and  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar.  Cover  it  with  strong  vin- 
egar, and  boil  half  an  hour,  or  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 

Mrs.  George  Owexs. 

SPANISH  PICKLE. 

One  gallon  of  cucumbers  peeled  and  cut  lengthwise,  then 
in  pieces  an  inch  long;  one-half  gallon  wmite  onions  cut  in 
large  pieces ;  one  large  head  of  cabbage  and  two  pods  of 
green  pepper  chopped  very  fine.  Salt  it  all,  and  let  it  stand 
one  hour ;  then  scald  in  weak  vinegar,  put  it  in  a  bag,  and 
let  it  <^rain  three  hours.  Chop  two  roots  of  horse-radish 
fine,  and  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  mustard,  one 
ounce  of  celery-seed,  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  three  pounds  of 
sugar,  and  one-half  pound  of  white  mustard-seed.  Boil  in 
good  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  pickle  hot. 

Mrs.  K.  C.  Walker. 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  113 


SPANISH  PICKLE. 

Cut  one  peck  of  cucumbers,  fresh  from  the  vine,  in  half- 
inch  pieces;  chop  two  large,  firm  heads  of  cabbage,  two 
dozen  white  onions,  and  eight  large  green  peppers ;  chop  the 
onions  and  peppers  very  fine;  mix  all  together,  and  sprinkle 
with  a  tea-cupful  of  salt ;  let  it  stand  twelve  hours,  then  put . 
it  into  a  bag,  and  drain  all  night ;  press  it  very  dry  with  the 
hands,  and  put  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  with  alternate  layers 
of  the  following  spices:  Two  ounces  of  celery-seed,  two 
ounces  of  ginger  cut  in  verv  small  pieces  or  pulverized  in  a 
mortar,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  Coleman's  English 
mustard,  and  one  small  tea-cupful  of  grated  horse-radish. 
Dissolve  in  one  gallon  of  the  best  cider  vinegar  three  pounds 
of  sugar  and  one  ounce  of  tumeric;  pour  it  over  the  pickle, 
and  mix  well;  boil  half  an  hour,  or  until  it  is  tender  and 
thickens.  Seal  up  while  hot.  Four  table-spoonfuls  of  salad- 
oil  is  an  improvement,  if  liked.  Mrs.  W.  S.  Moores. 

PREMIUM  SPANISH  PICKLE. 

Take  three  dozen  cucumbers,  two  large  heads  of  cabbage, 
one  dozen  onions  chopped  fine  or  sliced,  and  four  pods  of 
green  pepper.  Peel  and  slice  the  cucumbers  lengthwise,  and 
cut  them  in  pieces  one  inch  long;  chop  the  cabbage  and 
pepper;  salt  each  separately,  and  let  them  stand  overnight; 
at  morning  squeeze  out  the  salt-water,  and  add  the  following 
ingredients:  One  ounce  of  celery-seed,  one-half  pound  of 
white  mustard-seed,  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  one  table-spoonful 
of  ground  cloves,  one  table-spoonful  of  allspice,  one-half 
pint  of  grated  horse-radish,  and  one  pound  of  brown  sugar. 
Mix  all  well.  Put  it  into  a  kettle,  and  cover  wTell  with 
vinegar,  and  scald.  When  cold,  add  a  half-pound  box  of 
Lexington  mustard.  Put  into  jars,  and  cover  with  cold 
vinegar,  adding  a  little  sirup  of  honey  to  prevent  molding. 
Seal  up.  Mrs.  Dr.  J.  H.  Holtox. 

8 


114  The  New  Kentucky  Rome  Cook  Book. 


MIXED  MUSTARD. 

Take  three  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  mustard  and  one 
tea-spoonful  of  sugar;  pour  on  boiling  water,  and  mix  to  a 
smooth  paste.  When  cold,  add  vinegar  enough  to  make  it 
ready  for  use. 

TO  PREPARE  HORSE-RADISH  FOR  WINTER. 

In  the  fall  mix  the  quantity  wanted  in  the  following  pro- 
portions :  A  coffee-cupful  of  grated  horse-radish,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
pint  of  cold  vinegar.    Bottle,  and  seal. 

FOR  GREENING  PICKLES. 

For  two  gallons  of  pickles,  take  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda; 
put  the  pickles  into  a  preserving-kettle,  sprinkling  a  little 
of  the  soda  over  each  layer;  cover  with  weak  vinegar,  and 
scald  until  green.  Mrs.  Joseph  Black. 


SWEET  PICKLE. 

Sweet  pickle  may  be  made  of  any  fruit  that  can  be  pre- 
served, including  cucumbers  and  the  rinds  of  ripe  melons. 
Plums  and  other  smooth-skinned  fruit  should  be  well  pricked 
before  cooking.  Examine  sweet  pickles  often,  and  scald  the 
sirup  again  if  there  are  any  signs  of  fermentation. 

The  usual  proportions  for  sweet  pickle  are  seven  pounds 
of  fruit,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  and  one  quart  of  vinegar. 
Use  coffee  C  best  brown  sugar,  if  preferred  to  white. 

The  principal  spices  are  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Never 
use  ground  spices  for  sweet  pickles. 

The  fruit  should  be  scalded  or  cooked  until  it  is  of  the 
same  color  throughout,  or  easily  pierced  with  a  straw,  and 
the  sirup  is  like  thin  molasses. 

All  that  is  necessary  to  keep  sweet  pickle  is  to  have  sirup 
enough  to  cover  the  fruit  and  to  keep  it  well  under. 


TJie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  11F 


PEAR  SWEET  PICKLES. 

Peel  and  cut  the  pears  in  halves,  or  quarter  if  very  large, 
and  if  small  leave  them  whole.  To  seven  pounds  of  fruit 
make  a  sirup  of  one  quart  of  pure  cider  vinegar,  three 
pounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  cloves.  Pour  the  sirup  boiling  hot  over  the  fruit 
for  three  mornings;  then  boil  the  fruit  in  the  sirup  until 
tender.    Seal  up  while  hot. 

Apple  pickles  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

Miss  Mary  McColxougii. 

SWEET  PICKLE  QUINCES. 

Pare  and  quarter  the  quinces;  and  to  ten  pounds  of  fruit 
add  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one 
ounce  of  cloves,  and  one  ounce  of  cinnamon.  Put  into  a 
porcelain  kettle,  and  boil  Until  tender. 

Mrss  C.  K.  Paddock. 

PICKLED  PLUMS  OR  CHERRIES. 

Take  the  fruit  off  the  stem;  puncture  them  with  a  fork, 
and  put  into  a  stone  jar  seven  pounds.  Make  a  sirup  of 
one  quart  of  vinegar,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of 
cinnamon  bark,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  allspice.  Pour  it  over  the  fruit  boiling  hot  for  two  morn- 
ings ;  tke  third  morning  boil  the  fruit  in  the  sirup  fifteen 
minutes.  Take  out,  and  put  into  small  stone  jars.  Boil  the 
sirup  until  thick  as  molasses,  pour  it  over  hot,  and  seal  up. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Moores. 

SPICED  DAMSONS. 

Select  large  fair  damsons,  puncture  the  skins  with  a  fork, 
and  lay  them  in  a  stone  jar.  For  seven  pounds  of  fruit 
heat  to  boiling  one  quart  of  vinegar,  four  pounds  of  sugar, 
one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  and  one  ounce  of  cloves.  Pour  it 
over,  cover  closely,  and  set  aside  until  next  morning;  then 
drain  from  the  damsons  all  the  juice,  heat  it  to  boiling,  and 


116 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


pour  it  over  as  at  first.  Repeat  this  every  morning  for  a 
week,  or  until  the  damsons  are  soft  and  tender.  Then  put  all 
into  a  preserving-kettle  together ;  simmer  gently  for  a  few 
minutes,  take  out  the  fruit,  put  it  into  a  stone  can,  and  boil 
the  sirup  until  it  is  rich  and  sufficiently  thick ;  then  pour  it 
over  the  fruit,  and  seal  up  hot.        Miss  Fannie  B.  Hubt. 

PEACH  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Take  seven  pounds  of  large  ripe  cling  peaches;  after  they 
are  peeled,  put  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  add  a  quart  of 
cider  vinegar,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon 
bark,  and  one  ounce  of  cloves.  Boil  until  the  fruit  is  ten- 
der.   Seal  up  hot.  Mrs.  Charles  Tabb. 

MRS.  KIRK'S  PREMIUM  PICKLE. 

Take  seven  pounds  of  large  white  heath  peaches;  after 
they  are  peeled,  put  them  into  stone  cans.  Make  a  sirup  of 
one  pint  of  best  cider  vinegar,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
ounce  of  cinnamon  bark,  and  one  ounce  of  cloves;  pour  it 
over  the  fruit  boiling  hot  for  eight  mornings;  the  ninth 
morning  put  all  into  a  preserving-kettle,  and  let  it  come  to 
a  boiling.    Seal  up  hot. 

GERMAN  PEACH  PICKLE. 

Take  large,  ripe  cling-stone  peaches,  peel,  and  leave  them 
whole,  or  cut  them  from  the  stone,  if  preferred,  xo  seven 
pounds  of  peaches  take  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of 
cider  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark,  half  an  ounce 
of  cloves,  and  half  an  ounce  of  allspice;  crack  three  or  four 
dozen  peach-seeds,  take  out  the  kernels,  pour  boiling  water 
over  them,  and  let  them  stand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  then 
peel  them,  and  put  them  into  a  jar  or  can  with  the  peaches. 
Put  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  into  a  preserving-kettle; 
let  it  come  to  a  boiling,  and  pour  it  over  the  peaches  boiling 
hot.  Let  it  stand  overnight ;  drain  or?  the  sirup,  heat  it  to 
boiling,  and  pour  it  over  the  peaches  again.     The  third 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  117 


morning  put  all  into  the  kettle,  and  boil  until  the  fruit  is 
tender.    Seal  up  hot.  Mrs.  Clay  Sadler. 

SPICED  PEACHES. 

Select  ripe  but  hard  free-stone  peaches,  cut  them  in  halves, 
and  remove  the  stones  before  paring.  For  seven  pounds  of 
fruit  take  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  cider  vinegar, 
one  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark,  and  half  an  ounce  of  cloves. 
Put  the  sugar,  with  three  pints  of  water,  into  a  porcelain 
kettle ;  and  when  it  boils,  put  in  as  many  of  the  peaches  at 
a  time  as  the  kettle  will  hold  with  their  being  piled  one  upon 
another,  boil  slowly,  turning  them  over  and  shaking  them 
about  that  they  may  cook  evenly.  "When  tender,  take  them 
out  with  a  wire  skimmer,  and  place  them  in  a  jar.  When 
all  the  fruit  is  cooked,  boil  the  sirup  until  quite  thick ;  then 
add  the  vinegar  and  spices,  simmer  all  together  a  few  min- 
utes, and  pour  it  over  the  peaches.    Seal  or  tie  up  closely. 

Miss  Fanxte  Hurt. 

WATER-MELON  RIND  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Pare  the  hard  green  from  the  rind,  cut  it  in  slips  of  any 
shape  preferred,  put  six  pounds  into  weak  alum-water,  let  it 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  drain,  and  boil  in  clear  water  until 
tender;  then  put  in  a  sirup  made  of  one  quart  of  vinegar, 
three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark,  half  an 
ounce  of  allspice,  and  three  or  four  pieces  of  mace.  Boil 
until  clear  and  tender.  Mrs.  Hunter. 

WATER-MELON  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Prepare  the  rind  by  removing  the  green  and  scraping  out 
the  inside  of  the  melon ;  cut  it  in  fancy  shapes,  and  lay  it 
in  brine  two  or  three  days,  or  longer  if  not  convenient  to 
prepare  enough  at  once.  When  ready  to  make,  soak  it 
until  fresh  in  ice- water,  changing  the  water  daily ;  then  boil 
in  weak  alum-water  until  brittle.  For  seven  pounds  of  the 
rind,  make  a  sirup  of  one-half  gallon  of  cider  vinegar,  five 


118 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


jjounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  mace.  Drain  the  rind  out  of  the  alum-water,  and 
boil  it  fifteen  minutes  in  the  sirup. 

Mrs.  S.  P.  McDowell. 
CANTALEUP  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Take  full-grown  but  not  ripe  cantaleups;  peel  and  slice, 
or  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  if  preferred ;  soak  in  salt-water  over- 
night, then  in  fresh  water  one  hour ;  then  drain,  and  weigh 
seven  pounds,  and  boil  in  weak  alum-water  one  hour,  then 
in  clear  water  until  tender.  Make  a  sirup  of  one  quart  of 
good  cider  vinegar  and  seven  pounds  of  granulated  sugar; 
drain  the  rind  out  of  the  boiling  water,  and  put  it  into  the 
hot  sirup,  and  boil  until  transparent.  Then  take  half  an 
ounce  of  white  mustard-seed,  half  an  ounce  of  sliced  ginger, 
one  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  caraway -seed ;  mix  in  a  tea-cupful  of  vin- 
egar, and  pour  into  the  boiling  pickle.    Seal  up  while  hot. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Glasscock. 

RIPE  CANTALEUP  PICKLE. 

Cut  the  melons  in  pieces  about  two  inches  square ;  pare 
off  the  outside  and  inside,  leaving  the  melon  about  half  an 
inch  thick ;  cover  with  vinegar,  with  a  little  salt  in  it,  and 
let  it  stand  two  days.  Then  to  seven  pounds  of  melon  take 
one  quart  of  fresh  vinegar,  one  pound  of  sugar,  half  an  ounce 
of  cloves,  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
celery-seed ;  drain  the  melons ;  put  all  together  into  a  por- 
celain kettle,  and  boil  until  tender.    Seal  up  hot. 

Mrs.  Paxton  Marshall. 

CUCUMBER  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Slice  the  cucumbers  about  one  inch  thick;  dissolve  one 
table-spoonful  of  alum  in  half  a  gallon  of  water ;  put  into  it 
four  pounds  of  fruit,  and  boil  one  hour;  then  drain.  Make 
a  sirup  of  one  pint  of  cider  vinegar,  four  pounds  of  sugar, 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


119 


two  table-spoonfuls  of  broken  cinnamon  bark,  and  one  level 
table-spoonful  of  mace.  Put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  until 
transparent.  If  the  sirup  is  not  thick  enough,  continue  to 
boil  after  the  fruit  is  removed.  When  cold,  place  it  in  jars, 
sprinkling:  in  half  an  ounce  of  white  mustard-seed.  Pour 
over  the  sirup,  and  seal.  Mrs.  William  Davis. 

TOMATO  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Take  seven  pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes  sliced,  three  pounds 
of  sugar,  and  one  quart  of  vinegar.  Put  the  tomatoes  into 
a  porcelain  kettle,  sprinkling  between  the  layers  whole 
spices — half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  half  an  ounce  of  allspice, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  mace.  Then  pour  over  them  the  vin- 
egar and  sugar,  and  boil  them  until  soft. 

Mrs.  Berryman  Hurt. 

SWEET  MANGO  PICKLE. 

Have  the  mangoes  young  and  tender ;  let  them  lie  in  salt- 
water four  or  six  days.  Rinse  them  off,  and  place  them  in 
a  preserving-kettle,  with  alternate  layers  of  grape  leaves, 
sprinkling  a  tea-spoonful  of  alum  over  each  layer.  Take 
equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water,  and  pour  over  enough  to 
cover  them  well.  Let  them  scald,  but  not  boil,  until  green ; 
then  lay  them  in  cold  water ;  when  cool,  open  them  and 
scrape  out  the  contents.  (Peel  melons,  but  not  cucumbers.) 
Put  them  into  a  stone  jar ;  take  a  half  gallon  of  vinegar,  a 
half  gallon  of  water,  and  three  pounds  of  sugar,  and  heat 
to  boiling  and  pour  over  them.  Let  them  stand  a  day  and 
night;  draw  off  the  vinegar,  heat  it,  and  pour  it  over  them 
again,  repeating  the  process  three  mornings.  Make  a  dress- 
ing of  one  quart  of  chopped  cabbage,  one  onion  chopped 
fine,  one  pint  of  white  mustard-seed,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves, 
half  an  ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  and  one 
ounce  of  celery-seed  (use  ground  spices) ;  fill  the  mangoes, 
sew  or  tie  together,  and  place  them  in  a  stone  jar.  Put  four 


120  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 

pounds  of  sugar  to  a  gallon  of  best  cider  vinegar ;  let  it  boil 
ten  minutes,  and  pour  it  over  the  mangoes.  The  mangoes 
must  be  kept  well  under  the  vinegar.  Mix  the  dressing 
with  a  tea-cupful  of  salad-oil,  if  liked. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Moores. 
SWEET  CUCUMBER  MANGOES. 

Take  medium-sized  cucumbers;  let  them  lie  in  salt-water 
nine  days,  boiling  the  water  every  morning ;  then  soak  them 
in  fresh  water  twenty-four  hours;  open  them  lengthwise, 
and  take  out  the  seeds.  Place  them  in  a  preserving-kettle, 
with  alternate  layers  of  grape  leaves,  sprinkling  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  alum  over  each  layer,  and  cover  with  equal  parts  of 
vinegar  and  water;  scald  until  green.  Squeeze  the  juice 
from  some  lemons,  cut  them  in  thin  slices,  including  the 
peeling;  then  fill  the  cucumbers  with  the  slices  of  lemons 
and  raisins;  tie  or  sew  together,  and  place  in  jars,  adding 
half  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  one  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark 
broken  in  small  pieces.  Make  a  sirup  of  one  pound  of  sugar 
to  one  pint  of  vinegar;  boil  and  pour  over  every  morning 
for  nine  mornings,  adding  enough  every  morning  to  thor- 
oughly cover  the  pickles.  Bettie  P.  Adamsox. 

TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES  OF  SPICES. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  (well  heaped)  of  ground  spices  weigh 
one  ounce. 

Two  and  one-half  table-spoonfuls  of  wThole  spices  weigh 
one  ounce. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  (well  heaped)  of  mustard-seed  weigh 
one  ounce. 

Two  and  one-half  table-spoonfuls  of  tumeric  weigh  one 
ounce. 

Three  table-spoonfuls  of  celery-seed  weigh  one  ounce. 


\ 


SALADS. 


MRS.  WILLIAM  MASSIE'S  SALAD. 

Boil  one  large  beet;  when  cold,  cut  in  small  slices.  Boil 
six  Irish  potatoes ;  when  cold,  slice.  Cut  up  one  large  head 
of  lettuce  or  an  equal  amount  of  cabbage,  sliced  on  a  potato- 
si  icer.  For  a  dressing,  take  the  yelks  of  three  eggs,  one 
tea-cupful  of  vinegar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  ground  mustard ; 
heat  them,  stirring  all  the  wThile,  until  thick ;  add  a  table- 
spoonful,  or  more  if  you  wish,  of  salad-oil,  and  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  sugar;  pour  over  the  salad.  Cut  up  one  or  two 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  lay  on  the  dish. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Steam  or  boil  three  chickens  until  tender;  cut  the  meat 
fine  with  scissors.  Cut  in  the  same  way  two  pints  of  celery. 
Sprinkle  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt  over  this.  Make  a  dress- 
ing of  the  yelks  of  ten  hard-boiled  eggs,  mashed  smoothly 
while  hot,  with  one  heaping  tea-cupful  of  butter,  two  level 
tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard.  Stir  into  this  gradually  three- 
fourths  of  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Chop  fine  four  hard-boiled 
eggs,  and  mix  with  the  chicken  and  celery.  Four  the  dress- 
ing over  it,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  or  longer  before  serv- 
ing. One-half  dozen  cucumber  pickles  chopped  fine  may 
be  added  to  the  salad,  if  desired.    Very  fine. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Boil  one  chicken  until  thoroughly  done,  pick  the  meat 
from  the  bones,  and  chop  it  very  fine.  In  the  absence  of 
celery,  use  one  coffee-cupful  of  chopped  cabbage,  with  one 

(121) 


122 


The  New  Kentucky  Some  Cook  Booh. 


tea-spoonful  of  celery-seed  mixed  through  it.  If  celery  is 
used,  cut  with  the  scissors  one  heaping  coffee-cupful,  two 
cucumber  pickles,  one  hard-boiled  egg  chopped  fine,  and 
one  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  mix  all  well  together  with  a  silver 
fork.  Make  a  dressing  of'  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  well  beat- 
en, a  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
sugar,  and  one  tea-cupful  of  vinegar.  Put  all  on  the  stove 
together,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  When 
co]d,  stir  in  smoothly  one  tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard. 
Pour  it  over  the  salad,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  or  two  before 
serving. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

Pick  carefully  one  can  of  salmon.  Boil  four  eggs  hard, 
separate  the  whites  from  the  yelks,  mash  the  yelks,  and  mix 
smoothly  with  a  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter  or  olive-oil. 
Dissolve  in  one  tea-cupful  of  vinegar  one  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  made  mustard,  and  one-half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper.  Mix  this  with  the  paste,  and  stir  lightly 
through  the  meat  with  a  silver  fork.  Garnish  with  parsley 
and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut  in  rings.  Lobster  salad  may 
be  prepared  in  the  same  way.        Mrs.  E.  S.  Buffixgtox. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

One  can  of  cove  oysters,  without  the  liquor.  Boil  four 
eggs  hard ;  chop  the  whites  fine,  and  add  them  to  the  oys- 
ters, with  one  tea-cupful  of  fine  cracker  crumbs;  mash  the 
yelks,  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  one  tea-cupful  of  vinegar,  one 
tea- spoonful  of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  celery-seed,  four 
medium-sized  cucumber  pickles  cut  in  small  pieces.  Pour 
the  dressing  over  the  oysters,  whites  of  eggs,  and  cracker 
crumbs ;  mix  with  a  fork.    Garnish  the  dish  with  parsley. 

Fresh  oysters,  cooked  for  five  minutes  in  their  own  liquor, 
cut  in  half,  and  allowed  to  get  cold,  make  better  salad  than 
cove  oysters.  Mks.  L.  C.  Dixmitt. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  123 

SALMON  SALAD. 

After  picking  over  carefully  one  can  of  salmon,  add  the 
liquor.  Roll  fine  one  dozen  butter  crackers,  mix  through 
the  salmon;  add  half  a  dozen  medium-sized  cucumber 
pickles  chopped  not  very  fine.  Make  a  dressing  of  the 
yelks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  tea-cupful  of  vinegar.  Boil 
until  it  thickens.  When  cold,  add  one  and  a  half  tea-spoon- 
ful of  made  mustard.  Pour  over  the  salad,  and  mix  with 
a  silver  fork.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

MACKEREL  SALAD. 

Take  two  boxes  of  mackerel,  and  mince  fine,  taking  out 
all  the  bones  and  pieces  of  fat;  cut  into  small  pieces  half  a 
dozen  medium-sized  cucumber  pickles,  and  mix  with  the 
mackerel ;  make  a  nice  salad  dressing,  and  pour  over. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Darnall. 

SARDINE  SALAD. 

Take  two  boxes  of  sardines;  skin  them,  and  take  out  the 
backbone;  mince  fine;  one  pint  of  chopped  celery,  half  a 
pint  of  cracker  crumbs,  one  pint  of  vinegar  which  must  be 
boiled,  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  wrell  beaten,  one  table-spoonful 
of  butter,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper;  mix  the 
seasoning  with  the  eggs,  and  gradually  pour  in  the  boiling 
vinegar ;  set  it  on  the  stove,  and  boil  until  thick ;  take  it 
off,  and  pour  over  the  sardines  the  celery  and  cracker 
crumbs ;  mix  well  with  a  silver  fork.  Let  the  salad  become 
perfectly  cold  before  serving.  Mrs.  Lucy  Keith. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

Take  one  can  of  cove  oysters,  two  eggs,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  celery-seed,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  Cayenne  pep- 
per, half  a  tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  half  a  tea-spoonful 


124  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


of  salt,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard.  Beat  the 
butter  and  eggs  together,  add  the  cream,  cook  to  the  con- 
sistency of  cream  by  placing  the  pan  containing  the  mixture 
in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water;  add  rolled  cracker  until  thick. 
When  cold,  pour  the  dressing  over  the  oysters. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Keith. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

To  one  can  of  cove  oysters,  picked  to  pieces,  take  one 
dozen  hard-boiled  eggs  (use  the  yelks  only  ),  mash  them,  and 
rub  in  smoothly  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter  (fresh  olive- 
oil  is  the  best;  if  used,  four  table-spoonfuls  is  enough),  one 
tea-cupful  of  vinegar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  one  tea-spocnful  of  mixed  mustard,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  celery- 
seed.    Pour  the  dressing  over  the  oysters. 

Mks.  T.  J.  Fisher. 

CRAB  SALAD. 

Take  one  can  of  crabs,  and  drain  them  well;  or  boil 
twelve  fresh  crabs,  picking  the  meat  carefully  to  pieces. 
Beat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the 
well-beaten  yelks  of  four  eggs,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  dry 
mustard,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper,  one  level 
tea-spoonful  of  salt;  mix  together,  and  put  on  the  stove, 
adding  one  tea-cupful  of  vinegar ;  boil  it  until  it  thickens, 
and  set  it  aside  to  get  cold.  Line  a  salad-bowl  with  crisp 
white  lettuce,  put  in  the  salad,  and  pour  over  the  dressing 
just  as  it  is  ready  to  serve,  as  it  is  not  good  after  standing. 

Shrimp  salad  is  prepared  and  served  in  the  same  way. 
EGG  SALAD. 

Boil  hard  one  dozen  esjffs,  slice  them  through  the  center, 
take  out  the  yelks,  mash  them  very  smoothly  with  two  heap- 
ing table-spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one-fourth  of  a  pound 
of  minced  cold  ham,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  celery-seed,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper;  pour 


TJie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


125 


gradually  into  the  eggs  and  seasoning  vinegar  enough  to 
make  a  smooth  paste.  Fill  the  whites  with  the  paste,  close 
them  together,  place  them  in  a  salad-bowl,  and  pour  over 
them  either  a  dressing  made  as  for  chicken  salad  or  cold 
vinegar.  ' 

CELERY  SALAD. 

Reserve  the  most  perfect  stalks  for  the  celery-glass,  using 
the  green  and  imperfect  ones  for  the  salad.  Cut  them  in 
small  pieces,  add  two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Into  two  well-beaten  eggs  pour  one 
tea-cupful  of  vinegar,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  butter;  boil 
until  it  thickens;  when  cold,  put  in  smoothly  one  table- 
spoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar ; 
pour  over  the  celery.  Let  it  stand  an  hour  or  two  before 
serving. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 
Pick  to  pieces  one  can  of  lobster,  cut  fine  the  same  quan- 
tity of  celery;  make  a  dressing  the  same  as  for  salmon  salad, 
adding  to  the  dressing  after  it  is  cold  one-fourth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce.  Or,  take  crisp  lettuce,  cut  it  with  scis- 
sors not  too  small ;  mix  it  lightly  through  the  lobster  with 
a  fork;  place  around  the  salad-bowl  small  crisp  leaves  of 
lettuce,  put  in  the  salad,  and  pour  over  the  dressing.  In 
serving,  give  to  each  person  some  of  the  salad  in  one  of  the 
leaves.  It  must  not  be  made  until  you  are  ready  to  use  it, 
as  the  lettuce  will  soon  wilt. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Take  two  coffee-cupfuls  of  mashed  potato,  run  through  a 
sieve;  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  white  cabbage,  cut  very 
fine ;  two  cucumber  pickles  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  the  yelks 
of  two  hard-boiled  eggs ;  mix  all  together  with  very  little 
vinegar.  Make  a  dressing  of  one  raw  egg  beaten  very  light, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  celery-seed,  one  tea-spoonful  of  sugar, 


126  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


one  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
flour,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  vinegar  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  one  tea-spoonful  of  pepper.  Boil  the  vinegar,  add  the 
beaten  eg*g  and  seasoning,  mix  the  flour  smoothly  in  a  little 
cold  vinegar,  and  add  to  the  dressing;  cook,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens.  Pour  it  over  the  salad,  mixing 
lightly  with  a  fork.    Let  it  be  cold  before  serving. 

Miss  Alice  Ficklix. 
POTATO  SALAD. 

Boil  five  or  six  good-sized  potatoes,  boil  hard  two  eggs, 
slice  three  onions  and  lay  them  in  vinegar  half  an  hour. 
When  the  eggs  and  potatoes  are  cold,  take  the  onions  out 
of  the  vinegar,  put  all  together,  and  chop  fine;  add  one 
level  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  celery-seed,  a 
tea-spoonful  and  a  half  of  mixed  mustard,  and  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  vinegar.    Make  a  few  hours  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Z.  T.  Moffett. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Boil  five  or  six  medium-sized  potatoes ;  when  they  become 
cold,  slice  them  tolerably  thin ;  mix  through  them  two  cu- 
cumber pickles  and  two  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  fine.  Prepare 
a  dressing  by  adding  to  two  well-beaten  eggs  a  tea-cupful  of 
vinegar,  a  slice  or  two  of  onion  minced  fine,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  one  table-spoonful  of 
mixed  mustard,  one  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  celery-seed.  Place 
it  over  the  fire,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
When  cool,  pour  it  over  the  potatoes,  and  set  it  away  in  a 
cold  place  until  meal-time.  Cold  potatoes  left  from  a  pre- 
vious meal  may  be  used,  instead  of  cooking  them  fresh ;  and 
a  simple  salad  may  be  prepared  by  omitting  the  pickles  and 
hard-boiled  eggs.  At  a  time  when  eggs  are  scarce,  one  will 
be  found  to  do  good  service  for  the  dressing. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  127 


HAM  SALAD. 
Take  scraps  of  cold  boiled  ham,  equal  in  quantity  to  one 
chicken,  and  chop  it  fine.  Boil  four  eggs  hard,  chop  the 
whites  fine,  mash  the  yelks,  adding  to  them  one  tea-spoonful 
of  pepper,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  dry  mustard,  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  celery-seed.  Mix  in  slowly  one-half  pint  of 
vinegar.    Fresh  celery  is  best,  and  if  used,  take  one  stalk. 

Mrs.  A.  K.  Glascock. 

FISH  OR  CHEESE  SALAD. 

Take  one  pound  and  a  half  of  cold  fish  chopped  fine,  one 
pound  of  cheese  grated,  three  -table-spoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter, one  tea-spoonful  each  of  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  one 
table-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  cel- 
ery-seed, one  very  small  onion,  three-fourths  of  a  tea-cupful 
of  vinegar,  and  three  hard-boiled  eggs.  First  rub  the  yelks 
of  the  eggs  to  a  paste  with  the  melted  butter,  adding  the 
salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  mustard,  at  the  last  the  cheese,  and 
then  the  fish.  Mix  all  well  together  before  putting  in  the 
vinegar.  Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Tabs. 

DRESSING  FOR  SLAW  OR  LETTUCE. 

Make  a  rich  custard  of  one-half  a  tea'-cupful  of  new  milk, 
the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  and  half  a  tea-cupful  of  sugar.  Stir 
into  the  custard  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  made  mustard,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  celery-seed,  and  one  tea-cupful  of  vinegar.  Have 
the  cabbage  nicely  shaved,  and  sprinkle  over  it  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  tumeric.    Pour  the  dressing  over  it  while  warm. 

Mrs.  X.  T.  Chexoweth. 

DRESSING  FOR  SLAW. 

Chop  a  white  cobbage  very  fine,  with  one-fourth  of  an 
onion,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Make  a  dressing  of 
half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  the  yelks  of  two  or  three  eggs,  one 


128  The  Neio  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


table-spoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar, 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  celery-seed,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
pepper,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  or  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  butter.  Boil  it  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly. 
When  done,  pour  over  the  cabbage  and  onion,  stirring  all 
the  time. 

DRESSING  FOR  SLAW. 

Beat  one  egg  until  very  light;  half  a  tea-cupful  of  vine- 
gar, one  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour;  boil  until  it  thickens.  Add 
a  small  quantity  of  celery  cut  fine  or  celery-seed  to  the  cab- 
bage. Mrs.  L.  M.  Keith. 

CREAM  DRESSING. 

Two  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  smoothly,  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  or  salad-oil,  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
mixed  mustard,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a  little  Cayenne  pep- 
per, and  half  a  tea-cupful  of  thick  sweet  cream ;  stir  all  to- 
gether, and  add  vinegar  to  reduce  it  to  a  creamy  paste. 
Pour  it  over  lettuce  or  any  salad.  Mrs.  L.  M.  Keith. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Beat  the  yelks  of  eight  eggs,  and  add  to  them  one  cupful 
of  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  mus- 
tard, a  table-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  a  little  Cayenne  pep- 
per, and  a  cupful  of  cream ;  mix  thoroughly.  Boil  a  cup- 
ful of  butter  in  one-half  pint  of  vinegar;  pour  this  upon 
the  mixture,  and  stir  well.  When  cold,  put  it  in  bottles. 
This  dressing  will  keep  for  weeks  in  the  hottest  weather. 

Mrs.  W.  K.  Griffith. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Take  the  yelks  of  eight  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  one 
tea-cupful  of  vinegar,  one  table-spoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  and 
one  tea-spoonful  of  celery-seed;  mix  all  together,  and  boil 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


129 


until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  done,  pour  into  it 
one  table-spoonful  of  salad-oil  or  melted  butter  (oil  is  the 
best),  and  stir  it  in  smoothly.  This  is  nice  dressing  for  raw 
or  cove  oysters,  chicken  salad,  or  cold  mutton. 

Mrs.  L.  M.  Keith. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Take  the  yelks  of  three  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  tea-cupful 
of  melted  butter,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea- 
cupful  of  vinegar,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 
one  tea-spooDful  of  sugar,  and  one-fourth  of  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt ;  boil  two  or  three  minutes.  Mrs.  G.  H.  Hotter. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Take  the  yelks  of  three  uncooked  eggs,  one  table-spoonful 
of  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  dry  mustard,  one-tenth  of  a 
tea-spoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
one-fourth  of  a  tea-cupful  of  vinegar,  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  one  pint  of  best  salad-oil,  and  one  tea-cupful  of 
whipped  cream.  Beat  the  eggs,  mustard,  sugar,  salt,  and 
Cayenne  together  until  very  light  and  thick ;  add  the  oil,  a 
drop  at  a  time,  until  it  becomes  so  thick  it  cannot  be  stirred ; 
then  add  the  oil  a  little  faster;  when  it  becomes  stiff  again, 
add  the  vinegar  and  oil  alternately;  lastly,  the  lemon-juice 
and  cream.  (Omit  the  cream,  if  desired.)  Place  it  on  ice 
for  a  few  hours,  unless  it  is  to  be  served  at  once. 

Much  depends  upon  the  mixing  of  this  most  delicious 
dressing.  Place  the  bowl  in  ice-water  while  making.  If 
the  oil  is  added  too  fast  it  will  curdle,  when  it  is  useless  to 
proceed.  Commence  over  again  with  fresh  ingredients,  and 
gradually  stir  in  that  which  has  been  mixed. 

Mrs.  Victor  C.  Gilman. 

DRESSED  TOMATOES. 

Take  large,  smooth,  ripe  tomatoes;  peel  and  slice  them. 

Make  a  salad  dressing  of  the  yelks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten, 

o 


130  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool-  Booh. 


one  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  one  coffee-cupful  of  vine- 
gar; boil  it  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly;  when  cold, 
add  one  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  mustard.  Serve  with  the  to- 
matoes. Or,  peel  the  tomatoes,  leaving  them  whole;  cut 
out  the  core,  and  serve  with  the  above  dressing  or  mayon- 
naise.   Either  will  be  found  excellent. 

CUCUMBERS. 
Lay  them  in  water  for  two  or  three  hours,  peel  them, 
slice  on  a  slicer,  lay  in  ice-water  half  an  hour,  and  drain 
well ;  pour  over  the  vinegar,  and  add  salt  and  pepper. 

RADISHES. 

Peel  or  scrape  them,  slice  them  thin,  sprinkle  over  them 
salt  and  pepj)er,  and  pour  vinegar  over  them. 

LETTUCE. 

Wash  very  carefully,  and  lay  in  ice-water.  Serve  with 
either  salad  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 


BREAD. 


BREAD  MAKING. 

To  the  uninitiated  in  this  the  most  important  department 
of  the  culinary  art  much  may  be  said  to  instruct;  at  the 
same  time  there  are  no  written  rules  that  can  guide  one  to 
perfection  as  experience  and  practice  do.  The  preparing 
of  good  and  wholesome  food  fills  an  important  place  in  the 
list  of  duties  which  falls  to  the  lot  of  the  housewife,  and 
prominent  among  these  preparations  is  the  making  of  good 
bread,  appropriately  designated  the  "staff  of  life,"  as  it  is 
really  the  food  of  all  classes.  Hence  the  importance  of 
obtaining  a  knowledge  of  an  art  that  is  so  universal  in  its 
demands,  and  so  productive  of  good.  We  Americans  may 
not  have  the  least  desire  to  adopt  or  indorse  the  course  pur- 
sued by  the  people  of  the  Old  World,  yet  the  fact  that  "  the 
wife's  inability  to  make  good  bread  is  a  ground  for  divorce 
among  the  Arabs"  will  show,  to  a  certain  extent,  how  con- 
ducive such  an  acquisition  is  to  domestic  peace.  In  the  culti- 
vation of  whatever  undeveloped  talent  we  may  possess  in  this 
line  Ave  will  presuppose  that  we  have  at  our  command  the 
first  essentials,  which  are  good  flour,  lively  yeast,  and  an  oven 
that  does  good  baking.  Having  these  requisites,  with  due 
attention  paid  to  the  proportioning  of  ingredients  as  given  in 
the  different  receipts  under  the  head  of  Bread,  we  cannot  but 
feel  assured  that  the  swift,  deft  touch  which  makes  the  work 
easy  and  sure  will  come  with  practice.  In  making  yeast 
bread,  if  it  is  desirable  to  have  the  baking  done  in  the  early 
part  of  the  day,  the  sponge  (which  can  be  prepared  by  di- 
rections given  in  receipts)  must  be  made  in  the  afternoon. 
In  cold  weather  use  warm  water  in  making  the  sponge,  us- 


132 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


ing  a  crock  or  jar  (never  in  tin)  in  which  to  have  it  rise. 
If  necessary,  the  vessel  which  contains  the  sponge  can  he 
protected  from  the  cold  by  wrapping  it  in  a  worn  blanket 
kept  for  this  purpose.  After  it  has  risen,  the  bread  can  be 
mixed  during  the  evening,  and  left  to  lighten  in  the  bread- 
pan.  For  this  purpose,  use  a  large  seamless  pan  with 
handles  and  a  closely  fitted  cover.  Tin  is  preferable  to 
wood,  being  much  easier  cleansed  after  using.  The  temper- 
ature of  the  flour  and  sponge  should  correspond.  After 
having  stirred  the  sponge  into  the  flour,  if  additional  moist- 
ure is  needed  use  warm  water,  keeping  the  dough  as  solt  as 
can  well  be  handled.  Protect  the  bread-pan  from  the  cold 
as  you  did  the  sponge-jar,  and  leave  the  mass  to  lighten. 
The  dough  at  the  first  rising  should  increase  to  twice  its 
original  size.  After  the  bread  is  mixed  then  begins  the 
process  of  kneading,  which  is  a  very  important  part  of  bread 
making.  Good  cooks  differ  as  to  the  number  of  times  the 
dough  should  be  worked,  each  being  successful  in  carrying 
out  her  individual  ideas.  Some  insist  that  twice  is  the  com- 
plement, while  others  are  quite  as  well  satisfied  with  knead- 
ing it  well  at  the  time  of  mixing,  and  once  again  for  a  few 
minutes  only  after  it  has  lightened,  before  molding  the 
loaves  preparatory  to  the  second  rising.  The  queen  of  the 
kitchen,  be  she  mistress  or  maid,  can  show  her  desire  to  add 
to  the  pleasure  of  the  household  by  rising  early  in  order  to 
prepare  the  light  rolls  so  delicious  for  the  morning  meal. 
The  batch  of  bread'  made  up  the  evening  before  (if  a  suc- 
cess) will  be  found  waiting  her  attention.  After  sprinkling 
a  little  flour  on  the  kneading-board,  separate  a  piece  of  the 
lightened  dough  and  work  a  table-spoonful  of  lard  into  it, 
kneading  it  until  smooth,  then  make  into  rolls,  either  .by 
rolling  the  dough  and  cutting  with  a  deep  cutter,  or  make 
into  shape  with  the  hand,  place  in  a  pan  slightly  warm 
and  well  greased  with  lard,  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  to 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  133 

lighten,  while  you  knead  the  remainder  of  the  dough  and 
mold  into  loaves,  which  are  also  to  be  put  in  pans  warmed 
and  greased,  and  to  be  kept  warm  while  rising.  This  sec- 
ond rising  will  require  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  if  the  tem- 
perature is  favorable,  and  will  increase  the  rolls  and  loaves 
one  and  a  half  time  their  original  size.  The  next  requisite 
is  a  properly  heated  oven,  which  can  be  tested  by  placing  a 
tea-spoonful  of  flour  in  a  small  dish  and  setting  it  in  the 
oven;  if  it  browns  in  one  minute,  the  heat  will  be  just  right. 
It  is  quite  important  that  the  baking  process  should  begin 
immediately.  The  temperature  of  the  oven  should  be  kept 
regular  throughout  the  baking,  which  will  require  from 
thirty  to  forty-five  minutes.  Many  persons  allow  the  bread 
to  remain  in  the  oven,  with  the  door  open,  after  it  is  appar- 
ently done,  to  soak,  according  to  kitchen  parlance.  This  is 
to  dry  out  the  moisture  and  prevent  the  bread  from  being 
clammy.  When  removed  from  the  oven,  wrap  in  a  cloth 
and  place  in  such  a  position  that  the  air  may  strike  all 
sides.  Wire  trays  or  stands  for  holding  bread  are  very 
convenient,  and  facilitate  the  cooling.  Of  course  these  gen- 
eral directions  in  regard  to  the  making  of  the  sponge  and 
bread  will  vary  as  the  seasons  change;  in  summer,  making 
use  of  cold  water,  and  making  sponge  and  bread  in  the  morn- 
ing, so  as  to  give  it  attention  and  prevent  its  becoming  sour. 

In  making  salt-rising  in  the  place  of  yeast  bread,  follow 
directions  given  under  that  head.  The  principal  difference 
in  the  making  of  the  bread  is  that  it  requires  the  dough  to 
be  somewhat  softer,  and  it  can  also  be  placed  in  the  pan 
used  for  baking  as  soon  as  it  is  mixed  and  kneaded  suffi- 
ciently, and  allowed  to  rise  but  the  once  after  being  made 
into  bread.  Light  bread  should  never  be  cut  while  hot,  but 
if  it  is  unavoidable,  use  a  well-heated  knife.  It  is  by  pay- 
ing attention  to  these  details  that  we  secure  for  ourselves 
happy  results. 


134 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


And  now  a  word  to  mothers.  Send  your  daughters  into 
the  kitchen  and  have  them  trained  even  in  this  one  domes- 
tic accomplishment,  and  you  will  find  that  the  effort  will 
not  return  unto  you  void,  but  will  repay  a  hundred-fold. 
The  knowledge  may  not  be  called  into  requisition  just  now, 
but  can  be  held  in  reserve  for  future  emergencies.  When 
Bridget  can't  and  Dinah  won't,  then  my  lady  can  stand 
forth  and  assert  her  dignity  by  being  mistress  of  the  situa- 
tion. There  is  nothing  more  conducive  to  the  health  and 
happiness  of  a  family  than  good  bread.  An  indifferent 
meal  supplemented  with  a  crisp  roll  or  flaky  biscuit  becomes 
at  once  a  pleasant  recollection,  so  let  us  see  to  it  that  our 
children  are  instructed  in  this  art,  and  become  proficient  by 
daily  practice,  and  thus  secure  for  themselves  and  dear  ones 
sound  bodies  and  happy  homes. 

DRY  YEAST. 

Make  of  one  good-sized  handful  of  hops  a  strong  tea  and 
strain  it  over  one  quart  of  flour.  Boil  two  large  potatoes, 
mash  and  mix  with  it,  and  when  cool  add  three  cakes  of 
yeast  dissolved.  Let  it  rise,  and  make  it  out  in  cakes  with 
dry  corn-meal.  Miss  Phcebe  Wood. 

LIQUID  YEAST. 

Boil  six  potatoes  until  done;  boil  one  handful  of  hops  in 
a  half  gallon  of  water;  mash  the  potatoes,  add  a  handful 
of  salt,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  flour.  Strain  the  hop  water  into  this;  let  it  set 
till  cool;  pour  in  half  a  tea-cupful  of  old  yeast;  put  into  a 
jug,  set  in  a  warm  place.  When  it  sings,  it  is  ready  for 
use.  Miss  Phcebe  Wood. 

SPLENDID  YEAST. 

Put  five  or  six  good-sized  potatoes  with  a  handful  of  hops 
tied  in  a  thin  bag  into  a  half  gallon  of  boiling  water.  Boil 
all  together  until  the  potatoes  are  done,  then  remove  the 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


135 


sack  of  hops,  squeezing  well.  Pour  the  water  off  the  pota- 
toes, and  place  where  it  will  keep  hot.  Mash  very  fine  and 
smooth,  add  half  a  tea-cupful  of  salt  and  one  tea-cupful  of 
sugar,  then  gradually  the  water  in  which  the  potatoes  were 
boiled.  Stir  all  together ;  pour  into  a  gallon  stone  jar  and 
put  a  saucer  over  the  top.  When  milk  warm,  break  in  two 
good-sized  cakes  of  yeast,  and  leave  overnight  in  a  warm 
j)lace  to  rise.  Let  it  remain  anywhere  in  the  kitchen  for 
two  or  three  days,  stirring  from  the  bottom  once  or  twice  a 
day,  then  set  away  in  the  cellar  or  some  cool  place.  This 
yeast  does  not  sour — it  improves  with  age.  One  tea-cupful 
is  sufficient  for  three  or  four  loaves  of  bread.  Always  re- 
serve the  last  tea-cupful  to  start  the  next  yeast,  as  it  is  pref- 
erable to  the  cake  yeast  for  this  purpose. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 
SPONGE  FOR  BREAD. 

Boil  three  good-sized  potatoes  in  a  quart  of  water ;  when 
done,  add  enough  flour  to  the  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
then  add  the  potatoes  well  mashed,  and  lastly  a  cake  of  yeast 
dissolved  in  lukewarm  water.  In  winter,  have  the  potatoes 
and  water  boiling  hot;  in  summer,  have  them  moderately 
warm.    This  receipt  will  make  a  half  gallon  of  sponge. 

Mrs.  James  F.  Kobinson. 

Bread  Made  with  This  Sponge. — Three  quarts  of  flour, 
three  table-spoonfuls  of  lard  worked  in  thoroughly,  salt,  one 
coffee-cupful  of  sponge.  Mix  rather  soft  with  lukewarm 
water,  and  set  to  rise.  It  must  be  worked  a  great  deal  be- 
fore putting  to  rise.  When  risen,  work  in  a  table-spoonful 
of  sugar  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  water. 
To  make  good  bread,  work  till  it  blisters,  let  it  rise  again, 
and  bake. 

Pocket-books  can  be  made  by  this  same  receipt,  by  break- 
ing in  three  eggs  while  first  mixing,  and  when  ready  to  bake 
butter  and  turn  over  the  top, 


136 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


Graham  bread  can  be  made  by  this  receipt,  by  using  Gra- 
ham flour,  either  sifted  or  unsifted. 

Mrs.  Joseph  F.  Brodrick. 

TO  SET  A  SPONGE  FOR  BREAD. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  yeast  and  stir  into  it  one  pint  of 
milk-warm  water  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  which  it  should  do  in  about  one 
hour.  Measure  two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  sprinkle  over  it  a 
half  tea-cupful  of  sugar  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Make 
a  hole  in  the  center  and  pour  in  the  risen  sponge,  rinsing 
out  the  bowl  with  as  much  warm  water  as  it  will  require  to 
make  up  the  flour.  Knead  until  it  blisters;  make  into  a 
shapely  ball,  place  in  the  center  of  a  well-floured  bread- 
bowl.  Grease  the  top  to  prevent  a  crust  from  forming,  put 
it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  with  a  clotli  thrown  lightly  over 
it.  When  it  has  risen  to  more  than  twice  its  original  size, 
work  wTell  again.  Make  out  into  small  loaves,  grease  them, 
set  to  rise,  and  then  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Tare. 

SPONGE  FOR  BREAD. 

Break  two  cakes  of  yeast  into  a  tea-cup;  pour  enough 
water  over  it  to  cover,  and  let  it  stand  until  soft.  Put  one 
and  one-half  pint  of  water  in  a  bowl,  pour  in  the  yeast,  and 
add  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  until  smooth 
and  light.    Let  this  sponge  rise  overnight. 

Bread  Made  with  This  Sponge. — To  one-half  pint  of 
sweet  milk  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  During  the 
summer  months,  let  the  scalded  milk  get  nearly  cold  before 
making  the  bread ;  in  winter,  have  it  warm  but  not  hot 
enough  to  scald  the  yeast.  Take  a  large  pan,  used  only  for 
bread,  a  large  iron  spoonful  of  lard,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
salt,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  half  a  tea-spoonful 
of  soda.    Cream  the  lard,  sugar,  salt,  and  soda  together, 


Tlie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh 


137 


then  pour  in  the  scalded  milk,  then  the  sponge;  add  as 
much  flour  as  you  can  stir  in  with  a  spoon.  Turn  it  out  on 
your  bread-board  on  which  you  have  sprinkled  flour,  and 
continue  to  work  flour  in  until  it  is  a  soft  dough ;  knead 
well  about  fifteen  minutes,  return  to  bread-pan,  grease  on 
top  with  a  little  lard,  and  set  away  to  rise.  Knead  a  sec- 
ond time.  This  quantity  will  make  two  loaves  and  a  pan 
of  rolls.  Grease  the  pans  before  putting  in  the  bread,  rub 
a  little  melted  lard  over  the  top,  and  set  away  to  rise,  cov- 
ering with  a  clean  towel.  When  light  enough,  bake  one 
hour  .in  an  oven  not  too  hot.  When  the  crust  begins  to 
form,  cover  the  top  with  paper.  Mrs.  Annie  Lee. 

BREAD  MADE  WITH  FLEISCH  MAN'S  YEAST. 

For  use  in  the  morning — makes  four  loaves.  Dissolve 
thoroughly  one  two-cent  cake  of  Fleischman's  compressed 
yeast  in  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water,  and  stir  in  sifted  flour 
until  the  mixture  is  a  little  thicker  than  griddle-cake  bat- 
ter. Set  it  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  it  rises 
and  begins  to  go  back.  Your  sponge  is  now  complete.  Add 
to  the  sponge  one  quart  of  lukewarm  water,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  salt,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  butter ;  add  sifted  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  as  soft 
as  can  be  handled ;  knead  well.  When  thoroughly  light, 
knead,  make  into  loaves,  put  into  well-greased  pans  for 
final  rising.  This  last  kneading  should  be  very  thorough. 
When  light,  bake,  remembering  that  it  will  spring  more  in 
the  oven.  When  baked,  lean  it  against  something,  throw  a 
cloth  over  it,  and  cool  by  contact  with  air  on  all  sides. 

To  make  overnight.  Dissolve  one  two-cent  cake  of  yeast 
in  two  quarts  of  water.  Add  two  table-spoonfuls  each  of 
salt,  butter,  and  sugar,  also  sifted  flour  enough  to  make  a 
moderately  stiff  dough ;  knead  thoroughly.  In  the  morn- 
ing, when  thoroughly  light,  make  into  four  loaves,  and  let 


138  The  New  Kentucky  Some  Cook  Booh 


them  stand  about  one  hour,  or  till  light,  then  bake.  Keep 
the  dough  moderately  warru  in  winter ;  in  warm  weather, 
ccol. 

BOSTON  BROWN-BREAD. 

Dissolve  one  two-cent  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  three- 
fourths  of  a  pint  of  water,  and  stir  in  one  cupful  of  wheaten 
flour.  Let  it  rise  five  hours,  then  stir  in  one  quart  of  wa- 
ter, a  good  half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
two  and  one-half  tea-spoonfuls  of  molasses,  one  large  quart 
of  Indian  meal,  one  large  pint  of  rye  meal,  raisins  if  de- 
sired. Put  into  a  pan  and  steam  or  bake  five  hours.  If 
steamed,  take  out  of  the  pan  and  put  into  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  to  dry.  Makes  one  large  family  pan.  Can  steam 
or  bake  with  slow  fire  all  night,  if  desired. 

ROLLS  MADE  WITH  FLEISCH MAN'S  YEAST. 

Take  two  quarts  of  flour,  measure  after  sifting;  mix  with 
it  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  rub 
in  one  table-spoonful  of  lard  or  butter.  Boil  one  pint  of 
milk  and  cool  it ;  when  lukewarm,  add  oue-half  cake  of  com- 
jn*essed  yeast  dissolved  in  half  a  cupful  of  lukewarm  water 
or  milk.  Make  a  hole  in  the  flour,  and  pour  in  the  milk 
and  yeast,  stirring  in  just  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  bat- 
ter. Cover  and  let  it  rise  overnight,  and  in  the  morning 
stir  in  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  knead  twenty  minutes,  usiug 
no  more  flour.  The  dough  should  be  very  stiff.  Let  it  rise 
again.  When  light,  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut 
with  round  or  oval  cutter.  Fold  edges  together,  rise  agaiu, 
Avell  covered,  until  very  light.  Bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
in  a  very  hot  oven.  If  not  mixed  overnight,  set  a  whole 
cake  of  yeast. 

SALT-RISING  BREAD. 

Pour  one-half  pint  of  scalding  night's  milk  over  two  ta- 
ble-spoonfuls cf  sifted  meal ;  set  it  iu  a  warm  place  overnight. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


139 


In  the  morning,  take  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water,  being  care- 
ful not  to  get  it  too  warm.  Mix  this  with  the  meal,  and 
put  with  it  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  same  of  soda,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick 
sponge,  leaving  some  of  the  flour  on  top.  Set  this  into  a 
pot  of  water  warm  enough  to  bear  your  hand  in.  Cover 
both  sponge  and  pot  of  water  closely,  and  set  on  back  of 
the  range  or  near  where  the  water  will  keej3  the  same  tem- 
perature. It  ought  to  rise  in  two  or  three  hours.  When 
it  rises  to  twice  its  original  height,  have  ready  two  quarts 
of  sifted  flour,  into  which  mix  thoroughly  one  tea-spoonful 
of  salt  and  a  lump  of  lard  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg.  Make  a 
hole  in  the  center  and  pour  in  the  rising.  If  this  is  not 
enough  rising  to  take  up  all  the  flour,  add  lukewarm  water 
to  the  flour  in  the  bowl  in  which  you  are  mixing.  Knead 
well  about  twenty  minutes;  make  into  loaves;  set  to  rise, 
and  then  bake.  Mrs.  Charles  E.  Tabb. 

SALT-RISING  BREAD. 

Same  as  previous  receipt,  excepting  that  just  before  put- 
ting the  lard  and  salt  into  the  sifted  flour,  take  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  new  milk  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  sifted 
flour,  stirring  it  well  with  a  spoon.  Let  this  cool,  then  put 
in  the  lard  and  salt,  and  proceed  as  in  previous  receipt. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Keith. 

SALT-RISING  BREAD. 

The  eveniDg  before  wanting  the  bread,  pour  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  boiling  milk  over  one  table-spoonful  of  sifted  meal, 
and  set  it  in  a  hot  place  overnight — either  in  the  stove  oven 
or  under  the  grate  in  hot  ashes.  In  the  morning,  stir  the 
scalded  meal  into  a  stiff  batter  made  of  half  a  pint  of  luke- 
warm water  and  two  coffee-cupfuls  of  flour.  Place  this  in 
a  covered  vessel  in  water  steaming  hot,  but  not  hot  enough 
to  cook  it.    Set  it  in  a  warm  place  and  let  it  rise.  Put 


140  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Booh. 


into  a  bread-bowl  four  quarts  of  flour,  stir  in  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt;  then  pour 
in  the  rising  and  one  and  one-half  pint  of  lukewarm  water. 
Make  a  soft  dough,  work  it  five  minutes  or  less,  make  into 
loaves  to  about  half  fill  the  pan,  and  set  in  a  moderately 
warm  place  to  rise  till  it  fills  the  pan.  When  well  risen, 
bake  in  a  tolerably  hot  oven  about  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Frank  Peale,  Carlisle,  Ky. 

ROLLS. 

Take  two  tea-cupfuls  of  yeast,  one  egg,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  white  sugar,  two  quarts  of  flour,  butter  and  lard  mixed 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Beat  the  egg,  yeast,  and  one  spoonful 
of  the  sugar  together,  stir  shortening  and  one  spoonful  of 
the  sugar  into  the  flour.  Pour  in  the  yeast,  and  add  enough 
water  to  make  dough.  Roll  out,  and  cut  like  biscuit.  Put 
two  pieces  together  with  butter  between.  Let  them  rise,  and 
bake.  Mrs.  Desha. 

LIGHT  ROLLS. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  one  large  iron  spoonful  of  lard, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tea-cupful 
of  yeast.  Make  up  in  summer  with  cold  water,  or  in  win- 
ter with  warm  water.  In  summer  make  up  at  one  o'clock 
and  set  aside  to  rise,  or  in  winter  at  eleven  o'clock.  An 
hour  before  tea,  work  and  make  into  shape.  Grease  slight- 
ly on  top  to  prevent  them  from  getting  hard,  and  when  they 
have  risen  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Miss  Mollie  Chiles,  Lexington,  Ky. 

ROLLS. 

Stir  enough  flour  into  half  a  pint  of  hot  buttermilk  to 
make  it  very  stiff,  and  when  cold  add  one  cake  of  dissolved 
yeast,  and  let  it  rise  all  night.  In  the  morning,  take  three 
pints  of  flour  before  it  is  sifted,  two  iron  spoonfuls  of  sponge, 
lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  salt,  and 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  141 


sufficient  lukewarm  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Make  into 
rolls,  set  to  rise,  and  bake.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Walworth. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  ROLLS. 

Take  sixteen  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  yeast,  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  four  cupfuls  of  boiling  milk. 
Melt  the  butter  and  sugar  in  the  milk,  having  the  milk  luke- 
warm, and  mix  the  bread,  adding  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
after  mixing  in  part  of  the  flour.  Knead  stiff,  and  let  rise 
in  a  warm  place  overnight.  In  the  morning,  knead  into 
rolls,  let  rise  till  light,  rub  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  over 
the  top  of  the  rolls,  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes. 

Miss  Harrison. 

TEA  ROLLS. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  lard  the  size  of  an  egg.  Mix 
the  baking-powder  and  salt  through  the  flour,  then  the  lard. 
Work  into  a  soft  dough  with  nearly  a  pint  of  sweet  milk. 
Roll  out  thin  on  the  biscuit-board;  spread  with  melted  but- 
ter, and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Then  roll  it  over  and  over, 
and  cut  down  in  slices  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick. 
Lay  flat  in  the  biscuit-pan,  and  bake  quickly.  Very  nice. 

Mrs.  William  Davis. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Dissolve  two  table-spoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  salt,  three-fourths  of  a  tea-cupful  of  good  yeast,  one 
cupful  of  lard  in  one  quart  of  warm  milk,  four  quarts  of 
flour  before  sifting.  Mix  all  together,  leaving  out  a  little 
of  the  flour, to  roll  out  with.  If  wanted  for  breakfast,  mix 
them  at  night ;  but  if  for  tea,  mix  them  in  the  morning. 
Let  them  rise  well,  then  knead,  and  cut  out.  Put  them  into 
pans  to  rise  again  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  bake. 

Miss  Sue  Bierbower. 


142  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


POCKET-BOOKS. 

Take  one  quart  of  sponge,  three  eggs  beaten  separately 
very  light  then  whipped  together,  one  cupful  of  lard  or  but- 
ter, one  cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  well,  and  set  in 
a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  knead  again.  Pinch 
off  small  pieces,  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  spread  with 
butter  and  sugar,  and  then  fold  over  and  press  the  edges 
together  with  the  fingers.  Lay  them  in  well-buttered  pans, 
and  set  to  rise.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs,  Annie  Lee. 

BAKING-POWDER. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  pound 
of  soda  less  two  table-spoonfuls,  one  ounce  of  tartaric  acid, 
one-half  cupful  of  flour.    Keep  in  a  close  can. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Bierbower. 
BAKING-POWDER  BISCUIT. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  one-third  of  a  tea-spoonful  of 
soda,  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  enough  sour  milk  to  make 
into  a  soft  dough.  Mrs.  Annie  Lee. 

DROP  BISCUIT. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard,  two 
heaping  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder  well  mixed  in  the 
flour,  a  little  salt,  a  little  over  half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  or 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  into  greased  pans,  and 
bake  quickly.  Mrs.  Peale,  Carlisle,  Ky. 

EXCELLENT  BISCUIT. 

Sift  one  quart  of  flour  with  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of 
salt.  Stir  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  soda  into  one  pint  of  sour 
cream.    Mix  and  bake  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Mrs.  John  W.  Power. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


143 


BAKING-POWDER  BISCUIT. 

Take  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  put  iuto  it  three  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  baking-powder  also  sifted.  Mix  thoroughly.  Rub 
into  this  a  piece  of  shortening  (half  lard  and  half  butter ) 
about  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  a  little  salt,  and  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk.  Sprinkle  the  board  to  prevent  sticking.  Bake 
immediately  in  a  hot  oven.  Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 

COFFEE  BREAD. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  one  egg  not  beaten,  one  cupful 
of  sugar,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  with 
sweet  milk  to  a  soft  dough  (nearly  one  pint),  two  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  baking-powder.  Divide  into  three  quantities  and 
put  into  jelly-pans.  Score  deeply;  pour  over  this  one  cup- 
ful of  melted  butter;  then  mix  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one 
paper  of  ground  cinnamon  together,  and  sprinkle  over  this. 
Bake.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Hunter. 

FEDERAL  BREAD. 

Take  three  eggs,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  lard,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  quart  of  flour,  sufficient  buttermilk 
to  wet  it,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Let  it  rise  like  light 
bread.    Bake.  ^Rs.  D.  B.  Lacy,  Owixgsville,  Ky. 

SODA  BISCUIT. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  into  which'  mix  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  lard  and  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Then  stir  into 
one-half  pint  of  buttermilk  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 
Mix  this  with  the  flour.    Bake  quickly. 

GRAHAM  BISCUIT. 

Take  one  quart  of  Graham  flour,  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar, 
sour  cream  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  one  tea-spoonful 
soda,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Work  sugar,  butter,  and 
flour  together;  then  add  cream,  and  work  but  little.  Make 
into  biscuits,  and  bake.      Mrs.  Joxes,  Escuuapia  Springs. 


144  The  New  Kentucky  Some  Cook  Book. 


BEEF-SUET  BISCUIT. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  oue  tea-spoouful  of  suet  chopped 
fine,  one-half  pint  of  buttermilk,  and  one-half  tea-spoonful 
of  soda.  Mrs.  N.  A.  Glascock. 

BUTTERMILK  BISCUIT. 
Take  one  quart  of  buttermilk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda, 
one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

Mrs.  Cary  Hall. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

Take  one  quart  of  unbolted  flour,  one  pint  of  buttermilk, 
one  egg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  salt.  Put  the  soda  in  the 
buttermilk,  then  add  the  egg.  Stir  in  the  flower  very  slow- 
ly until  it  becomes  a  smooth  batter.  Bake  quickly  in  a  hot 
oven.  Mrs.  Tabb. 

QUICK  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pint  of  sour  milk,  one-half  coffee- 
cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  as  much 
Graham  flour  as  can  be  stirred  in  with  a  spoon.  Pour  into 
a  well-greased  pan,  and  put  into  the  oven.  Bake  for  two 
hours.    Excellent.  Mrs.  W.  S.  Moores. 

GRAHAM  PUFFS. 

Take  one  quart  of  buttermilk,  two  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar, 
Graham  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Grease  the  muffin- 
irons,  set  on  the  stove  until  thoroughly  heated ;  pour  in  the 
batter  and  bake.  Mrs.  Moores, 

GRAHAM  BISCUIT. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pint  of  Graham  flour,  two  level 
table-spoonfuls  of  lard,  one  and  one-half  dessert-spoonful  of 
baking-powder,  three-fourths  of  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  salt. 
Mix  as  in  baking-powder  biscuits,  and  bake  quickly.  Do 
not  sift  Graham  flour.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Robinson. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  143 


RUSK. 

Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  beat  with 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  beat  one  egg  with  another  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  even  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
salt,  sifted  with  three  pints  of  flour.  Use  two  coffee-cupful^ 
of  potato  sponge.  Knead  well;  let  rise,  and  knead  again 
before  putting  into  pans.  Miss  Phcebe  Wood. 

RUSK. 

To  three  quarts  of  flour  add  two  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  su- 
gar, three  table-spoonfuls  of  lard,  one  coffee-cupful  of  sponge. 
Work  well,  and  let  it  rise ;  then  make  out  into  shapes  and 
cover  the  tops  with  sugar  and  egg  beaten  stiff.  Then  grate 
a  little  nutmeg  over  them,  and  let  rise  again.    Bake.  Nice. 

Mrs.  Calvert. 

RUSK. 

Take  four  pints  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  lard,  one  cupful  of  yeast  sponge, 
three  eggs  beaten  light,  one  spoonful  of  salt.  Let  the  dough 
rise  twice  before  making  the  rusk  into  shape.  Take  the 
white  of  one  egg  and  a  table-spoonful  of  milk,  beat  well  to- 
gether, spread  over  the  tops  of  the  rusk,  then  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon  when  sufficiently  light 
to  bake.  Mrs.  Annie  Lee. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  sufficient  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Work  and 
beat  until  it  blisters  and  becomes  soft.  Roll  out  half  an 
inch  thick,  stick  with  a  fork  in  the  center  of  each,  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven.  Miss  Mollie  Chiles,  Lexington,  Ky. 

WAFERS. 

Mix  thoroughly  into  one  pint  of  flour  one  table-spoonful 
of  lard,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  salt.    Mix  into  a  stiff  dough 
with  one  tea-cupful  of  cold  water  and  sweet  milk  (half  of 
10 


146  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


each).  Work  and  beat  until  it  is  smooth  and  blisters.  Roll 
out  thin,  cut  into  small  biscuit ;  then  roll  each  biscuit  until 
it  is  as  thin  as  a  knife-blade.  Bake  until  a  nice  brown  in  a 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 

PLAIN  BISCUIT. 

Take  one  table-spoonful  of  lard,  one  tea-cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one  quart  of  flour.  Rub 
the  lard  in  the  flour,  add  the  milk.  Beat  or  work  till  it 
blisters.  Mrs.  C.  C.  Dqbyns. 

KENTUCKY  BISCUIT. 

Take  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  lard  the  size  of  a  hen's 
egg,  one  even  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one  tea-cupful  of  ice-wa- 
ter.   Knead  till  they  blister.  Mrs.  Tabb. 

WHEATEN  MUFFINS. 

Take  one  pint  of  flour,  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  one-half 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  the  yelk  of  one  egg 
and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  salt,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  lard.    Makes  one  dozen  muffins. 

Mrs.  Peale,  Carlisle,  Ky. 

QUICK  MUFFINS. 

Take  two  tea-cupfuls  of  buttermilk,  one  tea-cupful  of 
thick  cream,  or  three  even  table-spoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
four  eggs,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  quart  of  flour. 
Dissolve  soda  in  the  milk,  add  the  yelks  well  beateu,  then 
the  butter  or  cream;  then  beat  the  flour  in  thoroughly. 
Lastly,  add  the  beaten  whites.  Have  muffin-irons  well 
greased  and  very  hot.  Pour  in  the  batter,  and  bake  quickly. 
Very  nice.  Mrs.  James  F.  Kobinson. 

GERMAN  PUFFS. 

Take  four  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pint  of  flour,  one  and 
one-half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  pinch 
of  salt.    Beat  hard  and  light.    Bake  quickly.  Delightful. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Wadsworth. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  147 


CREAM  BISCUIT. 

Beat  four  eggs  well,  mix  them  with  one  quart  of  cream 
and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  yeast ;  then  stir  in  flour  until  the 
dough  is  stiff  enough  to  bake.  Make  into  biscuits,  and  let 
them  rise  for  five  hours.  Bake  for  a  few  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven.  Mes.  Huxter. 

SALLY-LUNN,  WITH  YEAST. 

Dissolve  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg  in  one 
pint  of  sweet  milk  Avarmed ;  beat  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  well, 
add  the  milk  and  butter,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  granulated 
sugar  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  yeast.  Xext,  stir  in  six 
even  tea-cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  and  lastly,  the  whites  of  the 
egg  well  whipped.  Make  up  about  twelve  o'clock  in  win- 
ter for  tea.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Beat  up  again  at 
five,  pour  into  pans  about  one  inch  deep,  set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise  the  second  time,  and  bake  when  it  is  light,  in  rather 
a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

SALLY-LUNN. 

Take  two  eggs  beaten  light,  one  tea-cupful  of  yeast  or 
sponge,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  butter,  one  dessert-spoonful 
of  lard,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  two  pints  of  flour. 
Mix  well  with  a  spoon  at  twelve  o'clock.  Let  it  rise;  then 
add  a  small  quantity  of  flour.  "Work  it  again  at  four  o'clock, 
put  into  buttered  pie-pans  and  let  it  rise  ready  for  six  o'clock 
tea.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  Annie  Lee. 

WAFFLES. 

Take  five  eggs,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter  and  lard 
mixed.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  put  the  butter  and  a  lit- 
tle milk  into  the  yelks,  stirring  well.  Thicken  with  flour, 
beat  well,  then  thin  it  with  milk,  add  a  little  salt,  Put  the 
whites  on  top,  and  stir  in  as  you  bake  the  waffles.  Have 
irons  well  greased  and  very  hot. 

Mrs,  Thomas  J.  Chexowetii. 


148  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


SALLY-LUNN. 

Take  three  light  coffee-cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  cupful 
of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Mix  into  a 
batter,  add  a  little  more  milk  if  not  thin  enough,  and  bake 
quickly.  Mrs.  James  F.  Kobixsox. 

WAFFLES. 

Take  one  pint  of  flour,  two  eggs,  one  dessert-spoonful  of 
lard,  one  and  one-fourth  pint  of  buttermilk,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.  Mks.  Sumraxl. 

WAFFLES,  OR  FLANNEL  CAKES. 

Put  one  table-spoonful  of  butter  in  one  quart  of  warm 
milk.  When  cool,  beat  five  eggs  very  light  and  stir  in  the 
milk  alternately  with  one-half  pound  of  flour.  Add  one 
cake  of  yeast  dissolved  in  warm  water,  or  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  liquid  yeast,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Set  the  batter 
to  rise.  When  light,  bake  either  in  waffle-irons,  or  fry  on 
a  hot  griddle.  Mrs.  Keith. 

WHEATEN  BATTER-CAKES 

Take  two  eggs  broken  into  a  bowl  and  beaten  together. 
Pour  into  this  three  tea-cupfuls  of  buttermilk.  Stir  well, 
and  add  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  slightly  heaped,  one-half 
tea-spoonful  of  salt,  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut,  four  tea-cup- 
fuls of  flour.  Bake  in  small  cakes  on  a  hot  griddle  well 
greased.    Butter  as  baked.    Serve  very  hot.  Excellent. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Jackson. 

RICE  BATTER-CAKES. 

Take  one  egg  beaten  very  light,  one  cupful  of  sour  milk, 
with  enough  soda  stirred  in  to  make  it  foam.  Then  mash 
thoroughly  two  cupfuls  of  cold  boiled  rice.  Put  in  enough 
flour  to  make  the  cake  turn  well.  Have  the  griddle  hot 
and  well  greased. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


149 


BREAD  CRUMB  BATTER-CAKES. 

Take  one  pint  of  light  bread  crumbs  rolled  fine,  one  pint 
of  flour,  one  egg,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard,  a  little  over 
one  quart  of  buttermilk,  one  level  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

Mks.  N.  A.  Glascock. 

RICE  BREAD. 

Boil  one  tea- cupful  of  rice  until  dry  and  soft,  put  in  two 
cupfuls  of  meal  and  mix  well.  Beat  two  eggs  very  light 
and  add  to  the  rice,  a  little  salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  lard. 
Thin  the  batter  with  sweet  milk.  Do  not  let  it  be  thicker 
than  for  muffins.  Bake — not  too  long,  or  it  will  be  dry. 

Miss  Aelie  Bascoini. 

RICE  CRUMPETS. 
Stir  into  two  tea-cupfuls  of  milk  three  table-spoonfuls  of 
quick  yeast,  one  table-spoonful  of  white  sugar,  butter  the 
size  of  a  small  egg  melted,  one  tea-cupful  of  boiled  rice, 
four  tea-cupfuls  of  flour  or  enough  for  a  good  batter,  a  little 
salt.  Beat  all  well  together,  set  to  rise  for  five  or  six  hours, 
then  dissolve  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  a  table-spoonful  of 
hot  water;  mix  with  the  batter,  pour  into  muffin-irons;  let 
them  stand  for  fifteen  minutes.  Bake  quickly.  Serve  very 
hot.  Mrs.  Tabb. 

STEAMED  CORN-BREAD. 

Take  three  cupfuls  of  corn- meal,  one  cupful  of  Graham 
flour,  one-half  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk 
or  clabber,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 
Steam  four  hours  in  mold.  Delicious  when  hot;  very  nice 
when  cold,  toasted  for  tea.  Miss  Allie  Bascom. 

SCALDED  CORN-BREAD. 

Take  one  pint  of  meal,  one  and  one-half  joint  of  boiling 
water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard.  Pour 
boiling  water  over  the  lard  and  meal,  then  stir  in  one  egg 


150 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


and  seven  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  milk.  Drop  off  of  a 
spoon  into  the  bread-pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Peaee. 

STEAMED  CORN-FONE. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  molasses,  one  tea-cupful  of  flour, 
one-half  gallon  of  corn-meal,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two 
tea-spoonfuls  of  soda,  one  and  one-half  pint  of  buttermilk. 
Mix  well,  put  into  a  tin  bucket  well  greased,  fasten  top  on 
well,  and  sink  in  a  kettle  of  boiliug  water.  Boil  hard  for 
four  hours,  slip  it  out  of  the  bucket  into  a  pan,  and  bake 
slowly  for  an  hour.    Nice  when  hot;  also,  nice  for  lunch. 

Mrs.  Bierbowee. 
KENTUCKY  EGG  BREAD. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pint  of  sifted  meal,  one  pint  of 
buttermilk,  two  eggs,  one  scant  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard.  Mix  well,  and 
bake  quickly  in  a  long  pan.  Mrs.  Dimmitt. 

KENTUCKY  DODGERS. 

Take  one  quart  of  sifted  meal,  one  level  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  one  table-spoonful  of  melted  lard.  Mix  thoroughly 
through  the  meal,  scald  with  one-half  cupful  of  boiling  wa- 
ter; let  stand  half  an  hour,  then  add  another  half  tea-cupful 
of  boiling  water,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Mold  in- 
to oblong  cakes  with  the  hand.    Put  into  the  pan,  and  bake. 

CORN  MUFFINS. 

Take  one  pint  of  meal,  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  one-half 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  a  little  salt,  one 
egg,  one  table-spoonful  of  melted  lard.  This  makes  one 
dozen  muffins.  Mrs.  Peaee. 

KENTUCKY  CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Take  one-half  cupful  of  sifted  meal,  wet  with  sweet  milk, 
and  stir  into  a  half  pint  of  scalding  water.    Let  it  boil  a 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  151 


few  minutes,  then  beat  three  eggs  separately  very  light,  the 
yelks  and  one  pint  of  meal,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  all  to- 
gether with  sweet  milk  until  the  right  consistency  for  batter, 
then  stir  in  the  beaten  whites,  leaving  part  of  it  on  top  of 
the  batter.    Fry  on  a  well-greased  griddle. 

Miss  Julia  Porter. 
CORN  MUFFINS. 
Take  one  pint  each  of  buttermilk  and  sifted  meal,  two  eggs 
beaten  separately  (beat  the  yelks  and  pour  in  the  milk),  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda ;  stir  in  the  soda ;  heat  one  table-spoonful 
of  lard  and  pour  into  the  mixture.  Mrs,  Brodrick. 

WHEATEN  MUFFINS. 

Take  one  pint  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs 
beaten  separately,  one  large  table-spoonful  of  lard.  Mix  all 
together,  stirring  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  last.  Bake  in 
very  hot  irons.  Mrs.  T.  J.  Chenoweth. 

CORN-MEAL  BATTER-CAKES. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  meal,  one  egg,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
lard,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  a  pinch  of  soda,  a  pinch  of 
salt.    Thin  with  water. 

SWEET  MILK  BATTER-CAKES. 

Beat  one  egg,  add  to  it  one  and  one-half  pint  of  sweet 
milk  and  a  little  salt.  Stir  in  just  enough  sifted  corn-meal 
to  make  a  very  thin  batter.    Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Mrs.  Harry  Wadsworth. 

CORN-MEAL  MUSH. 

Stir  into  one  pint  of  cold  water  one  pint  of  corn-meal, 
salt.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water.  Stir 
well,  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Power. 

MUSH  BATTER-CAKES; 

Take  one  pint  of  mush,  one-half  pint  of  flour,  two  eggs,  a 
pinch  of  salt.    Mix  with  sweet  milk.         Mrs.  Dimmitt. 


152 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


CORN-MEAL  MUSH. 

Take  one  pint  of  meal  stirred  into  one  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Stir  all  gradually  into  one  quart 
of  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour.  This  fries 
a  beautiful  brown.  Mrs.  Tabb. 

OAT-MEAL  PORRIDGE. 

Soak  overnight  in  cold  water  one  heaping  tea-cupful  of  . 
oat-meal.  In  the  morning  put  this  in  a  flat  tin  bucket  or 
pan  and  pour  over  it  one  quart  of  water;  add  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  salt.  Set  it  into  a  steamer,  cover  closely,  and  put  it 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  steam  for  three-fourths  of 
an  hour  without  stirring.  If  stirred  very  much,  the  por- 
ridge will  be  poor  in  flavor  and  starchy.  This  manner  of 
cooking  applies  to  all  kinds  of  meal.  Mrs.  Tabb. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

Take  one  piece  of  compressed  yeast  (Fleischman's)  and 
put  it  into  one  pint  of  warm  water,  then  stir  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  Graham  flour  into  this  water  and  yeast,  and 
make  quite  stiff  with  buckwheat  flour.  Keep  warm  all 
night.  In  the  morning  put  in  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  bak- 
ing-soda and  a  little  salt,  and  thin  the  batter  with  sweet 
milk  just  before  cooking. 

QUICK  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

To  one  pint  of  buckwheat  flour  while  dry  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one 
scant  table-spoonful  of  brown  sugar  or  Xew  Orleans  molas- 
ses to  make  them  brown.  Mix  well  together,  and  when 
ready  to  bake  add  one  pint  of  cold  water,  or  sufficient  to 
form  a  batter.  Stir  but  little,  and  bake  immediately  on  a 
hot  griddle.  The  baking-powder  should  never  be  put  into 
the  batter,  but  always  mixed  with  the  flour  in  a  dry  state. 

Mrs.  Haery  AVadswobth. 


The  New  Kentucky  Rome  Cook  Book.  153 


ALICE'S  GRAHAM  BATTER-CAKES. 

Take  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pint  of  milk,  one  and 
one-half  pint  of  Graham  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one 
dessert-spoonful  of  baking-powder,  three  level  table-spoon- 
fuls of  melted  lard.  Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  add  the 
milk,  then  the  salt  ;  mix  baking-powder  through  the  flour 
and  add  to  this ;  then  beat  in  the  lard.  Beat  hard  like  cake. 
Bake  quickly,  on  a  griddle  well  greased  and  very  hot. 

HAM  TOAST. 

Mix  one  table-spoonful  of  finely  chopped  ham  with  the 
beaten  yelk  of  one  egg,  and  a  little  cream  and  pepper.  Heat 
over  the  fire,  and  then  spread  the  mixture  either  on  hot 
buttered  toast  or  slices  of  bread  fried  crisp  in  butter.  Serve 
very  hot.  Miss  T.  Paddock. 

FRENCH  TOAST. 

Take  stale  light  bread,  butter  slightly  on  each  side. 
Beat  three  eggs  together;  dip  the  bread  in  the  eggs,  and 
turn  over  so  as  to  cover  both  sides.  Fry  in  hot  lard  very 
quickly.    Turn  over  in  the  lard. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Biereower. 
FRENCH  TOAST. 
Take  slices  of  light  bread,  beat  well  one  or  two  eggs,  mix 
with  a  little  milk.    Dip  the  bread  in  this,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard.  Miss  Allie  Bascom. 

FRENCH  PANCAKES. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
one-half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter. 
Separate  the  egg,  beat  the  yelk  well,  add  the  milk,  then 
the  salt  and  soda — lastly,  the  flour  and  beaten  white.  Bake 
in  large  cakes,  spread  with  butter  and  currant  jelly.  Roll, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Tabb. 


VEGETABLES. 


SUGGESTIONS  ABOUT  VEGETABLES. 

It  is  necessary  to  have  vegetables  perfectly  fresh.  Those 
persons  who  have  gardens  should  gather  their  vegetables 
before  the  dew  is  off  in  the  morning.  Lay  all  kinds  in  fresh 
water  an  hour  or  more  before  cooking,  except  pease,  corn, 
and  new  potatoes.  The  two  former  lose  some  of  their  sweet- 
ness by  this  process,  and  the  latter  become  soft  and  watery. 
To  cook  them,  place  each  variety,  excepting  pease  and 
beans,  in  salted  boiling  water.  One  tea-spoonful  cf  salt  to 
a  quart  of  water  is  the  general  rule.  A  small  pinch  of  car- 
bonate of  ammonia,  which  can  be  procured  at  the  drug- 
stores, will  preserve  the  color  of  such  vegetables  as  aspara- 
gus, pease,  string-beans,  and  spinach.  It  will  also  prevent 
the  odor  of  boiling  cabbage.  A  pinch  of  soda  is  added  to 
the  water  in  which  pease  and  cauliflowers  are  cooked.  Sweet 
potatoes  require  a  third  longer  time  to  cook  than  ordinary 
ones.  A  pod  of  red  pepper,  as  well  as  a  pinch  of  soda,  is 
an  improvement  to  boiling  cabbage.  Always  have  vegeta- 
bles thoroughly  cooked.  Xothing  is  meaner  or  more  un- 
wholesome than  raw  and  badly  seasoned  vegetables.  To  pre- 
vent scalloped  potatoes,  boiling  hominy,  rice,  or  any  cereal, 
from  sticking  to  the  vessel  in  which  it  is  cooked,  first  grease 
the  vessel  well,  and  then  wipe  it  out  with  a  dry  dish-cloth ; 
also  place  a  saucer  upside  down  in  the  iron  pot  in  which 
such  things  are  boiled.  These  precautions  prevent  the  food 
from  sticking.  All  vegetables  that  grow  under-ground — 
(154) 


TJie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


155 


such  as  potatoes,  beets,  etc. — should  be  stored  in  dark 
places;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  those  that  grow  above 
ground — like  cabbage,  beans,  etc. — should  be  placed  in  the 
light.  If  potatoes  are  exposed  to  the  light,  their  flavor  is 
impaired,  and  the  longer  they  are  exposed  the  worse  they 
get.  In  j^reparing  potatoes  for  the  table,  discard  any  of  a 
greenish  hue,  as  they  are  unfit  for  human  food.  Boiling 
water  should  be  poured  over  vegetables  to  cook  them,  in- 
stead of  cold,  unless  special  mention  is  otherwise  made  in 
the  following  directions. 


BOILED  POTATOES  WITH  SKINS  ON. 

A  potato  may  look  better  pared,  but  the  best  part  is  that 
which  lies  nearest  the  skin.  Wash  them  well,  and  put  them 
into  an  iron  pot  or  saucepan  of  wTell-salted  boiling  water, 
sufficient  to  cover  them,  and  cook  until  a  fork  will  pass 
through  them  easily;  then  pour  off  the  water,  and  stand 
the  saucepan,  uncovered,  on  the  back  of  the  range  until 
they  are  perfectly  dry.  Mrs.  W.  S.  Mookes. 

BOILED  POTATOES,  PARED. 

Pare  fine  large  potatoes ;  lay  them  in  cold  water,  unless 
they  are  new,  for  one  hour  before  cooking;  then  put  them 
into  salted  boiling  water,  and  cook  them  for  thirty-five  or 
forty  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  potatoes.  When 
they  are  done  through,  pour  all  the  water  off,  take  the 
saucepan  to  the  open  door,  and  shake  them  well.  Doing 
this  in  the  open  air  makes  them  mealy.  Set  them  on  the 
back  of  the  range  for  a  few  moments,  with  the  cover  on; 
then  place  them  in  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  salt  and 
pepper  sprinkled  over  them,  also  melted  butter,  if  desired. 
Never  throw  potatoes  away  cooked  in  this  manner.  They 
make  a  nice  dish  fried,  stewed,  or  broiled,  as  well  as  a  deli- 
cious salad. 


156 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


MASHED  POTATOES. 

Boil  according  to  directions  already  given.  When  they 
are  dry,  set  off'  the  saucepan,  and  mash  them  thoroughly 
in  it.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready 
before  the  fire  a  tea-cupful  of  rich  milk  and  butter  the  size 
of  a  hen's  egg  to  eight  good-sized  potatoes.  When  the  but- 
ter is  soft  and  the  milk  hot,  stir  into  the  potatoes,  beating 
very  hard  until  they  are  white  and  very  light.  If  desired, 
they  may  be  placed  on  a  platter  in  the  shape  of  a  cone.  With 
the  beaten  yelk  of  an  egg  rubbed  over,  and  set  in  the  oven 
to  brown. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

Baked  potatoes  are  more  nutritious  than  boiled  or  cooked 
in  any  other  way.  It  requires  about  an  hour  to  bake  a  large 
potato.  As  soon  as  they  are  done,  press  each  one  in  a  cloth 
until  the  skin  cracks.  This  allows  the  steam  to  escape,  and 
makes  the  potato  mealy.  They  should  be  eaten  as  soon  as 
done;  if  allowed  to  cool,  they  become  soggy  and  lose  their 
flavor.  Mrs.  W.  S.  Moores. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DUCHESSE. 

Prepare  as  for  mashed  potatoes,  adding  the  yelks  of  three 
eggs,  beating  all  well  together.  Make  out  into  balls  or  into 
the  shape  of  an  egg.  Have  a  flat  pan  lightly  buttered,  and 
place  the  balls  in  rows  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Put  one 
row  upon  another  in  pyramid  form.  Brush  over  lightly 
with  the  beaten  yelk  of  an  egg  or  melted  butter,  and  set  in 
the  oven  to  brown.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

STEWED  POTATOES. 

Take  one  dozen  potatoes,  and  pare  them ;  after  thoroughly 
washing  them,  cut  them  from  end  to  end  into  sixteenths,  if 
very  large ;  lay  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour ;  then  put 
them  into  a  saucepan,  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them ; 
boil  them  gently  until  tender,  and  drain  off  nearly  all  the 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


157 


water.  Have  one  egg  beaten  light,  one  table-spoonful  of 
butter,  one  table-spoonful  of  flour  wet  with  cold  milk  to  a 
perfectly  smooth  paste,  one  pint  of  milk,  some  chopped 
parsley,  salt,  and  pepper.  Pour  milk  into  the  potatoes,  and 
heat  again  to  boiling;  shake  it  well  to  prevent  scorching; 
then  add  the  thickening  of  flour,  the  beaten  egg,  parsley, 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Let  it  come  to  a  boiling,  and  serve. 
New  potatoes  are  cooked  and  seasoned  in  the  same  way,  but 
should  be  left  whole.  The  egg  and  parsley  may  be  omitted, 
if  preferred. 

FRIED  POTATOES. 

The  potatoes  are  sliced  as  for  stewed  ones,  and  laid  in  ice- 
water  for  half  on  hour;  take  them  out,  place  them  upon  a 
towel,  covering  with  another  and  patting  gently  to  dry  each 
piece.  Have  ready  boiling  hot  lard  or  drippings  enough  to 
cover  them,  and  fry  briskly,  turning  as  the  lower  side  is 
done  to  a  yellow  brown.  Lift  them  out  with  an  old-fash- 
ioned egg-whip  into  a  hot  colander,  set  them  in  a  pan  in  the 
open  oven ;  sprinkle  with  salt  as  they  are  removed  from  the 
fat,  otherwise  they  will  not  be  crisp.  Serve  in  a  napkin 
laid  in  a  hot  dish  and  folded  lightly  over  them.  Do  not 
put  a  dish-cover  over  them ;  it  makes  them  soggy.  Potatoes 
cooked  in  this  way  make  a  pretty  garnish  for  a  broiled 
steak.  Articles  to  be  fried  should  be  placed  in  a  wire  bas- 
ket, and  then  immersed  in  the  hot  lard.  This  facilitates 
frying,  as  the  articles  are  all  cooked,  then  lifted  out  and 
drained  at  the  same  time. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Slice  potatoes  rather  thin ;  put  them  into  a  baking-dish ; 
season  in  layers  writh  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  strewing  flour 
thickly  from  the  dredging-box  over  each  layer.  When  the 
dish  is  filled,  pour  in  milk  until  it  rises  sufficiently  to  be 
seen  on  top.  Put  into  the  oven,  and  cook  about  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour. 


158  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


POTATO  BALLS. 

Take  cold  mashed  potatoes,  and  form  them  into  balls  or 
cakes;  have  the  hands  slightly  floured  to  prevent  their 
sticking,  and  fry  in  just  enough  hot  fat  to  prevent  their  ad- 
hering to  the  skillet.    Serve  hot. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Add  to  cold  mashed  potatoes  a  little  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg, 
minced  parsley,  and  beaten  egg  sufficient  to  make  them  stick 
together;  mold  into  balls;  dip  them  into  beaten  egg,  then 
into  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve 
in  a  folded  napkin. 

POTATOES  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

Slice  a  heaping  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes;  put  into  a 
bright  saucepan  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut  ;  when  it 
begins  to  bubble,  stir  in  an  even  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  cook 
a  moment,  and  then  pour  in  a  tea-cupful  of  rich  milk  or 
cream,  salt  and  pepper ;  stir  until  it  boils,  and  then  pour  in 
the  sliced  potatoes.    When  they  are  thoroughly  hot,  serve. 

STEAMED  POTATOES. 

Pare  the  potatoes,  and  put  them  into  a  steamer  over  a  pot 
of  boiling  water;  steam  them  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  they 
can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork ;  then  remove  them  from 
the  fire,  and  lay  them  evenly  in  a  buttered  baking-dish; 
]:>our  melted  butter  over  the  top,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  put  into  the  oven  to  brown,  which  will  require 
a  half  hour  or  longer.  They  may  be  simply  steamed,  and 
served  with  a  drawn  butter  sauce.  Mary  Cole. 

BROILED  POTATOES. 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  split  them  in  three  length- 
wise pieces ;  rub  them  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  butter ; 
broil  quickly.  Serve  with  a  little  melted  butter  and  a  few 
sprigs  of  parsley. 


Hie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


159 


SARATOGA  POTATOES. 

Pare  very  large  potatoes,  and  shave  them  in  thin  slices 
•with  a  potato-slicer ;  lay  in  ice-water  for  one  hour  or  longer; 
then  place  on  a  dry  towel,  covering  with  another,  and  dry 
them  gently  and  thoroughly.  The  drippings,  lard,  or  but- 
ter, whichever  is  used,  must  be  very  hot;  but  do  not  let  it 
scorch,  as  it  can  be  used  from  time  to  time.  Have  enough 
to  cover  the  potatoes  well.  Fry  briskly,  moving  them  about 
with  an  egg-whip  to  prevent  their  sticking  together.  When 
a  delicate  brown,  place  in  a  hot  colander ;  set  in  a  pan  near 
the  fire ;  sprinkle  with  salt  as  they  are  cooked,  and  serve  in 
a  napkin  or  as  a  garnish  for  steak,  sweet-breads,  or  game. 
This  is  a  convenient  dish  to  prepare  for  company,  as  it  may 
be  made  early  in  the  day,  and  by  being  kept  in  a  dry,  warm 
place  the  potato  slices  will  be  crisp  for  several  hours.  They 
are  served  cold  or  re-heated  by  filling  a  dish  and  setting  it 
near  the  fire  or  in  a  tin-kitchen  for  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes. 

POTATO  LEAVES. 

Wash  well,  and  then  pare  the  potatoes,  cutting  off  a  piece 
at  one  end  and  slicing  down  from  the  other  end  to  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  from  the  bottom  in  rather  thin  slices ; 
place  in  the  stove-pan  on  the  flat  end,  around  a  roast,  bast- 
ing frequently  as  you  do  the  roast  until  they  are  done  and 
of  a  delicate  brown.  It  will  be  well  for  inexperienced  cooks 
to  know  that  the  potatoes  are  not  put  in  to  cook  at  the  same 
time  with  the  meat,  one  hour  being  a  sufficient  length  of 
time  to  allow  for  a  large  potato  served  in  this  way. 

Mrs.  James  Hall,  sr. 
POTATO  PUFF. 

Stir  into  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  one  cupful  of  cream.  Beat  all  together  until  very  light, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Miss  Julia  Porter. 


160  The  N&w  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Book. 


POTATOES  FRIED  WITH  ONIONS. 

Slice  equal  quantities  of  potatoes  and  onions,  and  place 
them  in  separate  skillets;  let  the  potatoes  fry  in  nice  hot 
drippings;  cover  the  onions  in  salted  boiling  water,  cook 
until  tender,  then  pour  off  the  water,  and  toss  the  onions 
into  the  potatoes;  fry  all  together  until  both  are  well 
browned;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  hot,  adding 
vinegar,  if  preferred.  Some  persons  stir  in  one  or  two 
slightly  beaten  eggs  just  before  removing  from  the  fire. 

Mrs.  Jos.  H.  Black. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES  WITH  ONIONS  AND  BACON. 

Slice  potatoes,  and  place  them  in  layers  in  a  baking-dish, 
alternating  with  slices  of  breakfast  bacon  and  a  very  little 
onion,  salt  and  pepper,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Fill 
it  with  boiling  water,  and  set  it  on  the  range  to  cook  for 
fifteen  minutes;  take  half  a  tea-cupful  of  cream  and  a 
heaping  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  stir  well  together,  aud  pour 
over  the  potatoes ;  then  set  them  in  the  oven  to  bake  until 
thoroughly  done  and  browned  on  top.      Mrs.  Annie  Lee. 

POTATO  ROSES. 

Pare  the  potatoes,  and  then  continue  as  though  paring 
them  until  the  center  is  reached,  being  careful  not  to  have 
them  too  thin,  or  they  will  break;  throw  them  into  boiling 
lard,  as  for  Saratoga  potatoes;  fry  a  delicate  brown;  skim 
them  out  with  an  egg-whip  into  a  colander  set  in  a  pan  to 
allow  all  the  grease  to  drain  through;  sprinkle  on  salt  as 
they  are  taken  up.  Serve  hot  alone  or  as  a  garnish  for 
meat. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Pare  the  potatoes,  boil  and  mash  them,  season  with  but- 
ter, milk,  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  Cayenne  pepper,  and  the 
beaten  yelk  of  an  egg;  beat  thoroughly,  mold  into  balls, 
dip  in  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  builiug  lard. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


161 


SWEET  POTATOES,  BAKED. 

Do  not  forget  that  sweet  potatoes  require  a  third  longer 
time  to  cook  than  Irish  potatoes.  Wash  them  clean,  wipe, 
and  bake  in  the  oven  one  hour.  Very  large  ones  take 
longer.    Serve  hot. 

MASHED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Place  in  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  steam 
until  soft;  remove  the  skin,  and  mash  perfectly  smooth, 
seasoning  with  plenty  of  butter,  some  sugar,  and  a  little 
cream — a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  eight  good-sized 
potatoes,  a  half  cupful  of  cream,  as  much  sugar,  and  very 
little  nutmeg.  Put  into  a  baking-dish,  form  into  a  pyramid, 
spread  over  the  whole  a  little  melted  butter  or  beaten  egg, 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

SCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Steam  the  potatoes  until  done,  remove  the  skin,  cut  length- 
wise in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  place  in  layers  in  a 
baking-dish,  put  small  lumps  of  butter  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
sugar  on  each  layer;  fill  the  pan,  placing  the  butter  and 
sugar  on  the  topmost  layer;  set  in  the  oven,  and  bake  until 
they  are  done  or  begin  to  brown.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

BROILED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Take  potatoes  which  have  been  steamed,  cut  lengthwise, 
rub  with  a  little  melted  butter,  and  broil  on  a  gridiron  or 
in  a  hot  skillet.  Serve  with  a  small  bit  of  butter  on  each 
piece. 

TO  PRESERVE  SWEET  POTATOES  FOR  WINTER. 

Boil  or  steam  the  potatoes  until  thoroughly  done;  slice 
them,  and  keep  them  around  the  fire  or  in  the  sun  until 
perfectly  dry,  then  put  them  away  in  paper  sacks. 

To  prepare  them  for  the  table:  Put  as  many  as  are  re- 
quired for  one  meal  into  a  small  baking-dish,  with  enough 
11 


162  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh 


boiling  water  to  cover  them ;  let  them  set  on  the  stove  or 
range  until  the  water  has  boiled  down,  and  the  potatoes  are 
soft;  then  put  in  bits  of  butter  and  sugar,  and  place  in  the 
stove  to  brown.  Miss  Julia  Porter. 

JOWL  AND  GREENS. 

For  a  peck  of  greens  take  half  of  a  good-sized  jowl,  and 
wash  it  well;  place  a  piece  of  paper  on  the  stove,  and  with 
the  blaze  thus  made  singe  off  all  the  hairs ;  then  pour  over 
it  boiling  water,  scrape  it  with  a  knife,  and  wash  it  with  a 
cloth ;  repeat  this  process  two  or  three  times ;  place  it  in 
an  iron  pot,  cover  it  with  cold  water,  and  boil  it  for  about 
three  hours;  then  put  in  the  greens,  which  have  been  well 
looked  over  and  laid  in  cold  water  for  a  half  hour  or  longer, 
and  cook  all  together  until  done,  which  will  take  from  a 
half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Remove  the  skin  from 
the  jowl,  dot  it  with  pepper,  and  place  it  in  the  center  of  a 
meat-dish,  surround  it  with  the  greens,  and  garnish  with 
slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Add  salt  while  cooking,  ac- 
cording to  taste.  This  manner  of  cooking  applies  to  all 
the  varieties  of  greens. 

GREEN  PEASE. 

Put  a  quart  of  hulled  pease  in  cold  water,  add  a  small 
pinch  of  soda,  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes ;  drain  off  all  the 
water,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  rolled 
in  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  the  butter  is 
melted,  stir  lightly,  so  as  not  to  break  the  pease,  and  serve. 

STEWED  SPINACH. 

Take  young  spinach,  tie  it  in  a  thin  cloth,  throw  it  into 
boiling  water,  with  some  salt  (one  tea-spoonful  to  a  quart  of 
water) ;  when  nearly  done,  take  it  out,  drain  it,  and  lay  it  in 
cold  water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  drain  it  again,  squeez- 
ing it  gently,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  and  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  butter  the  size  6f  a  hen's  egg.   After  it  has  stewed 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


163 


slowly  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  with 
a  little  salt,  and  a  half  tea-cupful  of  cream.  Serve  on  toast 
dipped  in  melted  butter ;  garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled 
eggs, 

FRENCH  CANNED  PEASE. 

These  are  cooked  by  opening  the  can  and  placing  it  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water  until  they  are  thoroughly  heated. 
There  is  sufficient  water  in  the  can  to  cook  the  pease.  Add 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  serve.  If  intended  as  a  gar- 
nish for  sweet-breads,  pour  all  the  liquor  off,  leaving  them 
dry  as  possible.  A  half  tea-cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk 
may  be  added  to  either  fresh  or  canned  pease,  and  is  an  im- 
provement. 

STEWED  BEETS. 
Boil  small  beets  with  an  inch  or  two  of  the  tops  on  to 
prevent  the  color  from  boiling  out ;  be  careful  not  to  prick 
them  with  a  fork  for  the  same  reason.  When  tender,  re- 
move the  skin  and  tops,  place  them  whole  in  a  dish,  season 
with  a  little  melted  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Serve  hot. 
They  are  also  very  nice  served  with  the  sauce  Hollandaise. 
It  requires  from  one  to  two  hours  to  cook  young  beets,  ac- 
cording to  their  size. 

BAKED  BEETS. 

One  of  the  best  ways  to  cook  beets  is  to  bake  them.  It 
will  take  longer  by  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  to  bake  them 
than  to  boil  them.  Wash  them  perfectly  clean,  put  them 
into  a  pan  with  a  little  water,  and  cook  until  perfectly  ten- 
der. When  done,  remove  the  skin,  and  serve  the  same  way 
as  boiled  ones. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Lay  the  asparagus  in  cold  water  for  one  hour;  tie  it  into 
bundles  of  equal  length,  and  drop  it  into  well-salted  boiling 
water,  and  cook  until  tender;  if  young  and  fresh,  they  should 
be  done  in  twenty  minutes.    While  boiling,  prepare  some 


164  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


thin  slices  of  toast,  and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish ; 
now  drain  off  all  the  water  from  the  asparagus,  and  place 
evenly  upon  the  bread,  pouring  over  all  a  drawn  butter 
sauce. 

BAKED  ASPARAGUS. 

Take  fresh,  tender  asparagus,  cut  it  into  small  pieces, 
throw  it  into  well-salted  boiling  water,  and  cook  it  until 
tender;  then  drain  off  the  water,  and  empty  the  asparagus 
into  a  baking-dish.  Have  an  egg  well  beaten,  stir  into  it  a 
tea-cupful  of  milk,  pepper,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut; 
pour  it  over  the  asparagus,  and  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake. 

Mrs.  Lee. 

KENTUCKY  ASPARAGUS. 

Cut  the  stalks  of  equal  length.  Place  the  heads  in  one 
direction,  and  tie  in.  bunches.  Put  them  into  a  bag,  then 
into  well-salted  boiling  water,  and  let  them  cook  one  hour 
and  a  half;  pour  off  the  water,  and  replenish  with  more 
boiling  water;  cook  one  hour  and  a  half  longer,  as  this 
whitens  the  asparagus,  and  makes  it  tender.  Serve  on  toast, 
with  a  drawn  butter  sauce.    Add  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  Harry  Wadsavorth. 

TO  PREPARE  CABBAGE  FOR  COOKING. 

It  is  an  excellent  plan  to  jDrepare  the  cabbage  for  dinner 
an  hour  before  it  is  time  to  cook  it.  Cut  the  cabbage  into 
quarters,  scatter  a  handful  of  salt  over  it,  and  cover  it  with 
cold  water.  This  is  a  good  plan  to  pursue,  if  one  has  not 
time  to  look  the  cabbage  over  carefully.  Cauliflower  also 
should  be  treated  in  the  same  way  after  being  picked  apart. 
There  are  so  many  small  insects  that  great  care  is  necessary 
in  looking  over  vegetables. 

TO  FRY  CABBAGE. 

Fry  slices  of  fat  meat  or  breakfast  bacon  in  a  skillet  until 
thoroughly  cooked;  then  remove  the  meat,  and  add  finely 
chopped  cabbage,  and  cook  slowly  until  done,  stirring  well 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


165 


to  prevent  scorching.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
just  before  removing  from  the  fire  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
vinegar.  If  the  vinegar  is  added  too  soon,  it  will  turn  the 
cabbage  red. 

BOILED  CABBAGE. 

Select  firm  white  heads  of  cabbage,  remove  the  outside 
leaves,  and  cut  it  into  quarters ;  place  it  in  cold  water,  open- 
ing it  out  well  to  let  the  water  run  through.  Put  it  into 
boiling  water,  with  corned  beef  or  pork,  and  a  pod  of  red 
pepper.  If  middling  meat  is  used,  it  must  be  well  scraped 
and  washed  in  hot  water.  A  half  pound  will  season  one 
good-sized  head  of  cabbage.  Put  the  meat  on  to  cook  one 
hour  before  the  cabbage,  which  will  require  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Drain  well,  and  serve  with  the  meat 
in  the  center  of  the  dish. 

STEAMED,  OR  LADY'S,  CABBAGE. 

Prepare  as  for  boiling,  trimming  off  the  outside  leaves, 
and  cutting  into  quarters.  Sprinkle  salt  in  among  the 
leaves,  and  place  in  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water. 
Steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  done.  Have 
ready  a  drawn  butter  sauce,  in  which  a  pod  of  red  pepper 
has  been  placed;  pour  it  over  the  cabbage,  and  serve  hot. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  lay  it  in  cold  water  for  half 
an  hour ;  then  shake  the  heads  well,  scatter  salt  through  it, 
and  place  it  in  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  It 
will  take  about  twenty  minutes  to  cook. 

To  boil  it,  prepare  in  the  same  way  as  for  steaming ;  tie 
it  in  a  cloth,  and  put  it  into  well-salted  boiling  water ;  cook 
it  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  When  done,  place  it  in  a 
covered  dish,  and  serve  with  white  sauce. 

Cauliflower  makes  a  pretty  garnish  around  fried  chicken 
or  sweet-breads.    In  this  case  the  sauce  is  made  by  adding 


166 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


a  scant  half  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  with  a  lump  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  hen's  egg,  and  a  pint  of  rich  milk  to  a  tea-spoonful 
of  the  grease  in  which  the  meats  have  been  cooked ;  let  the 
butter  begin  to  bubble,  then  stir  in  the  flour,  then  the  milk, 
salt,  and  pepper.    When  done,  pour  over  the  whole. 

CYMLINGS. 

Slice  very  thin,  and  lay  for  a  short  time  in  cold  water; 
then  put  into  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  (never 
let  the  water  stop  boiling),  and  cook  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  or  until  done.  Take  from  the  steamer,  and 
mash  fine  in  a  skillet ;  set  on  the  range  until  the  water  cooks 
out,  stirring  all  the  while;  then  to  two  medium-sized  cym- 
lings  add  a  table-spoonful  of  butter,  half  a  coffee-cupful  of 
cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Powell. 
FRIED  CYMLINGS. 

The  long  cymlings  are  the  best  for  frying,  but  the  round 
ones  will  do.  Select  young,  tender  ones,  slice  them  thin,  lay 
in  cold  salt  water  for  half  an  hour,  then  drain  and  dip  in 
the  beaten  yelk  of  an  egg  well  peppered,  then  in  sifted  meal. 
Fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings.        Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 

FRIED  EGG-PLANT 

Peel  and  slice  in  half-inch  slices  or  a  little  thinner,  lay  in 
cold  salted  water  for  one  hour,  then  wipe  the  egg-plant  dry, 
dip  it  first  in  beaten  egg  peppered,  then  in  sifted  meal  or 
cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  drippings  to  a  nice  brown, 
and  .serve  hot.  Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 

EGG-PLANT  FRIED  IN  BUTTER. 

Prepare  in  the  same  way  as  for  fried  egg-plant.  Make  a 
batter  in  the  proportion  of  one  egg  to  a  coffee-cupful  of  sweet 
milk;  mix  flour  or  cracker  crumbs  enough  to  give  it  con- 
sistence; dip  the  slices  of  egg-plant  in,  and  fry  to  a  nice 
brown  in  hot  lard.  Mrs.  A^sm  Lee. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


167 


BAKED  EGG-PLANT. 

Lay  in  boiling  water  fifteen  minutes;  cut  a  slit  in  the  side, 
remove  all  the  seed,  then  lay  iu  cold  salted  water  for  one 
hour.  Make  a  dressing  of  rolled  cracker  or  cold  biscuit, 
well  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  minced  parsley,  and  enough 
melted  butter  to  make  the  dressing  adhere  together.  Fill 
the  egg-plant,  and  bake,  putting  enough  water  in  the  pan, 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  to  keep  it  basted.  Serve  very 
hot.  Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 

BOILED  ONIONS. 

Remove  the  skins,  and  put  them  into  salted  boiling  water, 
adding  a  little  milk.  When  the  onions  are  fully  matured, 
the  water  should  be  changed  once  or  twice.  When  very 
tender,  serve  in  a  hot  dish,  with  a  drawn  butter  sauce,  and 
pepper  dashed  over  the  top.  It  takes  onions  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  to  cook. 

SCALLOPED  ONIONS. 

Take  six  or  eight  onions,  remove  the  skins,  rinse  in  cold 
water,  and  cut  them  half  in  two  round  ways;  throw  them 
into  salted  boiling  water,  cook  them  until  tender,  drain 
them;  put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  pudding-dish,  then 
a  layer  of  onions,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Season 
each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter ;  moisten  with  milk, 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  They  may  be  served  alone 
in  a  vegetable-dish  or  as  a  garnish  around  calf's  heart. 

Miss  Julia  Porter. 

STRING-BEANS. 

Carefully  remove  all  the  strings,  break  them  in  two  or 
three  pieces,  and  lay  them  for  awhile  in  cold  water.  Put 
them,  with  a  piece  of  pork  or  middling,  into  sufficient  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  them.  Use  a  half  pound  of  pork  to  a 
half  peck  of  beans.  Cook  for  four  hours;  if  at  all  tough, 
longer.    Stew  them  down  well  before  serving.    Add  salt  at 


168  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


the  last  as  needed.  It  is  an  easy  matter  to  spoil  beans  by 
using  too  much  salt  at  first;  as  they  cook  down  low  they 
become  seasoned  by  the  salty  meat,  hence  the  importance  of 
adding  a  little  if  required  before  serving.  If  preferred,  the 
beans  may  be  well  drained,  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  tea- 
cupful  of  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
rubbed  in  an  even  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  and  pepper;  stew 
for  a  few  moments,  and  serve  very  hot. 

LIMA  BEANS. 

Put  a  pint  of  the  shelled  beans  into  sufficient  salted  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  them;  boil  them  for  one  hour,  or  until 
tender;  then  drain  them,  add  a  tea-cupful  of  cream,  butter 
the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let 
the  beans  simmer  in  the  dressing  a  few  moments  before 
serving.  Dried  Lima  beans  should  be  soaked  overnight  in 
cold  water. 

CORN. 

Early  roasting -ears  are  said  to  be  sweeter  boiled  with 
part  of  the  husk  left  on;  or  remove  all  the  husks  and  silks 
carefully,  put  them  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  cook 
them  until  done,  which  will  take  about  half  an  hour. 
Drain  well,  and  serve  hot. 

CORN  CUT  FROM  THE  COB. 

Boil  on  the  ear.  When  done,  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  the 
corn  from  the  cob  into  a  pan ;  season  it  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter  to  taste;  place  it  on  the  back  of  the  range,  stir- 
ring it  well  until  the  butter  is  melted  and  the  corn  thor- 
oughly heated  again.    Serve  at  once. 

STEWED  CORN,  WITH  BREAKFAST  BACON. 

Put  two  pints  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob  into  a  hot  skillet, 
with  slices  of  breakfast  bacon ;  cover  with  boiling  water, 
and  cook  rather  slowly  for  half  an  hour;  when  nearly  done, 
season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  half  a  tea-cupful  of 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


169 


sweet  cream  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour  stirred  into  it.  Boil 
up  well,  and  serve. 

STEWED  CORN. 

To  one  quart  of  corn  cut  and  scraped  from  the  cob  add 
half  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  stew  in  a  covered  tin  pail  until 
done,  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  then  add  salt,  pep- 
per, and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter.  Just  before  serving, 
stir  in  two  well-beaten  eggs.  It  requires  two  hours  to  cook 
corn  in  this  way. 

PLAIN  STEWED  CORN. 

Put  one  quart  of  corn  cut  and  scraped  from  the  cob  into 
a  skillet  with  a  little  boiling  water,  set  it  on  the  back  of  the 
range  or  stove,  and  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Stir  fre- 
quently to  prevent  scorching.  Season  with  one  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  small  hen's  egg,  and  one  tea-cupful  of  rich 
milk  thickened  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  flour.  Boil  all  well 
together,  and  serve  very  hot. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Take  one  pint  of  corn  after  it  is  cut  or  grated  from  the 
cob,  stir  into  it  three  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea- 
cupful  of  sifted  flour,  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  and  one 
egg.  Drop  with  a  spoon  into  a  little  hot  lard,  and  fry  to  a 
rich  brown  on  both  sides.    Serve  very  hot  on  a  hot  dish. 

Mrs.  Chakles  E.  Tabc. 
CORN  AJSTD  BEANS,  OR  SUCCOTASH. 

Prepare  and  cook  corn  beans  as  described  for  string  beans, 
adding  corn  cut  from  the  cob  about  half  an  hour  before 
serving.  Use  four  or  five  ears  of  corn  to  half  a  peck  of 
beans.  Lima  beans  and  corn  cooked  together  are  very  nice 
also.  In  this  case  they  are  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  but- 
ter, and  a  little  cream. 


170 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


GREEN  CORN  PATTIES. 

Take  twelve  ears  of  grated  corn,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  one  egg  beaten  into  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour.  Mix  all  together,  make  into  small  cakes, 
and  fry  in  a  little  sweet  butter  or  lard. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Blatterman. 
CORN  PUDDING. 

Take  one  dozen  ears  of  corn,  three  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk, 
three  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  flour.  Split  the 
grains  lengthwise  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  the  tips  of  the 
grains  from  the  cob,  scrape  the  rest,  put  into  a  baking-dish, 
add  the  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  flour;  stir  all  well  together, 
adding  the  milk  slowly;  put  into  the  oven  to  bake.  Stir 
well  from  the  bottom  every  few  minutes  until  it  begins  to 
brown.    Cook  for  half  an  hour.    Serve  hot. 

Corn  pudding  may  be  made  in  the  same  way  without 
eggs,  but  it  requires  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  and  it  is 
very  nice. 

PLAIN  FRIED  CORN. 

Cut  and  scrape  it  from  the  cob,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, aud  fry  in  a  little  butter. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Select  nice  large  tomatoes,  skin  them  and  remove  the  hard 
centers,  place  them  in  a  baking-pan,  and  in  the  cavity  of 
each  put  a  small  quantity  of  minced  onion,  sugar,  moistened 
bread  crumbs,  and  pepper ;  then  scatter  thickly  over  the  top 
grated  bread  crumbs,  allowing  the  spaces  between  to  be  well 
filled.  Over  this  put  small  lumps  of  butter  the  size  of  mar- 
bles, one-half  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  pepper.  Put  into  the  oven  and  bake 
until  they  are  brown  on  top.  They  will  cook  in  about  half 
an  hour. 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


171 


STEWED  TOMATOES. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  eight  good-sized  tomatoes,  let  them 
stand  a  few  moments,  then  remove  the  skins,  cat  into  small 
pieces,  put  into  a  saucepan  and  stew  for  half  an  hour.  Sea- 
son with  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  one-half  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper, 
thicken  with  one  table-spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in 
the  butter.  Stew  all  together  for  a  few  moments,  and  serve. 
Bread  crumbs  may  be  used  instead  of  the  flour,  if  preferred. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Remove  the  skins  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them, 
then  cut  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick,  place  in  layers 
in  a  baking-pan,  putting  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
sugar,  and  a  little  minced  onion  over  each  layer,  alternating 
with  tomatoes  and  seasoning  until  the  pan  is  filled.  Have 
the  bread  and  seasoning  on  top.  Set  it  in  the  oven,  and 
bake. 

BROILED  TOMATOES. 

Slice  unpeeled  tomatoes  in  rather  thick  slices,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  melted  butter,  put  them  on  the 
gridiron  in  front  of  the  fire  or  in  a  hot  skillet  and  broil  un- 
til browned  on  both  sides ;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  put 
into  a  small  meat-dish  and  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  on  each 
slice. 

FRIED  GREEN  TOMATOES. 

Slice  smooth  green  tomatoes,  rejecting  the  first  and  last 
slices,  lay  them  in  salt-water  for  one  hour,  wipe  dry,  dip  in 
sifted  corn-meal  with  plenty  of  pepper  put  into  it.  Fry  in 
hot  lard  until  nicely  browned  on  both  sides.   Serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS. 

Pare  and  lay  in  ice-water  for  one  hour,  then  slice  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  thick,  pick  out  the  seeds  with  a  pen-knife, 


172 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


put  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  salted  boiling  water  to 
cover  them.  Stew  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  drain  off  the 
water,  mash  fine,  add  enough  hot  water  to  keep  them  from 
burning,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  (if  the  quantity  is 
rather  small)  one  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Stew  gently  for 
ten  minutes,  then  add  half  a  tea-cupful  of  rich  milk,  thick- 
en with  a  little  flour,  boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  covered  dish. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS 

Pare  and  lay  in  ice-water  for  half  an  hour.  Cut  length- 
wise into  slices  nearly  half  an  inch  thick  and  lay  them  in 
ice-water  ten  minutes  longer.  Wipe  each  piece  dry  with  a 
soft  cloth,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  with 
flour.    Fry  to  a  delicate  brown  in  hot  drippings  or  lard. 

BAKED  CASHAW. 

Cut  into  unpeeled  slices  an  inch  thick,  remove  all  rough 
places,  put  them  into  the  stove-pan  with  a  small  quantity  of 
hot  water;  replenish  as  it  cooks  out.  Make  a  dressing  of 
sugar,  water,  and  butter,  let  it  come  to  a  boiling,  then  pour 
it  over  the  cashaw  when  it  is  done.  Allow  all  to  remain 
in  the  stove  for  a  short  time,  and  serve  hot.  To  a  pint  of 
water,  add  two  even  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  slight- 
ly heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter.     Miss  Julia  Porter. 

CASHAW  BAKED  PLAIN. 

Cut  the  round  way  into  inch  slices,  put  into  a  stove-pan, 
set  in  the  oven,  and  bake.    It  will  take  about  one  hour. 
MASHED  CASHAW. 

Slice  and  peel,  put  into  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  soft.  Then  mash  perfectly  smooth, 
season  with  plenty  of  butter  and  a  little  sugar,  put  into  a 
patty-pan,  form  into  cone  shape,  brush  beaten  egg  or  melted 
butter  over  the  outside,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Or, 
serve  in  a  dish  without  browning. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


173 


NAVY  BEANS. 

Put  to  soak  overnight  in  cold  water.  By  nine  o'clock  in 
the  morning,  put  them  into  an  iron  dinner-pot  and  cover 
well  with  cold  water,  add  a  pinch  of  soda.  When  this  wa- 
ter has  boiled  for  a  few  minutes,  drain  it  off  and  pour  in 
more  boiling  water,  adding  to  a  quart  of  beans  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  pickled  pork.  Boil  down,  or  until  the  outer 
skin  begins  to  break,  season  with  salt  and  red  pepper  to 
taste,  and  serve. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

The  beans  are  first  boiled  as  just  described,  and  then  put 
into  a  well-greased  baking-dish,  seasoned  with  salt  and  a  lit- 
tle Cayenne  pepper.  Stir  in  one  table-spoonful  of  molasses 
— this  makes  them  brown  nicely.  Place  the  meat  with 
which  they  have  been  boiled  in  the  center  of  the  dish,  and 
have  the  beans  well  stacked  around  it.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
for  one  hour,  or  until  they  are  well  browned. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

Put  one  quart  of  small  beans  on  the  back  of  the  range  to 
simmer  (not  boil)  until  they  are  tender — about  five  hours ; 
then  take  them  out  of  the  pot  and  pour  off  the  water;  have 
a  brown  earthen  pot,  in  the  bottom  of  which  place  a  very 
small  onion,  then  the  beans,  one  table-spoonful  of  molasses, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  black  pep- 
per, one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt-pork  on  top.  Pour  three 
pints  of  cold  water  on  them,  and  put  into  the  oven  for  about 
eight  hours.  The  beans  should  be  a  nice  brown  when  done. 
Serve  hot.  Or,  eat  cold,  with  mayonnaise  sauce.  Neither 
the  molasses  nor  onion  alfects  the  taste  of  the  beans,  and  are 
a  great  improvement. 

TURNIPS. 

Select  turnips  of  a  good  variety,  peel  and  cut  into  slices 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  throw  them  into  well-salted 


174 


The  New  Kentucky  Home.' Cook  Book. 


boiling  water — one  tea-spoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water 
is  a  very  good  rule.  Boil  one  hour,  or  until  tender,  then 
drain  off  the  water  and  mash  fine  with  a  potato-masher, 
adding  to  four  or  five  turnips  of  medium  size  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  one  even  tea-spoonful  of 
salt.    The  sugar  is  a  decided  improvement. 

Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 

TO  STEW  TURNIPS  WITH  MEAT. 

Prepare  some  fresh  beef  or  pork  and  stew  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water  until  about  half  done,  carefully  removing 
the  scum  as  it  rises.  Pour  the  water  over  cold,  and  heat 
gradually;  add  a  little  salt.  Peel  some  turnips,  slice  toler- 
ably thin,  rinse  well,  then  put  them  in  with  the  meat,  and 
stew  until  soft.  Remove  the  meat,  add  more  salt  to  the 
turnips  if  needed,  pepper,  and  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream. 
Mash  fine,  stir  them  until  they  are  nearly  dry  and  perfectly 
smooth.    Put  into  a  covered  dish,  and  serve  at  once. 

CARROTS  STEWED. 

Scrape  and  lay  in  cold  water.  Divide  into  lengthwise 
pieces  and  boil  until  tender,  which  will  require  from  one 
hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  When  done,  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  one  or  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  a  tea-cupful  of  cream.  Stew  all  together  for  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes,  shake  the  saucepan  several  times  to  pre- 
vent their  sticking,  and  serve  in  a  vegetable-dish. 

PARSNIPS  WITH  PICKLED  PORK. 

Scrape  and  slice  the  parsnips  and  lay  in  cold  water.  Put 
slices  of  the  pork  into  salted  boiling  water,  drop  in  the 
parsnips  and  let  them  cook  until  done,  or  about  one  hour. 
Have  a  pan  ready,  in  which  to  place  the  parsnips  with  the 
pork  well  mixed  through.    Set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


175 


CARROTS. 

Slice  the  carrots  into  half-inch  slices,  put  into  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  with  a  piece  of  corned  beef.  When  done, 
serve  as  a  garnish  around  the  beef.  They  should  be  cooked 
for  an  hour  and  a  half. 

STEWED  PARSNIPS. 
Wash,  scrape,  slice,  and  lay  in  cold  water,  then  throw 
into  enough  boiling  water  to  cover.    Add  salt  to  the  water, 
boil,  cover  closely,  and  stew  until  the  water  is  cooked  away. 
'Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.    Serve  in  a  covered 
dish. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

Scrape  and  cut  into  pieces  five  large  parsnips,  throw  them 
into  boiling  water  well  salted,  cook  for  half  an  hour,  or  un- 
til tender,  then  mash  them,  add  a  heaping  tea-spoonful  of 
flour,  one  or  two  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Mold  into  small  cakes  nearly  an  inch  thick,  and  fry  in  a 
little  hot  lard  or  drippings  to  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

Scrape  and  wash  three  or  four  parsnips,  cut  them  to  half 
an  inch  in  thickness,  put  them  into  boiling  water  salted,  and 
cook  for  half  an  hour.  Skim  them  out  and  lay  on  a  plat- 
ter. Beat  one  or  two  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  four  table-spoon- 
fuls of  flour,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Into 
this  dip  the  slices  of  parsnips,  and  fry  to  a  nice  brown  in 
hot  lard.    Pile  up  on  a  platter,  and  serve  very  hot. 

OYSTER-PLANT  STEWED. 

Take  oyster-plant,  scrape  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  throw 
them  into  cold  water,  then  put  into  well-salted  boiling  wa- 
ter. When  done,  drain  and  season  with  a  drawn  butter 
sauce.  Some  persons  pour  off  the  first  water,  adding  more 
boiling  water  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  good  vinegar.  Sal- 


176 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Book. 


sify  is  particularly  nice  served  on  toast,  with  the  sauce 
poured  over  the  whole.  Or,  when  the  vegetable  is  tender, 
add  three  pints  of  milk,  or  half  milk  and  water,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  serve  as  oyster  soup. 

OYSTER-PLANT,  OR  SALSIFY,  FRITTERS. 

Oyster-plant  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  for  pars- 
nip fritters  number  one,  but  made  into  smaller  cakes,  when 
they  will  imitate  fried  oysters.    Fry  in  hot  lard  or  butter. 

HOMINY. 

Take  one  quart  of  hominy,  wash  well,  rubbing  between 
the  hands  to  remove  the  outside  husk,  and  put  it  to  soak 
overnight.  Grease  the  inside  of  an  iron  pot  with  lard,  wipe 
out  with  a  dry  cloth,  and  place  in  it  a  saucer  upside  down. 
This  prevents  the  hominy  from  sticking.  Put  in  the  hom- 
iny, cover  well  with  clear,  cold  water.  After  it  begins  to 
cook,  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  range  and  simmer  until  done, 
or  about  five  hours.  Do  not  stir  it  after  it  begins  to  boil. 
It  ruins  all  cereals  to  stir  them  after  they  begin  to  cook ;  for 
this  reason  they  should  be  steamed,  or  cooked  in  a  double 
kettle.  Enough  water  should  be  put  in  at  first  to  cook  the 
hominy,  but  if  it  proves  too  little  add  more  very  carefully. 
When  done,  put  into  a  dish  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter.  Do  not  put  in  any  salt  while  boiling,  as  it  is 
apt  to  turn  the  hominy  dark. 

BAKED  HOMINY. 

Take  one  quart  of  cold  boiled  hominy,  season  with  salt, 
pepj^er,  and  melted  butter,  stir  in  one  egg  well  beaten,  put 
into  a  baking-dish,  and  set  in  the  oven  until  well  browned. 

HOMINY  FRITTERS. 

Take  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  hominy,  one-half  tea-cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  one  scant  tea-cupful  of  sifted  flour,  into  which 
stir  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  Royal  baking-powder,  one  tea- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


177 


spoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  one  egg.  Stir  all  well  to- 
gether, drop  from  a  table-spoon  into  hot  lard  and  fry  to  a 
rich  brown  on  both  sides.    Serve  hot. 

HOMINY  PUDDING. 

Make  the  same  as  corn  pudding,  with  or  without  eggs. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES. 

Mash  fine  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  hominy,  add  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  pep- 
per, one  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Stir  all  together  in  a  hot 
skillet  until  thoroughly  heated.  When  it  is  cold,  make  into 
balls,  dip  them  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  sufficient  to  cover  them  well.  When  a  del- 
icate brown,  remove  with  a  perforated  skimmer  or  egg-whip, 
and  serve. 

GRITS  PUDDING. 

Put  a  tea-cupful  of  grits  into  a  pudding-pan,  pour  over 
them  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water  and  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt.  Set  in  a  closely  covered  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water  and  steam  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  When 
done,  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  a  tea-cupful  of  sweet 
milk;  then  beat  together  one  egg,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  a  little  pep- 
per. Stir  this  well  into  the  grits,  set  in  the  oven  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour,  or  until  nicely  browned. 

Mahy  Cole. 

BOILED  RICE. 

Wash  the  rice  well  in  cold  water,  rubbing  between  the 
hands  until  white  and  free  from  the  loose  starch  which  ad- 
heres to  it.  Soak  overnight,  one  tea-cupful  in  one  quart  ot 
water ;  in  the  morning  put  into  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  cold 
water  with  plenty  of  salt  added,  and  steam  until  the  grains 
12 


178 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


are  soft,  which  will  be  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Pour  into  a  dish,  and  send  to  the  table  with  a  lump  of  but- 
ter placed  in  the  center. 

HOMINY  GRITS. 

Put  one  tea-cupful  of  grits  into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boil- 
ing water  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Cook  for  about 
half  an  hour.    Season  with  butter  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

BAKED  HOMINY  GRITS. 

Stir  one  tea-cupful  of  grits  into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk, 
and  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes,  set 
aside  to  cool.  Beat  two  eggs  well,  stir  them  into  the  grits, 
put  into  a  pudding-dish  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

BAKED  RICE. 

Take  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice,  one  egg,  one  dessert- 
spoonful of  melted  butter,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  bake  in  a  deep  pie-pan. 

Miss  Julia  Porter. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

To  oue  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice  add  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  and 
one  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Mix  all  together,  put  into  a 
hot  skillet,  and  stir  well  until  it  is  cooked  but  not  browned. 
Let  it  get  cold,  make  into  balls,  lay  them  one  by  one  into  a 
wire  basket,  which  put  into  a  pan  of  boiling  lard,  let  them 
fry  to  a  light  brown,  drain  well,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  James  Rogers. 
FRIED  APPLES. 

Wash  and  core  good  cookiug  apples  (tart  ones  should  be 
used,  sweet  ones  will  not  cook  well),  cut  into  thin  slices,  put 
into  a  skillet  in  which  breakfast  bacon  has  been  fried.  Place 
one  layer  at  a  time  in  the  frying-pan,  brown  on  both  sides, 
put  into  a  dish,  and  sprinkle  over  sugar  as  they  are  taken  up. 


TJie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


179 


APPLES  FRIED  WITH  FLOUR  AND  SUGAR. 

Select  nice  apples,  wash  well  in  cold  water,  wipe  dry,  peel 
and  core  with  an  apple-corer.  Slice  about  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  thick,  have  ready  a  frying-pan  with  a  tea-cupful  of 
melted  lard,  also  a  patty-pan  tilled  with  sugar  and  flour 
mixed  in  equal  quantities,  roll  the  apples  in  the  flour  and 
sugar,  and  when  the  fat  is  very  hot  throw  in  the  apples  and 
fry  to  a  nice  brown.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter.  To  fry  apples 
in  this  way  it  would  be  well  to  use  a  wire  basket. 

Mrs.  Peaee. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  mushrooms,  some  of  which 
are  very  poisonous.  Those  that  are  proper  for  food  are 
found  only  in  open  ground  where  the  air  is  pure.  They 
are  in  abundance  during  the  months  of  August  and  Septem- 
ber, particularly  after  a  misty  night  or  early  morning  dew. 
Take  thet  largest  mushrooms  that  are  young  and  tender, 
wash  them  clean,  removing  the  skins  and  stalks,  cut  into 
halves  or  quarters,  throw  them  into  a  little  boiling  water, 
or  what  is  much  better,  stock;  use  only  enough  to  cover 
them ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  butter  when  they 
become  tender.  Or,  make  a  soup  by  rubbing  together  a  little 
flour  and  butter,  put  into  a  stew-pan,  and  when  it  bubbles 
add  the  mushrooms.  Cook  all  together  for  a  few  moments, 
and  serve.  Add  a  table-spoonful  of  lemon  juice  to  the  water 
in  which  they  are  boiled,  as  this  will  keep  them  white. 

CANNED  MUSHROOMS. 

In  some  localities,  where  mushrooms  are  not  found,  the 
canned  ones  may  be  substituted,  as  they  do  not  lose  their 
natural  flavor  by  this  process.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut  into  a  stew-pan;  wThen  it  bubbles,  add  an 
even  tea-spoonful  of  flour.  When  well  cooked,  stir  in  a 
tea-cupful  of  strong  stock  and  one-half  tea-cupful  of  the 


180 


TJie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


mushroom  juice.  Let  it  simmer  for  a  miuute  or  two,  then 
strain  and  add  the  mushrooms,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice.  Mushrooms  prepared  in  this  way  are 
particularly  nice  as  a  garnish  for  meats,  boiled  fowls,  fried 
chickens,  cutlets,  or  sweet-breads. 


EGGS. 


The  fresher  eggs  are  the  better  they  are  for  all  purposes. 
There  are  many  ways  for  trying  the  soundness  of  eggs,  none 
of  which  are  easier  or  better  than  laying  them  in  a  vessel  of 
cold  water.  All  that  sink  readily  to  the  bottom,  lying  on 
their  sides,  are  good ;  those  which  float  on  top  are  certainly 
bad.  As  a  diet  for  invalids  there  is  nothing  more  strength- 
ening or  nutritious;  and  many  ways  for  serving  them,  to 
suit  individual  taste,  may  be  found  among  the  following  re- 
ceipts. 

SOFT-BOILED  EGGS. 

Place  them  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  three  minutes, 
not  one  instant  longer.  In  order  to  have  them  all  done  at 
the  same  time,  place  them  in  a  wire  basket,  when  all  can  be 
lifted  out  together. 

SOFT  STEAMED  EGGS  IN  THE  SHELL. 

Put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  let  them  remain  for  eight 
minutes  where  they  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil 

HARD-BOILED  EGGS. 

Cover  them  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  for  fifteen 
minutes. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

.  Salt  the  water  well ;  when  it  is  simmering,  break  each  egg 
separately  into  a  saucer,  and  drop  lightly  into  the  water; 
when  cooked  enough,  remove  the  eggs  with  a  perforated 
ladle,  place  on  separate  pieces  of  buttered  toast,  sprinkle 
salt  and  pepper  over  each  one ;  pour  over  each  also  a  little 
melted  butter,  and  serve. 

(181) 


182  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


STEAMED  EGGS. 

Put  a  small  lump  of  butter  into  individual  egg-dishes; 
place  them  inside  a  steamer,  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
until  the  butter  is  melted;  then  break  two  eggs  into  each 
dish,  return  them  to  the  steamer,  cover  them  closely,  and 
cook  for  three  minutes.  A  delicious  and  delicate  way  to 
serve  eggs. 

SHIRRED  EGGS. 

These  are  prepared  the  same  as  for  steaming,  having  the 
dishes  very  hot ;  melting  a  lump  of  butter  in  each  dish  pre- 
vents the  egg  from  sticking.  If  the  cup  is  not  hot  enough 
to  cook  the  egg,  place  it  on  the  back  of  the  range  for  a  few 
moments,  or  inside  of  the  oven  on  top  of  the  grating  for  a 
short  while. 

BAKED  EGGS. 

Sprinkle  thickly  a  layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs  on  a  pie- 
plate.  Break  a  half  dozen  eggs  over  this  foundation ;  scat- 
ter lumps  of  butter  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  all; 
set  in  the  oven  and  cook  about  four  minutes.  Serve  in  the 
same  dish. 

SCALLOPED  EGGS. 

Chop  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  not  too  fine;  put  them  into  a 
baking-dish,  with  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs,  butter, 
and  salt,  having  the  bread  crumbs  on  top;  pour  over  all 
one  tea-cupful  of  rich  milk ;  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  until 
brown.  Mrs.  Nannie  Green. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Put  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg  into  a  hot 
frying-pan.  When  melted  and  very  hot,  toss  in  a  half 
dozen  eggs  which  have  been  previously  broken  into  a  dish ; 
sprinkle  over  them  salt  and  pepper,  and  with  a  spoon  stir 
from  right  to  left,  mixing  all  well  together.  Serve  at  once 
in  a  hot  dish. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


183 


FRIED  HAM  AND  EGGS 

(See  page  62.) 

SPANISH  EGGS. 

Steam  one  hour  one  tea-cupful  of  rice  in  one  quart  of 
water,  to  which  has  been  added  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 
When  done,  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  butter,  and  spread 
lightly  on  a  dish.  On  the  rice  place  six  eggs,  over  which 
scatter  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  drawn  butter ;  set  it  in  the 
oven  until  the  eggs  are  cooked.  Serve  very  hot.  Poached 
eggs  are  very  nice  served  in  this  way. 

BREADED  EGGS. 

Boil  hard  half  a  dozen  eggs,  cut  them  into  round,  thick 
slices ;  have  a  beaten  egg  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  each  slice  into  the  raw  egg,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs 
or  roiled  cracker,  and  fry  in  nice  drippings  or  lard  hissing 
hot.  The  heat  can  be  determined  by  throwing  in  a  small 
piece  of  bread;  if  the  right  temperature,  the  bread  will  soon 
become  a  delicate  brown.  Drain  off  all  the  grease  (and  for 
this  purpose  a  wire  basket  should  be  used),  and  serve  with 
a  sauce  made  by  heating  to  the  boiling  point  a  coffee-cupful 
of  nice  veal  gravy  or  chicken  broth ;  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  lastly 
three  table-spoonfuls  of  rich  cream.  Pour  it  hot  over  the 
eggs. 

SCALLOPED  EGGS. 

Boil  six  eggs  hard,  and  moisten  a  coffee-cupful  of  bread 
crumbs  with  a  little  nice  gravy  and  milk.  Put  a  layer  of 
the  moistened  bread  crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered 
baking-dish ;  make  a  cupful  of  drawn  butter  sauce,  and  beat 
into  it  the  yelk  of  one  egg;  slice  the  hard-boiled  eggs,  and 
place  first  the  moistened  bread  crumbs  and  then  the  sliced 
eggs,  until  the  dish  is  full,  pouring  a  little  of  the  drawn 
butter  on  each  layer,  with  salt  and  pepper.    Cold  ham, 


184  The  New  Kentucky  Some  Cook  Book. 


tongue,  poultry,  or  fish,  minced  fine,  and  placed  as  another 
layer  on  the  eggs,  is  an  improvement.  Finish  with  a  layer 
of  bread  crumbs.  Set  it  in  the  oven,  with  a  plate  on  top, 
until  heated  through,  then  remove  the  plate,  and  brown  the 
top  before  serving. 

DEVILED  EGGS. 

Take  one  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs;  when  cold,  remove  the 
shell,  and  cut  lengthwise;  take  out  the  yelks,  and  mash 
them  well,  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste,  one  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  and  one 
level  tea-spoonful  of  celery-seed ;  moisten  well  with  vinegar ; 
replace  the  yelks,  and  press  the  two  halves  together.  Place 
them  in  a  dish,  thin  the  rest  of  the  yelks  with  more  vinegar, 
and  pour  over  the  eggs.  Grated  cheese  may  be  added  to 
the  filling,  if  desired.  Mrs.  Robert  Ficklin. 

OMELET  (PLAIN). 

Beat  six  eggs  very  light — the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  the 
yelks  very  smooth ;  add  to  the  yelks  a  tea-cupful  of  sweet 
milk  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  then  add  the  whites 
lightly.  Have  ready  in  a  hot  frying-pan  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut ;  when  melted  and  very  hot,  pour  in 
the  mixture.  It  should  cook  in  about  ten  minutes.  Do  not 
stir  it,  but  slip  a  knife  around  the  edge  to  prevent  its  stick- 
ing, at  the  same  time  shaking  the  skillet  backward  and  for- 
ward for  the  same  reason.  When  done,  turn  half  of  one 
side  over  the  other  with  a  spoon,  then  turn  it  over  from  the 
omelet-pan  into  a  hot  dish.    Eat  at  once,  or  it  will  fall. 

OMELET  WITH  CHEESE. 

Prepare  eggs  the  same  as  for  plain  omelet.  Pour  them 
into  the  hot  skillet,  in  which  the  butter  is  hissing  hot ;  and 
when  the  eggs  are  partly  cooked,  strew  grated  cheese  thickly 
over  the  top.  When  done,  turn  one  half  over  the  other, 
and  serve  at  once.' 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


185 


OMELET  WITH  HAM. 

Cut  ham  into  small  pieces,  put  it  with  the  butter  into  the 
frying-pan,  and  cook  it  a  few  moments ;  then  toss  in  the 
prepared  eggs,  and  proceed  as  for  plain  omelet. 

OMELET  WITH  VEGETABLES. 

Omelet  may  be  served  with  tomatoes,  cauliflower,  aspar- 
agus, and  other  vegetables,  which  should  be  first  cooked 
until  they  are  done,  then  placed  in  the  center  of  a  plain 
omelet,  one  side  lapped  over  the  other,  and  served  in  a  hot 
dish,  with  a  border  of  the  vegetables  used  around  the  omelet. 

WASHINGTON  OMELET. 

Let  a  tea-cupful  of  milk  come  to  a  boiling;  pour  it  over 
one  tea-cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  and  let  it  stand  a  few  min- 
utes. Break  six  eggs  into  a  bowl,  stir  them  well  without 
beating ;  add  the  milk  and  bread ;  mix  all  together ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper;  pour  into  a  hot  skillet,  on  which  a 
table-spoonful  of  butter  has  been  melted ;  fry  slowly,  cut  into 
squares,  turn,  fry  a  delicate  brown,  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  D.  Buxton,  in  "Practical  Housekeeping." 

EGGS  WITH  CHEESE. 
Pour  into  a  hot  dish  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  break 
into  this  six  eggs,  over  which  scatter  half  a  tea-cupful  of 
grated  cheese;  put  six  small  squares  of  cheese  upright  be- 
tween the  eggs ;  strew  bits  of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  on 
the  top ;  place  the  dish  on  the  grating  of  the  stove,  and  let 
it  remain  about  ten  minutes,  or  until  the  cheese  is  crisp. 
Serve  at  once.  Mary  Cole. 


CHEESE. 


MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE. 

Bkeak  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  into  short  sticks  with- 
out washing,  throw  into  salted  boiling  water,  cook  for  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes,  shake  the  saucepan  well  to  prevent  sticking. 
When  done,  place  in  a  colander  and  drain  off  all  the  water. 
Melt  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  and  have 
ready  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  cheese.  Place  some 
of  the  macaroni  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish,  sprinkle 
some  of  the  cheese  over  it,  then  melted  butter,  salt,  and  pep- 
per. Continue  in  alternate  layers  until  the  dish  is  filled. 
Put  the  butter  and  cheese  on  top,  fill  the  pan  with  milk, 
and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  bake. 

CRACKERS  WITH  CHEESE. 

Soak  crackers  in  boiling  water,  butter  them,  and  spread 
with  a  little  mixed  mustard,  plenty  of  grated  cheese,  salt, 
and  pepper.  Put  into  a  small  pudding-dish  until  it  is  filled. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

Mes.  A.  A.  Maxxex. 
'  RICE  WITH  CHEESE. 

To  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice  use  one-quarter  of  a  pound 
of  grated  or  sliced  cheese,  butter  the  size  of  a  small  hen's 
egg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  pepper. 
Put  into  a  pudding-dish  in  layers,  having  some  of  the  cheese, 
melted  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  on  top.    Serve  very  hot. 

HOMINY  AND  CHEESE. 

To  be  prepared  the  same  as  the  above.    It  is  excellent. 

(186) 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


187 


RAMEQUINS  A  LA  UDE. 

Take  four  ounces  of  highly  flavored  cheese  grated,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  two  ounces  of  bread,  a  scant  gill  of  milk, 
one-third  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  one-third  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  Cayenne  pepper,  yelks  of  two 
eggs,  whites  of  three.  Crumb  the  bread,  boil  it  soft  in  the 
milk,  add  the  butter,  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  cheese,  and  the 
yelks.  Beat  thoroughly,  then  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites, 
pour  into  little  paper  cases  or  well-heated  egg-cups.  Bake 
for  five  or  six  minutes,  and  serve  immediately,  or  they  will 
fall.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Mannen. 

CHEESE  CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  grated  cheese,  one  cupful  of  rolled 
crackers,  two  cupfuls  of  new  milk.  Let  the  milk  come  to  a 
boiling,  stir  in  the  cheese  and  crackers.  When  cool  enough 
not  to  cook  the  egg,  stir  in  one  egg,  put  into  the  oven  to 
brown.  Serve  hot.  Or,  it  may  be  sliced  when  cold,  ai  d 
toasted.  Mrs.  George  T.  Hunter. 

CHEESE  FONDU. 

Soak  one  tea-cupful  of  fine  bread  crumbs  in  two  tea-cup- 
fuls  of  new  milk,  stir  into  this  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one 
small  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter,  one-half  tea-spoonful 
(even)  of  salt,  and  one-quarter  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper, 
Before  using  the  milk,  dissolve  a  pinch  of  soda  in  a  little  hot 
wTater  and  stir  into  it.  Add  to  the  mixture  lastly  half  a 
pound  of  grated  cheese.  Butter  a  baking-dish  and  pour  the 
fondu  into  it,  strew  the  top  with  bread  crumbs,  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  to  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  at  once,  in  the  same 
dish.  Delicious. 

CHEESE  SANDWICH 

Take  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  cheese  grated,  yelks 
of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  rub  the  yelks  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  one  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter,  season  with  sali 


188  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book, 


and  pepper,  stir  in  the  cheese.  Spread  on  slices  of  bread 
and  butter.  Mr?.  Charles  E.  Tabs. 

CHEESE  SANDWICH. 

Take  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  cheese  grated,  one 
table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  table-spoonful  of  cream,  pound 
all  together  in  a  heated  mortar,  spread  on  thin  slices  of 
toasted  bread,  stack  the  slices,  press  gently  together,  and  cut 
into  square  pieces.  Miss  Alice  Ficklin. 

WELSH  RARE-BIT. 

Put  one  table-spoonful  of  butter  into  a  warm  skillet  with 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  cut-up  cheese.  Stir  in  one  egg 
without  beating  it,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and  a  glass  of 
sherry  wine.  Have  ready  some  thin  slices  of  toast  buttered. 
Pour  over  them  the  melted  cheese,  and  serve  at  once.  Cream 
may  be  substituted  for  the  wine.     Mrs.  Allen  Bashford. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

Put  six  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  on  the  pas- 
try-board. Make  a  hole  in  the  center,  and  put  into  it  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  cream,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  dry  grated 
cheese,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  a  salt-spoonful 
of  salt,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and  the  yelks  of  two  eggs 
beaten  light.  Mix  all  these  ingredients  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  the  tips  of  the  fingers,  roll  out  to  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  cut  into  narrow  straws,  and  bake  to  a  light  brown  on 
a  buttered  pan  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  quickly,  on  a  hot 
napkin.  Miss  Alice  Ficklix. 

CHEESE  WAFERS. 

Take  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  two  ounces  of  flour, 
two  ounces  of  butter.  Mix  well  together,  and  add  a  little 
salt,  a  grain  or  two  of  Cayenne  pepper,  the  yelk  of  one  egg, 
and  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice.  Knead  all  together* with- 
out using  any  water,  roll  out  thin  on  a  floured  board,  cut 
into  small  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  four  or  five 


Tlie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


189 


minutes.  These  can  be  made  in  large  quantities,  as  they 
will  keep  for  a  month.    Always  heat  before  serving. 


Pour  boiling  water  into  a  pan  of  clabber,  and  let 
it  remain  until  it  becomes  cool,  when  the  whey  can  be 
poured  off,  or  it  may  be  turned  into  a  colander  to  drain. 
When  it  is  dry,  put  it  into  a  kitchen  basin  and  work  in 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Just  before  sending  to  the  table, 
moisten  with  cream.  A  nice  dish  for  breakfast,  dinner,  or 
tea.  Mrs.  Annie  Lee. 


Set  a  pan  of  clabber  over  the  fire  to  become  heated. 
When  the  whey  rises,  and  bubbles  begin  to  form  in  the  cen- 
ter of  the  milk,  remove  at  once,  or  it  will  become  tough. 
Pour  into  a  colander  and  set  away  to  drain  in  a  cool  place 
until  meal-time,  then  moisten  with  sweet  cream  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Some  add  a  little  sour  cream  as  well 
as  sweet,  and  consider  it  quite  an  improvement. 


CURD. 


CURD,  OR  COTTAGE  CHEESE. 


Mrs.  Charles  E.  Tabb. 


CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 


See  that  the  cans  and  elastics  are  clean  and  perfect,  and 
that  the  screw  fits  properly.  Heat  the  cans  by  putting  them 
into  a  large  vessel  of  cold  water  on  the  stove  until  the  water 
boils.  Have  a  pan  on  the  stove  in  which  to  set  each  hot 
can  as  you  take  it  out  of  the  boiling  water.  Fill  at  once 
perfectly  full  with  the  hot  fruit  or  vegetable.  Put  the  top 
on  immediately  and  screw  tightly.  As  the  contents  cool, 
screw  again  to  be  sure  that  they  are  as  tight  as  possible. 
Keep  glass  cans  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place.  Self-sealing 
glass  cans  are  best  for  fruit  of  all  kinds.  Tin  may  be  used 
successfully  for  vegetables,  but  glass  or  stone  is  better  for 
either  fruit  or  vegetables.  In  this  day,  when  canned  fruits 
and  vegetables  can  be  bought  so  cheaply,  such  minute  di- 
rections for  canning  may  seem  superfluous,  many  preferring 
to  buy  instead  of  taking  the  labor  and  trouble  of  canning, 
but  there  are  many  others  to  whom  we  hope  this  book  will 
go  and  prove  a  valuable  friend.  Those  who  live  in  the 
country,  and  raise  fruits  and  vegetables  in  abundance,  find 
it  more  convenient  and  much  cheaper  to  do  all  this  canning 
at  home  instead  of  sending,  perhaps  quite  a  distance,  for 
such  articles  when  needed.  To  such,  these  receipts  will 
prove  invaluable,  and  the  directions  for  preparing,  which 
may  seem  too  simple  and  explicit  to  experienced  housekeep- 
ers, will  be  found  none  too  plain  for  the  young  and  new 
beginners,  who  perhaps  have  scarcely  ever  seen  the  inside 
of  a  kitchen. 

The  following  table  gives  the  time  required  for  cooking, 
(190) 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Boole. 


191 


and  the  quantity  of  sugar  to  the  quart  for  the  different  kinds 
of  fruit  for  canning : 


Kinds  of  Fruit. 

Time  for 
Boiling. 

Quantity 
of  sugar 

to  a 

quart 

6  ounces. 

  6 

a 

4 

a 

Blackberries  

  6 

a 

6 

a 

  6 

it 

8 

a 

  10 

u 

10 

a 

a 

8 

a 

  10 

a 

8 

a 

  30 

a 

4 

a 

 -20 

a 

6 

a 

  8 

ii 

4 

 '  15 

4 

a 

ii 

6 

a 

 .   25 

ii 

8 

a 

It 

5 

a 

  6 

ii 

8 

a 

  10 

ii 

8 

a 

ii 

0 

a 

ii 

8 

a 

  15 

a 

10 

a 

TO  CAN  PEACHES. 

Take  nice  large  ripe  freestone  peaches,  white  or  }'ellow. 
Pare,  cut  into  halves,  remove  the  seed,  drop  the  pieces  into 
cold  water  to  prevent  them  from  turning  dark.  Weigh, 
allowing  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  peaches. 
Boil  the  sugar  a  few  moments,  drop  in  the  fruit,  and  boil 
until  well  heated  through.  Fill  up  the  cans  with  fruit, 
pouring  over  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sirup,  first  having  the 
cans  hot.    Seal,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Apples  may  be  canned  in  exactly  the  same  manner.  If 
there  is  sirup  left  over,  peel,  core,  and  halve  more  apples, 
and  proceed  in  the  same  manner.  If  possible,  use  bell-flower 
apples. 


192  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book 


If  peaches  are  small,  peel  and  can  whole,  as  they  retain 
the  flavor  of  the  kernel,  and  are  excellent. 

TO  CAN  PEACHES. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Make 
a  sirup  of  the  sugar,  drop  in  the  peaches,  boil  gently  until 
clear.  Put  into  hot  glass  (self-sealing)  cans.  Do  not  seal 
the  cans  until  cool.  Before  sealing,  cut  some  round  papers 
to  fit  nicely  in  the  top  of  the  fruit ;  this  will  prevent  mold- 
ing. Mrs.  Lucy  Keith. 
TO  CAN  APPLES. 

Pare,  cut  into  halves,  core.  Drop  the  pieces  into  a  vessel 
of  cold  water,  to  prevent  them  from  turning  dark.  Make  a 
sirup  of  one-third  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  one  tea-cupful 
of  water  for  each  pound  of  apples.  Cut  oranges  in  slices 
about  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  allow  two  slices  to 
each  pound  of  fruit.  If  the  oranges  are  large,  and  the  peel 
green,  a  less  quantity  Avill  do,  as  too  much  gives  a  bitter 
taste.  Put  the  sirup  and  sliced  oranges  into  a  preserving- 
kettle,  boil  carefully,  removing  all  scum,  then  put  in  the 
apples  and  boil  them  until  tender,  being  careful  not  to  stir 
or  break  them.  When  done,  take  out  the  pieces  with  a  per- 
forated skimmer,  put  into  the  cans,  pour  on  the  sirup,  and 
seal  immediately. 

TO  CAN  BERRIES. 

Take  strawberries,  raspberries,  blackberries,  plums,  cher- 
ries, or  any  small  fruit,  pick  over  carefully ;  heat  slowly  to 
boiling  in  a  large  kettle.  When  they  begin  to  boil,  add 
sugar  in  the  proportion  of  one  table-spoonful  to  each  quart 
of  fruit.  Before  putting  in  the  sugar,  if  there  is  much  sur- 
plus juice,  dip  it  out  with  a  cup.  Save  the  juice  you  take 
out  for  jelly.  Leave  the  berries  almost  dry  before  putting 
in  the  sugar;  this  will  make  sirup  enough.  Boil  all  togeth- 
er for  fifteen  minutes,  and  put  hot  into  well-heated  cans. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


193 


Another  way  is  to  fill  as  many  cans  as  will  stand  in  a 
boiler  with  the  carefully  picked  fruit,  first  putting  a  piece 
of  wood  in  the  bottom  of  the  boiler,  so  the  cans  will  be  less 
apt  to  break.  Add  sugar  to  each  can  of  fruit  to  sweeten 
for  the  table.  Put  water  enough  in  the  boiler  to  come  up 
nearly  to  the  top  of  the  cans.  Let  the  water  boil  half  an 
hour;  then  take  out  two  cans,  and  if  the  fruit  has  settled 
down  fill  with  fruit  taken  from  the  other.  Fill  all  in  the 
same  manner.    Seal  tightly. 

TO  CAN  FRUIT  COLD. 

Take  thirty-six  grains  of  salicylic  acid,  one-half  pound  of 
sugar,  one  quart  of  Water,  in  which  dissolve  the  sugar  and 
acid.  Pour  over  the  fruit  cold.  This  will  fill  two  cans. 
Must  be  well  sealed.  Mrs.  Gilman. 

TO  CAN  TOMATOES  WHOLE. 

Select  nice  smooth  tomatoes,  peel  them  as  you  would  ap- 
ples— therefore  they  should  be  firm;  or,  scald  and  skin  them 
very  carefully.  Take  out  the  stems  with  a  pen-knife.  Fill 
up  glass  cans  with  the  whole  tomatoes;  sprinkle  over  them 
a  little  salt ;  place  the  cans  in  pots  or  a  boiler  of  cold  water. 
Let  the  water  boil  around  them  until  thoroughly  heated 
through.  Lift  the  cans  from  the  boiling  w'ater,  and  seal 
tight.  Use  self-sealing  glass  cans.  These  tomatoes  are  as 
nice  to  slice  for  the  table  in  winter  as  in  summer. 

TO  CAN  TOMATOES  FOR  COOKING. 

Take  ripe  tomatoes,  pour  boiling  water  over  them  that 
the  skins  may  be  easily  removed.  Cut  into  halves  or  quar- 
ters, put  into  a  kettle  and  boil  until  well  heated  through, 
adding  salt  enough  to  season  for  the  table.  Have  the  cans 
heated  by  putting  them  into  a  vessel  of  cold  water,  and  set- 
ting it  on  the  stove  until  it  boils.  Put  the  tomatoes  in  the 
hot  cans.    Seal  immediately. 


194  The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh 


TO  CAN  GREEN  TOMATOES. 

Take  large  green  tomatoes,  slice  into  thick  slices,  cover 
well  with  water,  and  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Take 
out  and  drain ;  then  to  seven  pounds  of  fruit  add  three 
pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  large  or 
two  small  lemons.  Boil  again  fifteen  minutes,  and  seal  in 
hot  glass  jars.  This  is  excellent  for  pies.  Bake  with  one 
crust.  To  make  good  preserves,  add  one  pound  more  of 
sugar.  Mrs.  Bridges. 

TO  CAN  TOMATOES  AND  CORN. 

Prepare  the  tomatoes  as  for  cooking.  To  one  gallon  of 
tomatoes  add  one  quart  of  corn  cut  and  scraped  from  the 
cob  after  it  has  been  well  scalded.  Cook  together  until  the 
corn  is  done;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Skim  well,  and 
seal  tight  in  well-heated  cans. 

TO  CAN  GREEN  CORN. 

Cut  from  the  cobs  twenty-one  quarts  of  corn.  Dissolve 
three  and  one-half  ounces  of  tartaric  acid  in  a  little  hot  wa- 
ter. Put  plenty  of  water,  together  with  the  tartaric  acid, 
over  the  corn,  and  boil  well.  When  thoroughly  cooked, 
can  and  seal  at  once.  When  you  wish  to  use  it,  drain  off 
the  water  and  add  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  sugar,  salt  and  butter  as  you  like.  This  will  fill  twenty- 
three  cans,  and  takes  nine  and  one-half  dozen  ears  of  corn. 

Mrs.  James  Kobixsox. 

TO  CAN  GREEN  CORN  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

Select  young,  tender  corn ;  cut  and  scrape  from  the  cob ; 
pack  in  jars;  put  one  pint  of  salt  to  seven  pints  of  corn  in 
layers  alternately  until  the  jar  is  filled.  Put  a  board  on 
top  on  which  place  a  weight.  To  prepare  for  the  table, 
soak  overnight  in  plenty  of  water.  Season  with  butter,  pep- 
per, and  a  little  sugar.    Also,  nice  for  corn  oyster. 

Mrs.  A.  Bierbower. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book,  195 


TO  CAN  GREEN  PEASE  OR  BEANS. 

Select  them  young  and  tender ;  cook  thoroughly,  adding 
a  little  salt;  put  into  hot  cans  and  have  soldered. 

TO  CAN  CORN  AND  BEANS. 

To  two  dozen  ears  of  corn  allow  one  peck  of  fresh,  tender 
string  beans.  Boil  the  beans  until  well  cooked,  with  half  a 
pound  of  middling.  Take  out  the  meat,  cut  off'  the  corn ; 
mix  them  together  thoroughly,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  while  hot  into  well-heated  cans,  and  seal,  or  what  is 
better,  solder.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

TO  CAN  CORN,  TOMATOES,  AND  OKRA  FOR  SOUP. 

Take  two  dozen  ears  of  corn  boiled  on  the  cob,  one  peck 
of  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  fine,  one-fourth  of  a  peck 
of  small,  tender  okra.  After  the  corn  is  well  cooked,  cut  it 
off  from  the  cob,  boil  the  tomatoes  half  an  hour,  and  the 
okra  until  tender,  from  which  carefully  drain  the  water, 
adding  the  okra  and  corn  to  the  tomatoes.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  mix  well  together,  put  into  the  cans  boiling  hot, 
and  have  the  cans  soldered.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 


PRESERVES. 

To  make  nice  preserves  the  best  granulated  sugar  should 
be  used;  but  for  common  use,  they  may  be  made  of  nice 
brown  sugar,  -which  may  be  clarified  by  dissolving  in  a  little 
water,  and  while  cold  stir  into  it  the  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs — one  white  to  four  or  five  pounds  of  sugar — then  boil 
and  skim  well.  I  have  given  in  almost  all  preserve  receipts 
one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit,  which  is  always 
safest,  if  you  desire  to  keep  them  a  long  time ;  but  for  pres- 
ent use,  all  sweet  fruits — such  as  peaches,  pears,  apples, 
blackberries,  and  raspberries — may  be  preserved,  and  arc 
even  preferable,  with  from  one-half  to  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit.  The  flavor  of  the  fruit  is 
better  preserved  in  this  way ;  but  where  less  sugar  is  used 
it  is  best  to  cook  longer.  The  best  preserving-kettle  is  made 
of  iron  lined  with  porcelain. 

One-pint  jars  are  always  the  best  in  which  to  put  away 
preserves,  as  they  are  not  so  apt  to  sour  before  they  are 
used,  as  if  put  into  large  jars. 

If  you  want  preserves  and  jellies  especially  clear  and  nice, 
cook  quickly  a  pint  at  a  time.  In  makiug  jelly  of  sweet 
fruits,  add  while  cooking  a  little  fresh  lemon-juice  or  tar- 
taric acid  to  make  it  jelly  quickly. 

The  simple  precaution  of  fitting  tissue-paper,  which  has 
been  wet  in  whisky  or  brandy,  over  the  surface  of  preserves 
and  jellies,  before  putting  on  the  covers,  will  save  the  house- 
keeper much  annoyance  by  protecting  them  from  mold. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  197 


PEACH  PRESERVES. 

Select  large  ripe  plum  peaches,  or  freestone  peaches  that 
are  not  too  ripe;  peel  them,  take  a  sharp-pointed  knife,  be- 
gin at  the  stem  and  run  it  around  the  length  of  the  seed, 
cutting  one  half  clean  from  the  stone,  then  close  around  the 
stone  cutting  off  the  other  half.  To  every  pound  of  fruit 
allow  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  Cook  two  pounds  at 
a  time.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  preserving-kettle  with  just 
enough  water  to  dissolve  it  ;  let  the  sugar  boil  a  few  mo- 
ments, skim  it,  then  drop  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  it  rapidly, 
skimming  off  all  scum  that  arises.  Cook  it  until  clear. 
Take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  put  it  into 
jars,  and  if  the  sirup  seems  too  thin  boil  it  until  it  is  thick, 
and  pour  it  over  the  fruit.    Seal  it  closely. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Sadler. 

TO  PRESERVE  PEACHES  WHOLE. 

Take  plum  peaches,  ripe  but  firm,  of  medium  size;  pare 
them,  or  pierce  the  skin  in  several  places  with  a  coarse 
needle,  and  weigh  them.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  an 
equal  quantity  of  sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar  with  a  little 
water;  boil  and  skim  it  well;  put  in  the  peaches,  and  sim- 
mer until  they  look  clear  and  the  sirup  is  tolerably  thick. 
Put  them  into  small  jars,  cover  with  brandy  paper,  and  tie 
tight,  or  seal.  Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

TO  PRESERVE  PEACHES  WHOLE. 

(Without  Peeling. 

Put  one  tea-spoonful  of  pearlash  into  two  or  three  quarts 
of  hot  water,  and  dissolve  it  thoroughly.  Put  into  this  a 
few  peaches  at  a  time,  let  them  lie  a  few  moments,  take  them 
out,  rub  each  one  with  a  coarse  cloth,  and  drop  into  cold 
water;  then  drain  them,  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  allow 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  and  preserve 
in  the  usual  manner.  Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 


198 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


TO  PRESERVE  FREESTONE  PEACHES. 

Select  freestone  peaches  that  are  barely  ripe,  peel  and 
take  out  the  seed,  allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  granu- 
lated sugar  to  each  one  of  fruit.  Put  the  fruit  into  a  stone 
jar;  dissolve  and  boil  the  sugar,  skim  it  and  pour  it  over 
the  fruit,  and  let  it  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning  pour 
off  the  sirup,  and  boil  it  well  before  putting  in  the  fruit ; 
cook  slowly,  lifting  them  gently  from  the  bottom  to  prevent 
sticking.  Crack  and  extract  the  kernels  from  some  of  the 
seeds,  and  add  while  cooking,  which  will  greatly  improve 
the  flavor  of  the  preserves.  These  may  be  taken  out  of  the 
sirup  when  done,  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  laid  on  large 
flat  dishes,  and  set  in  the  sun  all  day ;  then  put  them  into 
jars  and  pour  the  thick  sirup  over ;  tie  or  seal  up. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

PEACH  CHIPS. 

Take  ripe,  firm  cling  peaches,  slice  them  nicely,  weigh 
them,  and  allow  one-half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit. 
Boil  the  sugar  until  it  forms  a  thick  sirup.  Put  in  the 
sliced  peaches,  and  cook  them  until  clear.  Take  out  the 
pieces  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  spread  them  on  clean, 
smooth  boards,  and  set  in  the  sun.  When  nearly  dry, 
sprinkle  each  piece  liberally  with  granulated  sugar.  When 
this  dries,  turn  them  over  and  sprinkle  the  other  side,  and 
keep  them  in  the  sun  until  as  dry  as  chips.  Pack  them  in 
jars  with  sugar  sprinkled  between  and  ovet*  them. 

Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 

PEAR  PRESERVES. 

Peel,  cut  in  halves,  core,  -and  weigh  the  pears.  If  hard, 
boil  them  in  water  until  tender,  and  use  the  water  for  the 
sirup.  Allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of 
fruit.  Boil  gently  until  the  sirup  has  penetrated  them,  and 
they  look  clear.    Some  of  the  pieces  will  cook  sooner  than 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  199 


others;  these  must  he  removed.  When  done,  take  them  out, 
put  them  into  jars,  boil  the  sirup  until  thick,  and  pour  it 
over  them.  Miss  Florence  Williams. 

PEAR  PRESERVES. 

Peel  and  cut  into  halves,  remove  the  cores  and  hard  parts, 
and  drop  them  into  cold  water  to  prevent  them  from  turn- 
ing dark.  Weigh  them,  and  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  each  one  of  fruit.  Dissolve  the  sugar  with  about 
a  cupful  of  water  to  the  pound.  Stir  in  the  white  of  one 
egg  to  every  five  pounds  of  sugar.  Xow  put  the  sugar  into 
a  preserving-kettle,  and  boil  it  fast  until  the  scum  arises, 
which  remove;  then  put  in  the  pears;  boil  them  slowly 
until  they  look  clear;  take  them  out  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  and  spread  on  dishes  to.  cool.  Flavor  the  sirup 
or  not,  as  you  prefer,  boil  it  until  thick,  and  pour  over  the 
fruit.  Ginger  sliced  thin  and  boiled  in  the  sirup  is  a  great 
addition.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Sadler. 

TO  PRESERVE  PEARS  WHOLE. 

Select  nice  pears,  not  quite  ripe  and  free  from  blemish ; 
peel  them  nicely,  leaving  on  a  short  bit  of  stem;  weigh 
them,  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  one  pound  of  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar,  put  it  into  the  kettle,  boil 
and  skim  it;  put  in  the  pears,  and  boil  them  until  clear  and 
easily  pierced  with  a  fork.  Take  them  out  with  a  perfo- 
rated skimmer,  and  lay  them  on  flat  dishes  to  cool ;  then  put 
them  into  jars,  and  when  the  sirup  is  thick,  pour  it  over  the 
fruit,  having  stuck  a  clove  into  the  blossom-end  of  each 
pear.  M.  C.  S. 

QUINCE  PRESERVES. 

Take  ripe  quinces;  wash  them  well  so  that  the  peelings 
maybe  used,  together  with  the  cores,  for  jelly;  cut  them  into 
halves  or  quarters,  core  them,  and  drop  into  cold  Y\-ater. 
Weigh  them,  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  three-fourths 


200  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  quinces  into  a  steamer  over 
boiling  water  until  easily  pierced  with  a  fork.  Have  the 
sirup  ready  and  boiling,  and  put  in  the  steamed  quinces; 
cook  them  until  clear,  skimming  all  impurities  that  rise  from 
the  surface.  Put  the  fruit  into  stone  jars,  and  if  the  sirup  is 
not  thick  enough,  boil  it  a  little  longer,  and  pour  it  over  the 
fruit.    Put  into  self-sealing  jars.  Mrs.  W.  S.  C. 

TO  PRESERVE  QUINCES  WHOLE. 

Select  the  largest  and  fairest  quinces,  as  the  poorer  ones 
will  do  for  jelly;  take  out  the  cores,  and  pare  them ;  boil  the 
quinces  in  water  until  tender;  to  each  pound  of  quinces  al- 
low one  pound  of  sugar;  make  the  sirup;  then  boil  the 
quinces  until  clear.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Darrow. 

APPLE  PRESERVES. 

Select  apples  for  preserves  that  are  not  very  sour,  if  pos- 
sible, as  the  sweeter  apples  do  not  mash  in  cooking.  Pare, 
cut  in  halves,  core,  and  drop  them  into  cold  water  to  pre- 
vent them  turning  dark;  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  allow 
three -fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  After  draining  the 
fruit,  put  it  into  a  jar;  dissolve  the  sugar,  boil  and  skim  it 
well;  pour  it  over  the  fruit,  and  let  it  stand  all  night.  This 
toughens  any  tender  fruit.  The  next  morning  pour  oft1  the 
sugar  into  the  preserving-kettle,  let  it  boil  a  moment,  then 
add  the  fruit,  boiling  until  it  is  done.  Add  cinnamon,  lem- 
on-peel, or  orange-peel,  to  flavor.  Put  it  into  jars,  and  tie 
tightly  or  seal.  Mrs.  W.  S.  C. 

APPLE  PRESERVES. 

Allow  three-fourths  of  a'  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to 
each  pound  of  apples.  Make  a  sirup  of  the  sugar  and  of 
water  in  which  root-ginger,  bruised  and  tied  in  a  bag,  has 
been  boiled  until  the  strength  is  well  extracted;  add  a  little 
lemon-juice,  and  skim  off  all  scum ;  boil  in  this  sirup  a  tew 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Book. 


201 


apples  at  a  time  until  they  are  transparent,  and  place  them 
in  a  jar.  When  all  are  cooked,  boil  the  sirup  until  thick, 
pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  apples,  and  cover  closely. 

Mrs.  Shemaker. 

TO  PRESERVE  GREENGAGE  OR  BLUE  PLUMS. 

Take  nice,  perfect  plums;  wash  and  pierce  them  with  a 
coarse  needle ;  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  add  one  of  gran- 
ulated sugar;  dissolve  the  sugar,  boil  and  skim  it,  and  pour 
over  the  plums  which  have  been  previously  put  into  a  jar. 
Let  them  remain  in  the  sirup  all  night:  then  pour  off  the 
sirup  into  the  preserving-kettle,  boil  it  a  short  time,  put  in 
the  plums,  and  boil  them  until  tender ;  then  put  them  into 
small  jars,  and  seal.  Miis.  W.  C.  S. 

DAMSON  PRESERVES. 

Seed  and  weigh  the  damsons,  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit 
allow  one  of  sugar;  dissolve  the  sugar  and  put  it  into  the 
preserving-kettle ;  when  it  boils,  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  it 
until  pretty  thick — almost  jelly — skimming  off  all  scum  as 
it  rises. 

Another  way  is  to  put  the  fruit  and  sugar  into  an  earthen 
vessel,  covered  closely,  inside  of  the  stove,  and  cook  three 
hours. 

CITRON  PRESERVES. 

Pare,  slice,  and  cut  the  citron  into  any  fancy  shape  desired ; 
boil  in  weak  alum-water  twenty  minutes,  and  scald  in  clear 
water  twenty  minutes;  then  drain  the  water  from  the  fruit, 
and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  add  one  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  sugar.  To  every  four  pounds  of  fruit  use  two  lemons 
and  some  white  ginger,  the  lemons  and  ginger  to  be  boiled 
separately  and  only  the  liquid  added  to  the  fruit.  Cook  the 
fruit  until  tender;  boil  the  sirup  until  thick,  and  pour  it 
over  the  fruit.    Put  it  into  jars,  and  tie  closely. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Kessele. 


202 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


CITRON  PRESERVES. 

Peel  off  the  rind,  take  out  the  seed,  cut  into  any  shape 
desired,  weigh  them,  and  put  them  into  a  preserving-kettle, 
with  water  enough  to  cover  them  well;  boil  one  hour,  then 
take  them  out,  and  add  the  same  weight  in  sugar  there  was 
of  melon  to  the  water  in  the  kettle;  boil  until  it  forms  a 
thick  sirup,  replace  the  melons,  adding  two  sliced  lemons  to 
each  pound.  Boil  until  the  fruit  is  tender  and  clear,  put  it 
into  small  jars,  pour  over  it  the  sirup  when  thick,  and  seal. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Kobixsox. 

WATER-MELON  RIND  PRESERVES. 

Peel  all  the  green  from  the  outside  and  the  red  from  the 
inside  of  the  rinds,  and  cut  them  into  any  fancy  shapes  you 
like;  put  them  into  a  steamer  over  boiling  water  and  steam 
until  easily  pierced  with  a  straw  or  fork.  Prepare  a  sirup 
of  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  rinds.  After  it  has  boiled 
and  been  well  skimmed,  put  the  rinds  in,  and  boil  them 
until  clear.  Slice  a  few  lemons  and  drop  in  while  cooking, 
and  a  few  sticks  of  race-ginger  if  you  like. 

ANOTHER  WATER-MELON  PRESERVE. 

Prepare  the  rinds  as  directed  above,  lay  in  brine  two  or 
three  days  (or  even  longer),  soak  them  in  fresh  cold  water, 
make  them  brittle  by  boiling  in  very  weak  alum-water,  and 
then  boil  in  strong  ginger  tea  ;  allow  one  pound  and  a  half 
of  sugar  to  one  of  rind;  slice  race-ginger  for  -flavoring. 
The  fruit  must  be  drained  before  putting  into  the  kettle. 

Mrs.  McDowell. 

GLASS-MELON  PRESERVES. 

Soak  the  melons — green  or  ripe — in  weak  salt-water 
three  or  four  hours;  then  pare  them,  and  take  out  the  seed 
by  making  a  small  hole  in  each  end  and  pushing  them 
through  with  a  quill ;  soak  in  salt-water  six  hours,  then  in 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


203 


alum-water  three  hours ;  boil  in  clear  water  a  few  moments, 
soak  in  clear  water  twelve  or  fourteen  hours,  and  boil  in 
thin  sirup  until  clear  as  glass.  Take  them  out  as  fast  as 
they  become  clear,  and  put  them  into  a  thick  sirup. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Berry. 

CANTALEUP  PRESERVES. 

The  melons  should  not  be  very  ripe.  Peel  off  the  outer 
rind,  and  cut  off  the  soft  part  of  the  inside.  Lay  them  in 
salt-water  two  hours,  wash  them  in  fresh  water,  and  boil 
them  an  hour  in  alum-water.  Take  them  out  of  that  and 
drop  them  into  fresh  water  until  they  are  cold,  then  boil  an 
hour  in  ginger  tea,  after  which  make  a  sirup  of  one  and 
one-fourth  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  melon.  Boil 
them  in  that  until  clear  and  the  sirup  is  very  thick.  Use 
for  flavoring  the  vanilla-bean.  Put  into  small  jars,  and 
seal.  Mrs.  Phcebe  Wood. 

CUCUMBER  SWEETMEATS. 

Take  small,  fresh  cucumbers,  and  lay  them  in  strong  brine 
for  four  or  five  days.  Wash  them,  and  soak  in  clear  water 
for  a  day,  changing  the  water  several  times.  Green  them 
as  for  pickles,  omitting  the  vinegar,  being  careful  not  to  let 
them  boil.  When  a  nice  green,  drop  them  into  ice-water; 
when  perfectly  cold,  make  a  slit  in  one  side,  and  carefully 
take  out  the  seed,  filling  them  with  chopped  raisins  and  cit- 
ron. Sew  them  up  closely  with  a  thread.  Weigh  them, 
and  to  every  pound  allow  one  pound  of  sugar.  Dissolve 
the  sugar  with  one  pint  of  cold  water ;  boil  it  quickly,  skim 
closely,  and  drop  in  the  cucumbers;  boil  slowly  for  half  an 
hour,  and  lay  them  on  a  dish  in  the  sun;  boil  the  sirujD 
until  quite  thick,  adding  a  few  slices  of  ginger,  and  drop 
the  cucumbers  again  into  the  sirup  for  a  few  moments.  Put 
into  glass  jars,  sealing  when  cold.  Excellent. 

Mrs.  Laura  C.  Dimmitt. 


204  TJie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


CHERRY  PRESERVES. 

Seed  the  cherries,  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  allow  one 
pound  of  sugar.  Pour  the  juice  over  the  sugar,  and  put 
the  fruit  and  sugar  all  into  a  preserving-kettle,  and  boil  it 
until  thick.  Use  very  little  or  no  water,  as  the  juice  of  the* 
fruit  will  be  sufficient.  Morellos  or  any  sour  cherries  are 
best  for  preserves.  Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

GRAPE  PRESERVES. 

Take  any  tart,  light-colored  grapes;  pluck  them  from  the 
stems,  weigh,  and  then  pulp  them.  Put  the  pulps  into  a 
preserving-kettle;  let  them  simmer,  and  rub  them  through 
a  sieve.  Allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit, 
as  weighed  in  the  beginning.  Put  all  together — juice, 
strained  pulp,  and  skins — with  the  sugar.  Boil  hard  until 
the  skins  seem  tender  and  the  sirup  thick — almost  a  jelly. 

Miss  Julia  Porter. 

ENGLISH  STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

For  every  pound  of  fruit  take  a  pound  of  granulated 
sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  water  to  each  pound  of  sugar. 
Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  thickens;  then  pour  in  the 
berries,  which  have  been  first  carefully  picked.  Let  them 
boil  slowly  fifteen  minutes ;  put  all  away  now  in  the  pre- 
serving-pan, and  let  it  cool.  When  cold,  strain  ofT  the  sirup, 
and  boil  it  alone,  skimming  perfectly.  When  boiling  well, 
put  in  the  strawberries,  and  let  them  boil  five  minutes;  then 
remove  them,  and  put  into  pots  or  jars  when  cold.  Cover 
them,  but  do  not  paste  paper  over  the  tops  until  a  week  has 
elapsed.  I  have  followed  this  receipt  exactly  for  three 
years  with  good  success.  Mrs.  Lucy  Keith. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Cap  and  pick  carefully  the  berries.  Weigh  an  equal 
quantity  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  preserv- 
ing-kettle, with  water  enough  to  start  it  to  cooking.  Boil 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  205 


until  it  will  crack  like  candy  when  dropped  in  water,  then 
put  in  the  berries.  Let  them  cook  until  they  begin  to  look 
flabby,  and  cease  to  float  on  top.  Have  the  jars  hot,  that 
they  may  not  break  when  the  hot  fruit  is  put  in,  fill  them 
even  with  the  top,  that  there  may  be  no  room  for  air,  fasten 
on  the  top  as  quickly  as  possible.  Self-sealing  jars  are  best 
to  keep  them  in.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Hunter,  Maysville,  Ivy. 

BLACKBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Carefully  pick  and  wash  the  berries.  To  each  pound  of 
fruit  weigh  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar — good  brown 
sugar  will  do.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  a  little  water,  put  in 
the  berries  and  cook  tolerably  thick. 

Raspberries  may  be  preserved  in  exactly  the  same  man- 
ner, using  a  little  more  water,  as  they  are  a  dry  fruit. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Sadler,  Maysville,  Ky. 

GOOSEBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Take  green  or  half-ripe  gooseberries,  pick  over  nicely,  re- 
moving stems  and  blossoms.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  allow 
one  pound  of  sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar  and  let  it  come  to 
a  boiling,  put  in  the  fruit,  and  while  cooking  add  a  small 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  to  about  ten  pounds  of  fruit.  Skim 
well,  and  cook  until  pretty  thick.     -  Mrs.  W.  C.  Sadler. 

FIG  PRESERVES. 

To  four  pounds  of  figs  take  four  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar;  cover  the  figs  well  with  cold  water,  and  let  them 
stand  ten  or  twelve  hours.  Boil  them  in  clear  water  until 
tender,  lay  on  dishes  to  cool  and  harden.  Dissolve  the  su- 
gar, and  make  a  sirup,  skimming  carefully.  Drop  in  the 
figs,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Take  them  out  and  lay  on 
dishes.  Add  to  the  sirup  a  few  slices  of  ginger  and  the 
juice  of  two  lemons.  When  the  sirup  is  thick,  put  in  the 
fruit,  and  boil  again  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  put  into  jars, 
and  seal  closely  while  hot.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 


206  The  Neiv  Kentucky  Rome  Cook  Boot 


TOMATO  PRESERVES. 

Take  good  firm  tomatoes  (the  yellow  pear  tomato  is  the 
nicest),  scald  and  skin  them,  and  let  them  drain  well.  Take 
as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  there  are  pounds  of  tomatoes. 
To  the  sugar  add  one  pint  of  water  for  each  pound.  Make 
a  thick  sirup,  to  which  add,  when  first  mixed  and  before 
boiling,  one  ounce  of  race-ginger  to  three  pounds  of  sugar. 
After  the  sirup  is  done,  add  the  fruit  and  boil  until  it  is  a 
rich  preserve.  A  little  while  before  the  preserves  are  done, 
add  two  sliced  lemons  to  three  pounds  of  preserves.  Put 
into  small  self-sealing  jars.  Mrs.  Dr.  John  Phister. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PRESERVES. 

Take  four  pounds  of  small  green  tomatoes,  smooth  and 
free  from  blemishes,  prick  well  with  a  large  needle  or  fork, 
four  pounds  of  sugar ;  make  a  sirup,  adding  to  it  one-fourth 
ounce  of  mace,  one-fourth  ounce  of  sliced  ginger,  the  juice 
of  two  lemons.  When  the  sirup  begins  to  thicken,  add  the 
tomatoes.  Boil  them  until  clear,  take  out  carefully  and  lay 
on  dishes.  Boil  the  sirup  until  quite  thick;  put  the  fruit 
into  well-heated  jars,  and  pour  the  boiling  sirup  over  it. 
Seal  at  once.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 


MARMALADES. 


PEACH  MARMALADE. 

Pare  and  remove  the  stones  from  ripe  freestone  peaches; 
mash  as  you  handle  them.  Extract  the  kernels  from  some 
of  the  seeds,  pound  them,  and  flavor  the  marmalade  with 
them.  Weigh  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  one 
of  fruit.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  preserving-kettle,  adding  a 
little  water  to  prevent  burning,  boil  a  few  moments,  skim 
well,  and  add  the  mashed  fruit.    Boil  thirty  or  forty  min- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  207 


utes,  stirring  almost  constantly.  Let  it  cool,  and  put  into 
small  jars,  and  seal.  Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

PEAR  MARMALADE. 

Take  ripe  pears.  After  peeling  and  coring  weigh,  and 
boil  in  a  little  water  until  tender.  Mash  them  to  a  pulp 
and  add  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
fruit.  Cook  slowly  and  stir  continually  until  very  thick. 
Use  any  flavoring  you  like,  or  none,  if  preferred.  Put  into 
glass  or  stone  jars. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 

Peel,  slice,  and  weigh  the  fruit.  Put  it  into  a  preserving- 
kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover ;  boil  and  mash ;  add  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  and  boil  about  half 
an  hour,  stirring  all  the  time.  .  Add  any  flavoring  desired, 
but  the  natural  flavor  of  the  quince  is  usually  preferred. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

APPLE  MARMALADE. 
Stew  until  tender  two  or  three  dozen  tart,  juicy  apples  in 
just  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Drain  off  all  the  juice 
through  a  colander;  measure;  put  it  into  a  porcelain  kettle, 
stirring  into  it  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  liquid.  Boil  until  it  begins  to  jelly ;  strain  into  it 
the  juice  of  two  lemons,  then  put  in  the  apples  and  boil 
pretty  fast,  stirring  almost  constantly,  until  it  is  thick  and 
smooth.  (If  the  apples  are  not  soft  all  through,  it  is  best 
to  rub  them  through  a  colander  before  adding  them  to  the 
boiling  sirup.)  Put  the  marmalade  into  small  jars,  and 
paste  paper  over  as  you  would  jelly,  or  seal.    Very  nice. 

PINE-APPLE  MARMALADE. 

Pare,  slice,  core,  and  weigh  the  pine-apple,  then  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Make  a  sirup  of  one  tea-cupful  of  water  to 
two  pounds  of  sugar;  dissolve  and  boil.  Heat  the  chopped 
pine-anple  in  a  vessel  set  within  one  of  boiling  water,  cov- 


208 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


ering  closely  to  keep  in  the  flavor.  When  well  heated  all 
through  and  they  look  clear,  add  them  to  the  sirup.  Boil 
together  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  constautly  until  it  be- 
comes a  clear,  bright  paste. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Take  one  dozen  and  a  half  of  ripe  sweet  oranges,  pare, 
carefully  removing  the  inner  skin  as  well  as  the  yellow, 
slice  and  remove. the  seed.  Grate  the  peel  of  four  oranges, 
and  reserve  for  the  marmalade.  Put  the  fruit  and  grated 
peel  into  a  porcelain  kettle  and  boil  until  the  pulp  is  re- 
duced to  a  smooth  mass.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  rub 
through  a  clean  colander.  Stir  into  this  six  pounds  of 
granulated  sugar,  return  it  to  the  fire,  boil  fast,  stirring  con- 
stantly for  half  an  hour.  Put  into  small  jars  while  warm ; 
seal  when  cold.  Delicious. 


JAM. 

GREENGAGE  JAM. 

Put  ripe  greengages  into  a  kettle  with  a  little  water.  Let 
them  stew  until  soft,  then  rub  them  through  a  sieve  or  col- 
ander, and  to  each  pint  of  pulp  put  a  pound  of  powdered 
white  sugar.  Put  all  into  a  preserving-kettle  over  the  fire, 
and  stir  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  jelly.  Put  this  into 
small  jars,  and  cover  tightly.  Any  sort  of  plums  may  be 
done  in  the  same  way.  Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM. 

Allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
fruit,  which  has  first  been  carefully  picked  over.  Put  all 
into  a  kettle  together,  and  mash  well  while  cooking.  Cook  a 
half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  skimming  and  stirring  to 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


209 


prevent  burning  or  sticking.  Put  into  small  jars,  and  seal. 
Raspberry,  blackberry,  and  gooseberry  jam  are  all  made  in 
exactly  the  same  manner.  Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

PEAR  BUTTER. 

Take  sweet  cider  just  from  the  press;  boil  until  reduced 
to  one-third  its  original  quantity.  Have  ready  some  ripe 
pears  that  have  been  peeled,  cored,  and  sliced.  Put  them 
in  the  cider  and  boil  until  soft ;  mash  to  a  pulp ;  season  with 
nutmeg,  cloves,  mace,  and  cinnamon.  Set  over  a  slow  fire, 
and  cook  until  thick  enough  to  slice,  stirring  constantly  to- 
ward the  last  to  prevent  burning.  Put  it  away  in  small 
stone  jars,  and  it  will  keep  a  year  or  two,  and  will  be  found 
nice  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

APPLE  BUTTER  WITH  CIDER. 

Take  fresh  cider  and  boil  down  to  about  one-third  its 
original  quantity ;  have  ready  pared,  cored,  and  cut  into 
pieces  as  many  good  cooking  apples  as  can  be  put  into  the 
boiled  cider;  boil  until  they  begin  to  sink,  when  it  will  re- 
quire constant  stirring  to  prevent  it  from  sticking.  Cook 
until  reduced  to  a  thick  pulp.  A  short  time  before  it  is 
done,  put  in  a  little  ground  allspice  and  cinnamon. 

APPLE  BUTTER  WITHOUT  CIDER. 

Prepare  the  apples  as  above  directed,  boil  them  in  a  little 
water  until  well  cooked,  then  add  sugar  until  as  sweet  as  you 
like.  Boil  until  very  thick,  stirring  constantly,  adding  a 
little  ground  cinnamon  and  allspice.  It  will  not  keep  un- 
less well  cooked.  It  is  best  to  make  it  in  a  large  kettle  out- 
of-doors,  if  possible,  using  a  broad  flat  wooden  paddle  to 
stir  with.  It  will  spatter  out  over  the  stove  if  made  in  the 
kitchen. 

DAMSON  BUTTER. 

Wash  sound  damsons,  put  them  into  a  kettle  with  water 
enough  to  start  them,  and  boil  quite  hard.    Take  out  some 
14' 


210  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh 


of  the  juice  for  jelly.  When  sufficiently  cooked,  rub  the 
fruit  through  a  sieve  to  remove  skius  and  seeds,  and  to  each 
pint  of  pulp  allow  one  pound  of  sugar.  Return  to  a  clean 
kettle,  and  cook  until  of  the  desired  consistency,  stirring 
constantly  to  prevent  burning.  Miss  Julia  Porter. 


PREPARED  FRUITS. 


TO  STEW  PEACHES. 

Wash  dried  peaches  thoroughly  in  two  or  three  waters, 
examine  carefully,  then  put  them  into  warm  water  to  soak 
two  or  three  hours.  Put  into  a  kettle  with  the  same  water 
in  which  they  were  soaked,  and  boil  until  tender,  adding 
sugar,  about  one-fourth  of  a  pound  to  each  pound  of  fruit. 
Cover  closely  while  cooking. 

TO  BAKE  PEACHES. 

Peel  and  halve  the  peaches,  put  them  into  a  baking-dish 
with  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar  and  one-half  cupful  of  water. 
Put  into  the  oven,  and  bake  half  an  hour,  or  until  clear 
and  tender. 

PEACHES  FOR  TARTS  OR  ROLLS. 

Take  ripe  j^eaches,  pare,  and  cut  from  the  stone.  Stew 
them  in  a  preserving-kettle,  with  half  their  weight  in  sugar, 
and  a  very  little  water.  Stir  and  cook  them  until  nearly 
dry.  Let  them  cool,  put  into  small  jars,  seal,  and  set  in  a 
cool,  dry  place.  When  you  wish  to  use  them,  add  sweet 
milk  or  water  to  thin  them,  and  if  not  sweet  enough,  add 
more  sugar. 

PEACH  LEATHER. 

Take  nice  ripe,  sweet  freestone  peaches,  pare  and  take  out 
the  stones,  and  mash  to  a  pulp.    Take  some  of  the  seeds, 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  211 


extract  the  kernels  and  pound  to  a  paste  as  many  as  you 
wish  for  flavoring,  and  weigh  with  the  fruit.  Allow  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Put  the  sugar 
in  the  preserving-kettle,  boil  and  skim;  then  put  in  the 
pulp.  Simmer  about  thirty  minutes,  then  spread  it  smooth- 
ly and  thinly  on  dishes  or  clean  smooth  boards.  Expose  it 
to  the  sun  until  dry.  Sprinkle  over  each  piece  a  little 
powdered  cinnamon,  if  liked ;  roll  into  a  scroll ;  keep  in  a 
dry  place,  occasionally  exposing  it  to  the  air.  * 

Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Pare  and  remove  all  dark  spots  from  nice  cooking  apples, 
put  into  a  pudding-dish,  with  liberal  layers  of  sugar,  cover 
closely,  put  into  the  oven  and  bake  until  the  sirup  will  form 
a  jelly  around  them. 

BAKED  APPLES  WITH  SAUCE. 

Peel  and  core  nice  cooking  apples,  place  them  in  a  bak- 
ing-dish, and  set  in  the  stove.  Prepare  a  sauce  by  beating 
together  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  and  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  adding  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg.  When  the  apples  are  nearly  done, 
pour  the  sauce  over  them  and  finish  baking.    Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Tabb. 
APPLE  MERINGUE. 

Pare,  cut  into  halves,  and  remove  the  cores  of  some  nice 
pippin  apples.  Put  them  in  a  dish  suitable  to  put  upon  the 
table.  Sprinkle  well  with  sugar ;  cook  in  the  oven  until 
tender.  Take  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
one  table-spoonful  of  white  sugar  for  each  one,  and  pour 
over  the  cooked  apples,  and  return  to  the  oven  until  a  light 
brown. 

COMPOTE  OF  APPLES. 

Take  some  apples  that  will  stay  firm  and  whole  while 
cooking.    Peel  them  very  evenly,  and  remove  the  core  so 


212 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


as  to  leave  the  apple  whole  on  one  end.  Soak  them  for  fif- 
teen minutes  in  some  cold  water  slightly  tinctured  with  lem- 
on juice,  which  wTill  prevent  their  discoloring  during  the 
process  of  cooking.  Fill  up  the  cavities  with  some  currant 
jelly  or  any  sweet  marmalade,  place  them  in  a  stewing-pan. 
pour  around  them  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  as  much 
water  as  the  vessel  will  hold  without  touching  the  filling  of 
the  apples.  Add  to  the  w7ater  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and 
the  thin  peel  of  half  a  lemon.  Cover  tightly,  and  boil  un- 
til tender.  Then  remove  each  apple  carefully  into  a  glass 
dish,  pour  over  them  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  liquor,  add  a 
few  more  spoonfuls  of  sugar  to  the  rest  of  the  latter,  and 
boil  to  jelly  with  which  to  garnish  the  apples. 

German  Cookery. 
COMPOTE  OF  APPLES. 

Peel,  core,  and  quarter  six  large  apples,  drop  them  into 
some  cold  water  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  squeezed  into  it 
to  prevent  them  from  turning  brown.  Have  ready  a  strong 
sirup  made  with  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  quart  of  water  boil- 
ing hot.  Put  the  apples  into  this,  with  the  thin  rind  of  a 
lemon  and  two  or  three  cloves.  As  soon  as  they  are  cooked 
great  care  must  be  taken  that  they  do  not  break.  Take 
them  out  and  dispose  of  them  in  a  glass  dish ;  then  well  re- 
duce the  sirup  and  pour  as  much  of  it  as  necessary  over  the 
apples.  Garnish  with  any  sweetmeats  and  preserved  or 
candied  cherries. 

AUNT  KITTIE'S  APPLES. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pint  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  water, 
boil  until  a  thick  sirup.  Pare,  core,  and  quarter  one  dozen 
apples,  drop  them  into  the  sirup,  cook  until  clear ;  flavor 
writh  orange  peel. 

ICED  APPLES. 

Pare  and  core  nice  cooking  apples.  Make  very  sweet, 
put  into  a  pan  with  a  little  water,  cover  closely,  and  stew  on 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh.  213 


top  of  the  stove  rapidly  until  well  cooked.  Place  them  in 
a  baking-dish,  make  a  nice  icing  (see  Cakes,  page  264)  put 
over  rather  thick,  set  in  the  stove,  and  brown  lightly.  When 
cold,  serve  wTith  rich  cream.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

CANDIED  FRUITS. 

Boil  peaches,  pears,  plums,  cherries,  citron,  or  quinces  in 
a  thick  sirup — a  tea-cupful  of  water  to  a  pound  of  white 
sugar — until  tender.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  let  them  re- 
main in  the  sirup  two  days.  Take  out,  drain,  sprinkle  sugar 
over  each  piece,  and  dry  in  a  cool  oven. 

CANDIED  CHERRIES. 

To  two  quarts  of  ripe  red  cherries,  when  stoned  carefully, 
allow  two  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  Make  a  sirup  of 
the  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  water.  Boil  until  it  is  thick 
enough  to  pull  as  for  candy.  Remove  to  the  side  of  the 
range,  and  stir  until  it  shows  signs  of  granulation.  When 
there  are  grains  or  crystals  on  the  spoon,  drop  in  the  cher- 
ries, a  few  at  a  time.  Let  each  supply  lie  in  the  boiling 
sirup  twTo  minutes,  then  remove  to  a  sieve  set  over  a  dish. 
Shake  well,  but  gently ;  then  turn  the  cherries  out  on  a  cool 
dish,  and  set  in  a  sunny  window  to  dry. 

GLACE  CHERRIES. 

Make  as  above,  but  do  not  let  the  sirup  granulate.  It 
should  not  be  stirred  at  all,  but  when  it  "  ropes,"  pour  it 
over  the  cherries^  on  a  large  flat  dish.  When  the  sirup  is 
almost  cold,  take  out  the  cherries  one  by  one  with  a  small 
spoon,  and  spread  upon  a  dish  in  the  open  air  to  dry.  If 
well  managed,  these  are  as  good  as  those  put  up  by  confec- 
tioners.   Keep  in  a  dry  cool  place. 


214 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


JELLIES. 


CURRANT  JELLY. 

Pick  ripe  currants  from  the  stems,  put  them  into  a  pre- 
serving-kettle, cover  with  water,  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Press  out  the  juice,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  one  pint 
of  sugar.  Put  all  into  the  kettle  again,  and  boil  rapidly  for 
ten  minutes.  The  smaller  the  quantity  of  any  kind  of  jelly 
cooked  at  a  time,  the  fairer  it  will  be.  In  cooking  a  small 
quantity,  the  glazed  crocks  are  nice,  and  more  convenient 
and  less  expensive  than  porcelain  kettles.      Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

RASPBERRY  AND  CURRANT  JELLY. 

To  two  parts  of  red  raspberries  put  one  part  of  red  cur- 
rants, and  proceed  as  with  other  berry  jelly.  The  flavor  is 
exquisite,  and  especially  nice  for  cake. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Lovel. 
BLACKBERRY  JELLY. 

Take  ripe  blackberries,  pick  and  wash  them.  Cover  with 
water,  and  let  them  boil  a  few  minutes,  boiling  with  them  a 
few  bunches  of  green  grapes  washed  and  picked  from  the 
stem.  Strain  first  through  a  colander,  then  through  a  flan- 
nel bag,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  one  pint  of  sugar. 
Boil  until  it  drops  short  from  the  spoon.  Have  the  jelly- 
glasses  hot,  and  fill.  Mrs.  W,  C.  Sadler. 

BLACKBERRY  JELLY. 

Wash  the  berries  well.  Cover  with  water,  boil  a  few 
minutes.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  To  three  pints  of 
juice  add  one  pint  of  sugar.  Boil  until  it  drops  short  from 
the  spoon.  Mrs.  Ada  Bierbower. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 

This  may  be  made  just  as  currant  jelly. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


215 


PEACH  JELLY. 

Crack  one-third  of  the  seeds,  from  which  extract  the  ker- 
nels, and  put  them  into  a  jar  with  the  peaches,  which  should 
be  pared  and  sliced.  Set  in  a  pot  of  water,  stirring  from 
time  to  time  until  the  fruit  is  well  broken  and  tender. 
Strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  peach  juice  add  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  allowing  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  juice. 
Heat  the  sugar  very  hot,  and  add  when  the  juice  has  boiled 
twenty  minutes.  Let  it  come  to  a  boiling,  and  take  at  once 
from  the  fire.  Mrs.  Belie  Wood. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Take  refuse  quinces,  or  the  parings  and  some  of  the  cores 
and  seeds  left  from  preserves.  Fill  up  the  kettle  and  cover 
with  water.  To  each  gallon  of  quinces  add  half  a  dozen  or 
more  of  sour  apples.  Boil  all  together,  and  strain  the  juice 
through  a  flannel  bag.  To  one  quart  of  juice  add  one  pint 
of  sugar.  Boil  rapidly  until  it  drops  short  from  the  spoon. 
Have  the  glasses  hot,  and  fill.  Xice. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Sadler. 

GRAPE  JELLY. 

Take  ripe  grapes,  pick  from  the  stem,  pulp  them,  and 
cover  the  pulps  with  water.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes,  strain 
the  juice  through  a  flannel  bag.  To  each  pint  of  juice, 
add  one  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil  until  it  drops  short 
from  the  spoon.  Put  into  hot  jelly-glasses,  and  when  cool 
tie  or  seal.  Using  only  the  pulps  makes  fairer  jelly  than 
if  the  skins  also  are  used.  Mrs.  Mary  Worick. 

GREEN  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Make  just  the  same  as  the  ripe  grape  jelly,  only  do  not 
attempt  to  pulp  them. 

CRAB-APPLE  JELLY 

^Vash  and  put  into  a  kettle.  Cover  with  water,  and  boil 
until  tender.    Strain  through  a  colander,  then  through  a 


216  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 

jelly-bag,  allowing  a  pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice. 
Boil  rapidly  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  to  be  sure  when  done 
try  a  little  in  a  saucer.  Put  into  hot  glasses.  Then,  if  fruit 
is  scarce,  rub  the  remaining  apples  through  a  sieve,  add  a 
pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  pulp,  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
watchfully  to  prevent  sticking.  Flavor  with  cinnamon  or 
lemon.  Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Take  juice  of  apples  one  quart ;  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Add 
one-half  pound  of  sugar;  boil  for  eight  minutes.  Add  the 
juice  of  two  small  lemons.  Mrs.  G.  W.  Blatterman. 

HOW  TO  SERVE  ORANGES. 

Select  nice  Florida  oranges,  cut  a  hole  in  the  top  large 
enough  to  insert  a  tea-spoon,  sprinkle  in  sugar  and  press  the 
spoon  down  to  receive  the  juice.  This  is  a  very  pleasant 
way  to  eat  an  orange. 


PASTRY. 


SUGGESTIONS  ON  PASTRY. 

Good  flour  and  good  butter  are  essential  to  good  pastry. 
Use  very  cold  water,  and  roll  the  crust  from  you.  A  quick 
oven  is  necessary  for  all  kinds  of  pies.  Butter  or  lard  for 
pies  must  be  sweet,  fresh,  and  solid.  When  freshly  made 
butter  cannot  be  had,  wash  Avell,  kneading  while  under  cold 
water,  changing  two  or  three  times. 

PIE-CRUST  GLAZE. 

To  prevent  the  juice  soaking  through  into  the  crust  and 
making  it  soggy,  wet  the  crust  with  the  white  of  an  egg  well 
beaten  just  before  putting  in  the  pie-mixture.  If  the  top 
crust  of  the  pie  is  wet  with  the  egg  it  gives  it  a  beautiful 
brown. 

PIE-CRUST. 

A  light  pie-crust  may  be  made  by  rubbing  together  one 
pound  of  flour,  two  ounces  of  butter  worked  into  a  cream, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  with  water,  and  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  tartaric  acid.  Pour  it  over  the  ingredients, 
quickly  adding  a  sufficiency  of  water  to  make  it  the  proper 
stiffness  for  pie-crust.  This  is  still  better  when  a  well-beaten 
egg  is  added  to  the  flour,  etc.,  before  the  water  is  put  in. 

PIE-CRUST. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  about  half  a  pound  of  sweet  lard, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  cut  the  lard  through  the  flour  with  a 
knife;  mix  with  the  cold  water,  using  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible.   The  stiffer  it  is  the  better  the  pastry  will  be.  Roll 

(217) 


218  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


it  and  put  it  into  j>ans  that  have  had  a  little  flour  dusted 
over  them.  This  quantity  will  make  two  covered  pies  or 
four  without  covers. 

PIE-PASTE  OF  LARD  AND  BUTTER. 

Take  a  tea-cupful  and  a  half  of  butter,  one  tea-cupful  of 
lard,  four  tea-cupfuls  of  flour,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  sufficient  ice-water  to  bind  it  together.  Break  the  lard 
into  little  bits  over  the  flour,  over  which  the  salt  has  been 
sprinkled,  with  the  left-hand;  pour  in  the  ice-water  slowly 
until  all  the  flour  is  taken  up,  mixing  all  tightly  together 
with  the  right-hand,  but  do  not  knead  it ;  roll  it  into  a  large 
sheet,  and  spread  with  one-third  of  the  butter;  and  repeat 
this  process  until  all  of  the  butter  is  used. 

PUFF  PASTE. 

Take  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  and  a  fourth  of 
butter,  the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  tumbler  nearly  full  of  ice- water. 
Sprinkle  the  salt  and  sugar  over  the  flour;  beat  the  yelks 
of  the  eggs,  and  stir  into  them  five  tea-spoonfuls  of  ice- water ; 
pour  this  slowly  into  the  center  of  the  flour  with  the  left- 
hand,  stirring  it  round  and  round  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers 
of  the  right-hand  until  well  mixed ;  continue  to  work  until 
smooth ;  now  roll  it  into  a  large  sheet.  Mash  the  butter  in 
ice-water,  as  for  cake,  to  extract  the  salt ;  care  must  be  taken 
not  to  allow  the  butter  to  become  too  soft,  as  this  would  ruin 
the  paste.  Divide  it  into  three  equal  parts,  spread  one  part 
evenly  over  half  of  the  crust,  turn  the  other  half  over 
it,  then  fold  again  from  right  to  left;  roll  this  out  in  the 
same  way  as  at  first,  spreading  on  it  the  second  portion  of 
butter;  fold  and  roll  again;  repeat  this  process  the  third 
^time,  using  the  third  portion  of  butter.  Roll  in  a  different 
direction  each  time.  After  the  butter  is  mixed  through,  it 
may  be  rolled  out  two  or  three  times  more.    In  order  to 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


219 


turn  the  paste,  roll  it  over  and  over  loosely  on  the  rolling- 
pin,  when  it  can  be  unrolled  in  the  direction  wanted.  This 
is  better  than  turning  with  the  hands,  as  it  should  be  handled 
as  little  as  possible.  The  paste  is  very  much  improved,  after 
rolling  it  the  last  time,  by  putting  it  into  a  covered  dish  and 
placing  it  on  the  ice  to  become  thoroughly  chilled.  In  this 
condition  it  is  to  be  rolled  out  for  immediate  use.  By  plac- 
ing it  on  ice  it  may  be  made  one  day  for  the  next. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 
MINCE-MEAT  FOR  PIES. 
Take  six  pounds  of  beef  boiled  until  well  done  and  then 
minced,  three  pounds  of  suet  chopped  fine,  six  pounds  of 
white  sugar,  one  peck  of  apples  chopped,  three  pounds  of 
seeded  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  sliced 
citron,  two  nutmegs  grated,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  ground  cin- 
namon, three  table-spoonfuls  each  of  mace  and  cloves,  and 
two  gallons  of  sweet  cider.  Add  one  table-spoonful  of  salt 
to  the  beef-liquor,  and  pour  over  the  mixture.  This  quan- 
tity will  make  five  gallons.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

MINCE-MEAT. 

Boil  five  pounds  of  fresh  tongue  in  salt-water  until  tender ; 
weigh  it,  and  chop  it  fine;  and  to  every  pound  of  tongue 
add  one  pound  of  suet,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of 
currants,  half  a  pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  chopped  ap- 
ples, one  pound  of  sugar,  and  then  a  little  cinnamon,  cloves, 
and  allspice.  After  being  packed  down  tightly  in  an  earthen 
jar,  a  pint  of  brandy  must  be  added.  When  pies  are  made, 
to  every  five  pounds  of  meat  add  three  pints  of  cider  and  the 
juice  and  chopped  rind  of  two  lemons.        Mrs.  Ficklin. 

MOCK  MINCE-PIE. 

Take  one  egg,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful 
of  vinegar,  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  one-half  cupful 
of  currants,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  tea- 


220 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


spoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  two-thirds  of  a  cup- 
ful of  water,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  and  four  soda  crackers 
.  rolled  fine.   If  not  moist  enough,  add  the  juice  of  any  kind 
of  fruit,  a  little  brandy  or  wine. 

Mrs.  Julia  Chexoweth. 

LEMON  BUTTER  FOR  TARTS. 

Take  one  pound  of  pulverized  white  sugar,  the  whites  of 
six  eggs  and  the  yelks  of  two,  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and 
the  grated  rind  of  one ;  cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  over 
a  slow  fire.  Mrs.  Lucie  Keith. 

LEMON  CREAM  PIE. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  one  table-spoonful 
of  butter,  one  egg,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
one  tea-cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  one  table-spoonful  of 
corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  water ;  stir  the  corn  starch  into 
the  boiling  water,  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  pour  over 
them  the  hot  mixture.  When  quite  cold,  add  the  lemon 
and  the  beaten  egg.  Take  the  inner  rind  off  the  lemon  and 
mince  very  small.    Bake  without  a  top  crust. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Take  eight  eggs  (reserve  the  whites  of  four),  one  cupful 
of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  two  lemons,  and  one  heaping 
table-spoonful  of  flour.  Beat  the  four  whole  eggs  and  the 
four  yelks  together  very  light,  add  the  cupful  of  sugar  and 
the  flour,  scrape  the  inside  of  the  lemon  into  the  cupful  of 
water,  mix,  and  strain  into  the  eggs,  etc.,  and  beat  very 
light.  Cook  the  mixture  in  a  very  thick  tin  or  kettle,  stir- 
ring all  the  time,  as  it  scorches  easily ;  let  it  get  very  cold ; 
then  bake  two  crusts,  and  let  them  get  cool  also  to  prevent 
them  from  being  heavy,  and  put  your  mixture  into  the  crust; 
make  a  meringue  of  the  four  whites  you  reserved ;  set  in  the 
oven  and  brown  slightly.    This  makes  two  pies.  Good. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Bierbower. 


Tlie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


221 


LEMON  PIE. 

Take  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  one  tea-cupful  of  water, 
one  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar, 
and  three  well-beaten  eggs ;  put  all  on  the  fire,  and  thicken 
with  a  table-spoonful  of  corn  starch,  or  flour  will  do.  This 
makes  two  pies.    Cheap  and  good.        Mrs.  Wadsworth. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

Have  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  then  stirred  lightly  to- 
gether; take  a  little  over  half  a  tea-cupful  of  white  sugar, 
two  pints  of  sweet  milk  or  cream ;  set  the  milk  in  a  pan  of 
water,  and  let  it  get  nearly  boiling  hot ;  stir  in  the  sugar, 
and  pour  a  little  at  a  time  over  the  eggs.  Flavor  with  nut- 
meg and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake 
in  rich  pastry  without  cover.  This  quantity  will  make  two 
pies.  Annie  Daugherty. 

GOLDEN  PIE. 

Take  one  lemon,  grate  the  peel  and  squeeze  the  pulp  and 
juice  into  a  bowl  (be  sure  to  remove  every  seed),  to  which 
add  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  one  tea-cupful  of  new  milk,  one 
table-spoonful  of  corn  starch,  and  the  well-beaten  yelks  of . 
four  eggs.  Pour  this  mixture  into  a  nice  paste,  and  bake 
slowly.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  half  a  cupful  of 
powdered  sugar  together  until  light,  and  when  the  pie  is 
just  done,  pour  it  over  the  top  evenly,  and  return  it  to  the 
oven  to  stiffen,  but  not  to  brown. 

SILVER  PIE. 

Peel  and  grate  one  large  white  potato,  add  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  one 
tea-cupful  of  white  sugar  and  one  of  cold  water.  Bake  in 
a  nice  paste.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  stiff,  add  half  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  and  flavor  with  lemon;  spread  it  on  the  pie, 
and  brown  very  lightly.    To  be  eaten  fresh. 


222  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Boot 


ORANGE  PIE. 

Line  a  pie-dish  with  rich  pastry,  then  lay  in  some  sliced 
oranges  and  apples ;  sprinkle  over  these  plenty  of  white  su- 
gar, with  some  melted  batter;  place  more  oranges  and  ap- 
ples, until  the  pan  is  full.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the 
top.  Cover  the  pie  with  paste,  and  hake  it  slowly  until 
done.    Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  it  before  serving. 

JELLY  PIES. 

Take  three  well-beaten  eggs,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  jelly, 
one  tea-cupful  of  butter,  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar;  beat 
all  together,  and  bake  in  pastry.       Mrs.  A.  Wadsworth. 

JELLY  PUDDING. 

Take  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  cupfuls  of  white 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  cream,  one 
cupful  of  jelly,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  vanilla ;  stir  the 
yelks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  cream  the  butter,  add 
the  cream,  then  the  jelly,  and  last  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
vanilla.    Delicious.  Mrs.  Phcebe  Wood. 

JELLY  PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  of  sugar,  pour  over  it  a  tea-cupful  of  hot 
water,  and  let  it  dissolve;  cream  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  and  add  to  it  one  table-spoonful  of  flour;  add 
this  to  the  sugar  and  water.  Beat  well  the  yelks  of  six  eggs, 
and  put  them  into  a  tea-cupful  of  cream  or  new  milk ;  add 
this  to  the  mixture,  and  pour  it  on  pastry,  and  bake;  then 
place  the  jelly  on  top,  with  a  meringue  made  as  follows: 
One  table-spoonful  of  icing  sugar  to  the  white  of  one  egg; 
flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon.    This  makes  three  pies. 

Mrs.  James  C.  Morris. 

TRANSPARENT  PUDDING. 

For  three  puddings,  take  five  eggs  beaten  separately,  two 
cupfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  cupful  of  butter. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Berry. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  223 


TRANSPARENT  PUDDING. 

Beat  eight  eggs  very  light,  and  take  one-half  pound  of 
sugar,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one  nutmeg  grated,  and  the 
rind  of  one  lemon  grated;  put  the  mixture  into  a  pan  .on 
the  fire,  and  stir  it  until  it  thickens,  then  have  your  pastry 
ready,  and  bake.  Mrs.  Formon  Brodrick. 

TRANSPARENT  PIE. 

Take  four  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  cream, 
and  one  tea-spoonful  of  flour ;  make  a  meringue  and  brown 
slightly.    This  makes  four  pies. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Bierbower. 
TRANSPARENT  PIES. 

Take  four  eggs  (the  whites  and  yelks  beaten  together), 
one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  cream,  and  half  a  cupful  of  flour.  For  lemon  pies 
use  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  one. 

Mrs.  Carrie  McAtee. 

TRANSPARENT  PIE. 

Take  the  yelks  of  five  eggs,  one  tea-cupful  of  butter,  and 
one  tea-cupful  of  sugar ;  mix  jelly  or  preserves  with  this, 
and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  Adxa  Wadsworth. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Take  three  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  table-spoonful 
of  butter,  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of 
one,  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water.    Bake  in  puff  paste. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Phister. 

CHESS  CAKE. 

Take  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  white  sugar 
beaten  very  light,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and 
one  nutmeg  grated ;  make  a  rich  paste,  and  bake  it  in  small 
pans ;  slice  citron,  and  put  two  or  three  pieces  in  the  bot- 
tom of  each  pan;  then  put  in  the  batter,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  Alice  C.  Bascom. 


224 


Tfie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


COCOA-NUT  PUDDING. 

Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  grated  cocoa-nut,  four  eggs 
beaten  separately  then  together,  one  table-spoonful  of  but- 
ter, one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar, 
and  four  pints  of  sweet  milk.    This  makes  four  puddings. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Berry. 

COCOA-NUT  PUDDING. 

Take  one  nut  grated  fine,  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons  strained; 
add  the  milk  of  the  nut,  if  not  thin  enough ;  mix  well,  and 
after  the  pastry  is  baked  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  for 
a  few  moments. 

BAKED  COCOA-NUT  PUDDING. 

Take  one  nut  grated,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of 
butter,  four  eggs,  and  the  milk  of  the  nut;  flavor  with  lem- 
on or  nutmeg;  bake  in  pastry. 

GREEN  APPLE  PUDDINGS. 

Steam  the  apples,  and  press  them  through  a  colander; 
take  the  yelks  of  five  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  six 
ounces  of  butter ;  beat  them  well  together ;  then  add  apples 
to  the  taste,  season  with  nutmeg,  and  bake  in  pastry. 

Aunt  Kitty  Lightfoot. 

RICH  PUDDING. 

Stir  one  large  table-spoonful  of  flour  into  one  tea-cupful 
of  new  milk.  Beat  together  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, the  yelks  of  five  eggs,  and  one-half  a  cupful  of  sugar. 
Stir  all  together,  and  put  into  a  pan  and  cook  until  thick, 
guarding  especially  against  letting  it  scorch.  Line  a  deep 
pan  with  puff  paste,  put  strawberry  or  any  similar  pre- 
serves an  inch  deep  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  pour  in  the 
mixture  and  bake.  Have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth  with  one  cupful  of  sugar  put  on  the  top  after 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


225 


the  pudding  is  done.    Put  it  into  the  oven  and  brown  slight- 
ly.   Serve  hot.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Eobinson. 
SLICED  APPLE  PIE. 

Peel  the  apples  and  remove  the  cores  with  an  apple-corer, 
cut  the  slices  thin  and  across  the  apple  so  that  they  will  be 
round.  Have  ready  a  saucer  of  melted  butter  and  one  of 
sugar,  dip  the  slices  first  in  the  butter  and  then  in  the  sugar. 
Have  the  crust  ready  in  the  pans,  lay  a  layer  of  apples  and 
sprinkle  cinnamon  or  grated  nutmeg  over  them,  then  an- 
other layer  of  apples,  and  so  on  until  the  pan  is  full.  Bake 
without  an  upper  crust.    Delicious.         Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

ROLLY-POLY  PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  of  white  potatoes  which  have  been  boiled 
and  mashed  through  a  colander,  add  to  them  one  tea-cupful 
of  butter  and  two  pints  of  sifted  flour.  Mix  with  one-half 
pint  of  sour  milk,  into  which  stir  one-half  tea-spoonful  of 
soda.  Roll  to  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness,  spread  with 
any  kind  of  preserves,  or  fruit  if  preferred,  form  carefully 
into  a  roll,  tie  in  a  cloth  or  place  in  a  mold,  and  boil  for  two 
hours.    To  be  eaten  with  sauce. 

CREAM  PEACH  PIE. 

Pare  ripe  peaches  and  halve  them.  Have  the  pie-pans 
lined  with  a  good  paste,  fill  with  the  peaches  and  strew  with 
sugar — one  tea-cupful  of  sugar  to  each  pie — lay  the  upper 
crust  on  lightly,  putting  a  little  melted  butter  on  the  lower 
rim.  When  the  pie  is  done,  lift  the  upper  crust  and  pour 
in  a  cream  made  as  follows :  One  tea-cupful  of  rich  milk, 
putting  in  a  pinch  of  soda,  stir  into  it  one-half  tea-spoonful 
of  corn  starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Cook  for  three  minutes,  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  beat  into  it  the  frothed  whites  of  two  eggs, 
whip  all  together  to  a  cream,  and  let  it  get  cold.  When 
the  pie  comes  out  of  the  oven,  lift  the  top  crust  and  pour  in 
1.-) 


226  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


the  mixture,  replace  the  crust,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Sift 
sugar  over  the  top  before  serving.  Raspberry  or  other 
fruit  pies  must  be  made  in  the  same  way 

CREAM  PIE. 

Take  the  yelks  of  five  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  cupful  of  cream,  one-half  cupful  of 
butter.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites,  and  brown  slightly. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Kobinson. 

CREAM  PIE. 

For  one  pie,  take  one  egg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  one  cupful 
of  new  milk  or  cream.    Flavor  to  taste. 

BIRMINGHAM  PIES. 

Take  twelve  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour. 
Make  a  rich  pastry  and  put  into  deep  pie-pans,  fill  with  any 
kind  of  fruit  you  prefer— if  large  fruit,  chop  fine.  Pour 
the  above  mixture  over  it,  and  bake  to  a  light  brown.  Serve 
with  sauce.    This  will  make  six  pies. 

SPONGE  CREAM  PIE. 

Make  crust  for  two  pies.  To  three  well-beaten  eggs  add 
one  cupful  of  white  sugar;  stir  well  together.  Take  one 
and  one-half  cupful  of  flour  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder  mixed  thoroughly  together  while  dry ;  then  add  the 
flour  thus  prepared  to  the  eggs  and  sugar;  also  one-half  cup- 
ful of  cold  water.  Stir  all  together.  Lastly,  add  one  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  hot  water,  and  bake  immediately  in  deep 
pie-pans.  When  nearly  cold,  split  and  spread  the  cream 
between. 

Cream:  Put  one  cupful  of  wrater  and  one-half  cupful  of 
milk  into  a  tin  bucket.  Set  the  bucket  in  a  kettle  of  cold 
water,  then  heat  until  the  wTater  boils.    While  it  is  heating, 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  221 


take  one  egg  well  beaten,  one-half  cupful  of  white  sugar,  and 
stir  together,  then  add  one  table-spoonful  of  flour  or  corn 
starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Pour  this  mixture  into 
the  boiling  milk  and  water,  stirring  until  it  thickens.  Fla- 
vor to  taste,  when  partially  cold. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Take  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  milk  enough  to  form  a  thin  batter.  Beat  four  eggs 
very  light,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  pare  two  oranges,  cut  fine, 
removing  all  of  the  pulp  and  seeds.  Mix  all  together  in 
the  batter.  Bake  in  pastry  in  deep  pans,  and  serve  with 
sauce  flavored  with  orange.  Mrs.  Sarah  McDowell. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE. 

Steam  or  boil  the  potatoes ;  when  done,  run  them  through 
a  colander.  To  one  pound  of  potatoes  add  one-half  tea-cup- 
ful of  butter,  one  tea-cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  cinnamon,  one  tea-spoonful  of  nutmeg,  four  eggs, 
whites  and  yelks  beaten  separately,  juice  and  rind  of  one 
lemon,  and  one  tea-cupful  of  water.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  add  the  yelks,  the  spice,  and  the  lemon.  Beat  the 
potatoes  in  by  degrees,  and  until  all  is  light,  then  the  water, 
and  lastly  the  beaten  whites.    Use  no  top  crust. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE. 

Boil  or  steam  two  very  large,  or  four  medium-sized,  sweet 
potatoes  until  soft.  To  one  pint  of  water  add  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  ground  cinnamon,  one  tea-spoonful  of  grated  nutmeg, 
two  dozen  whole  cloves,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boiling.  Cream 
one  and  one-half  tea-cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
butter,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  corn  starch  together.  Stir 
this  into  the  spiced  water  until  it  thickens.  Line  a  pie-pan 
or  dish  with  rich  pastry,  and  glaze  with  the  white  of  an 
egg,  then  fill  with  the  sweet  potatoes  that  have  been  skinned 


228 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


and  thinly  sliced.  Pour  in  the  sirup,  put  on  a  top  crust, 
and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  If 
it  browns  too  rapidly,  cover  with  paper. 

Mrs.  Robert  Hixer. 

IRISH  POTATO  PIE. 

Take  one  pint  of  mashed  potatoes,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one 
tea-cupful  of  butter,  six  eggs  beaten  separately,  the  juice  of 
one  lemon  squeezed  into  the  potato  while  hot,  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  nutmeg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  mace.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  add  the  yelks  of  the  eggs,  spice,  and  potatoes 
gradually,  beating  until  very  light,  and  lastly  beat  in  the 
whites.    Bake  in  open  shells  of  paste.    Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

POTATO  PUDDING. 

Take  three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  tea-cupfuls  of  sugar,  one- 
half  tea-cupful  of  butter,  two  large  potatoes.  Boil  the  po- 
tatoes and  mash  through  a  sieve,  then  add  butter  while  hot. 
Mix  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  very  light.  Season  with 
nutmeg.    Bake  in  a  rich  crust.  Miss  Alice  Bascom. 

BEAN  PIE. 

Take  one  pint  of  white  beans,  throw  in  a  pinch  of  soda 
while  cooking — it  makes  them  white  and  tender — run  throu  <j4\ 
a  sieve,  add  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  tea-cupful  of 
butter,  one-half  tea-cupful  of  milk  or  cream,  the  yelks  of 
three  eggs.  Stir  well  together,  and  bake  in  a  puff'  paste. 
Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites,  place  on  the  top,  return  to 
the  oven  to  brown.  Mrs.  Lucie  Keith. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE. 

Take  the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  one- 
half  cupful  of  flour,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  pint  of  buttermilk.  Flavor  with 
nutmeg,  lemou,  or  vanilla.    Make  a  meringue,  and  brown 


The  New  Kentucky  Some  Cook  Book. 


229 


slightly.    This  quantity  makes  three  pies,  and  they  are  de- 
licious. Mrs,  Dr.  Walt.. 
PUMPKIN  PIE. 
Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three 
cupfuls  of  pumpkin,  five  eggs,  milk  enough  to  make  it  the 
proper  consistency.    Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Eobixsox. 

PUMPKIN  PIE  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Pare  a  small  pumpkin,  remove  the  seeds,  and  steam  until 
done.  Mash  fine  and  strain  through  a  colander,  beat  in 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  three  pints  of  rich  milk, 
or  enough  to  thin  it  to  the  proper  consistency,  sweeten  to 
taste,  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  ginger,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt.  This 
receipt  may  be  used  for  either  pumpkin  or  cashaw. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Jackson. 

RHUBARB  PIE. 

Cut  the  rhubarb  into  pieces  an  inch  long,  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  some  water.  Cook  until  soft,  then  add  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  little  of  the  rind,  and  sugar  to 
taste.  Let  all  cook  for  a  few  moments,  then  put  into  the 
crust,  and  bake.    With  or  without  upper  crust. 

Miss  Allie  Bascom. 

JAM  PIES. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  jam,  one  tea-cupful  of  cream,  three- 
fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  the  yelks 
of  five  eggs.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites,  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Mrs.  Adxa  Wadsworth. 

CINNAMON  PIE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one 
table-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  the  yelks  of  two  eggs.  Make  a 
meringue  of  the  whites.  Mrs.  Keith. 


230 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Boole. 


CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

To  four  level  table-spoonfuls  of  chocolate  add  one  and 
one-half  pints  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Put  three  table-spoonfuls  of  corn  starch  into  one- 
half  pint  of  cold  milk,  and  let  it  soak  until  dissolved,  then 
add  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  In  the  meantime,  beat 
the  yelks  of  three  eggs,  six  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar, 
and  one  of  butter  together;  then  add  all  the  ingredients  to- 
gether, stirring  rapidly,  and  let  cook  well  for  some  time. 
Make  the  bottom  crust,  and  let  it  bake,  then  pour  in  the 
mixture.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  with  one-half  cup- 
ful of  sugar.    Let  this  brown,  and  all  is  ready. 

Mrs.  George  Sulser. 
MOLASSES  PIE. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  molasses,  two  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Flavor 
with  vanilla.    Good.  Mrs.  Adxa  Wadsworth. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  raisins  chopped  fine,  two-thirds  of  a 
cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of 
vinegar,  one  cupful  of  water,  three  crackers,  a  small  piece 
of  butter,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon. 

Mrs.  Julia  Chenoweth. 

BOURBON  PUDDING. 

Take  two  and  one-half  tea-cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  tea-cup- 
ful of  cream,  one  tea-cupful  of  butter,  one  table-spoonful  of 
flour,  four  eggs  beaten  well  together.  Flavor  to  taste,  and 
bake  in  rich  paste.  This  will  make  three  pies  or  one  deep 
pudding.    Very  nice.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Eobixsox. 

RHUBARB  PIE. 

Strip  the  skin  from  the  rhubarb  and  cut  into  pieces  an 
inch  long.  For  one  pie,  use  a  joint  of  rhubarb,  a  heaping 
tea-cupful  of  sugar,  and  a  little  lemon  juice  or  one  tea-spoon- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


231 


ful  of  extract  of  lemon.  Stir  the  sugar,  rhubarb,  and  ex- 
tract well  together  in  a  bowl,  and  let  it  stand  awhile.  Line 
a  pie-plate  with  crust,  put  in  the  fruit,  cut  a  tea-spoonful  of 
butter  into  small  bits,  and  place  over  the  top,  dredge  with 
flour,  wet  the  edge  with  water,  put  on  a  top  crust  and  pre« 
well  together.  Prick  holes  in  the  top  with  a  fork,  and  bake 
about  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Can  be  baked  without  an 
upper  crust,  if  preferred.    Excellent.  Mary  Cole. 

Turn-overs. 

Take  dried  peaches  or  apples,  wash  and  put  into  a  kettle 
with  a  little  water.  Cook  until  the  fruit  is  perfectly  soft, 
then  put  into  a  bowl  and  mash  very  fine ;  sweeten  to  taste ; 
add  one  tea-spoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  and  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  ground  cloves.  Make  a  rich  paste,  and  roll  out  as 
for  pies,  spread  the  fruit  on  one  half  of  it  about  half  an  inch 
thick,  then  fold  the  crust  over,  making  the  pie  in  the  shape 
of  a  half  moon,  pinch  the  edges  together  with  the  fingers  or 
a  fork.  Have  ready  a  skillet  of  hot  lard,  place  two  pies  in 
and  fry  to  a  rich  brown,  then  remove  these,  and  put  others 
in.  A.  B. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS  IN  BATTER. 

Peel  and  core  nice  cooking  apples,  place  in  a  baking-dish, 
and  pour  over  them  a  batter  made  as  follows :  Take  one  pint 
of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  tea-spoonfuls 
of  baking-powder,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two 
tea-cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  or  enough  to  make  the  batter 
the  proper  consistency.  Stir  the  baking-powder  well  into 
the  flour,  beat  the  yelks  lightly,  add  the  milk,  then  the  but- 
ter and  flour,  and  lastly  the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Pour  the  batter  over  the  apples,  and  place  in  the  stove  to 
bake,  with  a  pan  turned  over  the  dish  to  prevent  the  dump- 
lings from  browning  too  fast.    Bake  about  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Chari.es  E.  Tabb. 


232 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


BOILED  ROLLS. 

Make  a  dough  as  for  baking-powder  biscuit,  roll  thin  and 
spread  on  the  fruit,  and  roll  as  for  a  jelly-cake  roll.  Place 
in  a  cloth  or  bag,  and  put  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
This  roll  may  be  made  of  dried  peaches  or  apples,  which 
have  been  prepared  as  follows :  Put  the  fruit  on  with  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  cook  until  perfectly  soft,  mash  fine, 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  Season  with  cloves  and  cinnamon. 
Blackberries,  cherries,  raisins,  and  figs  make  nice  rolls,  and 
may  be  baked  instead  of  boiled.    Serve  with  rich  sauce. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  crust  as  for  baking-powder  biscuit,  peel  and  core 
the  apples,  cut  the  dough  into  square  pieces,  and  put  one 
apple  for  each  dumpling.  Put  them  into  a  dripping-pan, 
place  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  then  make  a  sirup  with 
water  and  sugar— one  cupful  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  water — • 
and  pour  into  a  dripping-pan.  Baste  with  the  sirup  as  you 
would  a  turkey  while  they  are  cooking.  When  done,  eat 
with  sweetened  cream  or  rich  sauce.  These  dumplings  may 
be  boiled. 

FRUIT  DUMPLINGS. 

Take  two  pints  of  sifted  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
one  and  one-half  tea-cupful  of  sweet  milk,  oue  pound  of 
fruit.  Stir  the  baking-powder  through  the  flour,  then  the 
lard,  salt,  and  fruit,  such  as  dried  apples,  peaches,  figs,  etc., 
cut  into  small  pieces.  Add  the  milk  last,  mix  lightly,  break 
off  pieces  of  the  dough  the  size  of  an  egg-cup,  flour  the 
hands  well  and  flatten  to  about  half  an  inch  in  thickness, 
throw  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  one  hour.  Serve  with 
cold  cream  and  sugar  or  warm  sauce.  These  dumplings 
may  be  baked,  if  preferred. 

Miss  Lou  Boxniwel. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  233 


LEMON  DUMPLINGS. 

Take  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  the  rind  which  must  be 
chopped  fine,  mix  one-half  pound  of  suet,  also  chopped  fine, 
with  one-half  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  one  egg,  enough  milk 
or  water  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Add  the  lemon,  sweeten  to 
taste,  divide  into  five  or  six  equal  parts,  and  boil  in  separate 
cloths  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.    Serve  with  sauce. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT-CAKE. 

Take  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one-quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  and  lard,  and  one-half  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Roll 
thin,  and  bake  in  pie-plates.  As  soon  as  taken  from  the 
oven,  they  should  be  split  and  well  buttered  while  hot.  The 
filling :  Mash  a  quart  of  fresh  strawberries  with  one  tea-cup- 
ful of  white  sugar  and  one  tea-cupful  of  thick  cream.  Put 
the  buttered  side  of  the  short-cake  up,  on  a  large  plate,  cover 
with  a  layer  of  the  prepared  strawberries,  then  another  cake 
buttered  side  up,  until  the  stack  is  complete,  when  the  crust 
side  should  be  on  top,  dotted  over  with  whole  strawberries 
and  sprinkled  thickly  with  powdered  sugar.  To  be  served 
with  a  glass  of  rich  milk. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT-CAKE. 

To  one  quart  of  sifted  flour  add  one  heaping  tea-spoonful 
of  baking-powder,  one  table-spoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  a 
little  salt.  Mix  thoroughly  while  dry.  Chop  up  three  ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of  butter  in  the  flour  thus  prepared;  to  one 
large  coffee-cupful  of  sweet  milk  add  one  egg;  then  put  the 
whole  together  as  quickly  as  possible.  Roll  into  two  sheets 
each  an  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  well-greased  pan,  laying  one 
sheet  on  top  of  the  other.  When  done,  and  while  yet  warm, 
separate  them  and  put  between  the  twro  crusts  a  thick  layer 
of  strawberries  well  sprinkled  wdth  powdered  sugar.  Cut 
like  a  pie,  and  eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 


234 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


BOSTON  CREAM  PUFFS. 

Place  one-half  pint  of  water  and  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of 
butter  over  the  fire.  When  boiling  hot,  stir  in  one  and  one- 
half  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  beating  until  smooth  and  it  leaves 
the  sides  of  the  pan.  When  cool,  add  five  well-beaten  eggs. 
Drop  on  warm  greased  tins,  a  table-spoonful  in  a  place,  so 
as  not  to  touch  each  other,  brush  over  with  white  of  an 
egg,  and  bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  When 
cold,  slice  off  top,  fill  with  cream,  and  replace  top. 

Cream  for  Filling  Puffs. — Take  one  pint  of  milk, 
place  one  half  in  a  tin  pail  and  set  in  boiling  water.  Re- 
serve from  the  other  half  two  table-spoonfuls  to  mix  with 
the  eggs,  and  into  the  rest  of  the  cold  milk  mix  one  cupful 
of  flour  until  smooth.  When  the  milk  is  hot,  pour  in  the 
flour  and  stir  until  thicker  than  boiled  custard.  Beat  well 
the  two  spoonfuls  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  white 
sugar,  one  level  tea-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
vanilla.  Add  gradually,  and  stir  until  very  stiff.  Put  in 
the  puffs  when  cold.  Can  also  be  filled  with  whipped  cream 
with  a  small  spot  of  jelly  in  each  puff. 

Miss  Mamie  Turner. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 


The  delicacy  of  puddings  depends  upon  their  being  prop- 
erly mixed  and  cooked.  Always  beat  the  eggs  separately, 
and  add  the  whites  last,  being  careful  that  all  the  ingre- 
dients are  sweet  and  fresh.  Suet  should  be  perfectly  fresh 
and  always  dredged  with  flour  to  prevent  settling  at  the 
bottom  of  the  pudding.  Milk  in  the  slightest  degree  sour 
or  suet  kept  too  long  will  spoil  any  pudding.  Dried  cur- 
rants should  always  be  thoroughly  washed,  and  then  dried 
in  a  napkin.  When  fruit  is  used  it  should  be  stirred  in  last. 
Puddings  may  be  either  baked,  boiled,  or  steamed.  Bat- 
ter puddings  require  a  rather  quick  oven;  bread  custards 
and  fruit,  a  moderate  oven.  Always  bake  them  as  soon  as 
mixed.  Boiled  puddings  are  lighter  when  boiled  in  a 
bag,  but  many  use  a  tin  mold  with  a  cloth  tied  over  it. 
The  mold  should  be  well  greased  with  lard  or  butter,  and  a 
floured  cloth  tied  tightly  around  it  to  keep  the  top  firmly 
on  .  and  to  prevent  the  pudding  being  water-soaked.  The 
pudding-bag  should  be  made  of  firm  muslin.  Stitch  and  fell 
the  seams,  which  should  be  outside  when  in  use,  and  round 
the  corners  to  give  the  pudding  a  good  shape.  Wring  the 
bag  out  of  hot  water,  and  flour  the  inside  well.  Pour  in 
the  pudding,  beating  thoroughly  just  before;  tie  it  securely, 
leaving  room  to  swell.  Put  it  into  a  kettle,  with  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  boiling  water  to  cover  the  bag,  which  must  be 
turned  several  times.  Keep  it  boiling  constantly,  filling  up 
from  the  boiling  tea-kettle  when  needed.  When  done,  open 
the  bag  a  little  to  let  the  steam  escape;  and  serve  imme- 

(235) 


236 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


diately.  Several  plum  puddings  may  be  made  at  the  same 
time;  and  when  wanted  for  use,  take  out  of  the  pudding- 
bag,  and  tie  in  another  floured  cloth;  then  put  it  into  a 
steamer  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  until  thoroughly 
heated,  when  it  is  ready  for  use.  These  puddings  may  be 
kept  for  several  months,  and  are  very  convenient  to  have. 
As  a  general  rule,  boiled  puddings  require  double  the  time 
allowed  for  baked  puddings. 

In  making  sauces,  always  cream  the  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether. Use  brown  or  powdered  sugar;  brown  is  preferable. 
In  place  of  wine  or  brandy,  flavor  with  the  juice  of  grape 
or  other  fruit,  prepared  for  this  purpose  in  its  season,  by 
boiling,  bottling,  and  sealing  while  hot. 

Burnett's  extracts  are  best  for  flavoring. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Take  one  pound  of  raisins  cut  and  stoned,  one  pound  of 
currants  washed,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  apples 
chopped,  half  a  pound  of  beef-suet  minced,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  half  a  pound  of  stale  bread  grated,  half  a  pound  of 
flour,  eight  eggs  (whites  and  yelks  beaten  separately),  half 
a  pint  of  whisky,  half  a  pint  of  wine,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
two  nutmegs  grated,  one  table-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  and 
one  table-spoonful  of  mace ;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether, and  add  a  pinch  of  salt;  add  half  the  milk  to  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  stir  in  the  flour  and  bread;  now  add 
the  butter  and  sugar  and  the  yelks;  then  put  in  the  suet 
and  fruit,  then  the  spices,  wine,  and  whisky,  then  the  rest 
of  the  milk;  if  it  is  not  stiff  enough,  add  flour.  Boil  or 
steam  four  hours.  Mrs.  E.  L.  Jacksox. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

Take  two  pints  of  flour,  one  coffee-cupful  of  suet  chopped 
fine  and  rubbed  with  the  flour,  one  pint  of  sour  cream  or 
buttermilk,  one  coffee-cupful  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


237 


of  soda,  one>coffee-cupful  of  raisins,  one  coffee-cupful  of  cur- 
rants, and  one  coffee-cupful  of  citron.  Beat  well,  put  all  into 
a  mold  or  bag  (floured),  and  boil  three  hours. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Wadsworth. 
PLUM  PUDDING. 
Take  one  egg,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  half  a  pound  of 
beef-suet  chopped  fine,  one  pound  of  raisins  seeded,  and  one 
tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder  stirred  into  the  flour.  Tie  up 
tightly  in  a  floured  cloth,  and  boil  three  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Perrie. 
FRUIT  PUDDING. 
Take  three  eggs,  one  coffee-cupful  of  fruit,  one  cupful  of 
butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a 
very  thick  batter,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  one  cupful 
of  sour  cream.  Boil  in  a  mold  or  floured  bag,  leaving 
room  to  rise ;  drop  it  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  from  one 
and  a  half  to  two  hours.  Serve  with  sauce.  Measure  all 
with  the  same  cup. 

PLAIN  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Take  three  coffee-cupfuls  of  flour,  one  coffee-cupful  of  cut 
raisins,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron,  one  coffee-cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  one  coffee-cupful  of  beef-suet  chopped  very  fine, 
one  coffee-cupful  of  molasses,  one  level  tea-spoonful  of  soda, 
two  level  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated.  Stir  the 
cream  of  tartar,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg  in  the  flour;  put 
the  soda  in  the  milk ;  mix  all  well  together ;  put  it  into  a 
greased  mold,  and  steam  two  hours.  Serve  hot.  (See  sauce 
for  Plain  Fruit  Pudding.)  Mrs.  J.  F.  Kobinson. 

CURRANT  PUDDING. 

Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  coffee-cupful  of 
molasses,  one  pint  of  currants  or  raisins,  one  pint  and  a  half 


238  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


of  flour,  one  even  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  allspice,  half  a  tea- 
spoon-ful  of  cloves,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon.  Bake 
or  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  with  butter  or  wine 
sauce. 

STEAM  PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  two 
pints  of  flour,  one  coffee-cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cof- 
fee-cupful of  suet,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves,  one  tea-spoonful  of  allspice,  and  one 
heaping  tea-spoonful  of  soda  sifted  in  flour.  Steam  three 
hours  in  a  cake-pan.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Mrs.  Lizzie  Jackson. 

BATTER  PUDDING. 

Take  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  eight  table-spoonfuls  of 
sifted  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  six  eggs,  and  one 
tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder.  Beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs 
very  light;  take  a  little  milk  and  stir  in  the  flour  until  per- 
fectly smooth;  then  add  the  yelks,  butter,  baking-powder, 
and  the  quart  of  milk;  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  stir 
through  the  batter  lightly.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one 
hour.  Set  a  pan  of  water  on  the  top  rack  to  prevent  brown- 
ing too  rapidly.  To  be  eaten  with  sweetened  cream  or 
warm  sauce,  flavored  with  a  little  nutmeg  and  vanilla. 

Robert  Ficklix,  sr. 

OLD-FASHIONED  BATTER  PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  egg,  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  level  pint  of  sifted  flour,  one  level  tea-spoonful 
of  soda,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Put  the 
soda  in  the  milk,  and  mix  the  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour. 
Bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  sauce 
made  of  cream  and  sugar  flavored  with  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  Davis. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


239 


ECONOMICAL  PUDDING. 

Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  chopped  suet,  one  coffee-cupful 
of  golden  sirup,  one  coffee-cupful  of  sour  milk,  two  coffee- 
cupfuls  of  chopped  raisins,  three  coffee-cupfuls  of  flour,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  put  into  the  milk,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls 
of  cream  of  tartar  put  into  the  dry  flour.  Boil  three  and 
one-half  hours.    Serve  with  sauce. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  suet  chopped  very  fine,  one  cof- 
fee-cupful of  molasses,  half  a  coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  raisins,  one  coffee-cupful  of  currants,  one  coffee- 
cupful  of  sliced  citron,  six  figs  cut  into  small  pieces,  three 
eggs,  three  and  a  half  coffee-cupfuls  of  flour  (or  enough  for 
a  stiff  batter),  one  table-spoonful  of  baking-powder,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tea-spoonful  of  mace,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves.  Boil  three  or  four  hours.  Serve  with 
wine  sauce.  Mrs.  T.  J.  Fisher. 

COCOA-NUT  PUDDING. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  half  a  cocoa-nut  grated,  four 
eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  half  a  tea-cupful  of  sugar.  Put  into 
a  pudding-dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  thirty  min- 
utes.   Serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  Eose  Vauden. 

COCOA-NUT  CREAM  PUDDING. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  white 
sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  three  eggs,  and  one 
table-spoonful  of  corn  starch.  Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  to- 
gether, mix  the  starch  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  add  to 
these  ingredients ;  put  it  on  to  boil,  and  stir  constantly  to 
keep  the  milk  from  burning  and  the  starch  from  becoming 
lumpy.  When  the  milk  comes  to  a  boiling,  add  the  butter 
and  a  large  dinner-plateful  of  grated  cocoa-nut.  Bake  as 
custard  pudding.  Mrs.  Julia  Ciienoweth. 


240  The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh 


COCOA-NUT  PUDDING. 

Take  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  butter  aud 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  creamed  together,  one  cocoa-nut  grated 
and  the  milk  of  the  nut,  and  one  coffee-cupful  of  sweet  milk. 
Mix  well,  put  into  a  pudding-dish,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  A.  A.  AYadsworth. 

CHANCELLOR'S  PUDDING. 

Take  one  loaf  of  baker's  bread  soaked  in  cold  milk,  seven 
eggs  (whites  and  yelks  beaten  separately),  half  a  pound  of 
raisins,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Zante  currants,  one  piece  of 
citron  sliced  thin,  two  nutmegs,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
flour;  sweeten  to  taste.  Put  into  a  mold,  and  steam  two 
hours.    Serve  with  hot  sauce.      Mrs.  Julia  Chenoweth. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

Mash  fine  a  pint  of  well-stewed  apples;  stir  into  this  while 
hot  half  a  pint  of  fresh  butter,  one  pint  of  sugar,  and  six 
well-beaten  eggs;  flavor  with  a  table-spoonful  of  cinnamon 
or  extract  of  lemon.  Bake  in  a  pudding-dish  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  lemon  sauce.    Splendid.        Mrs.  C.  S.  Leach. 

BAKED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Pare  and  core  four  large  apples;  boil  them  tender,  with 
a  rind  of  lemon  and  a  little  water,  so  that  when  done  noth- 
ing may  remain  but  the  juice;  mash  fine,  and  add  the 
crumb  of  a  small  roll,  four  ounces  of  butter,  the  yelks  of 
five  eggs,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  one  coffee-cupful 
of  sugar;  beat  all  together,  and  put  into  a  baking-dish. 
Bake  half  an  hour;  then  whip  the  remaining  whites  to  a 
froth,  and  throw  it  around  the  edge  of  the  dish ;  return  it 
to  the  oven  until  brown;  sprinkle  white  sugar  on  when 
cold.  This  is  sometimes  baked  in  pastry  as  apple  pies,  with 
only  one  crust.    As  a  pudding,  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Mrs.  Emily  A.  Johns. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


241 


ANOTHER  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  apples,  one  tea-cupful 
of  butter,  the  yelks  of  five  eggs,  and  a  little  lemon;  mix  all 
well  together,  and  bake  thirty  minutes.  Make  a  meringue 
of  the  whites  and  five  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar;  when  done, 
pour  over  the  pudding,  and  return  to  the  oven  until  a  light 
brown.    Serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  Cosby. 

BREAD,  OR  QUEEN,  PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  and  a  half  of  bread  crumbs,  three  pints  of 
sweet  milk,  the  yelks  of  six  eggs,  one  pint  and  a  half  of 
brown  sugar;  season  with  lemon;  mix  into  it  chopped  ap- 
ples or  preserves,  and  raisins  if  desired.  Bake  half  an  hour 
in  a  pudding-dish.  Meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
poured  over  it,  and  browned.    Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Nuckols. 

COCOA-NUT  BREAD  PUDDING. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  the  yelks 
of  four  eggs,  and  one  tea-cupful  of  cocoa-nut  grated ;  cream 
the  butter  and  sugar  together ;  add  the  eggs,  crumbs,  and 
milk ;  mix  the  cocoa-nut  in  thoroughly.  Bake  as  common 
bread  pudding  thirty  minutes.  When  done,  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  mix  with  it  one  tea-cupful  of 
white  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon;  spread  this  on  top 
like  meringue.    Bake  a  few  minutes.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Mrs.  Horace  January. 

GINGER-CAKE  PUDDING. 

Take  six  eggs,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  pint  of  sugar,  and 
one  pint  of  butter,  beaten  together;  add  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  ginger,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  allspice,  half  a  pint  of  sour  cream,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  soda,  and  one  pint  of  flour;  put  fruit  in,  if  desired.  Bake 
in  a  pan.    Serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Nuckols. 

16 


242 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


RICE  PUDDING. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  one  coffee-cupful  of  raisins  cut 
in  halves,  two-thirds  of  a  coffee-cupful  of  rice  washed  and 
picked.  Put  the  rice  into  a  stew-pan,  cover  it  with  water, 
and  place  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  it  becomes  soft; 
then  add  the  milk  and  raisins,  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar, 
two  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  a  little  salt.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Mrs.  James  Wilsox. 

BAKED  RICE  PUDDING  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Butter  well  a  tin  pan ;  pour  into  it  half  a  gallon  of  fresh 
milk,  one  coffee-cupful  of  jDicked  rice,  a  small  pinch  of  salt, 
one  tea-cupful  of  granulated  sugar  (or  sweeten  to  taste),  one 
coffee-cupful  of  raisins  (one-half  of  them  cut  in  two),  grated 
nutmeg;  stir  them  well  together.  As  it  will  need  watching, 
put  it  on  the  top  of  the  stove,  and  let  it  boil,  stirring  occa- 
sionally to  prevent  the  rice  settling  at  the  bottom.  When 
the  rice  is  nearly  done,  put  the  pan  in  the  oven;  continue 
to  stir  the  top  in  as  it  browns  a  little.  If  you  find  the  milk 
boils  away  too  much,  have  an  extra  pint  heated  to  replenish. 

Miss  Julia  Porter. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

Take  three  ounces  of  chocolate,  one  quart  of  milk,  one 
coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  the  yelks 
of  six  eggs,  and  three  crackers  or  about  two  tea^oon  fills 
of  corn  starch;  beat  the  yelks,  and  mix  all  together,  and 
cook  on  top  of  the  stove.  When  cold,  beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  into  a  meringue,  and  put  on  top.  Serve  with  or 
without  cream.  Mrs.  E.  L.  Jackson. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING, 

Dissolve  a  coffee-cupful  of  chocolate  in  one  quart  of  new 
milk  (set  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  the  chocolate  is 
thoroughly  dissolved) ;  then  let  it  come  to  a  boiling;  stir  in 


The  Nav  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


243 


the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  and  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  corn  starch  previously  dissolved  in  a  little 
milk.  After  it  boils  well,  pour  it  into  a  pan,  and  bake  until 
thick.  When  cold,  put  on  the  meringue,  made  of  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar.  Bake  a  light 
brown.    Serve  cold  with  rich  cream. 

Miss  Emma  Griffith. 
GINGER  PUDDING. 
Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
soda  (put  into  the  molasses),  half  a  coffee-cupful  of  sugar 
and  half  a  coffee-cupful  of  butter  (creamed  together),  half 
a  coffee-cupful  of  sour  cream,  one  table-spoonful  of  ginger, 
two  eggs,  and  three  coffee-cupfuls  of  flour;  add  the  molasses 
to  the  sugar  and  butter,  next  the  cream,  then  the  ginger 
and  flour.    Bake  thirty  minutes.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Miss  Kate  James. 
MUNCIE  PUDDING. 
Take  an  equal  quantity  of  apples  chopped  fine  and  bread 
crumbs;  put  a  layer  of  each  into  a  baking-dish;  sprinkle 
with  spices,  preserves,  or  raisins,  lumps  of  butter  and  sugar. 
Bake  slowly  one  hour.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Mrs.  Nannie  B.  Green. 

TWO-EGG  PUDDING. 

Take  two  eggs,  two  coffee-cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  and 
a  half  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour, 
and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Bake  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan. When  cold,  cut  into  four  slices,  and  spread  be- 
tween each  layer  stewed  apples  or  any  fruit.  Serve  with 
sauce.  Mrs.  Julia  Chenoweth. 

BLACKBERRY  PUDDING. 

Take  three-fourths  of  a  coffee-cupful  of  butter  creamed, 
one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  half  a  coffee-cupful  of  flour,  one 
coffee-cupful  of  blackberry  jam,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  three 


244 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


table-spoonfuls  of  sour  cream,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and 
one  tea-spoonful  of  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Bake  slowly. 
Serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  Lee  Hathaway. 

WOODFORD  PUDDING. 

Take  three  eggs,  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  half  a  coffee- 
cupful  of  butter,  half  a  coffee-cupful  of  flour,  one  cupful 
of  preserves,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  buttermilk,  and  one 
level  tea-spoonful  of  soda;  mix  the  sugar  and  butter  togeth- 
er.   Serve  with  sauce.    (See  sauce  for  Plum  Pudding.) 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Huston. 

DELMONICO  PUDDING. 

Take  one  quart  of  new  milk,  let  it  come  to  a  boiling,  then 
stir  in  the  yelks  of  three  eggs,  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar, 
and  three  table-spoonfuls  of  corn  starch  previously  dissolved 
in  a  little  milk.  After  it  boils  well,  pour  it  into  a  pan,  and 
bake  until  thick.  When  cold,  put  on  the  meringue  (made 
of  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  sugar).  Bake 
light  brown.    Serve  cold  with  rich  cream. 

Miss  Emma  Griffith. 

ISLAND  PUDDING. 

Take  one  quart  of  new  milk,  the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  and 

one  level  tea-cupful  of  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon; 

beat  the  yelks  thoroughly,  and  stir  in  the  milk.    Bake  in  a 

pudding-dish.    Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth; 

mix  with  jelly,  and  lay  this  over  the  top  of  the  custard 

when  cold.    Serve  with  sweet  cream. 

Mrs.  Jennie  Atwood. 

COUSIN  SARAH'S  PUDDING. 

Take  two  and  a  half  tumblerfuls  of  flour,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  one  coffee-cupful  of  milk, 
two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  two  tea -spoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder  mixed  through  the  flour.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a 
quick  oven.    Serve  with  sauce. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  245 


SWITZERLAND  PUDDING. 

Make  a  thin  batter  of  five  eggs,  erne  quart  of  milk,  and 
flour.  Pare  and  core  enough  good  cooking  apples  to  cover 
the  bottom  of  a  pan;  fill  the  holes  with  sugar;  grease  the 
pan,  lay  the  apples  in,  and  pour  the  batter  over  them.  Bake 
one  hour  and  a  half.    Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Mrs.  Jennie  Atwood. 
ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Peel  and  seed  four  oranges,  and  cut  them  into  small 
pieces ;  add  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  awhile 
to  make  sirup.  Into  one  quart  of  nearly  boiling  milk  stir 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  corn  starch  mixed  with  a  little  milk 
ancl  the  yelks  of  three  eggs;  when  cool,  mix  with  the  or- 
ange. Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  half 
a  coffee-cupful  of  sugar  for  the  top.  Return  to  the  oven  to 
brown.    Serve  with  sauce. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  of  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  half  a  pint  of 
butter  with  the  salt  washed  out,  six  eggs,  one  coffee-cupful 
of  cream,  half  a  pint  of  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  nutmeg, 
ginger,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cinnamon ;  cream  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  together ;  beat  the  eggs  well,  and  add  to  the 
potatoes ;  then  add  the  sugar  and  cream  and  other  ingre- 
dients.   Bake  fifteen  minutes.    Serve  with  sauce. 

NICE  PUDDING. 

Boil  one  quart  of  new  milk;  mix  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn  starch  with  the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  and 
one  cupful  of  sugar;  beat  well.  When  the  milk  comes  to  a 
boiling,  pour  it  over  the  eggs  and  sugar,  beating  all  the 
while.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  lightly,  add  half  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  and  spread  over  the  pudding  when  done;  put 
into  the  oven  until  a  light  brown.   Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Mrs.  James  Rogers. 


246  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


CHARLOTTE  PUDDING. 

Take  three  dozen  fresh  sponge-cakes,  sliced  into  halves, 
and  dipped  in  melted  butter ;  put  into  a  pan,  with  alternate 
layers  of  fruit;  make  a  meringue  of  one  pound  of  sugar  and 
the  whites  of  seven  eggs,  and  put  over  the  top ;  add  a  little 
water,  and  let  the  pudding  get  hot.  Bake  in  a  flat  dish. 
Serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  Annie  Lee. 

MARMALADE  PUDDING. 

Take  half  a  pound  each  of  suet,  bread  crumbs,  and  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  one  pound  of  marmalade;  mix  well  with 
four  eggs,  and  boil  four  hours  in  a  floured  cloth.  Serve 
with  rich  sauce.  Mrs.  Saleie  Cox; 

JEFF  DAVIS  PUDDING. 

Take  three  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  coffee-cupfuls  of 
sugar  and  one  coffee-cupful  of  butter  creamed  together,  one 
coffee-cupful  of  cream,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  the 
juice  of  one  lemon;  mix  well,  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 
Serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  Howard  McCreary. 

POPOVER  PUDDING. 

Take  one  egg,  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  one  small  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  and  one  pinch  of  salt;  beat  the  eggs  thor- 
oughly, then  mix  the  flour  and  egg  together  to  a  smooth 
paste ;  stir  in  the  milk ;  have  tea-cups  well  greased,  and  fill 
them  half  full.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 
Serve  as  soon  as  done  with  rich  sauce.  This  will  make  four 
cups.  Mrs.  Maria  Bull. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  tapioca,  wash  it,  cover  it  with 
half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  stand  all  night.  Add 
one  coffee-cupful  of  boiling  water,  oue  cupful  of  wine,  the 
juice  of  three  lemons,  and  the  grated  peel  of  two  (be  careful 
not  to  grate  too  deep,  as  the  white  and  seed  are  bitter),  two 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


247 


sticks  of  cinnamon  broken  into  four  table-spoonfuls  of  cold 
water.  Let  it  come  to  a  boiling;  pour  this  cinnamon-water 
into  the  tapioca,  sweeten  it  with  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar, 
put  it  on  the  stove,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Pour  it  into  a  pudding-dish,  and  put  it  in  the  oven 
to  brown.    When  cold,  serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Wadsworth. 

POOR  MAN'S  PUDDING. 

Take  four  eggs,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  quart 
of  new  milk,  one  level  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  mix  all 
well  together,  and  bake  thirty  minutes.    Serve  with  sauce. 

MOLASSES  PUDDING. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  one  tea-cupful  of  butter, 
two  tea-cupfuls  of  molasses,  two  tea-cupfuls  of  flour,  four 
eggs,  one  table-spoonful  of  ginger,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  three  table-spoonfuls  of  buttermilk.  Bake  for 
twenty  minutes.    Serve  with  sauce.       Mrs.  Buffington. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 
Boil  one  pint  of  milk,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  flour.  Beat  smooth,  and  when  cool  add 
ten  well-beaten  eggs.  Drop  into  tins,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven ;  when  done,  open  top  and  fill  with  custard  cooked  very 
thick. 

STRAWBERRY  CAKE  PUDDING. 

To  the  yelks  of  three  eggs  beaten  add  one  tea-cupful  of 
white  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  two  tea-cupfuls  of  flour  with  one  tea-spoonful  of 
baking-powder  well  mixed  through  it.  Bake  in  jelly-cake- 
pans.  When  cold,  and  just  before  serving,  place  in  layers, 
covering  each  with  strawberries  which  have  previously  been 
sugared.  It  may  be  eaten  with  or  without  rich  cream  or 
sauce.    This  cake  is  delicious  with  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit, 


248 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


or  with  canned  peaches,  pears,  or  apricots  chopped  fine. 
Raspberries  should  be  crushed  and  sugared  before  using. 
Heat  the  juice  of  canned  fruit,  thicken  Avith  a  tea-spoonful 
of  corn  starch,  boil  up  once,  and  serve  with  the  cake. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Tabb. 
CHARLOTTE  PUDDING. 
Take  one  quart  of  milk,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  corn 
starch,  one  dozen  lady-fingers,  eggs,  and  sugar.  Put  half 
the  milk  on  to  scald,  mix  the  rest  with  the  corn  starch,  the 
yelks  of  four  eggs,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar — more  if 
you  wish  it  very  sweet.  Add  this  to  the  boiling  milk,  stir 
constantly.  Cook  until  it  is  thick.  Have  a  baking-dish 
ready  with  lady-fingers  around  the  sides  and  on  the  bottom, 
pour  sherry  wine  over  the  cake  until  it  is  saturated.  When 
the  custard  is  cold,  pour  into  the  dish.  Make  a  meringue  of 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  put  over  the  top,  and  then  brown. 
If  wine  is  not  liked,  use  vanilla  to  flavor  the  custard  with. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Tate. 

SAUCE  FOR  PUDDING. 

Take  one-half  coffee-cupful  of  butter,  two  coffee-cupfuls 
of  sugar;  mix  well  together;  one-half  tea-cupful  of  sweet 
cream,  one  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  Royal  baking-powder. 
Beat  until,  light  and  white.  Flavor  with  one  tea-spoonful 
of  vanilla.    Excellent,  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

SAUCE  FOR  PLAIN  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Boil  together  one  pint  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  butter, 
one-half  pint  of  water,  and  pour  very  slowly  boiling  hot  over 
the  yelks  of  two  eggs  which  have  been  thoroughly  beaten. 
Stir  well,  and  flavor  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Eobinsox. 

SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one  nut- 
meg, one  egg,  all  well  beaten  together,  one-half  pint  of  pre- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


249 


pared  arrowroot.  Stir  in  cool  just  before  serving.  Flavor 
with  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla.  Mrs.  J.  F.-Perrie. 

WINE  SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  butter,  two  coffee-cupfuls  of  su- 
gar creamed  together,  one  coffee-cupful  of  wine  added  slow- 
ly. Set  the  bowl  in  hot  water  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
and  do  not  stir  or  pour  out  until  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Huston. 
COLD  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS. 
Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  butter,  two  coffee-cupfuls  of  su- 
gar, the  white  of  one  egg  not  beaten.    Beat  all  together 
thoroughly.    Add  nutmeg  and  wine,  if  desired. 

SAUCE  FOR  CAKE. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  tea-cupful  of  but- 
ter, one  egg  beaten  separately  (add  the  white  last),  then 
pour  on  the  whole  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  It  will  then 
be  ready  for  use. 

WINE  SAUCE. 

Take  one  and  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  one-half 
cupful  of  jelly,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  port  wine,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  allspice,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  un- 
til thick.  Mrs.  Sallie  Thomas. 
WHISKY  SAUCE. 
Take-  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one 
egg  beaten  separately,  one  wine-glassful  of  hot  water,  one 
wine-glassful  of  whisky: 

SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS. 
Take  one  coffee-cupful  sugar,  one  coffee-cupful  of  butter, 
one  egg ;  beat  sugar  and  butter  well  together,  then  beat  the 
egg.    Put  on  the  stove  and  stir  until  it  melts,  but  do  not 
let  it  boil;  or  pour  enough  hot  water  in  to  thin  a  little. 

Mrs.  George  T.  Hunter. 


250 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


PLAIN  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS. 


Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  butter  and  two  coffee-cupfuls 
of  sugar  beaten  together  to  a  cream,  add  the  yelk  of  one 
egg  and  one  table-spoonful  of  flour.  Beat  until  very  light. 
Flavor  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla.  Just  before  serv- 
ing, add  one  pint  of  boiling  water  or  wine. 


Mrs.  A.  A.  Wadsworth. 


CREAMS,  CUSTARDS,  ETC. 


For  creams  and  custards,  eggs  should  be  thoroughly 
beaten,  the  whites  and  yelks  separately.  When  gelatine  is 
used  for  creams  it  should  always  be  soaked  at  least  one  hour 
in  a  little  cold  water  or  milk;  it  can  then  be  dissolved  by 
placing  over  hot  water.  Baked  custards  should  be  put  into 
a  moderately  hot  oven — if  too  hot,  the  custard  will  in  part 
turn  to  whey;  the  delicacy  of  the  custard  depends  on  its 
being  baked  slowly.  For  boiled  custard,  always  place  the 
vessel  that  contains  the  custard  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water 
(with  a  scant  tea-spoonful  of  salt  in  the  water,  the  custard 
will  boil  quicker) ;  and  do  not  let  it  boil  too  long,  or  it  will 
curdle.  When  the  milk  reaches  the  boiling  point,  which  is 
shown  by  a  slight  foam  rising  on  the  top,  put  in  the  sugar, 
which  cooks  it  so  that  the  eggs  will  not  curdle  when  added. 
Or,  another  convenient  way  is  to  gradually  add  several 
spoonfuls  of  the  boiling  milk  to  the  beaten  yelks  until  the 
eggs  are  heated  through,  when  they  may  be  slowly  stirred 
in.  Let  it  remain  a  few  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until 
it  thickens  a  little;  then  either  set  the  vessel  immediately  in 
cold  water,  or  turn  into  a  cold  dish,  as  it  will  curdle  if  al- 
lowed to  remain  in  a  hot  vessel.  Add  flavoring  extracts 
after  removing  from  the  stove.  In  making  Charlotte-Busse, 
it  is  necessary  to  have  very  thick  cream,  so  that  it  will  whip 
to  a  stiff  froth.  It  is  impossible  to  make  good  Charlotte-JRusse 
in  damp,  moderate  weather.  Add  the  stock  to  the  whipped 
cream  just  before  it  begins  to  congeal,  very  little  at  a  time, 
stirring  constantly — if  poured  in  too  fast,  it  will  settle  at 

(251) 


252 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Boole. 


the  bottom  and  not  mix  through  the  cream.  Use  none  but 
the  best  extracts  for  flavoring.  All  gelatine  should  be  soaked 
at  least  one  hour  before  adding  the  other  ingredients  for 
jelly.  The  yellow  part  of  lemon  peel  gives  a  delightful 
flavor  to  the  jelly,  but  be  very  careful  not  to  get  the  white 
part  or  seeds  in,  as  they  are  bitter. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD,  BAKED. 

Take  one  quart  of  new  milk,  six  eggs  (yelks  and  whites 
beaten  separately),  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  four  heaping 
table-spoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate.  Flavor  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Scald  milk,  stir  in  the  chocolate,  and 
simmer  for  two  minutes,  or  until  it  is  dissolved.  Beat  up 
the  yelks  with  the  sugar,  and  put  into  the  hot  mixture. 
Stir  for  one  minute  before  seasoning  and  pouring  into  the 
cups,  which  should  be  set  ready  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 
They  should  be  but  half  submerged,  that  the  water  may 
not  bubble  over  the  tops.  Cook  slowly  for  about  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  the  custards  are  firm.  "When  cold,  whip 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  meringue,  with  very  little  pow- 
dered sugar  (most  meringues  are  too  sweet),  and  pile  some 
on  the  top  of  each  cup.  Put  a  piece  of  red  jelly  on  the 
meringue. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

Take  half  a  gallon  of  new  milk,  the  yelks  of  ten  eggs. 
Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  into  the  milk.  Boil  until 
it  is  thick.  Have  the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
stir  in  while  hot.  Flavor  with  one  and  one-half  tea-spoon- 
ful of  vanilla.    Boil  as  directed  above. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Wadsworth. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

Put  one-half  gallon  of  new  milk  into  a  bucket  and  set  it 
in  a  kettle  which  has  a  little  boiling  water  in  it,  as  the 
custard  is  apt  to  burn  if  next  to  the  fire.    Put  a  scant  tea- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


253 


spoonful  of  salt  in  the  water — it  will  boil  quicker.  Add  one 
coffee-cupful  of  white  sugar;  have  the  yelks  of  six  eggs 
beaten  very  light;  when  the  milk  is  scalding  hot,  stir  in  the 
yelks  until  the  custard  is  thick.  Do  not  let  it  boil  too  long, 
or  the  custard  will  curdle.  Whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  stir  lightly  through  the  custard.  Set  it  away  to  cool, 
and  flavor  with  one  and  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla  or 
bitter  almond. 

BOILED  CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD. 
Take  one  quart  of  new  milk,  six  eggs  (whites  and  yelks 
beaten  separately),  one  coffee-cupful  of  sugar,  four  heaping 
table-spoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  vanilla  to  taste — one 
teaspoonful  to  the  pint  is  a  good  rule.  Scald  the  milk;  stir 
in  sugar  and  chocolate;  cook  for  five  minutes,  and  add  the 
yelks.  Cook  for  five  minutes  longer,  or  until  thick,  stirring 
all  the  time.  When  nearly  cold,  beat  in  the  flavoring  and 
beat  all  briskly  for  a  minute  before  pouring  into  custard- 
cups.  Whip  the  whites  with  a  little  powdered  sugar,  or, 
what  is  better,  one-half  cupful  of  currant  or  cranberry  jelly, 
and  heap  upon  the  custards. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM. 

Take  the  yelks  of  six  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one  quart 
of  cream  or  new  milk,  two  bars  of  sweet  chocolate  grated. 
Let  the  chocolate  dissolve  well  in  the  milk,  sweeten  with 
one  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  put  it  into  a  vessel  of  boiling  water, 
and  stir  well  until  it  becomes  thick.  Take  it  off  before  it 
boils,  and  set  away  in  cups  to  cool. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Wadsworth. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM. 

Take  one  bar  of  chocolate,  one  and  one-half  pint  of  cream, 
the  yelks  of  five  eggs,  one  and  one-half  table-spoonful  of  good 
moist  sugar.  Grate  the  chocolate,  and  pour  the  cream  over 
it.    Let  it  stand  until  dissolved,  then  boil  slowly  for  ten 


254 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


minutes.  Beat  the  yelks  well  with  the  sugar;  mix  with  the 
cream,  and  pour  into  cups.  Stand  them  in  a  stew-pan  of 
boiling  water,  which  must  only  half  submerge  them.  Sim- 
mer for  twenty  minutes  with  the  cover  of  the  stew-pan  kept 
on.    When  done,  place  the  cups  on  ice. 

Mrs.  J ut.t\  Chexoweth. 
ITALIAN  CREAM. 
Take  one  quart  of  cream,  half  of  which  mix  with  one 
ounce  of  isinglass  dissolved  gradually  without  letting  it  boil 
or  simmer;  with  the  remaining  half  of  the  cream,  put  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  two  wine- 
glassfuls  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine.  When  the  cream  which 
was  mixed  with  the  isinglass  is  nearly  cold,  pour  the  whole 
together  and  whip  until  it  becomes  of  the  consistency  of  thin 
batter,  then  pour  into  the  molds.  Serve  with  whipped  cream 
flavored  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Saleie  Cox. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

Take  two  table-spoonfuls  of  tapioca  soaked  overnight,  or 
say  three  hours,  in  water  enough  to  cover  it.  Boil  this 
with  one  quart  of  new  milk  by  placing  in  a  tin  bucket  set  in 
boiling  water.  Add  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar  and  a  little 
salt.  Beat  the  yelks  of  three  eggs  thoroughly,  and  stir 
them  into  the  milk  when  it  has  boiled  ten  minutes.  Be- 
move  from  the  fire,  and  stir  rapidly  for  five  minutes.  Fla- 
vor with  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla,  pour  into  a  baking-dish, 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  pour  over 
the  top.  Sift  sugar  over  this,  and  brown.  Serve  cold,  with 
cream.  Mrs.  Saelie  Cox. 

CHOCOLATE  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

Boil  a  vanilla  bean  and  two  table-spoonnils  of  granulated 
sugar  in  oue  pint  of  rich  milk  until  it  is  well  flavored. 
Take  it  off  of  the  fire,  add  one-half  box  of  Cox's  gelatine, 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


255 


which  has  been  soaked  for  one  hour  in  half  a  pint  of  warm 
water.  When  slightly  cooled,  add  two  bars  of  baker's 
chocolate  grated  and  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Stir  in 
four  well-beaten  eggs.  When  it  has  become  quite  cold  and 
begins  to  thicken,  stir  it  a  few  moments  without  ceasing  un- 
til it  is  very  smooth.  Have  ready  one  pint  of  rich  cream 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  it  lightly  in  until  well  mixed. 
Put  into  molds,  set  on  ice,  or  in  a  cool  place. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS. 

Soak  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  cold  water 
for  one  hour.  Put  one  quart  of  rich  milk  into  a  tin  buck- 
et and  set  it  in  a  kettle  with  hot  water  to  boil.  Scrape  two 
ounces  of  French  chocolate  and  mix  with  eight  table-spoon- 
fuls of  sugar.  Wet  this  with  two  spoonfuls  of  the  boiling 
milk  and  rub  with  the  spoon  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  stir 
into  the  boiling  milk.  Add  the  gelatine  and  the  yelks  of 
ten  eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  for  three  minutes,  take  off  and 
strain.  Set  in  a  pan  of  ice-water  and  stir  for  ten  minutes, 
then  add  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  vanilla  and  put  into  blanc- 
mange molds.  Set  on  ice  for  three  hours.  Serve  with  su- 
gar and  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC-MANGE. 

Grate  one  coffee-cupful  of  chocolate,  add  to  it  one  pint 
of  water  and  one  cupful  or  more  of  sugar.  Let  it  simmer 
until  the  chocolate  is  dissolved;  add  one  quart  of  milk  and 
one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  previously  soaked  in  boiling  wa- 
ter. When  the  milk  begins  to  boil,  stir  the  gelatine  into  it 
slowly,  when  dissolved,  and  let  it  simmer  until  it  is  well 
mixed.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  and  pour  into  molds.  Serve 
with  cream,  sweetened  and  whipped. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

Dissolve  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  enough  boiling  wa- 
ter to  cover  it.    Add  one  pint  of  sugar  to  three  pints  of 


256 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Bool: 


new  milk  or  cream;  put  it  on  the  fire;  when  it  is  hot,  pour 
in  the  gelatine  slowly;  simmer  until  it  is  well  mixed  and 
thick,  then  strain  it  into  a  pitcher  and  stir  until  cold  but 
not  congealed.  Just  before  it  begins  to  congeal,  flavor  with 
bitter  almond  or  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla.  Dip  the  mold 
in  cold  water,  and  pour  in  the  blanc-mange.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

Take  four  table-spoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  one  quart  of 
new  milk,  the  thin  rind  of  four  lemons,  one-half  tea-cupful 
of  blanched  almonds,  one-fourth  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 
Mix  the  corn  starch  in  one  tea-cupful  of  the  milk,  cut  the 
rind  of  the  lemons  very  thin  and  put  into  the  remainder  of 
the  milk  with  the  almonds  (previously  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
white  mortar).  Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  jxmr  in 
the  cup  of  milk  in  which  the  corn  starch  has  been  dissolved, 
stir  briskly  until  it  thickens,  then  turn  into  molds.  Serve 
as  other  blanc-mange. 

CHOCOLATE  GLACE. 

Take  one  and  one-half  table-spoonful  of  Cox's  gelatine, 
one-fourth  of  a  cake  of  baker's  chocolate  if  sweet,  if  not 
one  square,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  one  pint  of 
new  milk.  Boil  until  well  dissolved — say  fifteen  minutes. 
Put  aside  to  cool.  Flavor  cream  with  half  a  tea-spoonful 
of  vanilla,  whip  and  pour  over  it. 

FRENCH  CREAM. 

Soak  one-third  of  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  one  and  one- 
quarter  pint  of  milk  for  one  hour,  then  add  one  coffee-cup- 
ful of  sugar.  Let  it  come  to  a  boiling,  stirring  constantly. 
Flavor  with  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla.  When  almost 
cold,  beat  in  one  egg- — beat  ten  or  fifteen  minutes — then  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Pour  into  molds,  and  set  in 
a  cool  place.    Serve  with  whipped  cream  poured  over  it. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


257 


CHARLOTTE-RUSSE. 

Take  one-fourth  of  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  one  pint  of 
new  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Put  all  into  a  saucepan 
on  the  stove;  stir  constantly  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved; 
do  not  cook  it.  Add  one  and  one-half  tea-cupful  of  sugar, 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  vanilla  (if  very  strong  one  will  be 
enough).  Put  it  away  to  cool.  Have  three  pints  of  cream 
whipped.  When  the  mixture  is  perfectly  cold,  stir  in  the 
whipped  cream,  and  pour  into  a  bowl  lined  with  sponge- 
cake. Mrs.  Worthington  Kobinson 

CHARLOTTE-RUSSE. 

Put  half  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  cold  water  enough  to 
cover  it.  Let  it  stand  at  least  one  hour,  then  add  one  pint 
of  new  milk,  the  yelk  of  one  egg,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  and 
flavor  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  it  on  the  stove, 
stirring  constantly  until  the  egg  is  cooked  and  it  thickens  a 
little.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  as  it  is  apt  to  curdle.  Have 
ready  three  pints  of  rich  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Before  the  mixture  is  cold  enough  to  congeal,  stir  in  the 
whipped  cream,  a  little  at  a  time,  with  an  egg-whip.  If 
poured  in  fast,  it  wTill  not  mix  well.  Line  a  dish  with 
sponge-cake,  and  pour  the  cream  over  it. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Wadsworth. 

MERINGUED  APPLES. 

Pare,  core,  and  stew  the  apples,  then  line  a  dish  with 
sponge-cake  or  bread  soaked  in  milk  or  cream.  Place  the 
apples  in  the  dish,  filling  up  the  places  of  the  cores  with 
sweetmeats.  Take  four  eggs,  separate  them,  beat  with  the 
yelks  a  coffee-cupful  of  cream  seasoned  with  nutmeg.  Pour 
this  over  the  apples,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding 
enough  sugar  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  icing,  then  pour  it  on 
the  apples.  Bake  quickly  to  a  light  brown.  Serve  with 
sauce.  Mrs.  Sallie  Cox. 

17 


258  The  New  Kentucky  Rome  Cook  Book. 


MOONSHINE. 

Take  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in 
well  six  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  glassful  of  jelly. 
To  be  eaten  with  sweetened  cream,  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Miss  Mary  Hudxlt. 

AMBROSIA. 

Take  a  cocoa-nut  grated,  a  pine-apple  peeled  and  cut  into 
fine  pieces.  Put  a  layer  of  cocoa-nut  in  a  dish,  strew  sugar 
over  it;  then  a  layer  of  pine-apple,  strew  sugar  over  that. 
Continue  this  until  the  dish  is  full.  Oranges  may  be 
substituted  for  pine-apple.  This  should  be  prepared  several 
hours  before  using.  Mrs.  A.  A,  TTadsworth. 

ORANGE  SOUFFLE, 

Take  six  oranges  cut  into  small  pieces,  one  grated  cocoa- 
nut.  Put  a  layer  of  oranges  in  a  bowl,  sprinkle  sugar  over 
it,  then  cocoa-nut,  then  sugar.  Continue  until  the  bowl  is 
nearly  full.    Pour  over  this  one  quart  of  boiled  custard. 

Mrs.  Sallie  Cox. 

BRULI. 

Boil  one  quart  of  new  milk  with  a  stick  of  ciunamon 
broken  into  it.  Beat  lightly  the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  add  one 
tea-cupful  of  white  sugar  and  four  table-spoonfuls  of  flour. 
\Vhen  well  beaten,  stir  into  it  a  tea-cupful  of  the  boiled  milk, 
then  the  remaining  milk,  stirring  briskly.  Put  the  mixture 
into  a  tin  bucket,  set  it  in  hot  water  and  boil  for  ten  min- 
utes, or  until  quite  thick.  Pour  into  a  pudding-dish,  and 
when  cool,  put  on  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  one 
lemon.    Brown  it  lightly.  Mrs.  AVatsox  Andrews. 

WINE  JELLY. 

Put  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  into  two  pints  of  boiling 
water  (in  winter  two  and  a  half  pints'),  and  let  it  soak  one 


The  New  Kentucky  Some  Cook  Book. 


259 


hour,  then  add  one  pint  of  wine  or  the  juice  of  four  lemons 
(grate  some  of  the  yellow  rind  in),  four  sticks  of  cinnamon 
broken  into  three  table-spoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boiling.  Mix  all  together,  adding  one  heaping  pint 
of  sugar  and  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg.  Allow  it  to  come 
to  a  boiling;  have  ready  a  flannel  jelly-bag,  and  strain  it 
through  several  times  until  it  runs  clear.  Set  it  away  to 
cool.    Serve  with  cream.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Wadswoeth. 

ALMOND  JELLY. 

Put  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  into  one  quart  of  water,  to 
be  converted  into  jelly,  then  make  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  blanched  almonds  into  a  paste  by  beating  them  in  a  mor- 
tar, adding  gradually  fifteen  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  one 
coffee-cupful  of  sugar.  Add  this  to  the  gelatine,  simmer 
the  whole  at  a  gentle  heat  until  it  is  ready  to  boil,  taking 
care  to  stir  constantly;  then  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and 
continue  to  stir  until  it  is  almost  cold.  Pour  into  molds, 
and  set  it  on  ice,  or  in  a  cool  place  to  congeal.  When  re- 
quired for  use,  place  the  mold  for  a  moment  in  warm  water, 
and  it  will  turn  out  easily.    Serve  with  rich  cream. 

Mrs.  Wood. 

PINE-APPLE  JELLY. 

Take  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  three  pints  of  water,  four 
lemons,  one  can  of  grated  pine-apple,  one  and  one-half  pint 
of  sugar.  Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  the  gelatine, 
squeeze  all  the  juice  of  the  lemons  into  the  sugar,  add  the 
remaining  water  (or  two  pints),  then  the  dissolved  gelatine. 
Mix  well  and  strain ;  stir  in  the  pine-apple ;  put  into  a  mold, 
and  set  on  ice  for  several  hours.        Mes.  Holt  Richeson. 

GELATINE  JELLY. 

Put  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  (dissolved)  into  one  pint  of 
cold  water,  one  and  one-half  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  the 
juice  and  pulp  of  four  lemons,  three  pints  of  boiling  water 


.260 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


(in  summer  two  pints).  Mix  thoroughly,  strain  through  a 
flannel  bag.  Have  ready  either  oranges,  bananas,  pine-ap- 
ples, or  apples  cut  into  small  pieces.  Sprinkle  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  over  the  fruit,  over  which  pour  the  jelly. 
When  congealed,  cut  aud  put  into  a  dish.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

JELLY  UNCOOKED. 

Take  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  one  pint  of 
cold  water,  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  pint  of  wine, 
one  and  one-half  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  or  sweeten  to 
taste,  the  juice  and  yellow  peel  of  four  lemons.  Mix  well, 
and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag. 

OMELET  SOUFFLE. 

Take  the  yelks  of  three  eggs,  the  whites  of  six,  three  ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of  granulated  sugar,  beat  the  yelks  and  sugar 
to  a  cream,  add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla,  then  beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  pour  them  over  the  yelks,  and  mix  lightly 
together.  Have  ready  a  baking-dish  buttered,  with  a  layer 
of  marmalade  on  the  bottom,  pour  the  mixture  on  the  mar- 
malade, smooth  the  top,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  brown.    Serve  at  once  with  cream,  or  it  will  fall. 

OMELET  SOUFFLE. 

Take  eight  eggs  beaten  separately.  When  the  yelks  are 
well  beaten,  stir  in  eight  table-spoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar 
and  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon,  then  add  the 
whites  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  the 
whole  hastily  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  which  has  been  a 
little  heated.  This  dessert  must  be  made  while  the  dinner 
is  being  eaten,  as  it  falls  quickly  and  becomes  heavy. 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


IRREGULAR  QUANTITIES. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour  (well  heaped)  weighs  one  pound. 
Three  coffee-cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  (level)  weigh  one  pound. 
Four  tea-cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  (level)  weigh  one  pound. 
One  quart  of  unsifted  flour  weighs  one  pound  and  one  ounce. 
One  quart  of  sifted  Indian  meal  weighs  one  pound  and  four  ounces. 
One  pint  of  soft  butter  (well  packed)  weighs  one  pound. 
Two  tea-cupfuls  of  soft  butter  (well  packed)  weighs  one  pound. 
One  and  one-third  pint  of  powdered  sugar  weighs  one  pound. 
Two  coffee-cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar  (level)  weigh  one  pound. 
Two  and  three-fourths  tea-cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar  (level)  weigh 
one  pound. 

One  pint  of  granulated  sugar  (heaped)  weighs  fourteen  ounces. 
One  and  one-half  coffee-cupful  of  granulated  sugar  (level)  weighs 
one  pound. 

Two  tea-cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar  (level)  weigh  one  pound. 
One  pint  of  coffee  A  sugar  weighs  twelve  ounces. 
One  and  three-fourth  coffee-cupful  of  coffee  A  sugar  (level)  weighs 
one  pound. 

Two  tea-cupfuls  of  coffee  A  sugar  (well  heaped)  weigh  one  pound. 
One  pint  of  best  brown  sugar  weighs  thirteen  ounces. 
One  and  three-fourths  coffee-cupful  of  best  brown  sugar  (level)  weighs 
one  pound. 

Two  and  one-half  tea-cupfuls  of  best  brown  sugar  (level)  weigh  one 
pound. 

Two  and  three-fourths  coffee-cupfuls  of  Indian  meal  (level)  equal  one 
quart. 

Three  and  one-half  tea-cupfuls  of  Indian  meal  (level)  equal  one 
quart. 

One  table-spoonful  (well  heaped)  granulated  coffee  A  or  best  brown 

sugar  weighs  one  ounce. 
Two  table-spoonfuls  (well  rounded)  of  powdered  sugar  or  flour  weigh 

one  ounce. 

(261) 


262 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


One  table-spoonful  (well  rounded)  of  soft  butter  weighs  one  ounce. 
Soft  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  weighs  two  ounces. 
Seven  table-spoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  (heaping)  equal  one  tea- 
cupful. 

Five  table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  or  meal  (heaping)  equal  one  tea- 
cupful. 

Four  table-spoonfuls  of  soft  butter  (well  heaped)  equal  one  tea-cup- 
ful. 

Three  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  chocolate  grated  weigh  one  ounce. 
Two  tea-spoonfuls  of  flour,  sugar,  or  meal  (heaping)  equal  one  heap- 
ing table-spoonful. 

LIQUIDS 

One  pint  contains  sixteen  fluid  ounces  (four  gills). 
One  ounce  contains  eight  fluid  drachms  (one-fourth  gill). 
One  table-spoonful  contains  about  one-half  fluid  ounce. 
One  tea-spoonful  contains  about  one  fluid  drachm. 

A  tea-spoonful  is  equal  in  volume  to  forty-five  drops  of  pure  water  (distilled) 
at  sixty  degrees  Fahrenheit.  Tea-spoons  vary  so  much  in  size  that  there  is  a 
wide  margin  of  difference  in  containing  capacity. 

Four  tea-spoonfuls  equal  one  table-spoonful  or  one-half  fluid  ounce. 
Sixteen  table-spoonfuls  equal  one-half  pint. 

One  wine-glassful  (common  size)  equals  four  table-spoonfuls,  or  two 
fluid  ounces. 

One  tea-cupful  equals  eight  fluid  ounces,  or  two  gills. 

Four  tea-cupfuls  equal  one  quart. 

A  common-sized  tumbler  holds  about  one-half  pint. 

AVOIRDUPOIS  WEIGHT. 

Sixteen  drachms  (dr.)  make  one  ounce  (oz.). 
Sixteen  ounces  make  one  pound  (lb.). 
Twenty-five  pounds  make  one  quarter  (qr.). 
Four  quarters  make  one  hundred  weight  (cwt.). 
Two  thousand  weight  make  one  ton  (T.). 

LIQUID  MEASURE. 
Four  gills  (gi.)  make  one  pint  (pt.). 
Two  pints  make  one  quart  (qt.). 
Four  quarts  make  one  gallon  (gal.). 

WEIGHTS  OF  ARTICLES. 

Apples,  dried,  bushel,  twenty-five  pounds. 
Beef,  firkin,  one  hundred  pounds. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  263 


Pork,  barrel,  two  hundred  pounds. 

Beans,  bushel,  sixty  pounds. 

Butter,  firkin,  fifty-six  pounds. 

Butter,  tub,  eighty-four  pounds. 

Peaches,  dried,  bushel,  thirty-three  pounds. 

Fish,  barrel,  two  hundred  pounds. 

Fish,  quintal,  one  hundred  and  twelve  pounds, 

Flour,  barrel,  net,  one  hundred  and  ninety-six  pounds. 

Honey,  gallon,  twelve  pounds. 

Molasses,  hogshead,  one  hundred  and  thirty  to  one  hundred  and  fifty 
gallons. 

Salt,  barrel,  three  and  one-half  bushels. 
Salt,  bushel,  seventy  pounds. 

Sugar,  barrel,  two  hundred  to  two  hundred  and  fifty  pounds. 

Soap,  barrel,  two  hundred  and  fifty-six  pounds. 

Soap,  box,  seventy-five  pounds. 

Tea,  chest,  sixty  to  eighty-four  pounds. 


CAKES. 


Hate  every  thing  in  readiness  before  commencing  work. 
Let  all  the  utensils  be  scrupulously  clean.  Grease  the  molds 
with  lard,  line  the  bottom  with  light  brown  paper  greased 
and  cut  the  shape  of  the  mold.  Success  in  cake  making- 
depends  on  the  kind  of  material  used  and  proper  baking. 
Get  the  best  brand  of  flour,  good  sweet  butter,  fresh  eggs, 
and  powdered  sugar.  If  the  butter  is  hard,  wash  the  sale 
out  with  a  little  lukewarm  water ;  if  soft,  use  cold  water. 
In  warm  weather,  lay  the  eggs  in  cold  water  and  then  beat 
separately.  The  butter  and  sugar  must  be  creamed  togeth- 
er, then  beat  in  the  flour,  and  lastly  the  milk.  The  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  the  baking-powder  should  be  stirred  lightly 
through,  as  hard  beating  will  make  the  cake  porous.  Whe  n 
fruit  is  to  be  used,  prepare  it  a  day  or  two  before  wanted. 
It  should  be  dredged  well  with  flour  before  putting  into 
cake,  to  prevent  sinking  to  the  bottom.  AVhen  mixing 
sponge-cake,  stir  it  lightly  with  a  silver  fork ;  other  cakes 
can  be  made  with  the  hand  or  a  wooden  paddle.  Take  the 
same  sized  cup  for  measuring  flour,  butter,  milk,  and  sugar. 
Flour  should  always  be  sifted  before  measuring  or  weighing. 
Streaks  in  cake  are  caused  by  not  skillfully  mixing  them  or 
unequal  baking.  Keep  the  oven  at  a  regular  heat  when 
baking  a  large  cake  or  a  ginger-cake.  Jelly-cakes  and  jum- 
bles must  be  baked  in  a  quick  oven.  Either  cover  a  large 
cake  with  paper,  or  set  a  pan  of  cold  water  on  the  rack  over 
it  to  j)revent  browning  too  rapidly.  Cakes  may  be  kept 
fresh  by  wrapping  them  in  a  cloth  or  white  paper.  Icing 
should  be  thoroughlv  dried  before  wrapping  up  the  cake. 
(264) 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


265 


BLACK  CAKE. 
Take  two  pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of  seeded  rai- 
sins, one  pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound 
of  flour  after  it  is  browned,  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  one 
nutmeg,  twelve  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  table-spoonful 
of  cinnamon,  one  table-spoonful  of  allspice,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  cloves,  one  table-spoonful  of  mace,  one  cupful  of 
brandy,  one-third  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  stirred  into  a  pint 
of  wTarm  molasses.  Add  the  juice  of  an  orange  and  a  little 
of  the  peel  chopped  fine.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether, then  add  the  yelks,  molasses,  and  flour.  Stir  the 
whites  lightly  through,  then  the  fruit,  spices,  and  brandy. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  four  hours.  Leave  in  the  cake-pan 
until  cold.  Mrs.  Annie  Lee. 

SLACK  CAKE. 
Take  one  pound  of  browned  flour,  two  pounds  of  seeded 
raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  three-fourths  pound  of  but- 
ter, one  pound  of  rolled  almonds,  one-half  pound  of  citron 
cut  fine,  one-half  pound  of  figs  cut  into  small  pieces,  one- 
half  pound  of  candied  orange  peel,  one  pound  of  wrhite  su- 
gar, one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  stirred 
into  a  little  buttermilk,  nine  eggs  beaten  separately,  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  ginger,  one  nutmeg,  one  table-spoonful  of 
cinnamon,  one  table-spoonful  of  mace,  one  table-spoonful  of 
cloves,  a  wine-glassful  of  whisky.  Mix,  and  bake  the  same 
as  the  above.  Mrs.  Mary  Lane. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Take  four  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  two  and  one-half 
pounds  of  picked  and  washed  currants,  one-half  pound  of 
citron  cut  into  thin,  short  strips,  one  and  one-half  pound  of 
white  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pound  of  washed  butter,  one 
and  one-half  pound  of  sifted  browned  flour,  eighteen  eggs, 
one  nutmeg  grated,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  ground  cinna- 


266  Tlie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Bool:. 


inon,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  allspice,  one  wine-glassful  of 
"whisky,  one  wine-glassful  of  wine,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of 
cloves,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  molasses.  Directions  for 
mixing:  Cream  the  butter;  beat  the  yelks  in  a  large  bowl, 
then  add  the  sugar  well  beaten,  whites,  flour,  butter,  spices, 
molasses,  and  fruit.  Have  the  fruit  well  floured — this  flour 
not  included  in  the  quantity  given.  When  adding  fruit, 
put  in  one  handful  of  raisins,  then  currants,  citron,  and 
other  fruit,  until  all  are  used.  Add  wine  and  whisky  last. 
Dimensions  of  pan  for  the  cake:  Five  inches  deep,  thirty 
inches  in  circumference  at  the  bottom,  and  thirty-seven  inch- 
es in  circumference  at  the  top.  This  is  a  beautifully  shaped 
and  delicious  cake.  Mbs.  Robertson. 

CONFECTIONER'S  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Take  ten  pounds  of  butter,  ten  pounds  of  white  sugar 
creamed  together,  add  eighty  eggs,  ten  pounds  of  sifted  flour, 
twenty  pounds  of  currants,  twenty  pounds  of  raisins,  two 
pounds  of  citron,  one  pound  of  candied  orange  peel,  three 
ounces  of  allspice,  two  ounces  of  ginger,  three  ounces  of 
ground  cloves,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg,  one  pint 
of  molasses  with  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  soda  stirred  in. 
Mix  the  same  as  the  Black  Cake.  Always  paper  the  molds 
on  the  side  and  bottom.  F.  H.  Traxel. 

RAISIN  CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
three-fourths  pound  of  butter,  whites  of  fifteen  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder  sifted  with  the  flour.  Prepare 
one  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  cut  them  fine,  then  sift  with 
flour  before  mixing  with  the  batter.      Mrs.  J.  W.  Power. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cup- 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


267 


fuls  of  flour,  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  table-spoonful  of 
baking-powder,  two  pounds  of  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine, 
one-fourth  pound  of  citron,  one  nutmeg,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
cinnamon,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  a  little  ground  mace. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  molasses, 
eggs,  milk,  and  flour.  Beat  well  together,  then  stir  in  the 
fruit  and  spices.    Bake  for  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Morris. 

CINCINNATI  CAKE. 
Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  or  coffee  over  one  pound 
of  fat  salt  pork  chopped  fine  and  free  from  lean  and  rind. 
Let  it  stand  until  nearly  cold,  then  add  two  cupfuls  of  brown 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  seven  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour, 
two  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  one-fourth  pound  of  citron, 
one-half  glassful  of  brandy,  three  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  one  table-spoonful  of  cloves,  one  grated  nutmeg, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  cinnamon.  Bake  slowly  for  two  and 
one-half  hours.  Better  when  three  weeks  old.  Use  the 
same  sized  cup  for  measuring  all  the  ingredients. 

Miss  Mamie  Turner,  Mt.  Sterling. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  the  whites  of  four- 
teen eggs,  three-fourths  pound  of  butter  after  salt  is  washed 
out,  one  pound  of  sifted  flour.  After  whipping  the  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  beat  in  half  of  the  sugar,  cream  the  other  half 
of  the  sugar  and  butter  together;  beat  the  flour  in  with  the 
sugar  and  butter,  then  add  the  sugar  and  eggs.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  or  lemon.  Bake  from  one  to  one  and  one- 
fourth  hour,  in  a  moderate  oven.         Mrs.  Brutus  Clay. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 
Take  one  pint  of  butter  with  salt  washed  out,  two  pints 
of  powdered  sugar,  three  and  one-half  pints  of  sifted  iiour, 
one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  two  tea- 


268  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Boo!:. 


spoonfuls  of  Royal  baking-powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or 
a  few  drops  of  bitter  almonds.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
together  until  very  light,  then  pour  in  the  milk  and  flour, 
and  beat  well.  Sprinkle  the  baking-powder  over  the  beaten 
whites,  and  stir  lightly  through  the  batter.  Bake  for  one 
and  one-half  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  turn 
out  on  a  clean  towel  to  cool.  ^[iss  Lottie  AVood. 

LADY  CAKE. 

Two  pounds  of  butter  with  the  salt  washed  out,  two  and 
one-half  pounds  of  powdered  sugar,  the  whites  of  twelve 
eggs  beaten  very  light,  adding  a  portion  of  the  eggs  at  a 
time  until  all  are  added.  Mix  in  two  and  one-half  pounds 
of  flour  lightly,  two  ounces  of  bitter  almonds  rubbed  very 
fine  or  three  drops  of  almond  oil.  Fill  the  mold,  and  bake 
for  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  is  called  Lady's 
Wedding  Cake.  If  made  according  to  directions,  it  will  be 
excellent.  F.  H.  Traxel. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  the  whites  of  seven  eggs, 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  Royal  baking-powder,  one  pound  each 
of  figs,  dates  with  the  seeds  taken  out  and  chopped  fine,  and 
blanched  almonds,  one-fourth  pound  of  citron  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Sift  flour  over  the  fruit.  After  the  cake  is  mixed, 
put  the  fruit  iu.  This  makes  a  large  cake,  and  it  should  be 
baked  slowly  about  two  and  one-half  hours. 

Xew  York  Bazar. 

SNOW  CAKE. 

Take  the  whites  of  ten  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cupful  of 
powdered  sugar,  one  cupful  of  flour,  a  small  tea-spoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  sift  the  sugar  on  them,  mix  the  cream 
of  tartar  through  the  flour,  then  the  soda.  Stir  the  flour, 
sugar,  and  eggs  lightly  together.  Gr.  W.  Geisel. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh.  269 


DELICATE  CAKE. 

Take  the  whites  of  fourteen  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  but- 
ter after  the  salt  is  washed  out,  even  three-fourths  pound  of 
flour,  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  bak- 
ing-powder sifted  through  the  flour.  Cream  the  butter  un- 
til light,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  them  well  together.  Add 
the  whites  of  eggs  and  flour  alternately,  having  previously 
beaten  the  eggs  till  stiff.  Flavor  with  two  or  three  drops 
of  bitter  almonds.  Grease  the  pan  and  have  greased  paper 
in  the  bottom — light  brown  paper  is  the  best.  Set  it  in  an 
oven  in  which  you  can  bear  your  hand,  to  rise  for  one  hour, 
then  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Nannie  Yeaman. 

PERFECTION  CAKE. 
Take  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter  with 
the  salt  washed  out,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupfuls 
of  sifted  flour,  one  cupful  of  corn  starch,  the  whites  of 
twelve  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing-powder. Dissolve  the  com  starch  in  half  of  the  milk, 
cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well  together,  then  the  milk  and 
flour,  last  the  eggs  and  baking-powder.  Bake  for  one  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Keith. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Take  the  whites  of  twenty-four  eggs,  beat  five  cupfuls  of 
powdered  sugar  into  them  after  they  are  frothed,  cream  two 
cupfuls  of  butter  and  six  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  together, 
then  add  the  sugar  and  eggs,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder.    Flavor  to  taste.  Mrs.  H.  Bierbower. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  pound  of 
butter  with  the  salt  washed  out,  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  flour,  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs.    Cream  the  butter  and 


270 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  CooJ:  Book. 


one  half  of  the  sugar  together,  beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  beat  in  the  other  half  pound  of  sugar.  Add  the  flour 
and  beaten  eggs  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  with  one  wine- 
glassful  of  whisky  stirred  in  at  the  last. 

Mrs.  America  Howe. 

SPONGE-CAKE. 

Dry  the  flour  near  the  fire  or  in  the  sun.  Let  it  get  cool 
before  using.  Take  twelye  eggs  beaten  separately,  one 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  three-fourths  pound  of  flour,  one 
lemon.  Take  two  yelks  out,  gradually  add  the  sugar,  grate 
the  rind  of  the  lemon,  add  the  juice  to  the  yelks,  stir  in  the 
flour  a  little  at  a  time.  Mix  the  whites  of  the  eggs  lightly 
through,  and  add  the  last  thing  one -half  tea -spoonful  of 
baking-powder.  Grease  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oyen.  Bazar. 
SPONGE-CAKE. 

Take  three  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  three 
cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one 
lemon — juice  and  grated  rind.  Beat  the  eggs  separately, 
add  the  sugar  to  the  yelks,  then  the  flour,  lastly  the  whites 
of  the  eggs. 

SPONGE-CAKE. 

Take  six  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  cold 
water,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  heaping 
tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  but- 
ter with  salt  washed  out,  two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar. 
Stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  baking-powder  last. 

Mrs.  A.  Wadsworth. 

CREAM  SPONGE-CAKE. 

Beat  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  very  light,  pour  oyer  them  one 
cupful  of  rich  cream ;  add  one  tea-cupful  of  powdered  sugar, 
one  and  one-half  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  one  heaping  tea- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool  Booh.  271 


spoonful  of  baking-powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Flavor 
with  vanilla.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  a  flat  pan. 

Mbs.  C.  Carroll. 

SPONGE-CAKE. 

Beat  four  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour 
with  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder  sifted  in,  then  add 
a  little  lemon  juice  and  two-thirds  cupful  of  boiling  water. 
Beat  well,  and  bake,  and  you  will  have  as  fine  a  cake  as 
ever  was  eaten. 

SPONGE-CAKE. 

Take  twelve  eggs,  two  gobletfuls  of  white  sugar,  two  heap- 
ing gobletfuls  of  sifted  flour,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon,  one  tea-cupful  of  cold  water.  Beat  the  eggs  separately, 
then  stir  the  sugar  and  yelks  together,  add  the  water,  lemon, 
and  flour,  lastly  the  whites,  which  should  be  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven.        M.  Belle  Coxxer. 

WHITE  SPONGE-CAKE. 
Take  the  whites  of  twenty-four  eggs,  four  gobletfuls  of 
powdered  sugar,  three  gobletfuls  of  sifted  flour,  five  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  mixed  through  the  flour.  Stir 
the  sugar  through  the  flour,  then  add  the  eggs  which  have 
been  previously  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Reynolds, 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  butter  with  the  salt  washed  out,  two 
cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  three  and  one-fourth  cupfuls  of 
flour,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs  (leaving  out  the 
whites  of  three).  Grate  the  rind  of  two  large  oranges  into 
the  mixture  with  part  of  the  juice.  Strain  the  remainder 
of  the  juice  into  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  into  the  sugar 
and  orange  juice.  Bake  the  cakes  in  jelly-pans,  and  place 
the  icing  between. 


272 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


MARBLE  CAKE. 

White  Part. — Take  one  coffee-cupful  of  butter  with  the 
salt  washed  out,  three  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  five  cupfuls 
of  sifted  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  eight 
eggs,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  Royal  baking-powder.  Cream 
the  butter  and  eggs  together,  then  add  the  milk  and  flour, 
and  last  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  baking-powder. 

Dark  Part. — Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of 
brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
soda,  four  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  and  the  yelks  of  eight  eggs 
beaten  very  light;  ground  spices  of  all  sorts,  each  a  table- 
spoonful. 

Put  into  the  pan,  in  alternate  layers,  white,  then  dark. 
Bake  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

White  Part.— Take  the  whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cup- 
fuls of  powdered  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter  with  the  salt 
washed  out,  one  cupful  of  sour  cream,  four  cupfuls  of  sifted 
flour,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  cream,  and 
one  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder  sifted  through  the  flour. 

Dark  Part. — Take  the  yelks  of  seven  eggs,  two  cupfuls 
of  brown  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  molasses,  one 
cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sour  cream,  half  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  soda  dissolved  in  the  cream,  four  cupfuls  of  sifted 
flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder  sifted  into  the  flour, 
one  table-spoonful  of  allspice,  two  of  cinnamon,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves. 

Put  it  into  a  large  cake-pan  in  layers — first  white,  then 
dark.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Miss  Phcebe  Wood. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

White  Part. — Take  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  half  a  cup- 
ful of  butter  with  the  salt  washed  out,  half  a  cupful  of  sweet 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


273 


milk,  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  oue  cupful  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder. 

Dark  Part. — Take  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  beaten  very 
light,  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  brown  su- 
gar, one  grated  nutmeg,  one  table-spoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  allspice,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking- 
powder,  and  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  sifted  flour. 

Grease  the  pan,  and  put  into  it  alternate  layers  of  white 
and  dark.    Bake  one  hour. 

WHITE  SPONGE-CAKE  (ANGELS'  FOOD). 

Take  one  gobletful  of  sifted  flour,  one  gobletful  and  a 
half  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Sift  the  flour  four  times,  and  put  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Eoyal  baking-powder  while  sifting  the  last  time. 
Sift  the  sugar,  and  add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla.  The 
pan  in  which  it  is  baked  must  be  free  from  grease.  Bake 
forty  minutes.  Miss  Mary  Woemald. 

ICE-CREAM  CAKE. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  fresh  butter  with  the  salt  washed 
out,  two  tea-cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  two  tea-cupfuls  of 
sifted  flour,  one  tea-cupful  of  corn  starch,  one  tea-cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls 
of  Boyal  baking-powder.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether, add  a  little  milk  at  a  time,  then  the  whites  and  flour 
alternately.  Have  the  baking-powder  stirred  well  through 
the  flour,  then  put  the  flour  and  corn  starch  together.  Beat 
the  batter  well,  then  add  the  flour  lightly.  This  will  make 
four  cakes. 

To  make  icing  for  the  cake,  take  three  cupfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  pour  the  boil- 
ing water  on  the  sugar,  and  cook  it  until  it  candies ;  then 
pour  it  over  the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.    Beat  it 
18 


274 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


hard  until  nearly  cold,  and  add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  citric 
acid  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  vanilla.  Spread  it  between 
the  cakes,  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

ICE-CREAM  CAKE. 

Take  three  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  two  cupfuls  of  powdered 
sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  butter  with  the  salt  washed  out,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs.  Cream 
the  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  milk  and  flour, 
and  beat  well.  Lastly  put  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
some  baking-powder. 

To  make  icing  for  the  cake,  take  two  tea-cupfuls  of  sugar, 
and  pour  over  them  two  table-spoonfuls  of  boiling  water; 
boil  it  until  it  candies,  pour  it  over  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
and  beat  until  cool.    Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Mrs.  Andrews. 

ICE-CREAM  CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar,  one  cup- 
ful and  a  half  of  sifted  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  butter  with 
the  salt  wTashed  out,  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk  with  half 
a  cupful  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  it,  the  wyhites  of  six  eggs, 
and  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  milk,  corn  starch,  and 
flour.  Beat  well,  and  put  the  eggs  and  baking-powder  in 
last.  Stir  them  lightly  through.  This  cake  can  be  baked 
in  a  large  pan  or  as  a  layer-cake  with  icing  between. 

Miss  Alice  Ficklin. 

WHITE  CUP-CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  butter  and  two  cupfuls  of  powdered 
sugar  creamed  together,  three  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  the 
whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  oue  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  To  be  baked 
in  jelly-cake  tins.  Mrs.  Miller. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Bool:  275 


JELLY  CAKE. 

Take  five  eggs,  three  tea-cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  three- 
fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three- 
fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  one  heaping  tea-spoon- 
ful of  Royal  baking-powder.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
together,  pour  in  the  milk,  then  add  the  flour,  and  beat  well. 
Lastly,  add  the  wrhites  of  the  eggs  and  baking-powder.  This 
makes  four  cakes.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

JAM  CAKE. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one 
cupful  and  a  half  of  butter,  six  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  jam, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  nutmeg  grated,  one  ounce  of 
allspice,  and  one  ounce  of  cinnamon.  Bake  in  shallow  tins. 
When  cool,  put  icing  between  and  on  top. 

Mrs.  Adna  Wadsworth. 

JELLY  ROLLS. 

Take  three  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  sifted  flour,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking-pow- 
der. Mix  and  bake  in  thin  cakes.  Spread  with  jelly,  roll 
up  with  the  jelly  side  in,  and  cut  into  slices  across  the  roll. 
Eat  with  warm  sauce  or  butter  and  sugar  creamed  together. 
Flavor  with  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Grate  one-half  cake  of  baker's  chocolate,  and  mix  it  with 
half  a  cup  of  milk ;  add  the  yelk'  of  one  egg,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla.  Boil  until  dissolved. 
Let  this  cool. 

To  make  cake  for  the  same,  take  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
half  a  cupful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  two  cupfuls 
of  flour,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  and  two  eggs. 
Add  to  the  batter  the  boiled  chocolate.  Bake  in  jelly-cake 
pans,  and  put  icing  between. 


276 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


ALMOND  CUSTARD  CAKE. 

Heat  one  cupful  of  sour  cream  to  the  boiling  point,  stir 
into  it  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  corn  starch  beaten  smooth  in  a 
little  water,  the  yelks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  one 
cupful  of  powdered  sugar.  After  taking  from  the  stove, 
add  one  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  rolled,  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  beaten  lightly,  and  vanilla  to  taste.  To  blanch 
the  almonds,  throw  them  into  boiling  water  a  few  moments, 
and  the  dark  skins  can  be  peeled  off. 

For  the  cake  part,  take  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  but- 
ter, two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  sifted 
flour,  one  cupful  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  Koyal  baking-powder,  and 
the  whites  of  six  eggs.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans,  and  put  the 
custard  between  the  layers.  Mrs.  G.  Hunter. 

WHITE   MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  flour,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  water,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder.  Bake  in 
jelly-cake  pans,  with  icing  and  cocoa-nut  between. 

Mrs.  Keith. 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  three  cupfuls  of 
flour,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  two  or  three  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking- 
powder.    To  be  baked  as  a  jelly  cake.         Mrs.  Holtox. 

MINNEHAHA  CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of 
butter  stirred  to  a  cream,  the  whites  of  six  eggs  or  three 
whole  eggs,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  two  heap- 
ing cupfuls  of  flour,  and  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Bake 
in  three  layers.  For  filling,  take  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar 
and  a  little  water  boiled  together  until  brittle.   Stir  quickly 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  277 


into  the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs ;  add  to  this  one 
cupful  of  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine,  and  put  between  the 
cakes.    Put  plain  icing  on  the  top  layer. 

SILVER  CAKE. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of 
butter,  four  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  and  one  tea-spoonful 
of  Royal  baking-powder.  Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  add  the  whites  and  baking-powder  last,  stirring  them 
lightly  through.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Can  be  baked  in  a 
large  pan  or  as  a  jelly  cake. 

GOLD  CAKE. 
Take  the  yelks  of  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  powdered 
sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupfuls 
of  sifted  flour,  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  and  one 
tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder.  Beat  the  yelks  very  light, 
cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  eggs,  then  the 
milk  and  flour.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Can  be 
baked  as  a  jelly  cake  or  in  a  square  pan. 

FIG  CAKE. 

Fig  cake  can  be  made  by  using  either  one  of  the  Delicate 
Cake  receipts.  Cut  the  figs  into  small  pieces,  sprinkle  them 
well  with  flour,  have  a  mold  greased  and  lined  with  paper  in 
the  bottom.  Put  first  a  layer  of  batter  then  a  layer  of  figs, 
and  so  on,  having  the  top  layer  of  batter. 

COCOA-NUT  CAKE. 

Take  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cupful 
of  powdered  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two 
cupfuls  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  tea-spoonful 
of  baking-powder.  Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  together, 
when  smooth  and  creamy,  add  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  and 
beat  well.   Stir  in  the  flour,  then  the  whites  of  the  e^s  anc[ 


278 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


baking-powder.  Beat  lightly,  and  pour  into  three  medium- 
sized  cake-tins.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Spread  each 
layer  with  icing,  and  sprinkle  grated  cocoa-nut  very  thickly 
oyer  it.  Mrs.  L.  W.  Galbraith. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  of  sweet,  milk,  three  level  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  and  one-half  cupfuls 
of  flour.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  (beating  well), 
then  the  milk,  and  lastly  the  flour  and  eggs  alternately. 
This  is  nice  baked  in  one  large  cake  or  baked  in  two  cakes 
and  an  icing  of  chocolate  and  raisins  put  between  them. 
Cut  into  squares,  aud  put  in  a  cake-basket. 

'Mrs.  Waller  Allen. 

ROBERT  E.  LEE  CAKE. 

Make  a  batter  the  same  as  for  jelly  cake.  Squeeze  the 
juice  from  three  lemons  and  one  orange,  take  all  the  seeds 
out  of  the  juice  and  pour  over  one  pound  of  white  sugar; 
stir  until  dissolved;  grate  one  cocoa-nut;  bake  in  jelly-cake 
tins,  and  as  each  one  is  baked,  spread  on  a  layer  of  the 
orange  juice,  then  sprinkle  cocoa-nut  over  them,  drop  some 
of  the  juice  over  the  cocoa-nut,  then  place  another  layer  of 
cake,  and  so  on  until  all  the  cakes  are  used.  Spread  icing 
or  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  on  the  top  layer.  This  cake  is 
delicious.  Mrs.  Keith. 

VARIEGATED  CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of 
butter,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  four 
eggs,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
together,  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour  and  the  whites  of  eggs 
alternately.  Mix  the  baking-powder  with  a  little  flour,  and 
stir  it  in  the  last  thing,  as  much  beating  after  adding  the 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  279 


baking-powder  makes  a  cake  dry  and  porous.  Flavor  with 
a  few  drops  of  bitter  almonds.  Divide  the  batter  into  three 
parts ;  put  a  few  drops  of  spinach  coloring  into  one  portion 
of  the  batter  (directions  for  making  will  be  found  in  Mis- 
cellaneous Department),  color  another  portion  with  cochi- 
neal or  fruit  coloring,  and  leave  the  third  part  white.  Bake 
in  jelly-cake  pans,  aud  use  either  of  the  icings  between. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Tabb. 

NEAPOLITAN  CAKE. 

Dark  Part. — Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of 
brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  strong  cold  coffee,  four  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  flour,  four  eggs,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  soda 
well  sifted  with  the  flour,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  powdered 
cloves,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
powdered  mace,  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  one-half  pound 
of  chopped  figs,  one-half  pound  of  well-washed  currants. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans. 

White  Part. — Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  four  cupfuls 
of  flour,  four  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  sweet 
milk,  two  cupfuls  of  corn  starch,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs, 
.three  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Flavor  with  three 
drops  of  bitter  almond.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans.  Grate 
the  peel  and  squeeze  the  juice  from  two  lemons;  add  enough 
powdered  sugar  to  stiffen  the  juice,  spread  it  between  the 
cakes,  using  alternately  a  white  and  a  dark  cake.  Frost 
the  top  and  sides  of  the  cake  with  lemon  icing. 

DOLLY  VARDEN  CAKE. 

Cream  one  cupful  of  butter  and  two  cupfuls  of  powdered 
sugar  together,  then  add  the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  three  cup- 
fuls of  flour,  and  three-fourths  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Beat 
the  batter  well,  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  baking- 
powder.  To  not  quite  half  the  batter  add  one  cupful  of 
raisins  which  have  been  seeded  and  chopped  fine,  and  one 


280 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh, 


table-spoonful  of  mixed  spices.  This  will  make  four  cakes, 
two  with  raisins  aud  two  plain.  Boil  a  large  tea-cupful  of 
sugar  until  it  candies,  pour  over  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  flavor  with  vanilla;  ])ut  between  the 
cakes,  and  ice  the  top  layer. 

RIBBON  CAKE. 

Use  either  of  the  White  Cake  receipts,  and  take  one  pint 
of  the  batter  and  color  it  pink  with  Price's  cake  coloring. 
Put  a  layer  of  w7hite  in  the  bottom  of  the  mold,  then  a  layer 
of  pink,  and  the  top  layer  of  white.  Flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla.    Bake  in  a  diamond-shaped  mold. 

POUND-CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
one  pound  of  sifted  flour,  twelve  eggs,  leaving  out  the  yelks 
of  two.  Cream  the  flour  and  butter  together  with  the  hand ; 
beat  the  yelks  and  sugar  together  until  very  light;  add 
these  to  the  flour  and  butter;  stir  well  together,  lastly  add- 
ing the  whites  of  the  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Flavor,  put  into  a  well-greased  pan,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour.       Mrs.  M.  F.  Adamsox. 

NUT  CAKE. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three 
cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs 
beaten  separately,  one  tea-spoonful  of  Royal  baking-powder. 
After  the  cake  is  mixed,  roll  two  cupfuls  of  hickory-nut 
kernels  and  stir  through  the  batter.  Bake  for  one  hour  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

WATER  MELON  CAKE. 

White  Part. — Take  two  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  one- 
half  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  water  or  sweet  milk, 
the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  and  three  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour. 

Bed  Part. — Take  one-half  pound  of  red  sugar,  one-half 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  281 


cupful  of  water  or  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  two 
cupfuls  of  flour,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder  in 
each  part.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the 
milk,  then  the  flour,  lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs  which 
have  been  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the  baking-powder. 
Put  half  the  white  part  in  the  pan,  then  all  the  red,  with  a 
few  seeded  raisins  sprinkled  in  to  give  the  appearance  of 
seed,  then  the  remainder  of  the  white  part  on  top.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  one  hour. 

Mrs.  William  Davis. 
MADELINE  CAKE. 
Take  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  and 
one-fourth  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  twelve  eggs,  three 
pounds  of  citron  chopped  fine,  two  pounds  of  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped  fine,  two  cocoa-nuts  grated,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  mace, 
two  grated  nutmegs,  one  wine-glassful  of  wine,  one  wine- 
glassful  of  brandy.  Mix  as  fruit  cake.  Bake  slowly  for 
two  hours.  Mrs.  E.  P.  Johnson. 

COCOA-NUT  CAKE. 
Take  two  cupfuls  of  grated  cocoa-nut,  one  cupful  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  eggs,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
baking-powder.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  add  the  yelks,  then  the  milk,  flour,  and  whites 
alternately,  lastly  the  cocoa-nut  stirred  in  lightly.  Bake  in 
a  slow  oven. 

POUND-CAKE. 

Take  two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar,  two  pounds  of  butter, 
two  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  twenty  eggs.  Beat  the  whites 
and  yelks  separately,  then  beat  them  together.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  flour  alternately 
with  the  eggs;  add  one  wine-glassful  of  whisky  and  one  ta- 


282 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh 


ble-spoonful  of  rose-water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
one  hour  and  three-quarters.  Mrs.  E.  S.  Andrews. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

Take  two  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  one  pound  of  washed 
currants,  two  cupfuls  of  butter,  seven  cupfuls  of  flour,  six 
eggs  beaten  separately,  four  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  two  cup- 
fuls of  coffee  prepared  as  for  table  use,  one  package  of  cin- 
namon and  allspice,  one  ground  nutmeg,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  soda.  Mix  and  bake  in  a  large  pan  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  two  hours.  Mrs.  H.  Bierbower. 

YELLOW  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Take  three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
five  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two 
tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  mashed  and  mixed  Avell  to- 
gether. Stir  thoroughly  through  the  flour,  cream  butter, 
sugar,  and  yelks  well  together,  add  the  milk  and  flour,  beat 
well,  then  stir  the  whites  through  lightly.  Bake  in  jelly- 
cake  tins.  Filling:  Take  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth,  three  cupfuls  of  sugar  stirred  well  into  the 
whites,  with  a  pinch  of  tartaric  acid.  Spread  this  between 
the  cakes.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

Take  the  whites  of  twenty-four  eggs,  two  pints  of  white 
sugar,  one  and  one-fourth  pint  of  butter,  four  pints  of  flour 
with  one  table-spoonful  of  flour  taken  out  of  each  pint,  one 
level  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder  in  each  pint  of  flour. 
Sift  the  flour  several  times ;  add  one  table-spoonful  of  cin- 
namon, one  table-sj)oonful  of  allspice,  one  grated  nutmeg. 
Mix  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  work  until  very  light,  then 
add  the  flour  and  whites  last,  Take  one  pint  of  the  batter, 
stir  in  the  above  spices,  have  the  mold  greased  and  lined, 
put  into  the  pint  which  is  spiced  three  table-spoonfuls  of  cold 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


283 


water,  stir  well,  and  drop  this  in  with  the  white  batter,  and 
you  have  a  delicious  cake.  Mrs.  George  Hamilton. 

SPICE  CAKE. 
Take  four  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  three  cupfuls  of 
flour,  one-half  of  a  grated  nutmeg.  Divide  the  batter  in 
half,  and  bake  two  cakes;  to  the  other  half  add  one  tea- 
spoouful  of  allspice,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon.  Bake  as  the  other  half  in  layers. 
Lay  one  of  each  color  with  jelly  between. 

Miss  Jennie  McCuleah. 

ELLIS  CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  three 
eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  bak- 
ing-powder, two  and  one-half  cupfuls  flour.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.    To  be  baked  in  muffin-rings. 

SEED  CAKE. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pint  of  flour,  one  large  cupful  of 
sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  wine-glassful 
of  water,  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder, "  and  a  large 
tea-spoonful  of  caraway-seed.  Mix  as  you  would  for  cup 
cake. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

Take  six  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  of  flour, 
one  cupful  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one 
table-spoonful  of  ginger,  one  table-spoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  table-spoonful  of  cloves,  one  table-spoonful  of  allspice, 
one  grated  nutmeg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  cream  of  tartar. 

HERD  CAKE. 

Take  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cupful  of  butter 
and  two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar  creamed  together,  one-half 
cupful  of  molasses,  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sour 


284 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cloves, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tea-spoonful  of  allspice, 
one  grated  nutmeg,  one  pint  of  currants  or  raisins.  Sprinkle 
flour  over  the  fruit  to  prevent  sinking  to  the  bottom  of  the 
cake.  Mrs.  H.  Bierbower. 

SOFT  GINGER-BREAD. 
Take  two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  molasses, 
two  cupfuls  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  six  cupfuls  of 
flour,  five  eggs,  one  small  tea-cupful  of  ground  ginger,  one 
table-spoonful  of  ground  cloves  and  allspice,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  without  sepa- 
rating them,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  molasses,  next  the  flour, 
then  the  milk,  soda,  and  spices.  Melt  the  butter  and  put  in 
last.  Grease  the  pan  used  for  bread,  pour  in  the  batter,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Grandma  Kogers. 

HARD  GINGER-SNAPS. 

Take  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard,  and 
one  table-spoonful  of  ginger  boiled  together.  When  taking 
it  off  the  stove,  stir  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Use  flour 
enough  to  roll  thin.  Do  not  put  the  flour  in  until  the  mo- 
lasses gets  cool.  Louie  Brewer. 
GINGER-NUTS. 

Take  one  quart  of  molasses,  three  pints  of  flour,  one  pint 
corn  meal  one  pound  of  butter,  one-half  pound  of  brown  su- 
gar, one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  tea-spoonful  each  of  cloves  and 
cinnamon,  two  ounces  of  ginger.  Put  the  molasses  in  a  cup, 
then  add  butter  and  sugar.  Set  the  cup  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
■water  until  all  is  dissolved.  Mix  spices  with  the  flour  and 
meal,  afterward  knead  all  together,  and  cut  into  small  cakes. 
Bake  one-quarter  of  an  hour. 

SOFT  GINGER-BREAD. 

Take  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cup- 
ful of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


285 


sour  cream,  four  eggs  beaten  separately.  Cream  the  butter, 
sugar,  and  molasses  together,  add  the  eggs  and  flour,  then 
the  cream,  one  tea-spoonful  each  of  ground  cloves,  cinna- 
mon, nutmeg,  and  ginger,  two  cupfuls  or  more  of  fruit,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  stirred  into  the  molasses.  Add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  last,  stirring  them  lightly  through. 

Mrs.  Fleming. 

HARD  GINGER-CAKE. 

Take  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
soda,  beat  them  together,  add  one  large  table-spoonful  of 
lard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  ginger  to  taste,  flour  to  make  stiff. 
Roll  not  too  thin,  and  bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  II.  Bierbower. 

GINGER  POUND-CAKE. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two 
cupfuls  of  molasses,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ginger,  one  and 
one-half  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  warm  molas- 
ses, one  table-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  one  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  six 
eggs,  six  cupfuls  of  flour.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream;  eggs  beaten  separately.  Add  molasses,  flour,  and 
spices,  and  beat  well  together  for  a  few  minutes.  Bake  in 
a  large  cake-mold  in  a  moderate  oven.        Mrs.  Bridges. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cup- 
ful of  butter,  one  cupful  of  lukewarm  coffee,  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  soda  dissolved  in  the  molasses,  one  table-spoonful  each 
of  allspice,  nutmeg,  and  cloves.  Add  plenty  of  currants, 
and  make  stiff  with  flour. 

GINGER  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Take  three  and  one-half  pints  of  flour;  beat  together  one 
pint  of  butter,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk, 


286 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


one  pint  of  molasses  with  a  little  of  the  flour.  Beat  five 
eggs  separately,  put  in  the  yelks,  adding  more  flour,  one  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  ginger,  one  table-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 
table-spoonful  of  cloves,  two  pints  of  seeded  raisins,  one  pint 
of  cut  citron,  one  pound  of  sweet  almonds  rolled,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder — or  if  sour  milk  is  used,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk.  Add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  last  with  the  rest  of  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
for  three  hours.  Set  a  pan  of  water  over  the  cake,  to  pre- 
vent it  from  burning. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  of  flour,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  molasses,  six  eggs. 
Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  mix  butter  and  sugar, 
then  add  eggs  and  flour  to  that,  then  the  molasses,  a  large 
spoonful  of  ginger,  and  two  tea -spoonfuls  baking-powder. 

SPONGE  GINGER-BREAD. 

Take  five  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  heaping  table-spoonful  of 
butter,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved 
in  hot  water,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  ground  ginger,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon.  Mix  the  molasses,  sugar,  and  but- 
ter together,  beat  until  they  are  lighter  in  color  by  many 
degrees  than  at  first,  add  milk,  soda,  and  spices,  mix  all 
well,  and  put  in  the  flour.  Beat  very  hard  for  five  minutes, 
and  bake  in  pie-pans  in  a  moderate  oven.      Mrs.  Stacys. 

GINGER-BREAD. 

Take  three  eggs,  two  pints  of  molasses,  one-half  pint  of 
butter,  one  table-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water.  Add  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter,  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  ground  ginger.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Keith. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


287 


SOFT  GINGER-BREAD  (EGGLESS). 
Take  one  tea-cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  brown  su- 
gar, one  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea-cupful  of 
warm  water,  five  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  level  tea-spoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  the  wrater,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cinnamon, 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  ginger.  Set  molasses,  sugar,  and  butter 
on  back  of  stove  to  warm,  and  beat  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
Add  water  and  soda,  then  spices  and  flour.  Beat  till  very 
light,  and  bake  in  a  long  stove-pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 

ALMOND  MACAROONS. 

Take  one  pound  of  blanched  almonds  beaten  to  a  paste 
in  a  mortar,  one  and  one-half  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
the  whites  of  seven  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  To  blanch 
the  almonds,  put  them  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes; 
the  dark  skin  can  then  be  peeled  off  easily.  Line  a  bak- 
ing-pan with  buttered  paper.  Double  a  piece  of  white  paper 
in  the  form  of  a  funnel  and  fill  it  with  batter.  Drop  upon 
the  buttered  paper  about  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  at  such 
distances  apart  as  shall  prevent  their  running  together.  Try 
the  mixture  first  —  if  the  macaroons  run  into  irregular 
shapes,  beat  in  more  sugar.  Flavor  with  a  little  grated 
nutmeg. 

MACAROON  CAKES. 

Take  two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  rub  into  it  three-fourths 
pound  of  butter,  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  then  whipped 
together,  one  and  one-half  pint  of  sugar,  one  table-spoonful 
of  cream,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar,  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  bitter  almond. 
Sprinkle  some  sugar  on  the  board,  pinch  off  a  small  piece  of 
dough,  with  the  hand  roll  on  the  board  then  into  the  sugar, 
double  together  in  the  form  of  a  ring,  and  lay  in  well-but- 
tered pans  to  bake  in  a  quick  oven.        Mrs.  Annie  Lee. 


288  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Bool: 


JUMBLES. 

Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  five  cup- 
fuls  of  flour,  two  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
one-half  cupful  of  sour  cream  or  buttermilk.  Roll  arid  cut 
with  a  cake-cutter.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  Beereower. 
NAPLES  CAKE. 

Take  one -half  pound  of  flour,  six  ounces  of  butter, 
two  ounces  of  white  sugar,  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds 
finely  pounded.  Rub  all  well  together,  and  mix  with  one 
egg.  Put  it  in  a  cool  place  to  harden,  then  roll  it  out  to  a 
thin  paste  and  cut  it  with  an  oval  mold,  then  bake  the 
pieces  in  an  oven.  While  warm,  place  jelly  between  layers 
of  the  paste.  Ice  over  the  top  of  each  one  with  the  whites 
of  eggs  and  powdered  sugar  flavored  with  a  few  drops  of 
bitter  almonds. 

JUMBLES. 

Take  three  eggs  beaten  separately,  then  whipped  togeth- 
er, one  pint  of  white  sugar,  one  pint  of  butter  or  lard,  two 
tea-spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one  gill  of  sweet  milk  (or 
soda  and  sour  milk),  one  grated  nutmeg,  flour  enough  to 
make  it  roll.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

JUMBLES. 

Take  five  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  white  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  the  milk,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard, 
one  nutmeg.  Make  into  a  soft  dough,  roll  thin,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

RICH  JUMBLES. 

Take  two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three- 
fourths  cupful  of  butter,  four  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one- 
half  cupful  of  cream,  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder. 
Flavor  with  a  little  nutmeg  and  a  few  drops  of  bitter  al- 
monds. Mrs.  J.  H.  Kobixsox. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  289 


SAND  TARTS. 

Take  one  and  one-half  pint  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  pint 
of  butter,  two  eggs,  enough  flour  to  roll,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  vanilla.  Roll  out  thin,  and  cut  into  squares.  Beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  In  the  center  of  each 
cake  put  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  the  white  of  egg,  a  little 
sugar,  a  blanched  almond,  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Bake 
quickly  to  a  light  brown. 

CHOCOLATE  JUMBLES. 

Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three 
cupfuls  of  flour,  two  cupfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar.  Mix 
the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  through  the  flour;  cream  the 
butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  beaten  yelks,  then  the 
well-whipped  whites  and  flour  alternately,  stirring  the  choc- 
olate in  lightly  the  last  thing.  Roll  thin,  and  bake  in  rather 
a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  William  Davis. 

COCOA-NUT  TEA  CAKES. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  tea-cupful  of  butter,  seven 
eggs  beaten  separately,  two  grated  cocoa-nuts.  Roll  out, 
and  bake. 

GERMAN  TEA  CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound 
of  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  whisky,  two  raw  eggs,  ten 
hard-boiled  yelks  mashed  until  the  lumps  disappear,  then 
add  the  butter,  sugar,  whisky,  and  flour.  Roll  thin,  sprinkle 
sugar  over  the  dough,  cut  and  bake  quick.  A  little  more 
flour  may  be  needed,  but  the  dough  must  not  be  stiff. 

Mrs.  William  Massle. 
CRULLERS. 

Take  three  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
eight  eggs  beaten  separately,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one 
nutmeg.    Wash  the  salt  out  of  the  butter,  cream  it  and  the 

19 


200 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


sugar  together,  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  flour.  Fry  in  boil- 
iug  lard.    While  hot,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them. 

CRULLERS. 

Take  five  eggs,  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of 
butter,  one-half  of  a  nutmeg,  one-half  pint  of  sour  milk,  one- 
half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Roll,  cut 
out,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Miss  Sallie  Keckeey. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Take  three  eggs,  three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of 
buttermilk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one-half  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  spice  to  taste.  Melt  the  but- 
ter in  the  warm  sweet  milk,  work  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  but- 
termilk together,  then  add  enough  flour  to  make  the  dough 
about  as  stiff  as  soda  biscuit.  Fry  in  boiling  lard.  While 
the  cakes  are  hot,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them. 

Mrs.  H.  Bierbower. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Take  a  cake  of  dry  yeast  or  half  a  cake  of  quick  yeast, 
dissolve  it  in  a  little  milk-warm  water.  For  this  quantity 
of  yeast,  use  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  flour  and  enough 
warm  milk  to  make  a  sponge.  Set  it  to  rise.  When  light, 
use  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  beat  two  eggs  very 
light,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard, 
one-half  pound  of  white  sugar,  spice  to  taste.  Cut  or  roll 
into  cakes  to  suit  the  fancy.  Fry  in  boiling  lard.  When 
done,  sift  sugar  over  them.  Grandmother  Cox. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Rub  one  cupful  of  butter  and  two  cupfuls  of  white  sugar 
to  a  cream,  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  cupfuls  of  sweet 
milk,  and  one  cupful  of  yeast.  Mix  in  flour  enough  to  make 
a  dough  as  soft  as  you  can  handle.  Let  it  rise  overnight  in 
a  warm  place;  roll  the  dough  out  about  an  inch  thick,  cut 
into  small  cakes,  put  a  raisin  in  the  center  of  each  one  and 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


291 


press  it  in  the  dough.  Have  a  shallow  kettle  with  about 
three  pounds  of  lard,  put  it  over  the  fire  where  it  will  melt, 
then  set  it  forward,  and  when  boiling  hot  lay  in  the  cakes. 
In  about  ten  minutes  after  they  are  put  iu,  try  one  to  see  if 
it  is  done  through.  Drain  them  in  a  sieve,  and  then  roll 
them  in  powdered  sugar.  If  the  lard  gets  too  hot,  move 
back  to  a  cooler  spot  on  the  range.  Fry  them  to  a  light 
brown. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Take  one  pint  of  yeast  sponge,  one  pound  of  butter,  one 
quart  of  warm  milk,  five  eggs  beaten  very  light,  two  grated 
nutmegs,  one  and  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.  Take  the  yeast,  milk,  half  the  shorten- 
ing, half  the  sugar,  and  half  the  flour.  Mix  well  together. 
When  light,  add  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  flour,  eggs, 
and  nutmeg.  When  ready  to  fry,  knead  in  the  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  hot  water,  cut  the  cakes  out  and  let  them 
stand  before  frying.  When  done,  sift  powdered  sugar  over 
them. 

NICE  FRIED  CAKES. 

Take  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  egg,  one  cupful  of  white 
sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  ginger,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  knead  as  soft  as  you  can  roll ;  fry  in  boil- 
ing lard.    Use  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 


FILLING  FOR  CAKES. 


COCOA  ICING. 

Take  one  pound  of  white  sugar  and  boil  it  almost  to 
candy,  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  one 
grated  cocoa-nut.  Pour  the  candy  over  the  eggs  and  cocoa- 
nut  boiling  hot.  Beat  it  well,  and  spread  on  the  cake  as 
quick  as  possible. 

FRUIT  FILLING  FOR  CAKE. 

Make  an  icing  of  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  one  pound 
of  sugar.  If  the  eggs  are  beaten  first,  use  a  little  more  su- 
gar. Add  one  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  cut  cross- 
wise (weigh  them  after  they  are  blanched),  one  pound  of 
seeded  raisins  cut  fine,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron  cut 
into  small  pieces,  and  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  figs  cut  fine. 
Stir  all  into  the  icing.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  five 
jelly  cakes.  Mrs.  G.  Hunter. 

FRUIT  FILLING. 

Take  one  cupful  of  sugar  boiled  to  candy,  the  white  of  one 
egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  (pour  the  candy  over  the  egg  and 
beat  until  cool),  one  cupful  of  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine, 
one-half  cupful  of  blanched  almonds  chopped  fine,  one-half 
pound  of  candied  fruits,  and  one-fourth  pound  of  French 
candy  (pink)  chopped  fine.  Stir  all  the  fruit  and  candy 
into  the  icing  and  beat  well.  Mrs.  Chas.  C.  Dobyns. 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

Take  one  lemon  and  the  juice  of  one  orange,  one  large 
cupful  of  white  sugar,  and  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  beaten  very 
light.    Boil  the  same  as  lemon  jelly. 

(202) 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


293 


LEMON  JELLY. 

Take  one  lemon,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  one  egg.  Grate 
the  rind,  and  put  the  juice,  sugar,  and  egg  into  a  tin  cup; 
set  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  on  the  stove,  and  stir  until 
it  is  thick.    When  cool,  put  between  cakes. 

FILLING  FOR  CAKE. 

Whip  one  pint  of  cream,  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  then  beat  the  two  together;  add  one  cupful 
of  powdered  sugar  and  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  which  have 
been  well  beaten.  Flavor  to  taste.  Mix,  and  beat  half  an 
hour  very  hard.  To  be  eaten  just  after  being  made.  De- 
licious. Mrs.  George  Davis. 

ICING. 

Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  three  table -spoonfuls 
of  grated  chocolate ;  put  the  chocolate  into  a  cup  and  set  it 
in  hot  water  to  dissolve ;  then  add  the  chocolate  and  pow- 
dered sugar  to  the  whites  until  thick  enough  to  spread  on 
cake. 

LEMON  ICING. 

Take  two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar,  one  spoonful  of  fine 
starch,  five  cents'  wTorth  of  gum  arabic  in  powder,  five  eggs, 
one  spoonful  of  rose-water,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Take  the  whites  and  whisk  them  well,  and  put  into  them 
the  rose-water  and  lemon  juice;  beat  well  together;  then 
add  the  sugar  by  degrees.  Lay  it  on  the  cake  with  a  knife. 
If  it  does  not  harden  sufficiently  from  the  warmth  of  the 
cake,  return  it  to  the  oven.    Be  careful  not  to  let  it  brown. 

ALMOND  ICING. 

Take  one  pound  of  sweet  almonds  blanched  and  pounded, 
the  w7hites  of  four  eggs,  one  heaping  cupful  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  rose-water.  If  the  icing  is 
not  stiff  enough,  add  more  sugar.       Miss  Mattie  Black. 


294  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


CONFECTIONER'S  ICING. 

Take  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  two  tea-cupfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar;  beat  them  well  together  until  light  and  white; 
add  a  few  drops  of  citric  acid,  and  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon. 

ICING  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Soak  one  tea-spoonful  of  gelatine  in  one  table-spoonful  of 
cold  water  half  an  hour,  then  pour  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
boiling  water  over  it,  add  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  stir  until  smooth.    Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Miss  Julia  Porter. 

COOKED  ICING. 

To  one  large  coffee-cupful  of  white  sugar  add  half  a  cup- 
ful of  boiling  water;  stir  it  until  dissolved,  and  boil  until  it 
candies.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  very  light,  and  pour 
the  hot  candy  over  them  gradually.  Beat  well  together, 
flavor,  and  spread  between  cake  while  warm. 


ICES. 


Ix  making  ices  very  much  depends  on  the  freezing;  hence 
a  few  suggestions  on  this  point  may  be  of  great  advantage 
to  those  who  make  their  own  ices.  Put  the  ice  in  a  coarse 
coffee-sack,  pound  it  with  an  ax  or  hammer  until  the  lumps 
are  about  the  size  of  hickory-nuts;  see  that  the  freezer  is 
properly  placed  in  the  tub,  the  beater  in  and  the  cover  se- 
cure; place  around  it  a  layer  of  ice,  then  one  of  salt  (rock 
salt  is  best),  and  so  on,  until  the  freezer  is  full,  having  a 
layer  of  ice  last.  Pack  very  solid,  then  remove  the  cover, 
and  pour  the  cream  into  the  freezer,  filling  about  two-thirds 
full  to  allow  room  for  expansion;  replace  the  cover,  and, 
after  having  turned  the  freezer  for  about  ten  minutes,  pack 
the  ice  down  again,  drain  off  the  most  of  the  water,  add. 
more  ice,  and  turn  again,  repeating  the  operation  until  the 
cream  is  so  stiff  you  can  no  longer  turn  the  beater.  Then 
brush  the  ice  and  salt  from  the  cover,  and  remove  it;  take 
out  the  beater,  scrape  the  cream  down  from  the  sides  of  the 
freezer,  beat  it  well  several  minutes  with  a  wooden  paddle, 
replace  the  cover,  fill  the  hole  with  a  cork,  pour  off  all  the 
water,  pack  again  with  ice  (using  salt  at  the  bottom  but 
none  at  the  top  of  the  tub),  heap  the  ice  on  the  cover,  set 
away  in  a  cool  place  until  needed,  leaving  it  thoroughly 
covered  with  a  piece  of  carpet  or  woolen  blanket.  When 
cream  is  used  in  making  ice-cream,  it  is  better  to  whip  part 
of  it,  and  add  it  just  as  the  cream  is  beginning  to  set. 

Water  ices  are  made  from  the  juices  of  fruits,  mixed  with 
water,  sweetened,  and  frozen  like  cream.  In  making  them, 
if  they  are  not  thoroughly  mixed  before  freezing  the  sugar 

(295) 


296 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


will  sink  to  the  bottom  and  the  mixture  will  have  an  un- 
pleasant taste;  hence  it  is  better  to  make  a  sirup  by  boiling 
the  sugar  and  water  together,  and  when  cold  adding  the 
juice  of  the  fruit. 

Freeze  ices  in  a  warm  place,  since  the  more  rapidly  the 
ice  melts  the  quicker  the  cream  freezes,  always  being  care- 
ful, of  course,  that  no  salt  or  water  gets  into  the  freezer. 

ICE-CREAM. 

Take  three  pints  of  sweet  cream,  one  quart  of  new  milk, 
one  pint  of  powdered  sugar,  the  w7hites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
light,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  in  the  freezer 
until  chilled  through,  and  then  freeze.  This  is  very  easily 
made.  Miss  Lizzie  Moores. 

ICE-CREAM. 

Dissolve  in  one  quart  of  rich  cream  one-half  pound  of 
pulverized  sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla  or  other  essence; 
no  boiling  is  necessary.  It  should  be  about  as  thick  as 
cream  for  coffee.  Use  a  patent  freezer.  This  is  a  conven- 
ient and  quick  receipt. 

ICE-CREAM. 

Take  one  pint  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  one  gallon  of 
cream,  flavor  to  taste,  and  put  to  freeze.  When  almost 
frozen,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  freeze  until 
flrm.  Mrs.  Will  Shackleford. 

ICE-CREAM. 

Take  the  yelks  of  eight  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  two 
pints  of  rich  milk,  one  quart  of  cream,  and  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  vanilla.  Beat  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  until  very  light ; 
scald  the  milk  in  a  custard-kettle,  then  stir  in  the  eggs  and 
sugar;  let  all  remain  over  the  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
but  no  longer,  or  it  will  curdle.  When  taken  off  the  stove, 
mix  in  one-fourth  of  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  which  has  been 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


297 


soaked  for  half  an  hour  in  two  table-spoonfuls  of  warm 
water.  Upon  adding  it  to  the  hot  milk  it  will  immediately 
dissolve;  then  add  the  vanilla.  Cool  the  custard  well  be- 
fore putting  it  into  the  freezer.  Stir  it  constantly  until  it 
begins  to  set,  then  add  the  quart  of  cream  which  has  been 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Tabb. 

ICE-CREAM. 

Take  one  pint  of  new  milk ;  when  boiling  hot,  sift  into  it 
one  tea-spoonful  of  sea-moss  farina,  boil  into  a  custard,  and 
strain  through  a  cloth ;  stir  it  until  cool,  then  beat  into  one- 
half  gallon  of  rich  cream,  sweetened  with  one  pint  of  sugar 
and  flavored  with  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  vanilla.  If  a  patent 
freezer  is  used,  the  cream  does  not  require  to  be  whipped. 
Freeze  until  very  light.  Mrs.  Julia  Chexowetii. 

PREPARED  CREAM. 

Chop  fine  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  sweet  almonds,  and  mix 
with  one  quart  of  thick  cream  and  one-half  pound  of  sugar, 
add  a  few  drops  of  almond  extract.  The  almonds  should, 
of  course,  first  be  blanched  by  pouring  hot  water  on  them. 
Cut  one  ounce  of  citron  into  thin  slices,  and  stir  it  in  with  the 
other  ingredients.  Freeze  like  ice-cream.  When  ready  to 
serve,  dip  a  towel  into  boiling  water,  and  put  it  around  the 
freezer;  repeat  this  until  the  cream  will  slip  from  it,  then 
cut  into  slices.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Hexdeesox. 

DELMONICO. 

Beat  the  yelks  of  six  eggs  very  light,  then  add  one  coffee- 
cupful  of  sugar;  steep  one-third  of  a  vanilla-bean  in  one- 
half  pint  of  cream,  and  dissolve  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in 
one-half  tea-cupful  of  water;  then  add  the  warm  cream  to 
the  gelatine,  the  eggs  and  sugar  to  this,  and  whip  one  quart 
of  cream  and  stir  into  the  other  ingredients.  Have  the 
freezer  ready,  as  it  should  be  frozen  before  it  congeals. 

Miss  Piicebe  Wood. 


298 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


FROZEN  CUSTARD. 

Take  six  eggs  beaten  together,  three  coffee-cupfuls  of  su- 
gar, and  one  table-spoonful  of  flour.  Have  one  gallon  of  new 
milk  in  a  custard-kettle ;  when  it  begins  to  boil,  stir  in  the 
eggs,  sugar,  and  flour,  which  have  been  well  mixed  together ; 
let  it  boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  no  longer;  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  beat  well  until  cold;  flavor  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.    Freeze  the  same  as  other  ices. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Powell.  . 

WHITE  COFFEE  ICE-CREAM. 

Roast  carefully  to  a  nice  brown  four  ounces  of  the  finest 
white  coffee ;  while  perfectly  hot  from  the  fire,  put  it  into  a 
quart  of  cream  which  has  been  sweetened  to  taste;  let  it 
stand  two  hours ;  then  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and 
freeze.  The  above  can  be  made  by  putting  half  a  pint  of 
very  strong  infusion  of  coffee  into  the  cream;  but  this  makes 
the  mixture  brown,  and  does  not  give  it  so  fine  a  flavor,  al- 
though it  is  the  usual  method  practiced  by  leading  confec- 
tioners. F.  ft.  Traxel. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM. 

Take  one  quart  of  rich  cream ;  bring  one  quart  of  milk 
to  a  boiling,  and  stir  in  one  and  one-half  section  of  sweet 
chocolate,  two  eggs  beaten  light,  and  one  table-spoonful  of 
corn  starch;  boil  until  thick.  When  cold,  add  the  cream 
and  one  table-spoonful  of  vanilla.    Freeze  until  firm. 

Mrs.  Harry  Wadsworth. 

CARAMEL  CREAM. 

Put  two  pints  of  brown  sugar  into  a  skillet,  and  stir  it 
until  a  deep  reddish  brown ;  boil  in  two  quarts  of  milk  six 
sticks  of  cinnamon.  When  it  boils,  stir  in  the  beaten  yelks 
of  eight  eggs,  then  the  burned  sugar.  This  must  be  done  off 
the  fire.  Add  a  little  white  sugar,  and  freeze.  One  quart 
of  cream  will  greatly  improve  it.        Miss  Allie  Bascom. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


299 


CHOCOLATE  CREAM. 

Take  one  quart  of  new  milk,  one  heapiDg  pint  of  sugar, 
one  quart  of  cream,  six  table-spoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate, 
two  eggs,  and  vanilla  to  taste.  Heat  the  milk,  add  the  eggs 
and  chocolate  after  dissolving,  and  cook  until  thick;  then 
add  the  cream  well  whipped.  Put  it  into  the  freezer  to 
freeze.  When  almost  frozen,  add  a  pint  of  preserves,  peach- 
es, or  strawberries,  and  freeze  hard. 

Mrs.  Eob.  Ficklin. 
COCOA-NUT  CREAM. 

To  one  gallon  of  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste, 
add  two  cocoa-nuts  grated  fine.  Stir  well,  and  then  freeze. 
When  nearly  frozen,  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  with 
a  little  sugar.  Mrs.  Jas.  F.  Eobixson. 

COCOA-NUT  CREAM. 

To  one  quart  of  cream,  or  three  parts  cream  and  one  part 
new  milk,  add  one-half  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  with  the  riud 
of  a  lemon ;  beat  in  with  it  six  eggs ;  prepare  it  over  a  mod- 
erate fire  as  directed  for  cream  custard.  When  just  taken 
from  the  fire,  stir  into  the  pan  four  ounces  of  finely  grated 
cocoa-nut;  strain  thoroughly,  and  freeze  quickly.  The  skin 
must  be  taken  off  the  nut  previous  to  grating. 

F.  II .  Traxel. 

PEACH  CREAM. 

To  one  heaping  pint  of  chopped  peaches  beaten  thorough- 
ly with  one  pint  of  sugar  add  three  pints  of  whipped  cream. 
Freeze  until  firm.  Mrs.  Eob.  Ficklix. 

PEACH  CREAM. 

Take  one  gallon  of  rich  cream,  and  add  to  it  one  quart 
of  soft  peaches  chopped  fine,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  vanilla 
or  a  little  grated  vanilla-bean;  make  very  sweet,  and  freeze. 
This  makes  one  gallon  and  a  half  when  frozen. 

Mrs.  George  Hunter. 


300 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


APRICOT  CREAM. 

Take  one  can  of  apricots,  chop  them  very  fine,  and  sweet- 
en to  taste ;  make  one  gallon  of  cream  very  sweet,  put  into 
it  the  apricots,  and  freeze.  Mrs.  Laura  Dimmitt. 

ORANGE  CREAM. 

Take  ten  oranges,  cut  a  circular  hole  in  the  top,  and  care- 
fully scrape  out  the  pulp  so  as  not  to  injure  the  rind;  strain 
the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  add  enough  sugar  to  make  a 
thick  sirup;  whip  five  pints  of  cream,  add  the  sirup,  and 
freeze  hard.  The  sugar  must  be  thoroughly  dissolved  be- 
fore adding  to  the  cream.  Serve  in  the  rind.  This  will 
make  more  than  one  gallon.  Mrs.  Eob.  Fickle*. 

ORANGE  CREAM. 

Take  one-half  gallon  of  rich  cream ;  the  juice  and  pulp 
of  one  dozen  oranges,  strain,  and  make  very  sweet;  add  to  the 
cream,  and  freeze.  Cut  the  peel  of  the  oranges  into  quar- 
ters about  one-third  of  the  way  down,  remove  the  meat,  and 
serve  the  cream  in  the  peel.  Mrs.  John  Piiister. 

APPLE  CREAM. 

Take  one  quart  of  apples  and  one  quart  of  rich  cream; 
boil  the  apples,  and  run  them  through  a  sieve;  flavor  with 
essence  of  lemon,  and  make  very  sweet;  stir  the  cream  into 
the  apples  thoroughly,  and  freeze.    This  is  very  nice. 

Miss  Allie  Bascom. 

BANANA  CREAM. 

To  one  quart  of  cream  add  six  bananas  sliced;  sweeten 
to  taste,  and  freeze.  Mrs.  Allie  Thompson. 

BANANA  CREAM. 

Take  one-half  gallon  of  rich  cream  made  very  sweet  and 
strong  with  vanilla;  freeze  it  until  it  is  like  soft  snow;  then 
add  eight  bananas  sliced  very  thin  and  sprinkled  lightly 
with  sugar.    Freeze  until  hard.  Mrs.  Geo.  Hunter. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  301 


BISQUE. 

Take  one-half  dozen  dry  macaroons,  one-third  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  cream.  The  macaroons  should 
be  rolled  fine  and  dissolved  in  a  little  cream ;  then  add  the 
remainder  of  the  cream,  and  freeze.  When  it  begins  to 
freeze,  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  stir  into  this. 

Mrs.  Emma  January. 
MATRIMONY. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream,  three  cup- 
fuls  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  and  one  pint  of  peaches  mashed  fine. 
Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling ;  add  the  yelks  and  sugar. 
Let  it  get  cold.  Beat  into  it  the  cream  and  fruit ;  add  a 
tea-spoonful  of  vanilla,  and  freeze.  When  almost  frozen, 
add  the  beaten  whites.  Miss  Alice  Ficklix. 

ICE  PUDDING. 

Take  four  pounds  of  macaroons,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of 
sponge-cake,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Make  a  custard 
of  a  quart  of  milk  and  four  eggs.  Soak  the  above  in  the  cus- 
tard. Place  it  in  the  freezer,  stir  until  partially  congealed, 
then  add  a  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Freeze  hard.  Citron 
cut  small,  or  dried  currants  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  Laura  Dimmitt. 
FROZEN  PUDDING. 

Make  a  good  custard ;  add  to  it  one  tumblerful  of  straw- 
berry or  cherry  preserves,  one-half  pound  of  raisins  chopped 
fine,  one-half  pound  of  currants,  and  one-half  pound  of  al- 
monds blanched  and  powdered.  Put  this  to  freeze,  and  add 
one  quart  of  rich  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  stirring  to 
keep  the  fruit  from  settling.  Mrs.  Saelie  Thomas. 

FROZEN  PUDDING. 

Make  a  rich  custard  of  a  quart  of  new  milk.  Have  pre- 
pared a  tea-cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  one  pound  of  almonds 
(in  the  shell)  blanched  and  powdered,  and  one  tea-cupful 


302 


Tit e  New  Kentucky  Home  CgoJc  Bool:. 


of  strawberry  preserves.  Pour  over  these  the  hot  custard ; 
as  soon  as  cold,  put  to  freeze;  when  thick  as  mush,  add 
three  pints  of  rich  cream  which  has  been  sweetened  and 
whipped.  Stir  it  frequently,  so  that  the  fruit  may  be  well 
mixed.  Mrs.  Allen  Bashfoed. 

FROZEN  FRUIT. 
Take  one  dozen  bananas  cut  as  for  fruit  salad,  one-half 
dozen  large  orauges  cut  fine,  one  can  of  pine-apple  chopped 
fine;  use  all  the  juice  from  both  oranges  and  pine-apple; 
mix  this  well  together,  add  one  quart  of  water,  and  sweeten 
to  taste.  "When  it  begins  to  freeze,  beat  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  and  stir  into  this.  This  quantity  makes  about  one  gal- 
lon after  it  is  frozen.  Mbs.  Emma  Jaxuaey. 

LEMON  ICE. 

Make  a  rich  lemonade,  and  strain  it  into  the  freezer;  then 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  quart  or  a  little 
more  of  the  lemonade.  Freeze. 

LEMON  ICE. 

Take  six  lemons  and  roll" them  well,  cut  them  in  half,  and 
with  a  knife  scrape  all  the  pulp  and  juice  into  one-half  gal- 
lon of  water;  add  one  pint  and  a  half  of  sugar,  or  enough 
to  make  it  very  sweet ;  then  put  it  into  the  freezer,  and  let  it 
stand  awhile  before  freezing.  When  it  gets  like  snow,  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  Aldeesox. 

LEMON  ICE. 

Take  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one 
quart  of  water,  and  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.    Freeze.  M&s  Alice  McIlvaix. 

PINE-APPLE  ICE. 

Take  one  can  of  pine-apple  grated,  one  quart  of  sugar 
made  into  a  thick  sirup  and  poured  boiling  hot  over  the 
pine -apple.     When  cold,  pour  into  the  freezer,  adding 


The  Xeiv  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Booh. 


303 


enough  water  to  fill  a  one-gallon  freezer  a  little  over  half 
full.  Add  tartaric  acid  to  taste,  and  more  sugar,  if  neces- 
sary. When  frozen  to  a  mush,  add  the  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Turn  the  freezer  until  full,  or  until  too  stiff  to 
turn.    Much  depends  on  the  freezing.    Mrs.  Chenoweth. 

PINE-APPLE  ICE. 
Take  two  cans  of  pine-apple ;  remove  them  from  the  juice 
and  chop  them  fine,  taking  out  all  the  black  specks.  Make 
a  thick  sirup  by  boiling  together  three  pints  of  sugar  and 
two  pints  of  water.  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  while 
hot  pour  over  it  the  pine-apple,  adding  the  juice  in  the  can. 
After  it  cools,  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  citric  acid,  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  beaten  well,  and  four  pints  of  water.  Freeze 
until  firm.  Mrs.  Sallie  Thomas. 

PINE-APPLE  ICE. 

Take  one  can  of  grated  pine-apple,  the  juice  of  three 
lemons,  the  whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  quart  of 
water,  and  two  coffee-cupfuls  of  sugar.  Mix  the  eggs  and 
sugar  together,  and  stir  in  the  other  ingredients.  This 
quantity,  when  frozen,  will  make  one  gallon. 

Miss  Phceee  Wood. 

PINE-APPLE  ICE. 

Take  two  cans  of  fresh  pine-apples,  and  chop  the  fruit 
very  fine;  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  four  tea-cupfuls  of 
sugar,  and  one-half  gallon  of  boiling  water.  When  cold, 
add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  freeze 
until  firm.  Mrs.  Mary  E.  La^je. 

PINE-APPLE  ICE. 

Take  one  can  of  pine-apple  chopped  fine,  one  quart  of 
sugar,  three  large  lemons,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten 
until  very  light,  and  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  When 
cold,  add  the  beaten  whites,  and  freeze  hard. 

Mrs.  Alice  Forsythe. 


304 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Boole. 


ORANGE  ICE. 

Take  the  juice  and  fine  pulp  of  one  dozen  oranges,  the 
juice  and  pulp  of  one-half  dozen  lemons,  and  a  little  of  the 
grated  rind  to  color,  but  not  enough  to  make  it  taste;  add 
enough  water  to  make  one- half  gallon  all  together,  and 
three  and  one-half  pints  of  sugar  (it  must  be  very  sweet,  as 
the  sugar  freezes  out).  Put  all  into  a  gallon  freezer,  and 
freeze  until  quite  hard.  Mrs.  Geo.  Hunter. 

APRICOT  WATER  ICE. 

Take  one  pound  of  ripe  apricots  mashed  into  a  quart  of 
water;  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  sirup  or  powdered 
sugar  to  taste ;  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  freeze. 

The  freezing  alters  the  character  of  some  fruits;  there- 
fore it  is  necessary  to  taste  the  mixture  as  the  freezing  pro- 
gresses, and  add  more  lemon  juice  or  sirup  as  the  taste  may 
dictate.  F.  H.  Traxel. 

CHAMPAGNE  ICE. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  six  lemons  into  a  large  basin,  rasp  the 
rinds  into  the  same,  add  a  bottle  of  Champagne  and  sirup  or 
sugar  to  taste,  whip  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  add  to  the 
whole;  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  freeze.  Any  kind  of 
wine  can  be  served  in  this  way.  F.  H.  Traxel. 

CHAMPAGNE  ICE. 

Take  the  juice  and  fine  pulp  of  one  dozen  lemons,  four 
pints  of  white  sugar,  and  water  enough  to  make  one-half 
gallon ;  freeze  until  like  snow ;  add  one  pint  of  Champagne, 
and  freeze  hard.  Mrs.  George  Hunter. 

SHERBET. 

To  six  quarts  of  water  add  the  juice  of  four  lemons  and 
four  oranges,  one  can  of  pine-apple  chopped  fine,  the  whites 
of  six  eggs,  and  three  pints  of  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  then  add  part  of  the  sugar,  and  beat  well  before 
mixing  with  the  other.  Mrs.  Dr.  Holtox. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


305 


SHERBET. 

Take  six  fresh  lemons,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice;  put  the 
peelings  on  the  fire  in  two  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  well ; 
strain  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  add  the  lemon 
juice  to  it,  and  make  lemonade  very  sour  and  then  very 
sweet;  to  this  add  brandy  and  rum,  about  half  a  pint 
mixed — less  rum  than  brandy ;  then  freeze. 

Any  kind  of  water  ice  can  be  made  in  this  way.  Orange 
juice,  currant  juice,  pine-apple,  or  strawberry,  can  be  made 
delicious.  Mrs.  Julia  Chenoweth. 

ROMAN  PUNCH. 

To  make  two  gallons,  take  four  and  one-half  quarts  of 
water,  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar;  add  three  pints 
of  good  rum,  after  which  rub  eight  lemons  in  loaf  sugar, 
using  the  colored  part  also;  squeeze  all  in,  then  strain. 
Freeze.  It  will  take  about  one  hour  and  a  half  to  freeze 
quite  firm.  Mrs.  G.  S.  Wall. 

20 


BEVERAGES. 


COFFEE. 

The  kinds  of  coffee  used  in  this  portion  of  the  country 
are  Mocha,  African  Java,  Government  Java,  Maracaybo, 
Santos,  La  Guayra,  Mexican,  and  Rio.  Each  of  these  is  di- 
vided into  classes  as  follows:  Fancy,  choice,  prime,  fair, 
good,  and  common. 

Mocha  is  raised  in  Turkey,  and  is  the  finest  coffee  grown. 
It  is  a  small,  bright  bean,  of  very  rich  flavor,  and  makes 
better  tasting  coffee  when  mixed  half  and  half  with  Govern- 
ment Java  than  when  made  by  itself. 

African  Java  is  raised  in  Liberia.  It  is  a  very  large 
bean,  extremely  rich  when  in  the  cup,  and  the  only  objec- 
tion to  it  would  be  that  it  is  very  hard  to  roast  properly,  as 
the  bean  is  so  large. 

Government  Java  is  raised  in  the  West  India  Islands, 
and  derives  its  name  from  the  English  Government,  who 
first  propagated  and  had  it  grown.  It  is  lower  in  price  than 
Mocha  or  African  Java.  The  bean  is  of  a  golden  and  mot- 
tled color,  and  is  rich  in  a  peculiar  flavor,  similar  to  a  dusty, 
musty  taste.  "When  mixed  Avith  golden  Rio,  it  makes  a 
much  better  drink  than  of  itself. 

Maracaybo  and  Santos  are  very  similar  to  each  other  in 
the  taste — both  mild  and  pleasanf— and  are  used  mostly  by 
roasters  to  mix  with  Rio  and  La  Guayra.  They  are  both  from 
the  West  India  Islands. 

La  Guayra  is  raised  in  the  province  of  La  Guayra.  South 
America,  and  is  of  itself  one  of  the  richest  kinds  of  coffee 
grown.    It  is  exceedingly  difficult  to  obtain  a  genuine  arti 
(306) 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


307 


cle  of  it  on  account  of  the  exporters  in  Kio  de  Janeiro  mix- 
ing it  in  the  green  state  with  low  grade  Kio. 

Mexican  is  a  dark-green  berry,  raised  in  Mexico,  and  is  very 
strong  and  pungent.  Indeed,  it  is  so  strong  when  enough  of 
it  is  drawn  that  it  will  float  an  egg,  and  is  certainly  more 
injurious  to  health  than  all  other  kinds  of  coffee  combined. 

Rio  is  raised  in  Brazil.  There  is  more  of  it  produced 
than  auy  other,  and  there  being  as  many  kinds  of  it  as  there 
are  of  corn  it  would  be  hard  to  describe  all ;  but  for  Ameri- 
can use  it  may  be  classified  golden,  peaberry,  bright  and 
medium  green,  as  the  qualities  most  in  use.  There  is  noth- 
ing so  rich  and  refreshing  as  a  cupful  of  coffee  made  from 
golden  Kio.  It  being  very  mild,  it  is  not  calculated  to 
injure  any  one,  though  he  may  be  a  dyspeptic.  It  is  a 
large  flat  bean,  golden  in  color  and  rich  in  flavor.  The 
peaberry  is  said  to  be  the  male  berry  of  coffee.  It  is  very 
rich,  but  much  stronger  than  golden  Kio,  and  is  the  only 
coffee  that  retains  its  richness  by  dilution  with  water.  Green 
Kio  is  strong  when  in  the  cup,  of  a  pungent  taste,  and 
though  more  extensively  used  than  any  other,  is  most  inju- 
rious to  the  system.  The  stimulant  contained  in  it  is  next 
to  alcohol. 

Golden  and  green  Kio  being  so  extensively  used,  parties 
who  have  no  fear  of  a  hereafter  nor  care  for  any  one  except 
themselves  have,  through  the  use  of  chemicals,  learned  how 
to  color  them,  and  in  this  way  many  kinds  of  coffee  are 
sold  that  are  otherwise  useless. 

For  an  extra  fine  cupful  of  coffee  we  would  suggest,  one 
half  each  of  Mocha  and  Government  Java;  for  a  fine  cup- 
ful, one  half  Government  Java,  Maracaybo,  or  Santos,  and 
one  half  golden  Rio;  for  a  good  cupful,  one  half  golden 
Rio  and  one  half  peaberry,  or  one  half  Santos  and  one  half 
La  Guayra,  or  one  half  Maracaybo  and  one  half  peaberry. 

M.  C.  Kussell. 


308 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


TO  CLEAR  COFFEE. 

Wash  the  coffee-pot  well  every  day — always  scald  before 
using  it.  It  is  well  once  a  week,-  when  in  constant  use,  to 
fill  the  coffee-pot  with  water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a 
table-spoonful  of  soda,  and  let  it  boil  a  short  time,  then 
thoroughly  scald  with  clear  water. 

When  eggs  are  very  scarce,  one  egg  may  be  used  to  clear 
coffee  five  times — the  white  twice,  the  yelk  twice,  and  the 
shell  once — it  being  a  mistaken  idea  with  many  that  coffee 
can  be  cleared  only  by  using  the  white  of  the  egg.  A  more 
economical  way  still  is  to  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  and  stir 
it  into  the  coffee  just  as  it  is  about  done  toasting,  then  if 
mixed  carefully  it  will  need  no  further  clearing.  Then,  in 
the  entire  absence  of  eggs,  as  is  sometimes  the  case  in  mid- 
winter, it  may  be  cleared  by  wetting  in  the  usual  manner 
with  cold  water,  and  adding  a  small  piece  of  bacon  rind 
(about  one  inch  square)  scraped  clean,  or  a  small  pinch  of 
flour  and  the*  same  of  salt,  which  is  very  good.  A  little 
pinch  of  salt  is  an  improvement  to  coffee. 

CHOCOLATE 

Should  only  be  made  for  immediate  use,  as  by  allowing  it 
to  become  cold  and  boiling  it  again  the  flavor  is  injured. 
Chocolate  is  considered  more  nutricious  than  either  tea  or 
coffee,  and  is  without  the  stimulating  effects  of  either,  com- 
posed, as  determined  by  chemical  analysis,  of  starch,  gum, 
gluten,  oil,  and  a  white# crystallizable  substance  called  the- 
obromine; therefore  chocolate  and  cocoa  are  considered  the 
least  injurious  of  our  fashionable  drinks.  Baker's  choco- 
late is  decidedly  the  best  for  all  purposes. 

TO  TOAST  COFFEE. 

Wash  and  carefully  pick  the  coffee,  put  into  a  large  shal- 
low stove-pan,  place  it  in  a  hot  oven,  watching  and  stirring 
frequently  until  it  is  a  rich,  dark  brown.   Be  very  careful  not 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  309 


to  burn  it.  When  nearly  clone,  a  small  lump  of  butter  may 
be  added  and  stirred  well  with  the  coffee.  Put  it  into  a  jar 
or  can  with  a  close-fitting  cover. 

GOLDEN  COFFEE. 
To  three  quarts  of  water  take  one  tea-cupful  of  ground 
coffee  mixed  with  white  of  egg  and  cold  water,  let  it  boil  for 
ten  minutes,  then  settle  with  cold  water.  Beat  to  a  stiff 
froth  say  one  egg  for  three  cupfuls  of  coffee  (use  the  egg- 
beater),  put  the  cream  into  the  cups,  then  the  beaten  egg; 
hold  the  coffee-pot  high  and  pour  in,  and  you  will  have  de- 
licious coffee. 

TO  MAKE  GOOD  COFFEE. 

Grind  one  heaping  tea-cupful  of  coffee;  stir  into  it  the 
half  of  the  white  of  one  egg  and  wet  with  cold  water ;  let  it 
stand  for  any  convenient  length  of  time.  Scald  the  coffee- 
pot (which  of  course  must  always  be  clean),  put  in  the 
mixture,  or  drawn  coffee,  and  pour  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water  over;  let  it  boil  a  very  few  minutes,  stir  down  and 
pour  out  a  little  of  the  coffee  and  pour  it  back  to  settle  it, 
or  add  a  little  cold  water,  and  you  will  have  nice,  clear  cof- 
fee enough  for  six  or  eight  persons.  Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

COFFEE. 

To  one  tea-cupful  of  ground  coffee  use  three  pints  of  boil- 
ing water.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes.  Set  off  of  the  stove, 
and  pour  in  about  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Serve 
with  rich  cream,  and  you  will  have  good  coffee.  If  cold 
coffee  is  left,  it  can  be  used  once  to  wet  up  the  next  supply 
of  coffee.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Ashton. 

DRIPPED  COFFEE. 

Put  one  tea-cupful  of  ground  coffee  into  the  upper  divis- 
ion of  the  coffee-pot  and  pour  over  it  one  quart  of  boiling 
water.  Place  it  where  it  will  be  kept  perfectly  hot  without 
boiling.    If  it  drips  through  very  quickly,  it  should  be 


310 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


poured  through  a  second  time.  Serve  with  boiled  milk.  It 
is  usually  strong  enough  to  admit  of  using  half  as  much 
milk  as  coffee. 

TEA. 

Scald  well  the  tea-pot ;  put  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  tea  for 
one  person,  but  a  less  proportionate  amount  for  many  per- 
sons; pour  over  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water  and  let 
it  stand  on  the  stove-hearth  or  back  part  of  the  stove  to 
"draw"  two  or  three  minutes,  then  pour  on  the  desired 
amount  of  freshly  boiled  and  boiling  water.  The  water 
must  be  boiling,  and  the  tea  made  quickly.  Serve  at  once. 
If  tea  is  allowed  to  stand  long,  it  is  not  good. 

ICED  TEA. 

Make  the  tea  as  above  directed,  in  the  morning  of  the 
day  that  it  is  wanted  for  supper.  Put  it  into  a  china  or 
glass  vessel  and  set  it  in  the  refrigerator  to  cool ;  or,  some 
consider  it  best  to  put  the  tea  in  cold  water  and  set  it  in  the 
ice-box  in  the  morning,  for  tea,  or  supper. 

BLACK  TEA. 

To  one  tea-spoonful  of  tea  put  one  and  one-half  pint  of 
boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  for  three  or  four  minutes.  It  is 
much  improved  by  adding  cream  when  served. 

Miss  Julia  Porter. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape  fine  about  one  square  of  a  cake  of  Baker's  Pre- 
mium Ko.  1  Chocolate  (which  is  one  ounce),  add  to  it  an 
equal  weight  of  sugar,  put  this  into  a  pint  of  perfectly  boil- 
ing milk  and  water  (of  each  one-half),  and  immediately 
mill  or  stir  well  two  or  three  minutes.  Some  persons  prefer 
boiling  it  ten  minutes. 

FRENCH  CHOCOLATE  WITH  MILK. 

Place  the  chocolate  cut  into  small  pieces  over  a  slow  fire, 
in  order  that  the  chocolate  may  dissolve  gradually  without 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


311 


adhering  to  the  pan.  When  it  is  completely  melted,  pour 
boiling  milk  on  it  in  small  quantities,  stirring  rapidly.  After 
adding  the  requisite  quantity  of  milk,  let  the  mixture  come 
to  the  boiling  point  for  an  instant,  and  you  will  have  a  light 
and  most  agreeable  chocolate. 

Chocolate  with  water  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner, 
using  water  instead  of  milk.  When  the  full  allowance  of 
water  has  been  added  to  the  chocolate,  the  mixture  should 
be  boiled  ten  minutes,  stirring  continually. 

PLAIN  CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape  fine  one  ounce  (one  of  the  small  squares)  of  Baker's 
chocolate,  add  to  this  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  one  table-spoonful  of  hot  water.  Stir 
over  a  hot  fire  for  a  minute  or  two  until  it  is  perfectly 
smooth  and  glossy,  then  stir  it  all  into  a  quart  of  boiling 
milk,  or  half  milk  and  half  water.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
serve  immediately.  Made  in  this  way,  chocolate  is  perfectly 
free  from  oily  particles.  If  it  is  allowed  to  boil  after  the 
chocolate  is  added  to  the  milk,  it  becomes  oily  and  loses  its 
flavor.  Maria  Parloa. 

FROTHED  CHOCOLATE. 

Take  three  table-spoonfuls  of  Baker's  chocolate  grated 
fine,  wet  it  with  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  add  three  pints 
of  boiling  milk.  Stir  well ;  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes ; 
take  from  the  fire  and  add  two  or  three  table-spoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Stir  in  the  well-whipped  whites  of  two  eggs,  pour 
into  a  hot  pitcher.  Have  ready  in  a  cream-pitcher  the 
whipped  whites  of  three  eggs  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  su- 
gar beaten  into  them,  with  which  cover  the  surface  of  each 
cupful  of  chocolate  before  serving.    Very  nice. 

BREAKFAST  COCOA. 
Into  a  breakfast-cup  put  a  tea-spoonful  of  the  powder,  add 
a  table-spoonful  of  boiling  water  and  mix  thoroughly,  then 


312 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Bool: 


add  equal  parts  of  boiling  water  and  boiled  milk,  and  sugar 
to  taste.    Boiling  two  or  three  minutes  will  improve  it. 

Walter  Baker  &  Co. 

BAKER'S  COCOA. 

To  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  pint  of  cold  water  add  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  cocoa.  Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
Make  as  sweet  as  you  like. 

COCOA  PASTE. 

Put  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  paste  into  a  tea-cup,  pour  upon 
it  two  table-spoonfuls  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved, then  fill  the  cup  with  boiling  water  and  stir  again. 
Add  cream  or  milk,  if  agreeable.  Two  or  three  minutes' 
boiling  improves  it. 

COCOA  SHELLS. 

Take  two  ounces  of  cocoa-shells,  pour  upon  them  three 
pints  of  boiling  water,  boil  rapidly  thirty  or  forty  minutes, 
let  it  settle  and  add  cream  or  boiled  milk,  and  sugar  at 
pleasure. 


WINES,  CORDIALS,  ETC. 


From  the  many  contributions  to  the  ensuing  department 
we  have  selected  those  which  have  been  tested,  and  are  be- 
lieved to  be  the  most  simple  and  easily  made,  and  the  least 
hurtful  or  injurious.  We  have  not  given  them  for,  nor  do 
we  advocate  their  daily  use,  upon  the  table  or  as  a  beverage; 
but  most  persons  consider  a  bottle  of  good  pure  wine  or  cor- 
dial a  necessity  in  the  house — to  be  used  as  a  medicine  in 
times  of  urgent  need  in  the  absence  of  medical  aid;  and  they 
are  often  prescribed  by  physicians  for  the  weak  and  feeble 
to  sustain  and  prolong  life.  Thus  we  give  them,  praying 
that  they  may  be  blessed  in  their  use,  and  not  abused. 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  313 


GRAPE  WINE. 

Take  all  the  grapes  from  the  bunches,  leaving  out  all  im- 
perfect ones,  bruise  them  in  any  sufficiently  large  wooden 
or  stone  vessel  without  mashing  the  seeds.  Let  this  remain 
twenty-four  hours,  then  press  out  all  the  juice,  put  it  into  open 
jars,  remove  all  the  scum  that  rises,  have  a  clean  cask,  pour 
in  the  juice,  adding  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  each  gallon  of 
juice — add  a  little  more  sugar  if  the  juice  is  very  sour. 
Put  the  bung  in  loosely,  and  let  it  remain  three  weeks,  then 
tighten  and  let  it  stand  six  months.  Drain  off  carefully, 
bottle  and  seal,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

GRAPE  WINE. 

Take  the  white  grape  when  fully  ripe,  pick  from  the 
stems,  pound  to  a  pulp,  put  them  into  large  stone  jars,  pour 
over  them  half  as  much  water  as  there  are  grapes,  cover 
and  let  stand  until  next  day,  then  squeeze  out  and  strain 
the  juice.  Mix  three  pounds  of  white  sugar  and  the  whites 
of.  two  eggs  to  each  gallon  of  juice,  boil  a  few  moments  and 
skim.  When  cold,  put  into  a  keg  until  through  fermenting. 
Bottle  it,  putting  a  lump  of  sugar  in  each  bottle.  Seal  the 
corks,  keep  in  a  cool  place,  or  bury  them  in  sawdust,  turn- 
ing them  over  occasionally. 

GRAPE  WINE. 

Bruise  the  grapes,  press  and  strain  the  juice.  Put  three 
pounds  of  sugar  to  one  gallon  of  juice.  Put  into  jugs,  and 
set  away  without  stoppers  until  it  ceases  to  foam,  then  tie  a 
cloth  over  the  mouth  and  let  it  stand  until  October.  Then 
strain  again,  and  put  into  clean  jugs  or  bottles  in  a  dark 
place.    Add  more  sugar,  if  necessary. 

Mrs.  David  Wilson. 
BLACKBERRY  WINE. 

To  every  gallon  of  berries  add  one  quart  of  water.  Let 
them  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  press  out  the  juice  and 


314  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


strain.  Add  three  pounds  of  good  brown  sugar  to  each  gal- 
lon of  juice,  put  into  a  cask  and  keep  it  full  by  adding  some 
from  another  vessel  reserved  for  the  purpose.  After  it  has 
ceased  to  ferment,  bung  it  tightly,  let  it  stand  three  months, 
then  bottle,  putting  a  lump  of  sugar  into  each  bottle.  Splen- 
did for  the  sick.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Coxxer. 
BLACKBERRY  WINE. 
To  every  three  pints  of  berries  add  one  quart  of  water. 
Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  strain  through  a  colander, 
then  through  a  cloth.  To  each  gallon  of  juice  add  three 
pounds  of  good  brown  sugar  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth.  Put  into  a  thin  muslin  bag  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  allspice  and  cloves,  and  a  grated  nutmeg, 
and  drop  in;  jout  it  into  a  stone  jug,  filled  up  and  kept  full 
with  some  of  the  same  juice  kept  in  another  vessel  for  the 
purpose,  until  it  is  done  fermenting,  which  will  be  in  two 
or  three  weeks.  Cork  tightly,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  for 
three  or  four  months,  then  pour  it  off  into  bottles,  with  a 
little  white  sugar  in  each  bottle.  Seal  close.  It  improves 
with  age.  Mrs.  B.  Hurt. 
CHERRY  WINE. 

Delightful  cherry  wine  may  be  made  by  the  above  re- 
ceipt.   It  is  better  than  blackberry  wine. 

Mrs.  W.  0.  Sadler. 
CURRANT  WINE. 

Pick  perfectly  ripe  currants  from  the  stem,  bruise  thein, 
put  them  into  a  muslin  or  linen  bag  and  squeeze  out  all  the 
juice.  Mix  with  it  an  equal  quantity  of  water,  adding  to 
each  gallon  three  pounds  of  white  sugar.  Boil  it  a  few  mo- 
ments, skim  well,  put  it  into  a  cask,  stop  it  tight,  and  let  it 
be  undisturbed  three  or  four  weeks  (according  to  the  quan- 
tity), then  draw  it  off,  leaving  the  settlings  in  the  bottom. 
Bottle,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  It  will  be  good  in  a  year. 
Age  improves  it. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.' 


315 


CURRANT  WINE. 

Pick  ripe  currants  from  the  stems,  mash  and  squeeze  out 
all  the  juice  with  the  hands.  One-fourth  contents  of  cask 
to  be  filled  must  be  pure  juice.  Add  ten  pounds  of  granu- 
lated sugar  dissolved  in  well-water  to  each  gallon  of  juice. 
Fill  the  cask  with  well-water  after  putting  in  the  juice  and 
sugar.  Cover  the  bung-hole  with  thin  cloth  or  perforated 
tin  during  fermentation.  This  will  make  good  wine  in  one 
year — the  older  the  better.  Splendid  if  the  receipt  is  close- 
ly followed.  Mr.  George  Wood. 
RASPBERRY  WINE. 

Pick  carefully  fine  ripe  raspberries,  crush  them,  squeeze  out 
the  juice,  and  measure.  Pour  as  much  boiling  water  on  the 
berries  as  there  is  juice,  let  it  stand  a  few  hours  to  extract 
all  the  juice,  then  mix  all  the  liquid  together  and  strain  it. 
Dissolve  in  it  three  pounds  of  white  sugar  to  each  gallon  of 
juice,  mixing  in  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  to  each  gal- 
lon of  juice,  then  put  it  into  a  keg  until  through  ferment- 
ing, leaving  the  bung  loose,  then  put  into  bottles  and  seal. 
Keep  in  a  cool  place,  or  bury  it  in  a  box  of  sawdust. 

GOOSEBERRY  WINE, 

Pick  off  the  stems  and  blossoms  of  ripe  gooseberries,  and 
press  the  juioe  through  a  sieve.  To  each  gallon  of  juice  add 
two  gallons  of  water  and  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  Let  it  stand  until  through  fermenting,  then 
pour  off  into  bottles  and  seal. 

DAMSON  WINE. 

Take  four  gallons  of  damsons,  pour  over  four  gallons  of 
boiling  wTater  in  a  tub  or  other  convenient  vessel.  Let  this 
stand  four  or  five  days,  stirring  it  well  every  day,  then  strain 
and  to  each  gallon  of  juice  add  three  and  one-half  pounds 
of  granulated  sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar,  and  put  all  into  a 
cask.    Good  in  twelve  months,  when  bottle  and  seal. 


316  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Book, 


RHUBARB  WINE  (SPARKLING). 

Cut  five  pounds  of  rhubarb  into  short  pieces  as  for  tarts, 
and  pour  on  them  one  gallon  of  -water.  Let  this  stand  five 
days,  stirring  each  day,  then  strain  off,  and  to  the  liquor 
add  four  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  "When  this  is  dis- 
solved, put  it  into  the  cask  with  one  lemon  and  one  penny- 
worth of  isinglass.  This  will  be  ready  to  bottle  in  six 
months. 

ELDERBERRY  WINE. 

Press  the  juice  from  the  ripe  berries,  and  add  a  gallon  and 
a  half  of  water  to  each  gallon  of  juice;  to  each  gallon  of 
this  add  three  pounds  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  brandy  to 
every  five  gallons.  Put  it  into  a  cask,  and  bung  it  loosely. 
Let  it  stand  six  or  eight  days  to  ferment,  and  then  close 
the  bung  tight.  At  the  end  of  six  months,  draw  off  a  quart 
of  it,  and  stir  into  it  the  whites  of  eggs  well  whipped,  allow- 
ing two  eggs  to  each  gallon,  and  a  little  dissolved  isinglass. 
Pour  it  back  into  the  cask,  mix  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  two 
weeks  longer.    Bottle,  and  seal. 

GINGER  WINE. 

Bruise  six  pounds  of  root-ginger,  mix  with  it  five  gallons 
of  water,  and  boil  half  an  hour;  add  fifteen  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  and  boil  until  well  dissolved.  Cool,  strain,  and  put 
it  into  a  cask  with  eight  sliced  lemons,  one  quart  of  best 
brandy,  and  a  little  yeast.  When  through  fermenting,  close 
the  bung,  and  let  it  remain  undisturbed  three  months;  then 
bottle  it. 

RAISIN  WINE. 

Seed  and  chop  fine  two  pounds  of  raisins,  add  one  pounc 
of  granulated  sugar,  all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peei 
of  one  lemon,  and  two  gallons  of  boiling  water.  Put  all 
into  a  stone  jar,  stir  every  day  for  a  week,  strain,  and  bot- 
tle. «  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  ten  days.  R.  K.  B. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  317 


CHERRY  WINE. 

Put  four  gallons  of  ripe  cherries  into  a  wooden  or  stone 
vessel.  Pour  over  them  four  gallons  of  boiling  water.  Let 
them  stand  four  or  five  days.  Mash,  and  stir  every  day. 
Then  strain,  and  to  each  gallon  of  juice  add  three  pounds 
of  granulated  sugar.  Let  the  sugar  dissolve,  and  pour  all 
into  a  cask,  leaving  the  hung  loose  until  through  fermenta- 
tion,  then  tighten.  This  will  be  good  in  a  year.  The  flavor 
of  the  kernels  is  much  liked  by  many  in  either  damson  or 
cherry  wines;  to  give  this,  break  one-eighth  of  the  stones 
and  infuse  into  the  fruit.    A  great  addition. 

APPLE  WINE. 

To  a  gallon  of  new  cider  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  and  half  of  a  lemon.  Put 
into  a  cask  as  soon  as  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  This  will  be 
fit  for  use  in  two  months. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Cover  the  berries  with  whisky,  let  them  stand  all  night, 
strain,  and  add  four  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  gallon  of  juice. 
Season  with  cloves,  allspice,  and  cinnamon  tied  in  a  thin 
cloth  and  dropped  in.    Set  away  for  several  weeks. 

Mrs.  Dr.  J.  T.  Strode. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Let  the  berries  be  well  heated,  then  squeeze  out  the  juice, 
and  add  one-third  whisky;  and  to  each  gallon  add  three 
pounds  of  sugar.  Season  with  powdered  cloves,  allspice, 
cinnamon,  and  mace  tied  in  a  thin  bag  and  dropped  into  the 
jug  or  bottle.  Mrs.  Dr.  Johx  T.  Strode. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Put  the  berries  into  a  kettle  on  the  stove,  and  cover  them 
with  water;  let  them  boil  just  a  few  moments,  then  put 
them  into  a  colander  and  press  out  the  juice,  strain  it,  ?md 


318 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


add  one-third  good  whisky;  add  three  pounds  of  sugar  to 
each  gallon  of  the  liquid,  and  a  heaping  tea-spoonful  of 
powdered  cinnamon,  one  of  allspice,  and  one  of  cloves,  tied 
in  a  thin  muslin  bag  and  dropped  in.  Mrs.  W.  C.  S. 

RASPBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Gather  ripe  raspberries,  pick  them  carefully,  bruise,  and 
squeeze  out  the  juice,  to  each  three  pints  of  which  add  one 
pint  of  white  brandy.  Put  it  into  a  demijohn,  cork  tightly, 
and  let  it  stand  for  two  weeks.  Then  filter  it  through  a 
muslin  bag,  and  dissolve  in  it  two  and  one-half  pounds  of 
white  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  juice.  Bottle,  and  cork  se- 
curely. 

Strawberry  cordial  can  be  made  by  the  preceding  receipt. 
Never  boil  delicate  fruit  for  cordial,  as  it  injures  the  flavor. 

PEACH  CORDIAL. 

Select  finely  flavored  ripe  peaches,  wash  and  wipe  care- 
fully, and  cut  them  from  the  stones ;  break  half  the  stones, 
and  take  out  the  kernels ;  put  them  with  the  peaches  into  a 
cask,  filling  it  full.  Pour  on  as  much  peach  brandy  as  the 
cask  will  hold ;  stop  it  tight,  and  let  it  stand  two  months, 
shaking  occasionally;  then  draw  off  the  liquid,  dilute  with 
one-half  water  (unless  preferred  stronger),  and  add  two  and 
one-half  pounds  of  sugar  to  each  gallon.  Filter  through  a 
muslin  cloth  laid  over  a  sieve.  Cork  it  securely  in  demi- 
johns or  bottles  for  use. 

CHERRY  BRANDY. 

Put  twenty-four  pounds  of  ripe  cherries  (stoned)  and  four 
pounds  of  strawberries  into  a  cask ;  bruise  them  well  with  a 
stick,  then  add  six  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  twenty-four 
cloves,  some  cinnamon  and  nutmegs,  together  with  the  ker- 
nels of  the  cherry-stones;  pour  over  them  three  gallons  of 
brandy.    Let  the  cask  remain  open,  with  a  thin  piece  of 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


319 


muslin  tacked  over  the  bung,  ten  or  twelve  days ;  then  close  it, 
and  let  it  remain  for  two  months,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

BRANDY  PEACHES. 

Wash  thoroughly  twelve  pounds  of  peaches;  allow  one- 
half  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  each  pound  of  peaches ; 
spriukle  the  sugar  over  the  fruit,  and  let  it  remain  six  or 
eight  hours;  then  boil  with  the  sugar  and  an  ounce  of  peach 
kernels  until  the  fruit  is  clear.  When  cold,  put  into  peach 
brandy. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 

Gather  ripe  raspberries,  and  pick  but  do  not  wash  them. 
Bruise  them,  and  put  them  into  a  jar.  Pour  over  as  much 
good  vinegar  as  will  cover  them.  Cover  the  jar,  and  let 
them  steep  for  several  days;  then  strain  through  a  cloth, 
pressing  them  to  obtain  all  the  juice.  Pour  this  on  a  fresh 
supply  of  berries,  and  let  them  stand  for  several  days ;  then 
boil  them,  strain  the  liquid  through  a  cloth,  and  set  it  away 
to  cool.  Mix  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  each  quart  of 
liquid.    When  this  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  bottle,  and  seal. 

Strawberry  shrub  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  and 
either  mixed  with  iced  water  is  very  nice  for  a  summer 
drink. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Pour  one  quart  of  vinegar  over  six  quarts  of  raspberries 
mashed.  Let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours;  then  strain 
off  the  vinegar  into  another  jar,  and  add  to  that  two  quarts 
of  fresh  berries ;  let  them  remain  twenty-four  hours,  and 
strain  again.  This  may  be  repeated  the  third  time,  until 
the  vinegar  almost  jellies.  To  each  pint  of  juice  put  one 
pound  of  white  sugar,  one  wine-glassful  of  French  brandy 
or  good  Bourbon  whisky.  Bottle,  and  seal  it.  When  to 
be  used,  take  one-eighth  of  a  glassful  of  the  vinegar,  and  fill 
the  glass  with  water.    A  delicious  summer  drink. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Tabb. 


320  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


CHERRY  BOUNCE. 

Take  four  pounds  of  sour  cherries  and  the  same  quantity 
of  sweet  cherries.  Put  them  into  a  wooden  vessel,  and  crush 
with  a  wooden  mallet,  being  sure  to  break  all  the  stones. 
Put  into  a  deep  stone  jar,  add  two  and  one-half  pounds  of 
granulated  sugar,  then  cover  with  one  gallon  of  best  whisky. 
Stir  well,  and  pour  into  a  demijohn.  Cork  tightly,  and  let 
it  stand  a  month,  shaking  every  day;  then  another  month 
without  shakiug;  then  strain  off,  and  bottle.  It  is  good  in 
six  months,  but  better  in  a  year. 

EGG-NOG. 

Take  one  egg — the  yelk  in  one  bowl  and  the  white  in 
another — a  table-spoonful  of  sugar  beaten  well  with  the 
yelk ;  to  this  add  gradually  a  small  wine-glassful  of  whisky. 
Put  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar  with  the  white  and  half  a 
pint  of  whipped  cream — whipped  with  a  Dover  egg-beater 
until  stiff.    Add  it  gradually  to  the  yellow. 

Mrs.  Charlie  Tabb. 

EGG-NOG. 

Take  the  yelks  of  five  eggs  thoroughly  beaten,  add  three- 
fourths  of  a  pint  of  whisky;  mix  well,  and  then  stir  in  one 
tea-cupful  of  granulated  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  well,  and 
add  one  quart  of  whipped  cream.  Mix  this  gradually  with 
the  yelks,  whisky,  and  sugar.  Mrs.  L.  C.  Dimmitt. 

ROMAN  PUNCH. 

Take  one  dozen  lemons  and  two  oranges,  roll  them  well 
on  a  table  under  your  hands,  pare  off  the  yellow  rinds,  put 
them  into  a  gallon  of  water,  and  boil  until  reduced  to  three 
quarts;  then  take  out  the  parings,  dissolve  in  the  water 
three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  and  let  it  cool.  Mix  in  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  and  boil  up  again ;  let  it  simmer  awhile, 
strain,  and  cool  it;  then  mix  in  the  juice  of  the  oranges  and 
lemons,  and  gradually  one  quart  of  rum  or  whisky. 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


321 


LEMON  PUNCH. 

Dissolve  oue  pound  of  sugar  with  one  quart  of  water; 
add  two  wine-glassfuls  of  lemon  juice,  two  of  old  whisky, 
one  of  rum,  and  the  lemons  sliced. 

A  GOOD  SUMMER  DRINK. 

Take  two  pounds  of  ripe  Catawba  grapes  picked  from  the 
stem,  squeeze  them  in  a  coarse  cloth,  wringing  out  every 
drop  of  juice;  add  three  table-spoonfuls  of  white  sugar; 
when  dissolved,  add  one  cupful  of  water.  Surround  with 
ice  until  very  cold.  Put  a  lump  of  ice  into  a  pitcher,  pour 
the  mixture  upon  it,  and  drink.  Add  more  sugar,  if  not 
sweet  enough. 

EGG  LEMONADE. 

Take  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  one  heaping  table-spoon- 
ful of  granulated  sugar,  and  one  very  fresh  egg;  put  all  into 
a  goblet,  and  fill  it  up  with  pieces  of  broken  ice  and  water. 
Have  a  tin  shaker  to  fit  the  goblet,  and  shake  it  up  thor- 
oughly until  the  egg  is  well  beaten.  This  makes  a  cooling 
and  nutritious  drink. 

LEMONADE. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  one-half  lemon  into  five  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  powdered  sugar ;  mix  in  a  goblet,  and  fill  with  broken 
ice  and  water.  Have  a  tin  shaker  to  fit  the  glass,  and  shake 
thoroughly;  then  add  a  slice  of  pine-apple  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  juice,  a  table-spoonful  of  fresh  strawberries; 
or  other  fruit  that  is  in  season  may  be  used,  if  preferred. 
Delicious.  Mr.  Erastus  Lambdon. 

LEMONADE  POWDER. 

Take  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  one  ounce  of  tartaric  acid, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  essence  of  lemon;  mix  well,  and  dry 
thoroughly.     When  you  desire  to  use  it,  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  this  to  a  glass  of  water.  Household. 
21 


322 


The  New  Kentucky  Some  Cook  Book. 


PLAIN  LEMONADE. 

Cut  into  very  thin  slices  three  lemons,  put  them  into  a  bowl, 
add  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  and  bruise  well  together ;  then 
add  one  gallon  of  water,  and  stir  well.  Soyers. 

LEMON  SIRUP. 

Take  one  dozen  lemons,  and  having  pressed  out  their 
juice,  separate  the  pulp  from  the  skin.  Boil  the  pulp  a 
few  moments  in  a  pint  of  water,  add  this  to  the  juice  previ- 
ously extracted,  and  strain.  Add  one  pound  of  sugar  to 
each  pint  of  the  fluid,  and  boil  it  for  ten  minutes;  bottle, 
and  seal.  It  keeps  well;  and  one  table-spoonful  in  a  goblet 
of  water  makes  an  excellent  drink.  Household. 

CREAM  NECTAR. 

Dissolve  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  two  ounces  of  tartaric 
acid  in  three  pints  of  water,  and  boil  five  minutes;  when 
cool,  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  one- 
half  tea-cupful  of  corn  starch  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons. 
Add  one  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  strawberry,  pine-apple, 
or  any  other  flavoring  extract.  Bottle,  and  seal  securely. 
Keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Put  two  table-spoonfuls  into  a 
tumbler  half  full  of  cold  water,  add  a  pinch  of  soda,  stir  it 
well,  and  it  will  effervesce  like  Champagne  or  sparkling 
Catawba.  Household. 

SODA-WATER. 
Boil  two  pounds  of  white  sugar  and  the  whites  of  one  and 
a  half  egg  well  beaten  with  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  flour  (add 
two  drachms  of  pulverized  gum  arabic,  if  convenient)  in 
two  pints  of  soft  wTater  five  minutes.  Stir  well  while  boil- 
ing, and  set  it  off  to  cool.  When  cool,  stir  thoroughly  into 
the  sirup  two  and  one-half  ounces  of  super-carbonate  of  soda, 
and  flavor  wTith  any  extract  desired.  Keep  this  in  a  bottle 
by  itself.  Then  dissolve  two  and  one-half  ounces  of  tartaric 


The  New  Kentucky  Heme  Cook  Cook. 


323 


(or  citric)  acid  in  one  quart  of  water,  and  put  into  another 
bottle.  This  is  the  fountain.  To  mix,  take  a  glass  half  full 
of  ice- water,  and  pour  from  both  bottles  a  large  spoonful  of 
the  mixture  into  it. 

RASPBERRY  AND  STRAWBERRY  SIRUP. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  nice  ripe  berries,  strain  it,  and 
put  it  into  a  preserving-kettle,  with  a  pound  of  granulated 
sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice;  boil  it  a  moment,  skim,  and 
let  it  cool.  Put  it  into  small  bottles,  putting  into  each  a 
wine-glassful  of  brandy,  and  filling  them  quite  full  with  the 
sirup.  Frozen,  it  makes  a  delicate  ice,  or  a  fine  beverage 
mixed  with  ice-water. 

SODA-WATER  SIRUPS. 

Fruit  Acid.  —  Citric  acid,  four  ounces;  water,  eight 
ounces.  Dissolve. 

Simple  Sirup. — Sugar,  four  pounds;  water,  two  pints; 
egg  sirup,  half  an  ounce.    Mix  thoroughly. 

Egg  Sirup. — Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  in  which  dissolve 
a  pound  of  sugar.  This  produces  the  foam  when  the  soda 
is  drawn. 

Ginger  Sirup. — Tincture  of  ginger,  one  ounce;  simple 
sirup,  two  pints.  Mix. 

Lemon  Sirup. — Extract  of  lemon,  half  an  ounce;  fruit 
acid,  half  an  ounce ;  simple  sirup,  two  pints.  Mix. 

Strawberry  Sirup.  —  Pure  strawberry  juice,  four 
ounces ;  simple  sirup,  two  pints. 

Vanilla  Sirup. — Extract  of  vanilla,  three-fourths  of 
an  ounce ;  simple  sirup,  two  pints.  Mix. 

Nectar  Sirup. — Pure  pine -apple  juice,  four  ounces; 
pure  strawberry  juice,  three  ounces;  extract  of  vanilla,  two 
drachms;  simple  sirup,  two  pints.  Mix. 

Pine- apple  Sirup. — Pure  pine-apple  juice,  four  ounces; 
simple  sirup,  two  pints. 


324  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


Raspberry  Sirup. — Pure  raspberry  juice,  four  ounces ; 
simple  sirup,  two  pints. 

Chocolate  Sirup.  —  German  sweet  chocolate,  two 
ounces;  fresh  milk,  two  pints;  sugar,  one  pound;  whites 
of  three  eggs.  Grate  the  chocolate,  put  it  into  the  milk,  set 
it  on  the  stove,  and  when  dissolved  let  it  simmer.  Beat  the 
eggs  well,  and  gradually  mix  in  the  sugar  and  eggs  with 
ihe  milk  and  chocolate,  stirring  constantly. 

Chexoweth  &  Co. 


CANDY. 


CANDY  MADE  WITHOUT  COOKING. 

The  same  quantity  of  water  as  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
before  beating,  which  may  be  measured  in  tumblers.  Put 
one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla  in  the  water,  beat  the  eggs  very 
light,  and  add  water  and  sugar  alternately,  a  small  quantity 
at  a  time.  Stir  hard,  and  continue  to  add  sugar  until  stiff 
as  dough,  then  work  with  the  hands.  Confectioner's  sugar 
must  be  used.  Make  into  small  cakes,  about  the  size  of  a 
half  dollar,  and  put  an  English  walnut-kernel  in  each  side, 
and  press  it  in  with  the  fingers;  Cocoa-nut,  cherries, 
oranges,  or  candied  fruit,  may  be  mixed  in  with  it.  Set  on 
ice  to  harden  before  eating. 

WHITE  SUGAR  CANDY. 

To  eight  pounds  of  white  sugar  take  five  pints  of  boiling 
water  and  pour  over  the  sugar.  Stir  until  it  is  thoroughly 
dissolved,  then  set  on  the  fire  and  keep  it  boiling  briskly, 
but  not  hot  enough  to  burn.  Wash  the  salt  out  of  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  butter.  Boil  three  table-spoonfuls  of  clear 
vinegar  and  the  butter  together  in  a  tin  cup.  When  boil- 
ing hot,  pour  into  the  candy.  Try  the  candy  by  dipping  a 
little  in  cold  water.  When  very  hard  on  the  spoon  it  is 
done.  Do  not  stir  the  candy  while  boiling.  When  done, 
pour  out  carefully  on  buttered  plates.  Flavor  with  vanilla 
or  lemon.    When  cool,  pull  until  white. 

Miss  Alice  Ficklin. 
WHITE  SUGAR  CANDY. 

Take  two  pints  of  white  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pint  of 
water,  one-fourth  of  a  pint  of  vinegar,  butter  the  size  of  an 

(325) 


326 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


egg,  one  level  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Put  all  together  in  a 
very  bright  brass  kettle,  and  stir  well  before  setting  on  the 
range  to  cook,  then  place  over  a  hot  fire  and  cook  forty 
minutes,  or  until  thoroughly  done.  Have  ready  greased 
two  meat-dishes,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  vanilla  in  each  dish. 
Pour  the  candy  quickly  from  the  kettle.  When  cool  enough, 
pull  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  until  light  and  white. 

Mrs.  Emily  Gray. 
WHITE  SUGAR  CANDY. 

Take  one  pint  of  white  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  boiling 
wTater,  one  table-spoonful  of  clear  vinegar,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  butter  with  the  salt  washed  out.  Boil  the  vinegar,  but- 
ter, and  water  together  with  a  small  piece  of  vanilla-bean. 
Add  the  sugar,  and  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  then 
return  to  the  fire  and  boil  briskly  until  done.  Pour  on 
buttered  plates.  Do  not  stir  the  candy  while  cooking. 
When  cool  enough,  pall  until  white. 

CREAM  CANDY. 

Take  three  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  one  pint  of  cream, 
one-half  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  table-spoonful  of  vinegar, 
one  table-spoonful  of  butter  with  the  salt  washed  out.  Boil 
quickly.  When  done  and  just  ready  to  pour  out,  put  in 
one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla.  Miss  E.  Paddock. 

HOME-MADE  CANDY. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of  light 
brown  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  and  one  tea-spoonful 
of  vanilla.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  put  into  buttered  pans 
in  a  cool  place.  Harper's  Young  People. 

CANDY. 

Take  four  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar,  one-half  tea-cup- 
ful of  vinegar,  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Dissolve  the  su- 
gar well  before  putting  on  the  fire.  After  it  has  boiled  ten 
minutes,  put  in  a  table-spoonful  of  butter.    Skim  the  dark 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  327 


scum  as  it  rises.  Drop  a  little  on  a  buttered  pan,  and  if  it 
can  be  picked  up  in  the  fingers  without  sticking,  it  is  done. 

Mrs.  Yeaman. 

COCOA-NUT  DROPS. 

Take  one  pound  of  grated  cocoa-nut,  one-half  pound  of 
pulverized  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.    Drop  on  buttered  pans,  and  bake. 

Young  People. 

COCOA-NUT  CANDY. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  cream. 
Stir  well  together  in  a  saucepan  on  top  of  the  stove.  Boil 
for  ten  minutes.  Have  a  slow  fire,  as  it  burns  easily.  Stir 
in  the  grated  cocoa-nut,  and  pour  into  shallow  pans.  When 
cool,  cut  into  squares.  Let  it  remain  until  cold.  Do  not 
butter  the  pans,  as  there  is  oil  enough  in  the  cocoa-nut. 

Miss  Phcebe  Wood. 

CREAM  ALMONDS. 

Take  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  one- 
half  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Boil  four  minutes,  then  beat 
until  cold  enough  to  handle.  Mold  over  almond  kernels, 
and  roll  in  coarse  sugar.  Harper. 

TO  SUGAR  CORN. 

Put  into  a  kettle  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  three  ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of  water,  one  tea-cupful  of  white  sugar.  Boil 
until  ready  to  candy.  Put  in  three  quarts  of  popped  corn ; 
stir  briskly,  and  remove  from  the  fire.  When  cool,  each 
grain  will  be  coated  with  sugar.         Mrs.  H.  Bieebower. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  DROPS. 

Mix  one-half  tea-cupful  of  cream  with  two  cupfuls  of  su- 
gar. Boil  and  stir  fully  five  minutes.  Set  the  dish  into 
another  one  of  cold  water,  and  stir  the  sirup  until  it  becomes 
hard  enough  to  make  into  small  balls.  Put  three-fourths 
of  a  cake  of  chocolate  into  a  bowl  over  a  boiling  tea-kettle 


328 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


and  melt  it.  Eoll  each  one  separately  in  the  chocolate  with 
a  fork.  Add  to  the  cream  one-half  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla. 
Put  them  on  paper  to  cool.  Baltimore. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

Take  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cup- 
ful of  rich  cream,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of 
molasses,  one  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla. Stir  the  ingredients  well  together  and  boil.  Put  on 
buttered  plates.    When  cool,  cut  into  small  squares. 

Mrs.  J.  Eobixson 
CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses, 
one  cupful  of  grated  chocolate,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet 
cream,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Dissolve  the  sugar  and 
molasses  in  half  a  cupful  of  warm  water.  Dissolve  the 
chocolate  in  the  cream.  Put  all  together  after  it  gets  hot. 
Stir  all  the  time.  Pour  on  buttered  plates.  AVhen  cool, 
cut  into  squares.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Shackleford. 


WHEN  FOOD  IS  IN  SEASON. 


FRUITS. 

Apples  are  iu  season  all  the  year ;  cheapest  from  August 
until  spring. 

Blackberries  from  July  to  September. 

Cantaleups  from  July  to  October. 

Cherries  from  May  to  August. 

Cranberries  from  September  to  April. 

Currants,  green,  June  to  July;  ripe,  July  to  August. 

Damsons  from  July  to  December. 

Elderberries,  August  and  September. 

Gooseberries  from  June  to  September. 

Grapes  from  September  till  winter. 

Lemons  arrive  fresh  from  the  West  Indies  in  winter. 

Musk-melons  from  July  to  the  middle  of  September. 

Oranges  from  Florida  and  the  West  Indies  are  in  market 
from  October  until  April;  those  from  the  Mediterranean 
from  January  until  May.  The  Florida  oranges  are  the  best 
and  the  largest. 

Papaws  are  ripe  about  the  middle  of  September. 

Peaches  come  from  the  Bermudas  May  1,  are  ripe  in 
July,  and  are  plenty  in  market  from  August  to  September. 

Pears  which  are  best  for  eating  are  in  season  from  August 
to  October. 

Prunes  arrive  fresh  from  December  to  May. 
Quinces  are  in  season  from  October  to  December. 
Easpberries  are  in  market  from  the  middle  of  June  until 
September. 

(329) 


330 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


Strawberries  appear  as  early  as  April  1  in  the  South, 
but  are  not  plentiful  until  June,  and  the  season  is  over  in 
July. 

Water-melons  are  in  season  from  July  to  October. 

VEGETABLES. 
Artichokes  are  ready  for  use  in  September. 
Asparagus  from  the  first  of  May  until  the  middle  of 
June. 

Beans,  string,  June  to  November;  Lima,  from  July 
through  the  year. 

Beets  from  June  through  the  year. 

Cabbage  May  and  June,  and  last  through  the  winter. 

Carrots  from  May  until  November. 

Cauliflower  from  June  until  spring. 

Celery  from  August  to  April,  but  it  is  better  after  being 
touched  by  frost. 

Corn,  green,  from  June  to  September. 

Cucumbers,  in  the  South  in  April;  in  the  Middle  States, 
from  June  to  November. 

Herbs  for  seasoning  should  be  gathered  just  as  they  begin 
to  flower. 

Horse-radish  is  always  in  season. 

Mushrooms  are  the  most  plentiful  in  August  and  Septem- 
ber. 

Onions,  new,  from  the  Bermudas  about  May  1 ;  from 
May  until  July. 

Peas,  green,  from  the  Bermudas  May  1 ;  from  May  until 
July. 

Potatoes,  new,  arrive  from  the  Bermudas  about  April; 
from  June  to  July — plentiful  in  July  and  August. 

Potatoes,  sweet,  are  in  season  from  August  to  December. 
Pumpkins  are  in  season  from  September  to  January. 
Radishes  are  in  season  from  April  until  cold  weather. 
Rhubarb  from  April  to  September. 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


331 


Spinach  is  the  earliest  vegetable  used  for  greens,  and  is 
continued  through  the  season  by  providing  a  succession  of 
crops. 

Squash,  summer,  from  June  to  August;  winter,  from 
August  through  the  winter. 

Tomatoes  are  not  plentiful  before  June. 

Turnips,  new,  are  in  market  about  June  1,  and  last 
through  the  year. 

MEATS. 

Beef  is  good  at  all  seasons  of  the  year. 
Lamb  in  March,  but  from  June  to  August  is  best  as  well 
as  cheapest. 

Mutton  is  in  season  all  the  year,  but  is  not  so  good  in  the 
fall,  the  meat  being  drier  and  strong  flavored. 

Pork  should  never  be  eaten  in  warm  weather. 

Veal  is  in  season  except  in  hot  weather,  when  it  keeps 
badly. 

Venison,  from  the  buck,  is  best  from  August  to  Novem- 
ber; from  the  doe,  from  November  to  January. 

FOWLS. 

Brant,  a  choice  wild  fowl,  April  and  May,  and  Septem- 
ber and  October. 

Chickens  are  in  season  all  the  year,  but  plentiful  from 
May  until  September. 

Doves,  the  turtle — one  of  the  best  game  birds,  in  August 
and  September. 

Ducks,  domestic,  are  best  in  June  and  July;  wild,  in 
spring  and  fall. 

Geese,  wild,  from  October  to  December ;  tame,  when  four 
months  old. 

Guinea  fowls  best  in  winter,  when  they  take  the  place  of 
partridges. 

Partridges,  pheasants,  or  ruffled  grouse,  are  in  season  in 


332 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


most  markets  from  September  to  January,  but  are  best  in 
October  and  November. 

Pigeons,  wild,  are  plentiful  in  Se]  t ember  and  October. 

Prairie  chickens  are  in  season  from  August  to  October. 

Rabbits  are  in  season  from  November  to  January. 

Snipe  from  March  20  to  April  20 ;  again  in  October. 

Squirrels  from  May  to  October. 

Turkeys  are  best  in  the  fall  and  winter,  though  in  market 
at  all  seasons. 

"Woodcock  from  July  to  November,  but  best  in  October. 
EGGS. 

Eggs  are  always  in  season,  but  are  cheap  in  spring  and 
dear  in  winter. 

FISH. 

As  a  rule  fish  are  in  the  best  condition  just  before  spawn- 
ing. 

Bass,  of  which  there  are  a  dozen  varieties,  at  all  times  of 
the  year. 

Blue-fish,  a  popular  fish  on  the  sea-coast,  from  June  to 
October. 

Bream,  a  fish  sometimes  known  as  dace,  in  the  winter 
months. 

Chub,  a  fresh-water  fish,  in*  fall  and  winter. 
Clams  from  May  to  September. 
Conger  eels  from  November  to  April. 
Crabs  from  June  to  January,  but  are  more  wholesome  in 
the  cold  months. 

Eels  from  April  to  November. 

Haddock  in  November  and  December,  and  June  and 
July. 

Halibut  in  season  all  the  year. 
Herring  from  February  to  May. 

Liobsters  are  plentiful  in  market  except  in  winter  months. 


The  Neio  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


333 


Mackerel  from  May  through  the  summer. 

Oysters  are  in  season  from  September  to  May. 

Salmon  from  March  to  September. 

Shad  appear  in  market  from  February  20  to  June. 

Sturgeon  from  April  to  September. 

Suckers  from  October  to  April. 

Trout,  brook,  are  in  season  from  March  until  August ; 
lake,  from  October  until  March ;  Mackinaw,  in  the  winter 
months. 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 


APRIL. 

Sunday,  11. — Breakfast:  Fish,  Graham  cakes,  light 
bread,  eggs,  radishes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Roast  of  lamb  with 
mint  sauce,  lettuce  with  mayonaise  dressing,  new  potatoes, 
hard-boiled  eggs,  radishes,  Lima  beans,  light  bread.  Des- 
sert— Ice-cream,  cake  with  candied  icing,  coffee.  Lunch  : 
Cold  lamb  with  currant  catsup,  sliced  buttered  bread,  cheese, 
tea. 

Monday,  12. — Breakfast:  Stewed  prunes,  hashed  lamb, 
shirred  eggs,  baking-powder  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Cold 
baked  ham,  lettuce,  radishes,  potatoes,  eggs.  Dessert  — 
Float  and  cake,  tea.  Supper:  Ham  fried  in  batter,  plain 
biscuit,  pickle,  preserves,  tea. 

Tuesday,  13. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal,  broiled  steak,  wheat 
muffins,  boiled  eggs,  coffee.  Dinner:  Fricasseed  chicken, 
lettuce,  new  potatoes,  spring  onions,  canned  tomatoes,  and 
corn-dodgers.  Dessert — Fritters  ami  maple  sirup.  Supper: 
Cold  ham,  radishes,  coffee-bread,  pickles,  marmalade,  coffee. 

Wednesday,  14. — Breakfast:  Cracked  wheat,  breakfast 
bacon  and  eggs,  drop  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner :  Broiled  steak, 
new  potatoes,  lettuce,  boiled  onions,  biscuit.  Dessert — 
Rhubarb  pie,  coffee.  Supper:  Grated  ham,  pickles,  Mrs. 
Lee's  rolls,  stewed  potatoes,  tea. 

Thursday,  15. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal,  broiled  ham,  eggs, 
biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Boiled  fish  with  egg  dressing,  pota- 
toes with  cream  dressing,  lettuce,  tomatoes,  steamed  corn 
bread.  Dessert — Boiled  custard  and  sponge-cake.  Supper: 
Mackerel  salad,  cold  ham,  tea  rolls,  preserves,  tea. 
(334) 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


335 


Friday,  16. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal,  lamb  chops,  fried  po- 
tatoes, Graham  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner :  Roast  of  beef  with 
pepper-sauce,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  corn,  lettuce,  radishes,  cold 
Graham  biscuit.  Dessert — Bourbon  pudding.  Supper: 
Cold  beef  with  catsup,  lobster  salad,  plain  biscuit,  wafers, 
tea. 

Saturday,  17. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  sliced  beef  a  la  mode, 
corn  batter-cakes,  baking-powder  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Baked  fish,  potatoes,  radishes,  boiled  onions,  lettuce,  cold 
biscuit.  Dessert — Charlotte  pudding.  Supper:  Salmon 
salad,  light  bread,  sliced  tongue,  preserves  and  cake,  tea. 

MAY. 

Sunday,  18.  —  Breakfast:  Oranges,  fish,  potato  puffs, 
Kentucky  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Fried  chicken,  lettuce, 
pease,  asparagus,  new  potatoes,  sliced  light  bread,  pickles, 
jellies.  Dessert — Jelly  pudding.  Lunch:  Sliced  ham,  cold 
bread,  preserves,  pickle,  catsup,  cake,  coffee  or  tea. 

Monday,  19. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  steak,  baking-powder 
biscuit,  scrambled  eggs,  coffee.  Dinner:  Cold  ham,  light 
bread,  potatoes,  baked  asparagus.  Dessert — Canned  peach- 
es, cake,  coffee.  Supper:  Thin  slices  of  baked  ham  broiled, 
tea  rolls,  baked  potatoes,  coffee. 

Tuesday,  20.— Breakfast:  Stewed  currants,  broiled  lamb 
chops,  shirred  eggs,  corn  batter  cakes,  soda  biscuit,  coffee. 
Dinner:  Roast  of  beef,  spinach  dressed  with  eggs,  aspara- 
gus, new  potatoes,  light  bread  and  corn-pone.  Dessert — 
Meringue  pudding  and  sauce,  coffee.  Supper:  Sliced  beef, 
chilli  sauce,  stewed  potatoes,  Kentucky  biscuit,  coffee. 

Wednesday,  21. — Breakfast :  Stewed  prunes,  stewed  hash 
on  toast,  corn  batter-cakes,  plain  omelet,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Boiled  fish  dressed  with  eggs,  new  potatoes,  pease,  aspara- 
gus, dressed  lettuce,  Graham  bread.  Dessert — Custard  pie, 
coffee.  Supper:  Fish  salad,  porter-house  steak,  waffles,  but- 
tered bread,  preserves,  coffee. 


Tlie  New  Kentucky  Rome  Cool:  Booh. 


Thursday,  22. — Breakfast:  Cracked  wheat,  veal  cutlets, 
fried  potatoes,  pocket-books,  coffee.  I) inner:  Pea  soup, 
roast  of  lamb,  scalloped  onions,  spinach,  potatoes,  cold  rolls. 
Dessert — Sponge-cake  roll  with  sauce,  coffee.  Supper :  Cold 
lamb,  tomato  catsup,  wheat  muffins,  preserves,  tea  or  coffee. 

Friday,  23. — Breakfast:  Cracked  wheat,  fried  ham  and 
eggs,  rice  croquettes,  corn  batter-cakes  and  biscuit,  coffee. 
Dinner:  Roast  of  veal,  new  potatoes,  dressed  lettuce,  canned 
tomatoes,  bread.  Dessert — Rhubarb  pie,  coffee.  Supper: 
Sliced  veal,  plum  catsup,  Sally-lunn,  compote  of  apples,  cof- 
fee or  chocolate. 

Saturday,  24. — Breakfast:  Broiled  steak,  soda  biscuit, 
scalloped  potatoes,  scrambled  eggs,  coffee.  Dinner:  Meat 
pie,  dressed  lettuce,  jowl  and  greens.  Dessert — Hot  rolls 
and  preserves,  chocolate.  Supper:  Fried  sweet -breads, 
pocket-books,  potato  balls,  preserves,  tea. 

Sunday,  25. — Breakfast:  Bananas,  broiled  chicken,  sliced 
tomatoes,  fresh  light  bread,  coffee.  Dinner:  Roast  of  lamb 
with  currant  jell}*,  pease,  baked  asparagus,  cucumbers,  po- 
tatoes, light  bread.  Dessert — Vanilla  ice-cream,  cocoa-nut 
cake,  coffee.  Lunch:  Cold  sliced  lamb,  cold  light  bread, 
currant,  catsup,  pickle,  fruit  and  cake,  coffee. 

Monday,  26. — Breakfast:  Apple  sauce,  cold  lamb  stewed 
with  gravy,  buttered  toast,  poached  eggs,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Steak  dressed  with  tomatoes,  stewed  onions,  potatoes,  cold 
bread.  Dessert — Batter  pudding  with  sauce,  coffee.  Sup- 
per: Chipped  beef,  tea  rolls,  cheese,  preserves,  coffee. 

Tuesday,  27.  —  Breakfast:  Oatmeal,  breakfast  bacon 
dipped  in  corn  meal  and  fried,  corn  muffins,  scalloped  pota- 
toes, coffee.  Dinner:  Baked  fish,  dressed  lettuce,  mashed 
potatoes,  asparagus,  beets.  Dessert — Tapioca  pudding  with 
cream  sauce,  coffee.  Sujijier:  Veal  loaf  sliced,  scalloped 
eggs,  Kentucky  biscuit,  catsup,  pickle,  tea  or  coffee. 

Wednesday,  28. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  broiled  veal  cutlets, 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  337 


stewed  potatoes,  sliced  tomatoes,  baking-powder  biscuit, 
coffee.  Dinner:  Beef  soup,  hot  crackers,  stuffed  steak, 
pease,  beets,  cymlings.  Dessert  —  Hot  biscuit  and  pre- 
serves, chocolate.  Supper:  Beef  croquettes,  sliced  tomatoes, 
baker's  bread  and  batter-cakes,  preserves,  coffee. 

Thursday,  29. — Breakfast:  Oranges,  liver  a  la  Fran- 
caise,  fried  potatoes,  light  rolls,  coffee.  Dinner:  Lamb  with 
mint  sauce,  jowl  and  greens,  asparagus,  pease,  corn  bread. 
Dessert  —  Gooseberry  tart,  coffee.  Supper:  Lamb  cro- 
quettes, cucumbers,  Sally-lunn,  compote  of  cherries,  grated 
cheese,  tea  or  chocolate. 

Friday,  30. — Breakfast :  Oatmeal,  lamb  a  la  mode,  dressed 
radishes,  potato  balls,  hot  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Tomato 
soup,  roast  of  beef,  beets,  cymlings,  potatoes,  tomato  cat- 
sup, cucumbers,  cold  biscuit.  Dessert — Cake  with  sauce, 
coffee.  Supper:  Beef  croquettes,  sliced  tomatoes,  German 
puffs,  oatmeal  and  cream,  coffee  or  chocolate. 

Saturday,  31. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  baked  hash,  steamed 
eggs,  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Fried  fish,  mashed  potatoes, 
spring  onions,  jowl  and  greens,  corn  bread,  pickles.  Des- 
sert— Cherry  tart,  coffee.  Supper:  Cold  ham  with  French 
mustard,  hot  rolls,  Saratoga  potatoes,  cheese,  compote  of 
rhubarb,  tea. 

JUNE. 

Suxday,  15. — Breakfast:  Strawberries,  broiled  chicken, 
cold  light  bread,  corn  batter-cakes,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee. 
Dinner:  Roast  of  veal  with  jelly  sauce,  sliced  tomatoes, 
cymlings,  potatoes,  sliced  bread.  Dessert  —  Mrs.  Tabb's 
strawberry  short-cake  served  with  cream,  coffee.  Lunch : 
Cold  veal,  cold  buttered  bread,  pickles,  jelly  sauce,  cake, 
cheese,  tea. 

Monday,  16. — Breakfast  :  Veal  hash,  scolloped  potatoes, 
baking-powder  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Poor  man's  soup 
with  toasted   bread,  steak  and  gravy,   potatoes,  sliced 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Bool: 


cucumbers,  corn  pone,  coffee.  Supper:  Salmon  salad, 
sliced  tomatoes,  pickles,  Kentucky  biscuit,  cheese,  tea  or 
coffee. 

Tuesday,  17. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal  with  cream,  lamb 
chops,  soda  biscuit,  potato  cakes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Chicken 
pie,  potatoes  dressed  with  cream,  stewed  tomatoes,  onions, 
sliced  light  bread,  lettuce.  Dessert — Pie.  Supper:  Broiled 
dried  beef  served  with  drawn-butter  sauce,  Sally-lunn,  sliced 
tomatoes,  strawberries  and  cup  cake,  tea. 

Wednesday,  18. — Breakfast:  Cracked  wheat  with  cream, 
broiled  fish,  light  rolls,  cucumbers,  coffee.  Dinner:  Roast 
of  beef  with  tomato  catsup,  cold  rolls,  beets,  potatoes,  eyrn- 
lings.  Dessert  —  Ginger  pudding,  coffee.  Supper:  Sliced 
beef  a  la  mode,  Saratoga  potatoes,  tea  rolls,  strawberries,  tea. 

Thursday,  19. — Breakfast:  Stewed  hash  on  toast,  corn 
batter- cakes,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Mrs.  Dim- 
mitt's  tomato  soup,  baked  fish  with  drawn -butter  sauce, 
mashed  potatoes,  beets,  cucumbers,  light  bread.  Dessert — 
Strawberry  short-cake,  coffee.  Supper:  Fish  salad,  wheaten 
muffins,  pickles,  strawberries,  tea. 

Friday,  20. — Breakfast:  Broiled  steak,  poached  eggs, 
fried  potatoes,  Kentucky  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Boiled 
leg  of  mutton  with  egg  dressing,  bacon  and  beans,  scalloped 
tomatoes,  cymlings,  cold  biscuit.  Dessert  —  Green  apple 
pie,  coffee.  Supper:  Cold  slices  of  mutton  with  Hollandaise 
sauce,  baking-powder  biscuit,  apple  sauce,  tea. 

Saturday,  21. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  broiled  breakfast  ba- 
con, soda  biscuit,  fried  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Steak 
dressed  with  tomatoes,  potatoes,  beans,  cucumbers,  corn 
muffins.  Dessert — Apple  dumplings,  coffee.  Supper:  Sar- 
dines, pocket-books,  coddled  apples,  sliced  tomatoes,  tea. 

Sunday,  22. — Breakfast:  Raspberries,  broiled  chicken, 
waffles,  cold  bread,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Fried 
chicken,  potatoes  with  cream  dressing,  cymlings,  sliced  tc- 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


339 


matoes,  cold  bread,  cheese.  Dessert — Strawberry  ice-cream, 
water-melon,  cake,  coffee.  Lunch:  Sliced  tongue,  sliced 
tomatoes,  cold  buttered  bread,  raspberries,  chocolate. 

Monday,  23. — Breakfast:  Steak,  Graham  gems,  stewed 
potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Mock  duck,  potatoes,  sliced  toma- 
toes, cucumbers.  Dessert — Cherry  Charlotte,  cold  bread, 
coffee.  Supper:  Tongue,  baking-powder  biscuit,  sliced  to- 
matoes with  mayonnaise  sauce,  tea. 

Tuesday,  24. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  broiled  sweet-breads, 
fried  cucumbers,  soda  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Eoast  of 
beef  with  potato  leaves,  sliced  tomatoes,  bacon  and  beans, 
corn-dodgers,  pickles,  tomato  catsup.  Dessert — Raspber- 
ries,  jumbles,  coffee.  Supper:  Sliced  stewed  beef,  tea  rolls, 
sliced  tomatoes,  tea  or  coffee. 

Wednesday,  25.  —  Breakfast:  Oatmeal,  baked  hash, 
wheaten  batter-cakes,  light  bread,  cucumbers,  coffee.  Din- 
ner: Tomato  soup,  lamb  chops,  potatoes,  sliced  cucumbers, 
baker's  bread.  Dessert — Apple  cobbler,  coffee.  Supper:  Salm- 
on salad,  Kentucky  biscuit,  Saratoga  potatoes,  cheese,  tea. 

Thursday,  26. — Breakfast:  Veal  cutlets,  baking-powder 
biscuit,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Chickens,  potatoes 
with  cream  sauce,  beans,  cymlings,  cucumbers,  cold  biscuit. 
Dessert  —  Raspberries  and  cream,  coffee.  Supper:  Cold 
chicken,  light  rolls,  sliced  tomatoes,  stewed  fruit,  tea. 

Friday,  27.  —  Breakfast:  Oatmeal  and  cream,  lamb 
chops,  fried  potatoes,  egg  bread,  cold  rolls,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Fish,  potatoes,  cucumbers,  beans,  sliced  tomatoes,  corn  muf- 
fins. Dessert — Pie,  coffee.  Supper:  Sliced  yeal  loaf  with 
jelly  sauce,  wheaten  muffins,  sliced  tomatoes,  cheese,  tea. 

Saturday,  28. — Breakfast:  Fried  liver,  stewed  potatoes, 
plain  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Steak,  beans,  potatoes,  cab- 
bage, cold  bread.  Dessert — Molded  rice  with  cream,  coffee. 
Supper:  Cold  sliced  ham,  potato  puffs,  pocket-books,  toma- 
toes sliced,  chocolate. 


340 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


AUGUST 

Sunday,  18. — Breakfast:  Cantaleup,  fried  chicken  with 
gravy,  corn  patties,  fresh  light  bread,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Chicken,  corn  pudding,  Lima  beans,  cooked  tomatoes,  sliced 
cucumbers,  cold  bread.  Dessert — Peaches  and  cream,  cake, 
coffee.  Lunch:  Cold  chicken,  sliced  tomatoes,  cove  oyster 
salad,  cold  buttered  bread,  iced  tea,  peaches  and  cake. 

Monday,  19.  —  Breakfast:  Oatmeal,  breakfast  bacon 
dipped  in  egg  and  cracker,  baking-powder  biscuit,  sliced 
tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Steak,  corn  on  the  cob,  potatoes, 
sliced  tomatoes,  light  bread.  Dessert — Water-melon,  coffee. 
Supper :  Broiled  beef,  tea  rolls,  sliced  tomatoes,  potato  salad, 
iced  tea.  i 

Tuesday,  20. — Breakfast  :  Cantaleup,  lamb  chops,  wheat 
batter-cakes,  cold  bread,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Roast  of  mutton  with  mutton  sauce,  potatoes,  corn  cut  off, 
slaw,  stewed  tomatoes,  baker's  bread.  Dessert— Peaches 
and  cream,  hot  cake,  coffee.  Supper:  Sliced  mutton  with 
tomato  catsup,  Saratoga  potatoes,  Kentucky  biscuit,  iced  tea. 

Wednesday,  21.  —  Breakfast:  Broiled  chicken,  wheat 
muffins,  fried  corn,  coffee.  Dinner:  Tenderloin  roast  with 
potatoes,  corn  pudding,  scalloped  tomatoes,  Lima  beans, 
pickles,  biscuit.  Dessert — Lemonade,  hot  cake,  coffee.  Sup- 
per: Beef  sliced  with  currant  catsup,  tomatoes  sliced,  Sally- 
lunn,  peaches  and  cream,  cake,  iced  tea. 

Thursday,  22. — Breakfast:  Cantaleup,  hash,  roasted  po- 
tatoes, light  rolls,  coffee.  Dinner:  Fried  chicken,  succo- 
tash, potatoes,  stewed  tomatoes,  corn  pone.  Dessert — Wa- 
termelon, coffee.  Supper:  Cold  chicken,  curd,  Kentucky 
biscuit,  wafers,  fruit,  iced  tea. 

Friday,  23. — Breakfast:  Cantaleup,  broiled  steak,  corn 
fritters,  baking-powder  biscuit,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Din- 
ner: Roast  veal  with  jelly  sauce,  corn,  tomatoes,  potatoes, 
cold  biscuit.  Dessert— -Velvet  pudding,  coffee.  Supper: 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  341 


Veal  croquettes,  pickles,  waffles,  cold  bread,  iced  apples, 
iced  tea. 

Saturday,  24. — Breakfast :  Cantaleup,  lamb  steaks,  soda 
biscuit,  sliced  tomatoes,  corn  fritters,  coffee.  Dinner:  Broiled 
sliced  ham,  succotash,  tomatoes,  potatoes,  hot  rolls.  Des- 
sert— Water-melon.  Supper :  Sardines,  pocket-books,  sliced 
tomatoes,  stewed  potatoes,  cantaleup,  tea. 

Sunday,  25. — Breakfast:  Porter-house  steak,  corn  muf- 
fins, cold  bread,  fried  com.  Dinner:  Smothered  chicken, 
corn  pudding,  Lima  beans,  baked  tomatoes,  potatoes,  sliced 
bread.  Dessert — Peach  cream,  cocoa-nut  cake,  coffee. 
Lunch:  Salmon  salad,  tomatoes  with  mayonnaise  dressing, 
buttered  bread,  curd,  iced  tea. 

Monday,  26.— Breakfast:  Ham  steak,  Mrs.  Lee's  toast, 
sliced  tomatoes,  coffee,  fruit.  Dinner:  Beef  soup,  stewed 
corn,  baked  tomatoes,  plain  bread.  Dessert — Water-melon. 
Supper:  Wheat  muffins,  sardines,  sliced  tomatoes,  roasted 
potatoes,  peaches  and  cream,  jumbles,  iced  tea. 

Tuesday,  27. — Breakfast:  Cantaleup,  beef  hash  baked, 
baking-powder  biscuit,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Boast  beef,  corn  pudding,  stewed  tomatoes,  Lima  beans,  po- 
tatoes, corn  pone.  Dessert — Peach  cobbler,  coffee.  Sup- 
per: Sliced  beef  with  catsup,  tea  rolls,  broiled  tomatoes, 
coddled  pears,  iced  tea. 

Wtednesday,  28. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  hash  on  toast,  bis- 
cuit, fried  potatoes,  corn  batter  -  cakes,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Baked  heart,  cooked  tomatoes,  baked  onions,  potatoes,  corn, 
corn  bread.  Dessert — Tapioca  pudding,  coffee.  Supper: 
Oyster  salad,  rolls,  fried  tomatoes,  fruit,  cheese,  iced  tea. 

Thursday,  29. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  broiled  beefsteak, 
Kentucky  biscuit,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Vegeta- 
ble soup,  veal  roast,  potatoes,  succotash,  baked  tomatoes, 
corn-dodgers,  fruit.  Sivpper:  Veal  croquettes,  sliced  but- 
tered bread,  waffles,  sliced  tomatoes,  honey,  iced  tea. 


342 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


Friday,  30. — Breakfast:  Cantaleup,  beef  a  la  mode, 
Kentucky  biscuit,  fried  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Fried 
chicken,  corn  pudding,  stewed  tomatoes,  Lima  beans,  pota- 
toes, salt-rising  bread,  molded  rice.  Dessert — Jelly  and 
cream,  cake,  coffee.  Supper:  Shrimp  salad,  light  bread, 
potato  puffs,  compote  of  apples,  cake,  iced  tea  with  sliced 
lemon. 

Saturday,  31. — Breakfast:  Lamb  chops,  soda  biscuit, 
fried  potatoes,  sliced  tomatoes,  fruit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Stuffed 
steak,  boiled  corn  cut  off,  potatoes,  scalloped  tomatoes,  hot 
rolls.  Dessert — Water-melon,  coffee.  Supper:  Broiled 
dried  beef,  sliced  tomatoes,  batter-cakes,  fruit  lemonade. 

SEPTEMBER. 

Sunday,  14. — Breakfast:  Grapes,  sliced  breakfast  bacon, 
fried  apples,  light  bread,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Smothered  chicken,  corn  pudding,  stewed  tomatoes,  sweet 
potatoes,  slaw,  sliced  bread.  Dessert — Pine-apple  ice,  water- 
melon, cake,  coffee.  Lunch:  Cold  chicken,  potato  salad, 
buttered  bread,  cheese,  iced  tea,  cake,  fruit. 

Monday,  15. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  broiled  ham,  baking- 
powder  biscuit,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Veal  cut- 
lets, mashed  potatoes,  sliced  tomatoes,  corn  bread.  Dessert 
— Melon,  coffee.  Supper:  Broiled  beefsteak,  Kentucky  bis- 
cuit, fried  potatoes,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee. 

Tuesday,  16. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  hash  on  toast,  wheat 
batter-cakes,  sliced  tomatoes,  fried  apples,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Roast  lamb  with  mint  sauce,  potatoes,  string-beans,  corn, 
tomatoes,  corn  bread.  Dessert — Apple-cobbler  with  cream, 
coffee.  Supper:  Cold  lamb  with  currant  catsup,  waffles, 
light  bread,  fruit,  chocolate. 

Wednesday,  17. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal  and  cream,  steak, 
corn  muffins,  fried  apples,  coffee.  Dinner:  Fried  chicken 
on  mush,  corn  pudding,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  Lima  beans, 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh.  343 


Graham  bread.  Dessert — Water-melon.  Supper:  Oyster 
salad,  sliced  tomatoes,  pocket-books,  cantaleup,  tea. 

Thursday,  18. — Breakfast:  Cantaleup,  lamb  steak,  plain 
biscuit,  fried  potatoes,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Roast  of  beef  with  horse-radish  sauce,  scalloped  sweet  pota- 
toes, potato  leaves,  corn,  tomatoes,  cold  rolls.  Dessert — 
Peach-cobbler,  coffee.  Supper:  Cold  beef,  dressed  tomatoes, 
waffles,  peaches  and  cream,  coffee,  jumbles. 

Friday,  19. — Breakfast:  Cantaleup,  baked  hash,  sliced 
tomatoes,  corn  muffins,  coffee.  Dinner:  Smothered  chick- 
en, corn  pudding,  tomatoes,  Lima  beans,  hot  biscuit.  Des- 
sert— Peaches  and  cream,  coffee.  Supper:  Cold  chicken, 
sliced  tomatoes,  buttermilk  biscuit,  fruit,  tea. 

Saturday,  20. — Breakfast:  Cantaleup,  ham  steak,  soda 
biscuit,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Mock  duck,  Lima 
beans,  sweet  potatoes,  tomatoes,  baker's  bread.  Dessert — 
\Vater-melon,  coffee.  Supper:  Sliced  mock  duck  with  jelly 
sauce,  fried  tomatoes,  pocket-books,  tea. 

Sunday,  21. — Breakfast:  Grapes,  broiled  chicken,  cold 
bread,  wheat  cakes,  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Cold  baked 
ham  with  mustard,  Lima  beans,  corn  pudding,  potatoes,  to- 
matoes, salt  rising.  Dessert — Plain  cream,  Dolly  Varden 
cake,  coffee.  Supper:  Cold  ham,  egg  salad,  sliced  bread, 
cucumber  catsup,  cake  and  peaches,  tea. 

Monday,  22.— Breakfast :  Cracked  wheat,  Mrs.  Keith's 
beefsteak,  baking-powder  biscuit,  sliced  tomatoes,  coffee. 
Dinner:  Cold  ham,  tomatoes,  baked  potatoes,  sliced  bread. 
Dessert — Fruit,  cake,  coffee  or  tea.  Supper :  Grated  ham,  po- 
tato salad,  rice  crumpets,  Aunt  Kitty's  apples  and  cake,  tea. 

Tuesday,  23. — Breakfast:  Cantaleup,  mutton  chops,  egg 
bread,  fried  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Roast  of  beef  with 
potatoes,  corn  and  beans,  tomatoes,  slaw,  biscuit.  Dessert — 
Sliced  apple  pie,  coffee.  Supper:  Croquettes,  sliced  toma- 
toes, waffles,  fruit,  tea. 


344 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


Wednesday,  24. — Breakfast :  Grapes,  hash  on  toast,  corn 
batter-cakes,  tomatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Chicken,  Lima 
beans,  corn,  sweet  potatoes,  Irish  potatoes,  corn  pone.  Des- 
sert— Stewed  pears  with  cream,  sponge-cake,  coffee.  Sup- 
lie  r:  Cold  chicken,  tomatoes  sliced,  tea  rolls,  fruit  and  cake, 
tea. 

Thursday,  25. — Breakfast  :  Oatmeal  and  cream,  Graham 
biscuit,  liver  and  breakfast  bacon,  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Boiled  fish  with  egg  sauce,  slaw,  Irish  potatoes,-  succotash, 
sweet  potatoes,  baker's  bread.  Dessert — Rice  pudding,  cof- 
fee. Supper:  Fish  salad,  Saratoga  potatoes,  corn  muffins, 
wafers,  tea. 

Friday,  26. — Breakfast:  Cracked  wheat  and  cream, 
broiled  ham,  poached  eggs  on  toast,  light  bread,  batter-cakes, 
coffee.  Dinner:  Steak  dressed  with  tomatoes,  potatoes, 
corn  and  beans,  corn  pone,  Graham  gems.  Dessert — Lem- 
on jelly,  almond  custard,  cake,  chocolate.  Supper:  Mus- 
tard, sardines,  potato  salad,  plain  biscuit,  fruit  and  cake, 
tea. 

Saturday,  27. — Breakfast:  Grapes,  breakfast  mackerel, 
baking-powder  biscuit,  potato  puffs,  coffee.  Dinner:  Veg- 
etable soup,  corn  and  beans,  Irish  potatoes,  tomatoes,  cold 
biscuit.  Dessert — Fruit,  jumbles.  Supper:  Broiled  beef- 
steak, Mrs.  Desha's  rolls,  Saratoga  potatoes,  peaches  and 
cream,  cake,  coffee. 

NOVEMBER. 

Sunday,  16. — Breakfast:  Oranges,  fried  oysters,  waffles, 
Saratoga  potatoes,  cold  light  bread,  coffee.  Dinner:  Oyster 
soup,  baked  chicken,  rice  with  cheese,  potatoes  mashed  and 
baked,  tomatoes,  slaw,  sliced  bread.  Dessert — Cake  with 
sauce,  coffee.  Lunch:  Cold  chicken,  salmon  salad,  cold 
buttered  bread,  preserves  and  cake,  tea  or  milk. 

Monday,  17. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal  and  cream,  sausage, 
baking-powder  biscuit,  coffee.    Dinner:  Steak  dressed  with 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


345 


tomatoes,  potatoes,  corn,  light  bread.  Dessert  —  Canned 
fruit,  coffee.  Supper:  Chipped  beef,  corn  muffins,  baked 
potatoes,  preserves  and  cake,  coffee. 

Tuesday,  18. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  spare-rib,  Kentucky 
biscuit,  stewed  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Noodle  soup,  roast 
of  beef,  hominy,  sweet  potatoes,  slaw,  corn-dodgers.  Des- 
sert— Plain  fruit  pudding  with  sauce,  coffee.  Supper:  Beef 
croquettes  (out  of  soup-bone),  wheat  muffins,  shrimp  salad, 
coffee,  fruit. 

Wednesday,  19. — Breakfast:  Yeal  cutlets,  buttermilk 
biscuit,  fried  hominy,  coffee.  Dinner:  Sliced  beef  a  la  mode, 
hominy,  potatoes,  macaroni,  cold  biscuit.  Dessert — Rice 
pudding,  coffee.  Supper:  Broiled  steak,  drop  biscuit,  Sara- 
toga potatoes,  preserves,  tea-cakes,  tea. 

Thursday,  20. — Breakfast:  Cracked  wheat,  hash,  Gra- 
ham gems,  light  bread,  eggs,  coffee.  Dinner:  Chicken-pie, 
salsify,  Irish  potatoes,  turnips,  corn  pone.  Dessert — Sliced 
apple  pie,  coffee.  Supper:  Sausage,  Miss  Mollie  Chile's 
rolls,  corn  batter-cakes,  potatoes,  tea. 

Friday,  21.— Breakfast:  Stewed  peaches,  Mrs.  O.  H.  P. 
Thomas's  steak,  plain  biscuit,  wafers,  fried  hominy,  coffee. 
Dinner:  Baked  chine  (back-bone),  turnips,  fried  cabbage, 
potatoes,  Kentucky  dodgers.  Dessert — Pumpkin-pie,  coffee. 
Supper:  Broiled  dried  beef,  Sally-lunn,  roasted  potatoes, 
compote  of  apples,  cake,  chocolate. 

Saturday,  22.  —  Breakfast:  Sausage,  scrambled  eggs, 
light  bread,  wheat  batter-cakes,  fried  apples,  coffee.  Din- 
ner: Mrs.  Dimmitt's  tomato  soup,  heated  crackers,  baked 
beans,  sweet  potatoes,  baker's  bread.  Dessert — Apple 
dumplings,  coffee.  Supper:  Broiled  ham,  pocket-books, 
stewed  potatoes,  preserves,  tea-cakes,  tea. 

Sunday,  23. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal  and  cream,  fried 
chicken,  cold  light  bread,  buckwheat  cakes,  coffee.  Din- 
ner: Oyster  soup,  ducks,  cranberries,  celery,  sweet  potatoes, 


346 


TJie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Bool:. 


rice,  cold  bread.  Dessert — Charlotte-Russe.  Lunch  :  Sliced 
ham,  pickle,  currant  catsup,  cold  bread  buttered,  preserves, 
cake. 

Monday,  24. — Breakfast:  Hashed  duck,  baking-powder 
biscuit,  fried  sweet  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Cold  ham 
with  chilli  sauce,  corn  and  tomatoes,  roasted  potatoes,  corn 
bread,  hot  biscuit  and  preserves,  coffee.  Supper:  Ham  with 
mustard,  Graham  batter-cakes,  canned  pears,  light  bread, 
coffee. 

Tuesday,  25. — Breakfast:  Stewed  currants,  spare-rib, 
biscuit  and  corn  muffins,  fried  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Roast  of  pork,  potatoes  baked  with  roast,  horse-radish  sauce, 
rice,  macaroni,  egg  bread.  Dessert — Queen  of  puddings, 
coffee.  Supper:  Sliced  pork  and  cold  ham  with  sauce,  cold 
bread,  waffles,  preserves,  tea. 

Wednesday,  26. — Breakfast:  Stewed  prunes,  steak  and 
onions,  drop  biscuit,  fried  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Cold 
ham,  salsify,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  corn  muffins.  Dessert — 
Rice  pudding  with  sauce,  coffee.  Supper:  Ham  salad, 
stewed  potatoes,  pocket-books,  preserves,  coffee. 

Thursday,  27  (Thanksgiving). — Breakfast:  Brains, 
steak,  buckwheat  cakes,  roasted  potatoes,  light  bread,  coffee. 
Dinner:  Oyster  soup,  hot  crackers,  turkey  stuffed  with  oys- 
ters, cranberries,  pickles,  celery,  jelly,  buttered  light  bread, 
sweet  potatoes,  macaroni,  French  pease  on  toast,  eggs.  Des- 
sert— Plum  pudding  with  wine  sauce,  ice-cream,  almond 
custard  cake,  assorted  cakes,  coffee,  fruits,  nuts,  raisins. 
(No  supper.) 

Friday,  28. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal,  deviled  turkey  legs, 
biscuit,  fried  sweet  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Cold  turkey 
with  cherry  catsup,  potatoes,  baked  apples,  rice  and  cheese, 
bread.  Dessert — Canned  fruit  and  cake.  Supper:  Grated 
ham,  mush  and  milk,  Sally-lunn,  fruit,  coffee. 

Saturday,  29. — Breakfast:   Turkey  hash,  buckwheat 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  347 


cakes,  biscuit,  fried  mush,  coffee.  Dinner:  Mutton  chops, 
parsnips,  cabbage,  corn-dodgers,  macaroni,  Lima  beans,  cold 
biscuit,  coffee.  Supper:  Broiled  ham,  White  Mountain 
rolls,  potato  salad,  preserves  and  tea. 

CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 

Oyster  soup  with  toast,  catsup,  pickles,  dressed  celery, 
cranberries,  turkey,  Mrs.  Bledsoe's  premium  ham,  scalloped 
oysters,  French  pease,  hard-boiled  eggs,  corn,  tomatoes,  slaw, 
hot  rolls.  Dessert — Eve's  pudding,  orange  cream  served  in 
the  orange,  fruit  cake,  Malaga  grapes,  bananas,  pears,  coffee. 

JANUARY. 

Newt- year's  Dinner. — Oyster  soup,  hot  crackers,  celery, 
pickles,  ducks,  currant  jelly,  fried  oysters,  sweet-breads  with 
pease,  macaroni,  Lima  beans,  eggs,  potatoes,  buttered  bread. 
Dessert — Mince-pie,  pine-apple  ice,  chocolate,  fruits. 

First  Sunday. — Breakfast :  Oranges,  birds,  waffles,  cold 
light  bread,  fried  mush,  coffee.  Dinner:  Turkey,  scalloped 
oysters,  celery,  cranberries,  sweet  potatoes,  hominy,  pickles. 
Dessert — Orange  jelly  with  cream,  cake,  chocolate.  Lunch: 
Cold  turkey,  celery  salad,  sandwiches,  pickles,  cheese,  pre- 
serves and  cake,  coffee. 

Monday. — Breakfast:  Stewed  peaches,  breakfast  bacon, 
fried  mush,  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Turkey,  hominy,  beans, 
tomatoes,  cold  bread,  pickles.  Dessert — Bread  pudding, 
coffee.  Supper:  Milk-toast,  cold  turkey,  soda  biscuit,  cat- 
sup, preserves  and  tea. 

Tuesday. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal,  scalloped  turkey,  Ger- 
man puffs,  coffee.  Dinner :  Mock  duck,  baked  beans,  hom- 
iny, turnips,  slaw,  pickles,  bread.  Dessert — Custard  and 
cake,  coffee.  Supper:  Pressed  chicken,  plain  biscuit,  Sara- 
toga chips,  cherry  preserves,  chocolate. 

Wednesday. — Breakfast:  Cracked  wheat,  liver  a  laFran- 
caise,  fried  mush,  coffee.   Dinner:  Roast  of  veal  with  sauce, 


348 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


canned  corn,  pudding,  hominy,  potatoes,  pickles,  egg  bread, 
biscuit,  coffee.  Supper:  Cold  sliced  veal  with  catsup,  cod- 
fish balls,  waffles,  quince  preserves,  chocolate. 

Thursday.  —  Breakfast:  Stewed  apples,  fried  rabbits, 
fried  mush,  quick  muffins,  coffee.  Dinner:  Baked  chickens, 
Lima  beans,  macaroni,  boiled  cabbage,  corn  bread,  coffee. 
Supper:  Meat  croquettes  of  veal  or  chicken,  Parker-house 
rolls,  roasted  potatoes,  tea,  fruit. 

Friday. — Breakfast:  Smoked  sausage,  corn  muffins,  wheat 
batter-cakes,  stewed  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Roast  of  beef 
with  potato  roses,  chilli  sauce,  baked  tomatoes,  baked  onions, 
baked  apples,  bread.  Dessert — Mince-pie  and  coffee.  Sup- 
per: Cold  beef^  Sally-lunn,  rice  crumpets,  coddled  apples, 
coffee. 

Saturday.  —  Breakfast:  Stewed  peaches,  stewed  beef, 
buckwheat  cakes,  beaten  biscuit,  #  fried  hominy,  coffee. 
Dinner:  Steak  dressed  with  tomatoes,  parsnips,  scalloped 
potatoes,  cold  biscuit,  corn  bread.  Dessert — Corn -starch 
pudding,  coffee.  Supper:  Chicken  salad,  chipped  beef, 
Mrs.  Desha's  rolls,  strawberry  preserves,  cake,  coffee. 

FEBRUARY. 

First  Sunday. — Breakfast:  Oranges,  fried  oysters,  waf- 
fles, cold  light  bread,  rice  croquettes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Oys- 
ter soup,  turkey,  cranberries,  pickles,  jelly,  sweet  potatoes, 
macaroni,  Boston  baked  beans,  slaw,  light  bread.  Dessert — 
Orange  jelly  with  whipped  cream,  cake,  chocolate.  Lunch: 
Cold  turkey,  oyster  salad,  pickles,  cheese,  crackers,  cold 
bread. 

Monday. — Breakfast:  Stewed  apples,  pork  steak  with 
cream  gravy,  fried  potatoes,  corn  muffins,  cold  bread,  coffee. 
Dinner:  Sausage,  corn,  tomatoes,  cold  light  bread.  Des- 
sert— Oranges,  bananas,  cake,  coffee.  Supper:  Cold  turkey, 
drop  biscuit,  stewed  potatoes,  preserves,  tea. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  349 


TuesDxIY. — Breakfast:  Turkey  hash,  beaten  biscuit,  fried 
mush,  coffee.  Dinner:  Beef's  heart  stuffed,  fried  cabbage, 
potatoes,  baked  onions,  Lima  beans,  corn  pone.  Dessert — 
Mince-pie,  coffee.  Supper:  Mackerel,  baking-powder  bis- 
cuit, preserves,  pickles,  cocoa. 

Wednesday. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal  with  cream,  spare- 
rib,  corn  batter-cakes,  coffee,  biscuit.  Dinner:  Boiled 
mutton  with  egg  sauce,  parsnips,  sweet  potatoes,  turnips, 
slaw,  Graham  gems.  Dessert — Lemon  pudding,  coffee. 
Supper:  Cold  sliced  mutton,  catsup,  Mrs.  Ad.  Wadsworth's 
rolls,  salmon  salad,  greengage  preserves,  tea. 

Thursday.  —  Breakfast:  Stewed  prunes,  steak  and  on- 
ions, fried  mush,  Kentucky  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Duck 
with  baked  onion,  plum  jelly,  hominy,  potatoes,  rice  and 
cheese,  baked  tomatoes,  cold  biscuit.  Dessert — Sponge-cake, 
Charlotte,  coffee.  Supper:  Cold  duck,  mutton  croquettes, 
Sally-lunn,  raspberry  jam,  cocoa. 

Friday. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal,  ham  with  cream  gravy, 
baking-powder  biscuit,  buckwheat  cakes,  hominy,  fritters, 
coffee.  Dinner:  Soup,  hot  crackers,  pickles,  steak  with  oys- 
ters, canned  corn,  Lima  beans,  bread.  Dessert—Blackberry 
roll  with  sauce.  Supper :  Dried  beef  broiled,  chicken  salad, 
cream  biscuit,  canned  peaches  and  cake,  chocolate. 

Saturday. — Breakfast:  Sausage,  soda  biscuit,  corn  bat- 
ter-cakes, fried  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Veal  cutlets,  po- 
tatoes, hominy,  stewed  tomatoes,  corn  bread.  Dessert — Gin- 
ger-cake pudding,  coffee.  Supper:  Raw  oysters,  mixed 
pickles,  salad,  pocket-books,  preserves,  coffee. 

MARCH. 

Sunday. — Breakfast:  Broiled  oysters  on  toast,  waffles, 
cold  bread,  peach-butter,  coffee.  Dinner:  Baked  chickens, 
cranberries,  macaroni,  Lima  beans,  scalloped  sweet  pota- 
toes, French  pease,  sweet  and  sour  pickles,  sliced  bread. 
Dessert — Lemon  sherbet,  cake,  coffee.    Lunch:  Cold  chick- 


350 


TJie  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Booh. 


en,  chicken  salad,  pickles,  sandwiches,  crackers,  cheese, 
candied  fruits,  cake. 

Monday. — Breakfast:  Steak,  fried  hominy,  biscuit,  coffee. 
Dinner:  Eoast  of  beef  with  potato  leaves,  rice,  corn,  toasted 
bread.  Dessert  —  Baked  custard,  coffee.  Supper:  Cold 
beef  broiled  with  mustard,  wheat  batter-cakes,  cold  bread, 
cooked  cheese,  coffee. 

Tuesday. — Breakfast :  Fruit,  breakfast  bacon  and  scram- 
bled eggs,  Kentucky  egg  bread,  French  toast,  coffee.  Din- 
ner: Steak  with  tomatoes,  corn,  macaroni,  roasted  potatoes, 
bread.  Dessert — Rice  pudding  with  plum  preserves,  coffee. 
Supper:  Sliced  cold  ham,  Spanish  pickles,  Sally-lunn,  pear- 
butter,  tea. 

Wednesday. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal  and  cream,  ham  and 
eggs,  light  rolls,  coffee.  Dinner:  Eoast  of  veal  with  pota- 
toes, jowl  and  greens,  tomatoes,  baked  beans.  Dessert — 
Preserves  and  hot  biscuit,  milk.  Supper:  Yeal  croquettes, 
ham  salad,  plain  biscuit,  coddled  apples,  wafers,  tea. 

•  Thursday. — Breakfast:  Cold  jowl  broiled,  boiled  eggs, 
corn  batter-cakes,  biscuit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Boiled  chicken 
dressed  with  eggs,  potatoes,  Lima  beans,  tomatoes,  cold 
bread.  Dessert — Batter  pudding  with  sauce,  coffee.  Sup- 
pler :  Ham,  poached  eggs  on  toast,  pocket-books,  cherry  pre- 
serves, tea. 

Friday. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal,  Mrs.  Keith's  steak,  plain 
biscuit,  Saratoga  chips,  marmalade,  coffee.  Dinner:  Fried 
fish,  poached  eggs,  boiled  cabbage,  potatoes,  corn-dodgers. 
Dessert — Charlotte-Busse,  chocolate.  Supper:  Fish  salad, 
chipped  beef,  German  puffs,  pickles,  cheese,  tea. 

Saturday. — Breakfast:  Fruit,  veal  cutlets,  beaten  bis- 
cuit, Graham  cakes,  stewed  potatoes,  coffee.  Dinner: 
Chicken-pie,  jowl  and  greens,  scalloped  potatoes,  baked  to- 
matoes with  onion,  coffee,  hot  rolls.  Supper:  Broiled  squab, 
pocket-books,  Saratoga  potatoes,  preserves,  coffee  or  tea. 


MENUS. 


WINTER. 

1.  Oysters  served  in  block  of  ice.  2.  Julienne  soup. 
3.  Boiled  salmon  garnished  with  potato  croquettes,  and  ol- 
ives with  sauce  Hoilandaise.  4.  Sweet-breads  and  pease. 
5.  Fillet  of  beef  with  mushrooms.  6.  Champagne  ice.  7. 
Chicken  salad  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  8.  Cheese  fondu 
and  wafers.  9.  Cabinet  pudding ;  chocolate  ice-cream  with 
cake.    10.  Fruit.    11.  Coffee. 

WINTER. 

1.  Mock  turtle  soup.  2.  Fish  croquettes  garnished  with 
potato  roses.  3.  Fried  oysters,  cold  slaw.  4.  Saddle  of 
venison  with  currant  jelly  sauce,  garnished  with  baked  to- 
matoes; scalloped  sweet  potatoes.  5.  Roman  punch  in 
lemon  skins.  6.  Shrimp  salad  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 
7.  Cheese ;  wafers ;  celery.  8.  English  plum  puddiDg ;  pine- 
apple ice  with  little  cakes.    9.  Fruit.    10.  Coffee. 

WINTER. 

1.  Oysters  on  the  half- shell.  2.  French  gumbo  soup. 
3.  Broiled  shad  with  Maitre  cV 'hotel  sauce.  4.  Sweet-breads 
with  mushrooms.  5.  Lamb  chops  with  tomato  sauce;  roast 
turkey  with  hard-boiled  eggs ;  Saratoga  potatoes.  6.  Frozen 
claret.  7.  Celery  salad.  8.  Macaroni  with  cheese.  9. 
Mince-meat  patties.  10.  Orange  cream  served  in  the  skins. 
11.  Fruit.    12.  Coffee. 

SPRING. 

1.  French  tomato  soup.  2.  Soft-shelled  crabs.  3.  Sweet- 
breads with  screen  pease.  4.  Pigeon  breasts  served  on  toast ; 

(351) 


352  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


roast  lamb  with  spinach.  5.  Lettuce  salad  with  French 
dressing.  6.  Roman  punch.  7.  Ramequins  a  la  Vole.  8. 
Bavarian  cream;  vanilla  ice-cream.    9.  Fruit.    10.  Coffee. 

SPRING. 

1.  Asparagus  soup.  2.  Fried  frog's  legs  with  green  pease. 
3.  Lamb  chops  with  tomato  sauce;  boiled  fowl  with  sauce 
remonlade ;  fillet  of  beef  with  Saratoga  potatoes.  4.  Cham- 
])agne  ice.  5.  Lobster  salad.  6.  Welsh  rare-bit.  7.  Choc- 
olate glace.  8.  Frozen  fruit  with  cakes.  9.  Fruit.  10. 
Coffee;  wafers. 

SUMMER. 

1.  Ox -tail  soup.  2.  Fried  fish  with  tomato  sauce.  3. 
Chickens  with  cauliflower — -cream  dressing  for  both.  4. 
Roast  veal  garnished  with  potato  leaves.    6.  Claret  ice. 

7.  Sliced  tomatoes  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  8.  Cheese; 
wafers.  9.  Fruit  salad.  10.  Strawberry  ice-cream  with 
fancy  cakes.    11.  Fruit.    12.  Coffee. 

SUMMER. 

1.  Roman  punch.  2.  Clear  soup.  3.  Boiled  fish  with 
egg  dressing — potato  garnish.  4.  Fried  chicken  with  cream 
dressing.  5.  Sweet-breads  with  French  pease.  6.  Fillet  of 
beef  garnished  with  baked  tomatoes.    7.  Corn  pudding. 

8.  Salad  of  lettuce.  9.  Cheese;  wafers;  cucumbers.  10. 
Lemon  jelly.  11.  Peach  ice-cream  and  cake.  12.  Fruit. 
13.  Coffee. 

LUNCH. 

1.  Buillon.  2.  Soft-shelled  crabs  with  olives.  3.  Sweet- 
bread croquettes  with  tomato  sauce.  4.  Haunch  of  venison ; 
currant  jelly ;  Saratoga  potatoes.  5.  Roman  punch  served 
in  lemon  skins.  6.  Fried  oysters  garnished  with  parsley. 
7.  Chocolate  with  whipped  cream.  8.  Mayonnaise  of  chick- 
en; cheese  sandwiches.  9.  Vanilla  ice-cream  with  cake. 
10.  Fruit.    11.  Bonbons. 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


353 


A  SIMPLE  LUNCH. 

1.  Sardines;  pickled  oysters.  2.  Cold  sliced  ham  with 
parsley  garnish.  3.  Chowchow ;  cold  slaw.  4.  Thin  slices 
of  bread  and  butter.  5.  Tea  or  chocolate  with  whipped 
cream.    6.  Cheese.    7.  Fruit. 

SUPPER  (AUTUMN). 

1.  Raw  oysters  served  in  a  block  of  ice  and  garnished 
with  parsley.    2.  Broiled  shad  with  Mattre  d'hotel  sauce. 

3.  Fried  chicken  served  on  mush  with  cream  dressing. 

4.  Sweet-breads  with  French  pease.  5.  Kentucky  biscuits; 
waffles.  6.  Coffee;  tea.  7.  Salmon  salad.  8.  Cheese; 
wafers.    9.  Ice-cream  and  cake. 

AN  OLD-FASHIONED  KENTUCKY  SUPPER. 

1.  Raw  oysters.  2.  Fried  chicken  with  parsley  garnish 
and  cream  dressing.  3.  Sardines;  sliced  tongue.  4.  Sara- 
toga potatoes.  5.  Worked  biscuit;  Sally-lunu.  6.  Ham 
salad.  7.  Tea;  coffee;  chocolate.  8.  Cheese.  9.  Pine- 
apple ice  with  cake. 

BREAKFAST. 
1.  Fruit.    2.  Broiled  fish  on  toast,  garnished  with  slices 
of  lemon.     3.  Saratoga  potatoes.     4.  Coffee;  chocolate. 

5.  Fillets  of  steak  served  on  mush  and  garnished  with  mush- 
rooms. 6.  Fried  oysters;  Kentucky  biscuit.  7.  Cheese 
omelet.    8.  Rice  pancakes  with  maple  sirup. 

A  KENTUCKY  HOME  BREAKFAST. 

1.  Oranges.  (To  serve,  see  page  216.)  2.  Broiled  par- 
tridge served  on  toast.  3.  Saratoga  potatoes;  scrambled 
eggs.  4.  Beaten  biscuit.  5.  Buckwheat  cakes  with  sugar 
sirup. 

23 


HINTS  FOR  THE  SICK-ROOM. 


In  selecting  a  room  for  the  occupancy  of  the  sick,  always 
choose  one  that  is  sunny  and  well  ventilated,  for  on  these 
two  essentials  much  depends.  Air  may  be  freely  admitted  by 
lowering  the  top  sash  of  a  window  and  raising  the  lower  sash 
one  inch.  Avoid  having  the  patient  in  a  draught,  and  keep 
sufficiently  covered,  so  as  not  to  be  chilled.  The  atmos- 
phere of  the  room  may  be  speedily  deodorized  by  burning  a 
wisp  of  paper  or  sprinkling  cologne  upon  a  heated  shovel. 
Matting  for  the  floor  is  preferable  to  carpet;  it  is  easier  to 
keep  clean,  and  has  no  woolen  texture  to  absorb  the  germs 
of  disease. 

The  broom-  should  be  moistened  before  sweeping,  and  the 
furniture  wiped  off  with  a  damp  cloth.  All  unnecessary 
furniture  should  be  removed.  The  bed-linen  should  be  per- 
fectly clean,  and  frequently  changed.  Blankets  are  more 
desirable  than  comforts  where  warmth  is  needed.  For  the 
outside  cover  always  use  the  snowy  counterpane.  Adorn 
the  walls  with  cheerful  pictures  and  pretty  objects  that  will 
attract  the  eye  and  divert  the  mind  of  the  patient  while 
convalescing,  thereby  hastening  recovery. 

Have  a  small  table  in  the  room,  covered  with  a  white 
cloth;  place  on  it  a  vase  of  flowers  and  a  book  or  two. 
These  can  be  quickly  removed  and  the  table  placed  by  the 
bedside  when  needed. 

Do  not  have  too  great  a  variety  at  one  meal,  and  very 
little  of  each  article,  lest  the  appetite  become  satiated.  The 
food  should  be  placed  upon  a  tray  covered  with  a  spotless 
napkin ;  the  china,  silver,  and  glass  glistening  with  cleanli- 
(354) 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


355 


ness;  and  in  the  midst  of  all  a  tiny  bouquet  of  flowers, 
bright  but  not  fragrant.  If  the  surroundings  are  dainty 
the  simplest  fare  will  look  inviting,  and  perhaps  tempt  the 
appetite. 

Avoid  all  unnecessary  noise  in  the  room.  Sudden  noises 
are  distracting.  The  rattling  of  a  newspaper  is  particularly 
trying  upon  the  nervous  system,  and  should  never  be  per- 
mitted in  a  sick-room.  Replenish  the  fire  with  lumps  of 
coal  in  paper  sacks;  this  method  will  not  disturb  the  pa- 
tient. Under  no  circumstances  awaken  an  invalid  out  of  a 
sound  sleep,  unless  it  is  necessary  to  administer  a  stimulant 
to  sustain  life. 

Never  whisper  in  a  sick-room.  It  is  far  better  to  talk 
aloud  in  a  moderate  tone.  Avoid  talking  just  outside  the 
door,  where  only  a  word  or  two  can  be  heard  and  the  rest 
imagined.  Unpleasant  topics  should  never  be  discussed  in 
the  presence  of  the  sick — only  the  most  cheerful  news  re- 
lated, if  you  desire  their  speedy  recovery. 

A  pleasant-faced,  even-tempered  nurse  is  invaluable,  and 
should  be  prized  for  her  worth ;  for  she  will  greatly  aid  the 
physician  in  enabling  the  sick  one  to  recuperate,  and  there- 
by prove  an  angel  in  disguise. 

SOUP  FOR  INVALIDS 

Cut  into  small  pieces  one  pound  of  beef  or  mutton,  or  a 
part  of  both.  Boil  it  gently  in  two  quarts  of  water.  Take 
off  the  scum,  and  when  reduced  to  a  pint  strain  it.  Season 
with  a  little  salt,  and  take  a  tea-cupful  at  a  time. 

Complete  Home. 

SUPERIOR  BEEF  TEA. 

Take  one  pound  of  lean,  fresh  beef,  chop  it  fine,  and  pour 
over  it  one  pint  of  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  three  hours, 
and  drain  well.  Set  the  water  aside,  and  pour  over  the 
beef  one  pint  of  tepid  water ;  let  it  stand  three  hours,  pour 


356  The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


off  the  water,  and  set  it  aside ;  then  pour  over  the  beef  one 
pint  of  hot  water,  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  let  it  sim- 
mer for  three  hours,  and  drain  off  the  water.  Take  the 
three  pints  of  water,  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  let  it  just 
come  to  a  boiling,  take  it  off,  and  strain  it.  When  cold,  it 
is  a  clear  amber-colored  liquid.  When  heated,  with  pepper 
and  salt  added,  it  is  a  delicious  soup,  and  very  nutritious. 

Me.  W.  J.  Chenoweth. 
BEEF  TEA. 

Take  one  pound  of  good  beef,  chop  it  fine,  put  it  into  a 
quart  bottle,  set  the  bottle  into  a  kettle  of  water,  and  boil 
several  hours  until  the  juice  is  extracted.  Then  season 
with  a  little  salt. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Take  a  small  portion  of  chicken,  put  it  into  a  saucepan, 
cover  it  with  water,  and  while  boiling  add  a  little  rice. 
When  quite  tender,  add  a  bit  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream.    Can  be  made  without  rice. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Wadsworth,  jr. 

COOKED  CHICKEN  FOR  THE  SICK. 

Prepare  a  chicken  for  cooking ;  split  it,  and  press  it  flat ; 
while  still  damp,  salt  and  pepper  it.  Rub  the  inside  with 
grated  crackers  seasoned  with  butter,  having  as  many  to 
adhere  as  possible.  Have  a  hot  skillet  just  greased  suffi- 
ciently to  keep  from  sticking.  Put  in  the  chicken,  cover  it 
with  a  tight  lid,  and  place  it  in  a  hot  oven;  uncover  it  in. 
fifteen  minutes.  If  not  sufficiently  cooked  in  that  time,  re- 
place the  lid,  and  let  it  remain  a  few  minutes  longer. 

CORN  MEAL  GRUEL. 

Take  one  pint  of  corn  meal,  pour  over  it  sufficient  cold 
water  to  thin  it.  Have  ready  a  quart  of  boiling  water  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  pour  in  the  meal,  stirring  brisk- 
ly until  it  thickens.  .  Miss  Alice  Ficklin. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


357 


BARLEY  GRUEL. 
Boil  the  barley  three  or  four  hours  in  plenty  of  water; 
then  when  the  water  is  white  and  glutinous,  strain  it  off, 
and  add  a  little  loaf  sugar  and  a  very  little  salt.    This  is 
exceedingly  nourishing,  and  good  for  infants. 

Complete  Home. 

MOCK  OYSTER  SOUP. 
Take  one  pint  of  boiling  milk,  half  a  dozen  fresh  crack- 
ers, a  small  lump  of  butter,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Season 
highly  with  pepper.  Miss  J ulia  Porter. 

BATTER-CAKES  FOR  INVALIDS. 
Take  two  nice  crackers,  pulverize  them  fine,  pour  over 
them  one  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and  stir  in  one  well-beaten 
egg;  add  a  little  salt.    Fry  in  a  small  quantity  of  butter. 

SAGO. 

Soak  half  a  tumblerful  of  sago  two  hours ;  add  one  pint 
and  a  half  of  cold  water ;  cook  in  a  saucepan,  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  clear  and  thick.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and 
before  it  cools  sweeten.  Add  nutmeg  and  a  table-spoonful 
of  wine  or  whisky.  Miss  Alice  Ficklin. 

TAPIOCA. 

Soak  half  a  tea-cupful  of  tapioca  for  several  hours  in  cold 
water,  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  until 
clear.  Flavor  with  the  juice  of  lemon  or  grated  nutmeg, 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  when  cold  serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  "Wadsworth,  jr. 

ARROWROOT. 

To  one  pint  of  new  milk  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ar- 
rowroot thoroughly  dissolved  in  a  little  milk;  boil  it  until  it 
thickens,  stirring  all  the  while.  Sweeten,  and  flavor  with 
nutmeg.    May  be  eaten  warm  or  cold. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Wadsworth,  jr. 


358 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


WAFERS  FOR  THE  SICK. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  cream,  whip  it  thoroughly,  add  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  sufficient  flour  to  roll  it  very  thin.  Bake 
quickly.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Wadsworth,  sr. 

BOHEMIAN  CREAM. 

Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  take  one  wine- 
glassful  of  jelly  and  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  beat  them 
thoroughly  together;  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Charles  Sadler. 

PANADA. 

Take  three  or  four  crackers,  place  them  in  a  bowl,  and 
pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  over  them.  Flavor  with  good 
whisky  or  brandy,  a  little  nutmeg,  sugar,  and  small  lumps 
of  butter. 

EGG  PANADA. 

Take  the  yelk  of  one  egg,  three  tea-spoonfuls  of  sugar, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  six  crackers,  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  some 
nutmeg.  Mix  the  ingredients.  After  beating  the  egg  to  a 
froth,  add  wine  or  brandy  to  taste,  and  pour  the  hot  water 
over  all.  Mrs.  Jas.  F.  Eobinsox. 

BARBERRY  JELLY. 

Pick  the  barberries  carefully  from  the  stem ;  place  them 
in  a  kettle,  and  cover  with  water.  When  nearly  done, 
mash  them  thoroughly,  so  as  to  extract  all  the  juice.  Strain 
through  a  flannel  bag.  To  three  pints  of  juice  add  two  of 
sugar.    This  jelly  is  excellent  in  fever. 

Mrs.  W.  PI.  AVadsworth. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Prick  the  apples  with  a  needle  so  they  will  cook  evenly 
and  not  burst.  When  thoroughly  done,  place  them  on  a 
small  dish,  and  serve  with  loaf  sugar  and  cream. 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  359 


APPLE  CUSTARD. 
Parboil  a  cored  tart  apple,  being  careful  that  it  does  not 
come  to  pieces.    When  tender,  place  it  in  a  small  baking- 
dish,  and  cover  with  a  sweet  custard.    Bake  until  the  cus- 
tard is  firm. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

Take  one  ounce  of  Irish  moss,  tie  it  up  in  a  thin  cloth, 
and  boil  it  in  one  pint  and  a  half  of  milk ;  sweeten  it,  and 
flavor  with  lemon,  vanilla,  or  peach-water;  then  strain. 
When  cold,  serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

ROASTED  PEACH. 

Select  a  large,  yellow,  juicy  peach,  wipe  it,  put  it  into  a 
pan  with  a  little  water,  and  bake  until  it  is  tender;  then 
peel  off  the  skin,  divide  it  in  half,  cover  with  sugar,  and  eat 
with  whipped  cream. 

An  apple  or  a  quince  similarly  prepared  is  a  tempting 
dish ;  and  an  orange  peel  deftly  filled  with  ice-cream  is  a 
pleasant  surprise  to  an  invalid. 

WINE  JELLY. 

To  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  add  one  pint  of  cold  water ; 
let  it  stand  about  two  hours,  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling 
water ;  take  four  sticks  of  ciunamon,  break  them  into  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  water,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boiling,  then 
pour  into  the  gelatine;  also  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons, 
two  tumblerfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  wine.  Pour  the 
whole  into  a  kettle,  and  let  it  boil  several  minutes;  skim 
well,  and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag. 

Mrs.  Adna  Wadsworth. 

DRINKS  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Mash  any  kind  of  fruit,  currants,  tamarinds,  berries,  and 
pour  boiling  water  on  them.  In  ten  minutes  strain  it  off; 
sweeten,  and  cool;  add  a  little  ice,  if  possible. 

Complete  Home. 


360 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book, 


RICE  JELLY. 

Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  flour  with  half  a  pound 
of  loaf  sugar,  in  a  quart  of  water,  until  the  whole  becomes 
one  glutinous  mass;  then  strain  off  the  jelly,  and  let  it 
stand  to  cool.  This  is  very  nourishing  and  beneficial  to  in- 
valids. Miss  Jceia  Porter. 
IMPERIAL  GRANUM. 

Dissolve  three  tea-spoonfuls  in  half  a  tea- cupful  of  cold 
water;  stir  this  into  a  tea-cupful  of  boiling  milk  and  water 
(equal  parts),  and  let  it  boil  slowly  two  minutes.  Season 
moderately  with  salt  or  sugar.  Excellent  for  weak  digestion. 

TOAST  WATER. 

Toast  a  bit  of  light  bread ;  add  a  little  bit  of  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boil- 
ing water.    Quickly  prepared,  and  quite  palatable. 

Miss  Julia  Porter. 

IMPERIAL  DRINK. 

Pour  one  quart  of  boiling  water  upon  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  cream  of  tartar;  add  a  few  lemon  and  orange 
chips  and  half  an  ounce  of  sugar  candy.    Pour  off  the  clear 
fluid  when  cold,  and  use  for  common  drink  when  feverish. 
WINE  WHEY. 

Take  one  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and  pour  into  it  one  large 
glassful  of  pale  vine  when  the  milk  is  scalding  hot,  Boil 
up  once,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  let  it  cool.  Do  not  stir 
it  after  the  wine  is  put  in.  When  the  curd  forms,  draw  off 
the  whey,  and  sweeten. 

LEMON  NOGG. 

Beat  one  egg  very  light,  sweeten,  and  add  the  juice  of 
one  lemon.  Then  fill  a  tumbler  half  full  of  ice-water,  add 
the  egg,  sugar,  and  lemon  juice,  and  toss  back  and  forth 
until  quite  light. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Booh. 


361 


EGG  FLIP. 

Beat  an  egg  separately,  then  together ;  sweeten  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar;  then  pour  over  it  sherry  wine,  or  any 
kind  preferred.  This  is  excellent  for  the  sick.  Tastes  like 
egg-nog. 

BARLEY  WATER. 
Boil  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley  (previously  well  mashed) 
for  twenty  minutes  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water;  strain  it, 
and  flavor  with  lemon  and  sugar  to  taste. 

DRINK  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Take  one  egg,  separate  it,  beat  the  yelk  and  two  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  sugar  together  until  very  light.  Over  this  pour  a 
little  wine,  stirring  all  the  while,  then  add  the  white  of  the 
egg  well  beaten.  Miss  Alice  Ficklin. 

Hot  lemonade,  with  broken  crackers,  is  quite  nutritious 
for  a  sick  person.  Miss  Julia  Porter. 

LIQUID  MEASURES. 

Sixty  drops  are  equal  to  one  tea-spoonful. 
Four  table-spoonfuls  are  equal  to  one  wine-glassful. 
Four  table-spoonfuls  are  equal  to  half  a  gill. 
Twelve  table-spoonfuls  are  equal  to  one  tea-cupful. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING. 

To  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  quickly,  put  in  a  pinch  of 
salt.  The  cooler  the  eggs,  the  quicker  they  will  froth.  Salt 
cools  and  preserves  them. 

Beeswax  and  salt  will  make  rusty  flat-irons  as  smooth  as 
glass. 

Roasted  coffee  is  one  of  the  most  powerful  disinfectants, 
not  only  rendering  animal  and  vegetable  effluvia  harmless 
but  really  destroying  them. 

An  attack  of  indigestion  caused  from  eating  nuts  may  be 
immediately  relieved  by  the  simple  remedy,  "salt."  Medi- 
cal men  recommend  that  salt  should  be  used  with  nuts,  espe- 
cially when  eaten  at  night. 

Fish  may  be  scaled  much  more  easily  if  dipped  in  boil- 
ing water  for  an  instant. 

The  unpleasant  odor  left  on  the  breath  after  eating  on- 
ions is  entirely  removed  by  drinking  a  cupful  of  strong 
coffee ;  and  the  coffee  being  prepared  while  the  onions  are 
being  cooked  counteracts  the  smell. 

Tough  meat  may  be  made  as  tender  as  any  by  the  addi- 
tion of  a  little  vinegar  to  the  water  when  it  is  put  on  to 
boil. 

To  prevent  the  disagreeable  odor  from  arising  while  cook- 
ing cabbage,  drop  in  a  small  lump  of  blacksmith's  coal. 
The  water  should  be  changed  when  half  cooked,  and  it  will 
then  acquire  greater  sweetness. 

Never  put  pickles  into  a  jar  that  has  had  lard  in  it. 

If  the  brass  top  of  a  kerosene  lamp  has  come  off,  it  may 
•  (362) 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book  363 


be  repaired  with  a  little  plaster  of  Paris  mixed  with  a  little 
water,  and  it  will  be  as  strong  as  ever. 

On  coming  out  of  a  warm  room  or  hall  to  walk  home  on 
a  cold  or  damp  night,  do  not  indulge  in  too  much  conver- 
sation, however  agreeable  your  escort  may  be,  Breathe 
through  your  nose  as  much  as  possible. 

A  small  piece  of  resin  dropped  into  the  water  which  is 
placed  in  a  vessel  on  a  stove  will  add  a  peculiar  property  to 
the  atmosphere  of  the  room  which  will  give  great  relief  to 
persons  troubled  with  a  cough.  The  heat  of  the  stove  is 
sufficient  to  throw  off  the  aroma  of  the  resin,  and  gives  the 
same  relief  that  is  afforded  by  the  combustion,  because  evap- 
oration is  more  durable.  The  same  resin  may  be  used  for 
weeks. 

To  bathe  the  feet  in  a  strong  decoction  of  mullein-water 
affords  great  relief  when  aching ;  also  when  frost-bitten. 

A  spoonful  of  honey  heated  over  the  fire,  and  made  as  hot 
with  ginger  as  one  can  take  it,  will  break  up  a  cold. 

Mustard  plaster  mixed  with  the  white  of  an  egg  will  not 
blister. 

Salt  sprinkled  on  carpets  before  sweeping  will  brighten 
and  clean  them,  and  also  prevent  moths. 

Pure  water,  fresh  air,  sunlight,  and  houses  kept  from  all 
dampness,  will  save  many  doctor's  bills,  and  will  give  health 
and  vigor  which  no  money  can  procure. 

Old  wall-paper  may  be  very  much  improved  by  rubbing 
it  well  with  a  flannel  cloth  dipped  in  oatmeal. 

Grained  wood  should  be  washed  with  cold  tea. 

Cut  cake  or  hot  bread  with  a  hot  knife,  and  it  will  not  be 
clammy. 

When  you  buy  a  new  lamp-chimney,  put  it  into  a  vessel 
of  cold  water ;  set  it  on  a  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  boiling. 
You  can  never  break  that  chimney  unless  you  throw  a  flat- 
iron  on  it. 


364 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


Remember  to  sprinkle  the  eggs  of  a  setting  hen  with  sul- 
phur ;  every  louse  will  be  killed  by  the  time  she  leaves  her 

nest. 

A  weak  preparation  of  citric  acid  will  restore  the  color  to 
silk  or  colored  goods  that  are  defaced  by  lime  or  alkalies. 
First  moisten  the  spot  with  cold  water,  and  apply  with  the 
tip  of  the  linger. 

Stains  from  acids  can  be  removed  from  linen  or  cotton  by 
washing  in  warm  chlorine-water,  and  frequently  nothing 
more  is  needed  than  soaking  and  rinsing  in  pure  soft  cold 
water,  then  washing  and  boiling  as  usual. 

A  bit  of  glue  dissolved  in  milk  will  restore  old  crape. 

Half  a  cranberry  bound  on  a  corn  will  soon  kill  it. 

An  ink-stand  was  turned  over  on  a  white  table-cloth.  A 
mixture  of  salt  and  pepper  was  thrown  over  it  plentifully, 
and  all  traces  of  the  ink  disappeared. 

Picture  frames  and  glasses  are  preserved  from  flies  by 
painting  them  with  a  brush  dipped  in  a  mixture  made  by 
boiling  three  or  four  onions  in  a  pint  of  water. 

Potato-water  is  excellent  for  cleansing  and  freshening  old 
silk. 

To  extract  paint  from  cotton,  silk,  and  woolen  goods:  Sat- 
urate the  spots  with  spirits  of  turpentine  and  let  it  remain 
several  hours,  then  rub  it  between  the  hands.  It  will  crum- 
ble away  without  injuring  the  color  or  texture  of  the  goods. 

To  remove  acid  stains  from  colored  silks  or  worsteds: 
Wet  the  spots  with  water  and  ammonia  diluted  in  propor- 
tion to  the  delicacy  of  the  goods.  Sponge  off  with  alcohol, 
then  with  a  little  clear  water.  Do  not  rub,  but  pat  the  spot 
with  a  cloth  or  sponge  wet  in  this  mixture. 

To  take  ink  out  of  linen:  Dip  the  spotted  part  in  pure 
melted  tallow,  then  wash  out  the  tallow  and  the  ink  will 
come  out  with  it. 

To  remove  iron  rust:  Iron  rust  in  linen  or  calico  may  be 


The  New  Kentuchy  Home  Cook  CooJc. 


265 


removed  by  clipping  immediately  in  cold  water.  Another 
and  better  way:  Cover  the  spots  with  common  salt;  squeeze 
over  the  salt  enough  lemon  juice  to  wet  it,  spread  it  in  the 
sun,  and  in  a  short  time  the  spots  will  disappear,  unless  of 
long  standing,  when  they  may  need  a  repetition.  When 
the  spots  disappear,  wash  and  boil  out. 

To  take  mildew  out  of  linen :  Take  soap  and  rub  it  well, 
then  scrape  some  fine  chalk  and  rub  it  on  the  linen  and  lay 
it  on  the  grass.  As  it  dries,  wet  it  a  little,  and  it  will  come 
out  in  twice  doing. 

HINTS  TO  LAUNDRESSES. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  turpentine  boiled  with  white  cloths  will 
aid  materially  in  the  bleaching  process. 

A  table-spoonful  of  black  pepper  put  into  the  first  water  in 
which  gray  and  buff  linens  are  washed  will  keep  them  from 
spotting.  It  will  also  keep  the  colors  of  black  or  colored 
cambric  or  muslin  from  running,  and  it  does  not  harden  the 
water. 

A  little  gum  arabic  imparts  gloss  to  common  starch. 

A  tea-cupful  of  lye  in  a  pail  of  water  is  said  to  improve 
the  color  of  black  goods  when  it  is  necessary  to  wash  them. 

A  strong,  clean  tea  of  common  hay  will  preserve  the  color 
of  French  linen. 

Vinegar  in  the  rinsing- water  for  pink  or  green  will 
brighten  these  colors,  and  soda  answers  the  same  purpose 
for  both  purple  and  blue.  The  colors  of  these  fabrics 
may  be  preserved  by  using  a  strong  milk-warm  lather  of 
white  soap  and  putting  the  dress  into  it  instead  of  rubbing 
it  on  the  material,  and  stirring  into  a  first  and  second  tub 
of  water  a  large  table-spoonful  of  ox-gall. 

To  retain  colors:  To  keep  the  colors  of  calico  and  ging- 
ham bright  for  a  long  time,  dissolve  a  piece  of  alum  the  size 
of  a  shell-bark  hickory-nut  for  every  pint  of  starch  and  add 
to  it.    This  will  keep  it  bright  a  long  time. 


366  The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


To  wash  colored  stockings:  Prepare  a  strong  lather  of 
soap  and  soft  water,  free  from  soda  and  all  other  compounds, 
as  hot  as  the  hands  can  bear.  After  washing  the  goods 
therein,  rinse  in  clear  water  with  a  little  salt  thrown  in  to 
prevent  the  colors  from  running.  It  is  very  necessary  to 
wring  out  as  much  water  as  possible,  and  then  wring  again 
in  a  dry  towel  and  dry  immediately  before  a  fire.  The  art- 
icles must  be  pinned  up,  not  laid  over  any  thing.  On  no 
account  must  soap  be  rubbed  on,  nor  must  the  article  be 
allowed  to  lie  about  in  folds  before  drying,  as  by  so  doing  it 
is  apt  to  stain  itself. 

Washing  laces:  If  your  lace  curtains  are  soiled,  wash 
them,  and  instead  of  bluing  dip  them  in  some  very  weak 
cold  coffee.  They  will  receive  from  it  a  delicate  shade  of 
ecru,  which  is  so  popular  for  laces  just  now.  Other  articles 
of  lace  may  be  treated  the  same  way. 

Washing  blankets:  Blankets  should  be  put  into  a  tub  of 
cold  water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  pint  of  soap  and 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  borax.  Let  them  remain  all  night, 
and  in  the  morning  rub  and  rinse  them.  Dry  them 
quickly. 

Flannels  should  be  washed  in  warm  soap-suds.  Rinse 
them  in  warm  water  with  very  little  soap  in  it.  Do  not 
wring  them,  but  hang  them  by  the  fire  and  dry  them  imme- 
diately.   When  almost  dry,  iron  them  with  a  warm  iron. 

Washing  black  calico :  Take  one  tea-spoonful  of  turpen- 
tine (slightly  heaping)  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  sugar  of  lead 
to  one  bucket  of  clear  water.  Put  the  dress  in,  let  it  stand 
for  half  an  hour,  wring  out  and  wash.  This  will  prevent 
any  calico  from  fading. 

Washing  black  cashmere :  Wash  in  hot  suds  with  a  little 
borax  in  the  water.  Rinse  in  bluing  water  (very  blue), 
and  iron  on  the  wrong  side  while  damp.  It  will  look  equal 
to  new. 


The  Xew  Kentucky  Some  Cool:  Booh. 


367 


TO  FRESHEN  BLACK  LACE. 

Lay  it  on  a  clean  table,  sponge  it  all  over  with  a  weak 
solution  of  borax — about  an  even  tea-spoonful  or  less  to  a 
pint  of  warm  water — use  a  piece  of  black  silk  (or  black  kid 
glove  is  better)  to  sponge  with.  While  damp,  cover  with  a 
piece  of  black  silk  or  cloth,  and  iron. 

TO  FRESHEN  GRENADINE. 

Take  one  table-spoonful  of  powdered  borax  to  one  quart 
of  water.  Sponge  the  grenadine  on  the  wrong  side,  and 
press  while  damp. 

TO  CLEAN  BLACK  SILK. 

Take  one  tea-spoonful  of  ammonia  and  one  tea-spoonful 
of  turpentine  to  one  pint  of  water.  Let  it  dissolve,  and 
sponge  the  silk  on  the  right  side  and  iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

TO  RESTORE  VELVET. 

When  velvet  has  been  crushed,  hold  the  wrong  side  over 
a  basin  of  boiling  water  and  the  pile  will  gradually  rise. 
Do  not  lose  patience,  for  it  takes  considerable  time,  but  the 
result  is  wonderful. 

TO  SMOOTH  WRINKLED  SILK. 

Sponge  on  the  right  side  with  a  very  weak  gum  arabic 
water,  and  iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

TO  CURL  TUMBLED  FEATHERS. 

Hold  over  the  heated  top  of  a  stove  or  range,  not  near 
enough  to  burn;  withdraw;  shake  them  out;  hold  them 
over  it  again,  and  continue  until  curled. 

TO  CLEAN  GILT  FRAMES. 

Take  the  white  of  eggs  and  rub  gently  with  a  camel's-hair 
pencil.  For  fly  spots,  dip  a  camel's-hair  pencil  into  spirits 
of  wine  and  apply  it. 


368 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Booh. 


TO  PRESERVE  FURS. 

Pack  them  in  a  box  lined  with  brown  Holland,  first 
sprinkling  them  liberally  with  black  pepper.  This  is  even 
better  than  camphor.  They  should  be  well  beaten  before 
putting  away,  to  dislodge  any  larvae  that  despite  the  most 
scrupulous  care  may  be  deposited  in  them.  The  superiority 
of  the  pepper  consists  in  the  fact  that  the  larvse  will  not  in- 
cubate in  the  pepper. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  OSTRICH  FEATHERS. 

Take  four  ounces  of  white  soap,  cut  small,  dissolve  in  two 
quarts  of  rather  hot  water  in  a  basin.  Make  the  solution 
into  a  lather  by  beating  with  a  birchen  rod  or  wires,  intro- 
duce the  feathers  and  rub  well  with  the  hands  for  five  or 
six  minutes  after  this  soaping.  Wash  in  a  clean  water  as 
hot  as  the  hands  can  bear,  and  shake  until  dry. 

TO  FRESHEN  FLOWERS. 

All  flowers  may  be  restored  by  the  use  of  hot  water.  For 
this  purpose  place  the  flowers  in  scalding  water  deep  enough 
to  cover  about  one-third  of  the  length  of  the  stems.  By 
the  time  this  becomes  cold,  the  flowers  will  have  become 
erect  and  fresh.  Then  cut  ofif  the  shrunken  ends  of  the 
stems  and  put  them  into  cold  water. 

TO  DRIVE  NAILS  INTO  A  SOFT  WALL. 

Make  a  hole  with  a  gimlet  twice  as  large  as  the  screw  to 
be  driven.  Then  fill  up  the  hole  with  plaster  of  Paris,  such 
as  is  used  for  fastening  the  tops  of  lamps,  and  imbed  the 
screw  in  the  soft  plaster.  AVhen  the  plaster  sets,  the  screw 
will  hold  like  iron,  and  there  will  be  no  disfigurement  of  the 
wall. 

TO  REMOVE  SMOKE  STAINS  FROM  MANTELS. 

Apply  benzole  to  the  stains  on  the  marble  and  then  care- 
fully rub  them  off  with  a  very  clean,  soft  rag.    If  the  stains 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book  369 


should  not  be  removed  the  first  time,  it  should  be  done  again 
and  again  until  all  marks  are  removed. 

TO  REMOVE  STAINS  FROM  MARBLE. 

Make  a  mortar  of  unslacked  lime  aud  very  strong  lye. 
Cover  the  spots  thickly  with  it,  and  leave  it  on  for  six 
weeks.  Wash  it  off  perfectly  clean,  and  rub  it  hard  with  a 
brush  dipped  in  soap  and  water.  Polish  with  a  smooth  hard 
brush. 

TO  CLEAN  OIL-CLOTH. 

Sweep  off  the  dust,  wipe  off  with  a  clean  flannel  cloth, 
wet  over  with  milk,  and  rub  with  a  cloth  until  dry. 

TO  CLEAN  STRAW  MATTING. 

Wash  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  cold  salt  and  water,  then 
wipe  dry  at  once.    This  will  prevent  it  from  turning  yellow. 

TO  CLEAN  CARPETS. 

Sprinkle  the  carpet  thickly  with  coarse  salt.  Moisten 
(not  wet)  with  vinegar,  and  sweep  it  off. 

CHAMPION  CARPET-CLEANER. 

Take  one  bar  of  Babbitt's  or  German  soap,  slice  thin  and 
dissolve  in  half  a  bucketful  of  hot  water.  Then  dissolve  in 
half  a  bucketful  of  hot  water  two  ounces  of  sal  soda,  one 
ounce  of  borax,  one  ounce  of  fullers'  earth.  Put  all  the 
ingredients  together  in  a  wash-tub,  add  one  bucketful  of 
cold  water,  and  let  it  stand  until  cold,  or  overnight.  Stir 
well,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Take  up  the  carpet  and  thor- 
oughly clean  it,  put  it  back  on  the  floor  and  go  over  it  with 
a  good  brush,  using  the  mixture  as  you  would  soap,  having 
a  bucketful  of  clear  water  to  rinse  it  off  with.  Take  one 
width  at  a  time,  and  dry  off  well  with  a  clean  cloth  as  you 
go.  When  done,  it  will  look  almost  as  bright  as  when  new. 
This  receipt  is  worth  to  housekeepers  every  year  five  times 
the  cost  of  this  book.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Bruce,  Covington,  Ky. 
24 


370 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


TO  REMOVE  WHITE  SPOTS  FROM  FURNITURE. 

Rub  the  parts  with  camphor  and  the  spots  will  disappear. 
Another :  Mix  equal  parts  of  salt  and  lard  together  and  rub 
on  the  white  spots,  then  wipe  off  with  a  dry  cloth. 

TO  CLEAN  RUSTED  IRON. 

Rub  well  with  emery  paper  and  coal-oil.  Any  other  oil 
will  .answer  the  same  purpose. 

MENDING  STOVES. 

When  a  crack  is  discovered  in  a  stove,  the  aperture  may 
be  completely  closed  with  a  composition  of  wood  ashes  and 
common  salt,  made  into  a  paste  with  a  little  water  and 
plastered  over  the  crack. 

TO  STOP  A  LEAK  IN  TIN-WARE. 

Beat  yellow  soap  and  whiting  with  a  little  water  into  a 
thick  paste.  Rub  this  over  the  part  where  the  leakage  is, 
and  it  will  be  instantly  stopped. 

TO  MEND  CHINA  OR  GLASS-WARE. 

Take  a  thick  solution  of  gum  arabic  in  water  and  stir 
into  plaster  of  Paris  until  the  mixture  becomes  of  the  prop- 
er consistency.  Apply  it  with  a  brush  to  the  fractured 
edges  of  the  china  and  stick  them  together.  In  three  days 
the  article  cannot  be  broken  in  the  same  place.  The  white- 
ness of  the  cement  renders  it  doubly  valuable. 

TO  DESTROY  ROACHES. 

Sprinkle  Scotch  snuff  in  the  holes  where  they  come  out. 

TO  DESTROY  RED  ANTS. 

To  get  rid  of  these  pests,  wash  your  shelves  clean,  and 
while  damp  rub  on  them  fine  salt  quite  thickly.  Let  it  re- 
main on  for  some  time  and  they  will  entirely  disappear. 
Another  way:  Break  gum  camphor  into  very  fine  crumbs 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


371 


and  scatter  them  on  every  shelf  in  the  cupboard  and  pantry. 
The  remedy  is  clean,  easily  applied,  and  withal  effectual. 

TO  KEEP  CLEAR  OF  BED-BUGS. 

Take  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  ten  cents'  worth  of 
quicksilver.  Put  them  into  a  bowl  and  beat  them  to  a  per- 
fect froth.  Take  a  feather  and  dip  into  this  preparation 
and  apply  to  every  part  of  the  bedstead  where  bugs  conceal 
themselves.  Do  this  once  a  year,  and  you  will  never  see  a 
bed-bug  in  the  house. 

CURE  FOR  LUMBAGO. 

Take  a  piece  of  oil-cloth,  such  as  is  used  to  cover  tables, 
but  of  a  soft,  pliant  kind,  sufficiently  large  to  cover  the 
loins.  Place  it  over  a  flannel  shirt  and  bandage  with  a 
flannel  bandage.  -Profuse  perspiration  will  ensue,  and  this 
wearisome  complaint  is  speedily  removed. 

A  SIMPLE  REMEDY  FOR  NEURALGIA. 

Grate  horse-radish  and  mix  in  vinegar,  the  same  as  for 
table  use,  and  apply  to  the  temple  when  the  face  or  head  is 
affected,  and  to  the  wrist  when  the  pain  is  in  the  shoulder  or 
arm. 

CURE  FOR  CONSTIPATION. 

To  six  drachms  of  nitrate  of  soda  add  six  drachms  of  cal- 
cined magnesia  ground  very  fine.  Mix  with  eight  ounces 
of  water.    Dose:  One  table-spoonful  three  times  a  day. 

CURE  FOR  CROUP. 

Bind  a  towel  or  napkin  wet  with  ice-water  with  a  dry  one 
over  it  around  the  throat,  and  give  a  good  dose  of  sirup  of 
ipecac.    The  cloths  must  be  changed  every  five  minutes. 

TO  CURE  DYSPEPSIA. 

On  two  table-spoonfuls  of  unslacked  lime  pour  one  quart 
of  cold  water.    Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  bottle  and 


372  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cool:  Booh 


cork.  When  clear,  it  is  ready  for  use.  Put  three  table- 
spoonfuls  into  one  cupful  of  milk,  and  drink  at  any  time,  us- 
ually before  meals,  but  between  meals  if  the  food  sours  or 
the  stomach  pains. 

CATARRH  REMEDY. 

Equal  parts  gum  arabic,  gum  myrrh,  and  blood-root, 
made  into  a  powder  and  used  as  snuff,  is  an  unfailing  rein- 
ed)'. 

TO  REMOVE  WARTS. 

Take  fiye  cents'  worth  of  oil  of  cinnamon,  wet  the  warts 
thoroughly  three  times  a  day  until  they  disappear. 

CURE  FOR  LOCKED-JAW. 

Apply  pounded  beet-roots,  and  remove  them  as  often  as 
they  become  dry.  The  result  will  be  a  complete  cure.  Such 
a  remedy  should  be  borne  in  mind. 

CURE  FOR  DIPHTHERIA. 

Take  washed  flour  of  sulphur  and  apply  it  directly  to  the 
membraneous  growth  in  the  throats  of  the  children  by  means 
of  a  common  clay  pipe.  The  effect  will  be  almost  magical. 
Within  two  hours  there  will  be  complete  relief,  and  the  pa- 
tient will  entirely  recover  in  two  days. 

CURE  FOR  EARACHE. 

Take  a  pinch  of  black  pepper  gathered  up  in  a  bit  of  cot- 
ton batting,  wet  in  sweet-oil  and  insert  in  the  ear.  It  will 
give  immediate  relief. 

CURE  FOR  TOOTHACHE. 

Take  one  ounce  of  chloroform  and  one  drachm  of  tunic 
acid.  Saturate  a  piece  of  cotton  and  fill  the  tooth.  This  is 
splendid. 

A  GOOD  HEALING  SALVE. 

The  yelk  of  an  egg,  a  little  turpentine,  whisky,  and  hon- 
ey, all  mixed  in  the  egg-shell. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Cook. 


373 


TO  CURE  A  BURN  WITHOUT  A  SCAR. 

Take  one  pound  of  butter,  one  large  handful  of  sage  (ei- 
ther dried  or  green)  ;  simmer  in  the  butter  until  the  sage  be- 
comes crisp  or  hard ;  add  a  small  piece  of  beeswax,  strain  it 
and  pour  in  one  gill  of  the  best  rum,  and  stir  until  it  cools. 

TO  CURE  IVY-POISONED  HANDS. 

To  quiet  the  burning,  wet  them  with  hot  lime-water. 
This  will  be  efficacious  when  nothing  else  will  do  any  good. 

TO  CURE  INSECT  STINGS. 

Any  absorbent  will  give  relief  from  bee  stings,  but  per- 
haps nothing  is  more  effectual  than  raw  meat.  The  sting 
of  a  bee  or  wasp  may  be  almost  instantly  relieved  by  it. 

CURE  FOR  FELON,  OR  RUN-ROUND. 

If  a  felon,  or  run-round,  appears  to  be  coming  on  the 
finger,  soak  the  finger  thoroughly  in  strong  lye.  It  will  be 
painful,  but  it  will  cure  a  disorder  much  more  painful. 

TO  CURE  CORNS. 

Take  one  tea-spoonful  of  tar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  coarse 
brown  sugar,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  saltpeter,  the  whole  to 
be  warmed  together.  Spread  on  kid  leather  the  size  of  the 
corn,  and  in  two  days  the  corn  will  be  drawn  out. 

TO  CURE  BUNIONS. 

These  terrible  torments  can  be  easily  removed  by  using  a 
weak  solution  of  carbolic  acid  on  them  for  a  month.  They 
will  entirely  disappear. 

CURE  FOR  COLDS. 

Take  one  table-spoonful  of  flax-seed  and  soak  in  one  pint 
of  cold  water  until  it  softens.  Pour  off  the  water  and  heat 
it  on  the  stove,  then  stir  into  it  two  table-spoonfuls  of  honey. 
To  be  taken  when  cold. 


374  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


SALVE  FOR  A  STRAIN. 

The  yelk  of  egg  and  salt. 

EXCELLENT  FOR  A  COUGH. 

One  table-spoonful  of  molasses,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cas- 
tor-oil, one  tea-spoonful  of  paregoric,  and  one  tea-spoonful 
of  spirits  of  camphor.    Mix,  and  take  often. 

CURE  FOR  HOARSENESS. 

Hoarseness  is  relieved  by  using  the  white  of  an  egg  thor- 
oughly beaten  with  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Take  one  tea- 
spoonful  occasionally. 

SURE  CURE  FOR  DYSENTERY. 

Take  newly  churned  butter  before  it  is  washed  or  salted; 
clarify  over  the  fire  and  skim  off  all  milky  particles.  Add 
one-fourth  brandy  to  preserve  it,  and  loaf  sugar  to  sweeten 
it.    Dose  for  an  adult,  two  table-spoonfuls  twice  a  day. 

CURE  FOR  INFLAMED  EYES. 

Take  one-half  ounce  of  golden  seal,  pour  one-half  pint  of 
boiling  water  on  it,  and  let  it  cool.  Bathe  the  eye  with  a 
linen  rag  dipped  into  this  each  night  on  going  to  bed,  and  it 
will  soon  effect  a  cure. 

RELIEF  FOR  NERVOUS  HEADACHE. 

Wash  the  head  thoroughly  with  soda-water.  This  will 
also  relieve  severe  colds. 

CURE  FOR  WEAK  EYES. 

Bathe  them  in  a  solution  of  salt  and  tepid  water  night 
and  morning. 

THE  TOILET. 

Tooth-powder:  Mix  equal  parts  of  powdered  chalk  and 
charcoal,  adding  a  small  quantity  of  curd  soap.  This  sim- 
ple receipt  not  only  cleans  the  teeth,  but  is  a  preservative 
against  decay. 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


375 


To  remove  freckles:  A  very  simple  aud  harmless  remedy 
for  freckles  is  equal  parts  of  pure  glycerine  and  rose-water 
applied  every  night  and  allowed  to  dry. 

Cleaning  the  head :  Take  alcohol  eight  ounces,  water  six- 
teen ounces,  ammonia  one  ounce,  cologne  one  ounce.  Rub 
on  the  head  until  the  liquid  evaporates.  No  subsequent 
rinsing  is  necessary. 

To  arrest  the  hair  from  falling  out :  Take  strong  hop  tea 
and  dilute  with  whisky.  Shake  well  before  washing  the 
head. 

To  wash  brushes  and  combs:  Dissolve  a  piece  of  soda  in 
hot  water,  allowing  a  piece  the  size  of  a  walnut  to  one  quart 
of  water.  Put  the  water  into  a  basin,  and  after  combing 
the  hair  out  of  the  brush  dip  it  bristles  downward  into  the 
water  and  out  again,  keeping  the  back  and  handle  as  free 
from  water  as  possible.  Repeat  this  until  the  bristles  look 
clean,  then  rinse  the  brush  in  cold  water.  Shake  them  well 
and  wipe  the  backs  and  handles,  not  the  bristles,  with  a 
towel,  and  set  in  the  sun  or  near  the  fire  to  dry,  taking  care 
not  to  put  them  too  close  to  the  fire.  Wiping  the  bristles 
makes  them  soft,  as  does  also  the  use  of  soap. 

Combs:  If  you  can  avoid  it,  never  wash  combs,  as  the 
water  often  makes  the  teeth  split,  and  the  tortoise-shell  or 
horn  of  which  they  are  made  rough.  Small  brushes  manu- 
factured expressly  for  cleaning  combs  can  be  purchased  for 
a  trifling  cost.  With  this  the  comb  should  be  well  brushed, 
and  afterward  wiped  with  a  towel  or  cloth. 

HOUSEHOLD. 

To  sweeten  rancid  butter:  Work  the  butter  thoroughly 
in  sweet  milk.  If  done  as  it  should  be,  every  particle  of 
rancidity  will  be  washed  out. 

To  make  a  brine  for  butter :  Take  a  pail  of  water,  add  to 
this  two  quarts  of  fine  salt,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 
two  ounces  of  saltpeter.    Boil  and  skim  this  well.  With 


376 


The,  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


the  brine  thus  prepared,  cover  the  butter  entirely,  and  so 
covered  it  will  keep  the  year  round. 

To  preserve  eggs  for  winter  use:  Take  a  stone  jar,  have 
ready  some  wheaten  bran  thoroughly  dry,  pack  in  alternate 
layers  eggs  and  bran,  putting  the  small  ends  of  the  eggs 
down.  Keep  in  a  dry  place,  where  they  will  not  freeze. 
Salt  may  be  substituted  for  bran,  but  it  is  not  so  good. 

To  preserve  grapes:  Bunches  of  grapes  may  be  preserved 
for  some  time  in  jars,  by  taking  each  bunch  and  wrapping 
them  in  soft  paper.  Cover  each  layer  with  well-dried  bran, 
and  the  mouth  of  the  jar  should  be  covered  with  a  bladder 
or  the  top  cemented  on.  Other  and  more  delicate  fruits 
may  be  preserved  by  wiping  them  dry  and  placing  them  in 
a  jar,  covering  them  with  dry  sand  about  one  inch  thick. 
Each  jar  should  be  well  filled,  then  sealed  and  set  in  a  cool 
place  wThere  frost  will  not  affect  them. 

To  prevent  jars  from  breaking:  Set  the  jars  on  a  folded 
cloth  wet  in  cold  water,  then  put  in  the  hot  fruit.  I  have 
never  known  the  jars  to  break  when  thus  treated. 

Green  coloring  for  cakes:  Pound  some  spinach,  adding 
very  little  water.  Squeeze  the  juice  through  a  cloth  and 
place  on  the  fire.  As  soon  as  it  becomes  curdy,  take  it  off 
and  strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve  or  mosquito-net.  That 
which  remains  on  the  net  is  the  coloring  matter. 

To  kill  the  grass  that  springs  up  in  the  seams  of  the  flag- 
ging or  gravel  walks:  Meat  brine  or  strong  salt  and  water 
poured  into  the  seams  of  the  nagging  or  sprinkled  over  the 
walks  for  a  few  times  will  kill  the  grass  or  weeds. 

To  color  human  hair  black:  Take  one  part  bay-rum, 
three  parts  olive-oil,  and  one  part  of  good  brandy.  The 
hair  must  be  washed  every  morning.  The  articles  must  be 
of  the  best  quality,  mixed  in  a  bottle,  and  always  well  shak- 
en before  applied. 

To  prevent  the  formation  of  a  crust  in  the  tea-kettle: 


TJie  New  Kentucky  Home  Co  oh  Booh. 


377 


Keep  an  oyster-shell  in  the  kettle — it  will  attract  the  strong 
particles  to  itself. 

To  make  soap:  Take  five  pounds  of  grease,  three  gallons 
of  water,  one  ball  of  concentrated  lye.  Boil  hard  for  fif- 
teen minutes;  put  in  a  cupful  of  salt,  then  boil  for  half  an 
hour  longer.  When  cold,  cut  out  and  dry.  Another  way: 
Take  two  pounds  (or  three  balls)  of  caustic  soda,  eight 
pounds  of  grease,  and  five  gallons  of  water.  Boil  two  and 
one-half  hours. 

In  making  a  chicken-broth  for  invalids,  be  sure  to  break 
the  bones. 

To  keep  eggs  for  family  use :  Take  one  gallon  of  water, 
one  and  one-half  pint  of  common  salt,  and  two  pints  of  lime- 
stone lime.  Dissolve  the  lime  and  salt  in  the  water.  Place 
perfectly  fresh  eggs  in  a  stone  jar,  and  cover  with  this  solu- 
tion. Keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  but  do  not  let  them  freeze. 
Eggs  put  up  in  this  way  can  be  kept  perfectly  fresh  for  a 
whole  year.  Be  particular  to  take  from  the  jar  only  those 
intended  for  immediate  use.    This  is  really  splendid. 

Mrs.  Amanda  M.  Bridges. 

Receipt  for  cleaning  furniture :  Three  ounces  of  linseed- 
oil,  three  ounces  of  alcohol,  two  drops  of  winter-green  oil, 
two  drops  of  analine  in  solution,  one-half  ounce  balsam  of 
tar,  one-half  ounce  of  sulphuric  ether.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether. Mrs.  Dr.  Holtox. 


COOK'S  TIME-TABLE. 


Breads: 

15 

1 

Kolls  

40 

30 

Muffins,  corn-meal . . . 

25 

30 

Eggs: 

15 

Soft  boiled  

Q 
O 

Fowls: 

30 

Partridge,  broiled  . . . 

30 

1 

30 

30 

Turkey,  roasted,  per  lb 

20 

Goose,  roasted,  per  lb 

20 

2 

30 

Meats  : 

Ham,  boiled,  per  lb . . 

20 

4 

Beefsteak,  broiled  . . . 

15 

Breakfast  bacon,  br'Id. 

10 

10 

25 

30 

30 

Sausage,  smoked,  br'ld. 

15 

20 

20 

15 

15 

Sausage,  fried  

25 

(378) 

Meats  : 

Beef,  roasted,  per  lb . .  20 

Lamb,  roasted,  per  ft)  20 

Mutton,  roasted,  per  lb  25 

Pork,  roasted,  per  ft).  30 

Yeal,  roasted,  per  lb  .  20 

Venison,  r'sted,  per  lb  20 

Oysters,  stewed   5 

Vegetables  (boiled): 

Asparagus   30 

Beans,  Lima   1 

Beans,  string  3  or  4 

Beets,  young   2 

Beets,  old   4  30 

Cabbage   45 

Carrots   1  30 

Cauliflower   20 

Cymlings   1 

Onions   45 

Parsnips   1 

Pease   20 

Potatoes   30 

Spinach   30 

Tomatoes   30 

Turnips   1 

Bice  '. .  20 

Tapioca   1  30 

Oatmeal   30 

Wheat,  cracked   30 

Pearl  barley   30 

Fish: 

Baked   1  30 

Fried   30 

Trout,  broiled  or  fried  30 


INDEX. 


SOUPS.  paor 

Bean  Soup  .   24 

Beef  Soup   20 

Bouillon    27 

Brunswick  Stew   25 

Cakes  for  Soup   23 

Chicken  Soup."  22.  23 

Dressing  for  Chicken   23 

French  Gumbo   2<> 

French  Tomato  Soup   24 

Indian  or  Mullagataway  Soup   21 

.Julienne  Soup   27 

Mock  Turtle  Solid  26,  27 

Noodle  Soup  *   21 

Noodles  for  Soup   22 

Ox-tail  Soup   22 

Oyster  Soup  28,  29 

Pea  Soup   2o 

Poor  Man's  Soup   22 

Potato  Soup   24 

Stock   20 

Tomato  Soup  23,  24 

Turtle  Soup   2G 

Vegetable  Soup   21 

FISH. 

Baked  Fish   30 

Boiled  Fish— Egg  Dressing   30 

Boiled  Halibut,   33 

Boiled  Salmon   32 

Broiled  Cod-fish   31 

Broiled  Halibut   33 

Broiled  Salmon   32 

Broiled  Shad   32 

Chowder   34 

Cod-fish  Balls   31 

Fish  Croquettes   33 

Fish  Fritters   33 

Frogs   34 

Salmon  with  Cream  Dressing   33 

To  Boil  Fresh  Mackerel   31 

To  Fry  Fish   31 

OYSTERS. 

A  Rich  Oyster  Pie   40 

Broiled  Oysters   35 

Cream  Oysters   36 

Fried  Oysters   30 

Oyster  and  Chicken  Croquettes   3G 

Oyster  Fritters   39 

Oyster  Loaves   37 

Oyster  Omelet  ,   40 

Oyster  Pates  ,   38 

Oyster  Patties     38 

Oyster  Sausage   30 

Oyster  Stew   37 

Raw  Oysters   41 


OYSTERS.  pa^ 

Scalloped  Ovsters   37 

Spiced  Oysters    38 

Stewed  Oysters  35,  37 

Stewed  Oysters  on  Toast   40 

MEATS. 

A  Nice  Dish  for  Breakfast   50 

Backbone,  or  Chine   50 

Baked  Chicken   05 

Baked  Hash   49 

Baked  Sweet-breads   i   74 

Baked  Turkey   63 

Barbecued  Rabbit   72 

Beef  a  la  Mode   45 

Beef  Pie   51 

Beef  with  Catsup   52 

Birds  Dressed  with  Oysters   70 

Boil  a  Ham  in  Cider..."   61 

Broiled  Chicken   66 

Boiled  Chicken — Effg  Dressing   65 

Boiled  Ham  7!T.   61 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton   54 

Boned  Ham   61 

Brain  Cukes,  or  .Mock  Oysters   60 

Brains   60 

Broiled  Birds   70 

Broiled  Ham   62 

Broiled  Pigeon  or  Squab   71 

Broiled  .Squirrel   72 

Broiled  Steak   46 

Broiled  Sweet-breads   74 

Calf  Heart   50 

Chicken  Croquettes   73 

Chicken  for  Supper   69 

Chicken  Pates   69 

Chicken  Pie   67 

Chicken  Pudding   67 

Chicken  Pudding  with  Rice   68 

Chicken  Stewed  with  Green  Corn...  67 

Deviled  Ham   62 

Deviled  Turkey   65 

Dressing  for  a  Turkey   64 

Dressing  for  Sandwiches   63 

EnglishPie   53 

Fillet  of  Beef   45 

Flank  Steak   49 

Fricandeau   56 

Fricasseed  Chicken   68 

Fried  Chicken — Kentucky  Style  ...  65 

Fried  Ham  with  Eg^s.....'   62 

Fried  Rabbit   71 

Fried  Steak   47 

Fried  Steak  and  limvv   46 

Fried  Sweet-breads.   73 

Goose   70 

Hash  on  Toast   49 

(379) 


380 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


MEATS.  pm3e 

Haunch  of  Venison   44 

Kentucky  Chicken,  with  Oysters...  66 

Meat  Croquettes   72 

Mock  Terrapin   50 

Mrs.  Bledsoe's  Premium  Ham   62 

Mutton-chops   54 

Mutton  or  Laml)  Chops   55 

Mutton  Pot-pie   55 

Pig's  Feet   59 

Pig's  Foot  Souse   58 

Pork  Steaks  or  Chops   57 

Pressed  Beef   51 

Pressed  Chicken   68 

Roast  Beet'   44 

Roast  Duck   69 

Roasted  Birds    70 

Roast  of  Mutton   54 

Roast  of  Pork   57 

Boast  of  Veal   55 

Roast  Pig   57 

Roast  Pigeons   70 

Saddle  of  Venison   43 

Sausage   50 

Scalloped  Turkey   04 

Scrabble   58 

Smoked  Rabbit   72 

Smothered  Rabbit  with  Onion   71 

Spa  re- rib   59 

Slewed  Beef  Tongue   51 

Steak  a  la  Mode..   47 

Steak  and  Onions   48 

Steak  Dressed  with  Oysters   48 

Steak  with  Tomato  Dressing   47 

Stewed  Rabbit   71 

Stewed  Hash   48 

Stewed  Sweet-breads  and  Peas   74 

Stewed  Tripe   53 

stuffed  Shoulder  of  Mutton   54 

Stuffed  Steak,  or  Mock  Duck   48 

Sweet-bread  Fritters   74 

Sweet-breads   74 

Sweet-breads  with  Macaroni   75 

To  Boil  a  Beef  Tongue   51 

To  Cook  Beef  Heels   40 

To  Cook  Corned  Beef   40 

To  Cook  Dried  Beef   50 

To  Cook  Liver— French  Mode   50 

To  Corn  Beef.  45.  46 

To  Cure  Hams    60 

To  Fry  Beef  Kidney   52 

To  Fry  Tripe   53 

To  Keep  Hams  in  Summer   60 

Tongue  Toast   52 

To  prepare  Tripe   52 

To  Stew  Tripe  as  Oysters   53 

Turkey  Dressed  with  Oysters   63 

Turkey  Hash   64 

Veal  Cutlets   55 

Veal  Loaf.   56 

Venison  Steaks   44 

Meat  Sauces. 

A  Fine  Sauce  for  Mutton   78 

Anchovy  Sauce   70 


Meat  Sauces.  pare 

Bechamel  Sauce   76 

Boiled  Egg  Sauce   76 

Caper  Sauce   7:1 

Chicken  Sauce  for  Boiled  Fowls....  76 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce   76 

Horse-radish  Sauce   78 

Jelly  Sauce   70 

Maitr-j  d'Hotel  Sauce   76 

Mint  Sauce  for  Roast  Lamb   77 

Mushroom  Sauce   78 

Oyster  Sauce   77 

Pepper  Sauce   70 

Sauce  Hollandaise   77 

Sauce  Remonlade   75 

Shi  imp  Sauce   70 

Tomato  Sauce   77 

White  Sauce   7S 

CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES. 

Burnet  House  Sauce   81 

Cherry  or  Plum  Catsup   82 

ChilliSauce   83 

Cold  Tomato  Sauce   82 

Cucumber  Catsup   80 

Currant  Catsup   s,i 

French  Catsup   si 

Mixed  Catsup   81 

Red  Catsup   81 

Tomato  Catsup  80,81 

Tomato  Sauce   82 

Walnut  Catsup   &■> 

PICKLES. 

Boiled  Chowchow   lot 

Bottled  Pickles   00 

Bric-a-brac  Pickle    100 

Oabhajre  pi.-kle  '.17,08 

Cauliflower  Pickle   90 

Celery  Pickle   >m 

Chopped  Pickle  101, 102 

Chopped  Tomato  Pickle   lot 

Chowchow   105, 1 06 

Cucumber  Mangoes   107 

Cucumber  Pickles  87,  8!S.  80,  91,  92 

For  Greening  Pickles   114 

Frosted  Tomato  Pickle   04 

Grape  Pickle   92 

Green  Tomato  Pickle  94,  95,06 

Hotchpotch    101 

Hyden  Salad   103 

Mango  Pickle   100 

Martineau  Pickle   02 

Mixed  Mustard   114 

Mixed  Pickle  102. 103 

Mixed  Yellow  Pickle  '  104 

Musk-melon  Mangoes   106 

Oil  Mansoes  ".   107 

Onion  Pickle   93 

To  Keep  Pickles   92 

Tomato  Chowchow   105 

To  Prepare  Horse-radish  forWinterll4 

Walnut  Pickles   95 

Yankee  Mixed  Pickle   1<>4 

Yellow  Cabbage  Pickle   98 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


381 


PICKLES.  page 

Yellow  Pickle  96,  97 

Peach  Mangoes   10S 

PeachPickle   9(i 

Pepper  Mangoes   108 

Piccalilli   100 

Premium  Spanish  Pickle   113 

Quickly  Mnde  Tomato  Pickle   94 

Roughand  Ready  Pickle   99 

Sliced  Cucumber  Catsup     106 

Sliced  Civ-umber  Pickles.'  89,90 

Spanish  Pickle  109,110,  111,  112,113 

Spiced  Cucumber  Pickles   88 

Superior  Mixed  Pickle   105 

To  Make  Over  Bought  Pickles   90 

Sweet  Pickle. 

Cantaleup  Sweet  Pickle   118 

Cucumber  Sweet  Fickle   118 

German  Peacli  Pickle   116 

Mrs.  Kirk's  Premium  Peaches   116 

Peach  Sweet  Pickle   116 

Pear  Sweet  Pickles   115 

Pickled  Plums  or  Cherries   115 

Ripe  Cantaleup  Pickle     1 18 

Spiced  Damsons   115 

Spiced  Peaches   117 

Sweet  Cucumber  Mangoes   120 

Sweet  Manizo  Pickle   119 

Sweet  Pickle  Quinces   115 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures  of 

Spices   120 

Tomato  Sweet  Pickle   1 19 

Water-melon  Rind  Sweet  Pickle  ...  117 
Water-melon  Sweet  Fickle   117 

SALADS. 

Celerv  Salad   125 

Chicken  Salad   121 

Crab  Salad   124 

Cream  Dressing     128 

Cucumbers   130 

Dressed  Tomatoes   129 

Dressing  for  Slaw  127.  128 

Dressing  for  Slaw  or  Lettuce   127 

Egg  Salad   124 

Fish  or  Cheese  Salad   127 

Ham  Salad   127 

Lettuce   130 

Lobster  Salad   125 

Mackerel  Salad   123 

Mayonnaise  Dressing   129 

Mrs.  William  Massie's  Salad   121 

Oyster  Salad  122, 123,  1j4 

Potato  Salad  125,126 

Radishes   130 

Salad  Dressing   128 

Salmon  Salad  122, 123 

Sardine  Salad   123 

BREAD. 

Alice's  Graham  Batter-cakes   153 

Baking-powder   142 

Baking-powder  Biscuit....  142, 143 


BREAD.  page 

Beaten  Biscuit   145 

Beef-suet  Biscuit   144 

Boston  Brown-bread   138 

Bread  Crumb  Batter-cakes   149 

Bread    Made  with  Fleischman's 

Yeast   137 

Bread  Making   I'll 

Buckwheat  Cakes   152 

Buttermilk  Biscuit   144 

Coffee  Bread   143 

Corn-meal  Batter-cakes   151 

Corn-meal  Mush  151,152 

Corn  Muffins'  150,  151 

Cream  Biscr.it   147 

Drop  Biscuit   142 

Dry  Yeast   134 

Excellent  Biscuit   142 

Federal  Bread   143 

French  Pancakes   153 

French  Toast   153 

German  Puffs   146 

Graham  Biscuit  14:!,  144 

Graham  Gems   144 

Graham  Puffs   144 

Ham  Toast   153 

Kentucky  Biscuit   1 16 

Kentucky  Corn  Griddle  Cakes   150 

Kentucky  Dodgers   150 

Kentucky  Eg<z  Bread   150 

Light  Rolls   140 

Liquid  Yeast   134 

Mush  Barter-cakes   151 

Oatmeal  Porridge   152 

Parker  House  Rolls   141 

Plain  Biscuit   146 

Pocket-books   142 

Quick  Buckwheat  Cakes   152 

Quick  Graham  Bread   144 

Quick  Muffins   146 

Rice  Batter-cakes   148 

Rice  Bread   149 

Rice  Crumpets   149 

Rolls   140 

Rolls    Made    with  Fleischman's 

Yeast   13S 

Rusk   115 

Sally-lunn  147, 148 

Sally-lunn,  with  Yeast   147 

Salt-rising  Bread  138,139 

Scalded  Corn-bread   149 

Soda  Biscuit   14 3 

Splendid  Yeast   134 

Sponge  for  Bread  135, 13(i 

Sieamed  Corn-bread   149 

Steamed  Corn-pone   15o 

Sweet  Milk  Batter-cakes   151 

Tea  Rolls   141 

To  Set  a  Sponize  for  Bread   136 

Wafers   145 

Waffles   147, 148 

Waffles,  or  Flannel  Cakes   148 

Wheaten  Batter-cakes   14s 

Wheaten  Muffins  146,  151 

White  Mountain  Rolls   141 


382 


The  Neiv  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


VEGETABLES.  page 
Apples  Fried  with  Flour  and  Sugar  179 

Asparagus   163 

Baked  Asparagus   164 

Baked  Beans   173 

Baked  Beets   lc.:s 

Baked  Cashaw   172 

Raked  Egg  plant   167 

Baked  Hominv   170 

Baked  Hominy  Grits   178 

Baked  Potatoe's   156 

Baked  Bice   178 

Baked  Tomatoes   170 

Boiled  Cabbage   105 

Boiled  Onions   167 

Boiled  Potatoes,  Pared   155 

Boiled  Potatoes  with  Skins  on   155 

Boiled  Rice   177 

Boston  Baked  Beans   173 

Broiled  Potatoes   158 

Broiled  Sweet  Potatoes   1GI 

Broiled  Tomatoes   171 

Canned  Mushrooms   170 

Carrots   175 

Carrots  Stewed   174 

Cashaw  Raked  Plain   172 

Cauliflower   165 

Corn   168 

Corn  and  Beans,  or  Succotash   169 

Corn  Cut  from  the  Cob   16S 

Corn  Fritters   169 

Corn  Pudding   17* 

Cvmlings   166 

Egg-plant  Fried  in  Rutter   100 

French  Canned  Pease   163 

Fried  Apples   178 

Fried  Cucumbers   172 

Fried  Cvmlings   166 

Fried  Egg-plant   160 

Fried  Green  Tomatoes   171 

Fried  Potatoes   157 

Green  Corn  Patties   170 

Green  Pease   102 

Grits  Pudding   177 

Hominy   170 

Hominv  Croquettes   177 

Hominy  Fritters   170 

Hominy  Grits   178 

Hominy  Pudding   177 

Jowl  and  Greens   162 

Kentucky  Asparagus   164 

Lima  Reans   16S 

Parsnips  with  Pickled  Pork   174 

Mashed  Cashaw   172 

Mashed  Potatoes   15G 

Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes   161 

Navy  Reans   173 

Oyster-plant,  or  Salsify,  Fritters...  170 

Oyster-plant  Stewed   175 

Parsnip  Fritters   175 

Plain  Fried  Corn   170 

Plain  Stewed  Corn   109 

Potato  Ralls   158 

Potato  Croquettes  158, 160 

Potato  Leaves   159 


VEGETABLES.  pagb 

Potato  Puff.   159 

Potatoes  a  la  Duchesse   150 

Potatoes  for  Breakfast   158 

Potatoes  Fried  with  Onions   160 

Potato  Roses   1G<> 

Rice  Croquettes   178 

Saratoga  Potatoes   159 

Scalloped  Potatoes   157 

Scalloped   Potatoes  with  Onions 

and  Bacon   160 

Scalloped  Onions   107 

Scalloped  Sweet  Potatoes   l«il 

Scalloped  Tomatoes   171 

Steamed,  or  Lady's,  Cabbage   105 

Steamed  Potatoes   158 

Stewed  Reets   103 

Stewed  Corn   109 

Stewed  Corn,  with  Breakfast  Racon  108 

Stowed  Cucumbers   171 

Stewed  Mushrooms   179 

Stewed  Parsnips  {   175 

Stewed  Potatoes   150 

Stewed  Spinach   162 

Stewed  Tomatoes   171 

String  Reans   107 

Suggestions  About  Vegetables   154 

Swept  Potatoes,  Baked   101 

To  Fry  Cabbage   164 

To  Prepare  Cabbage  for  Cooking...  164 
To  Preserve  Sweet  Potatoes  for 

Winter   161 

To  Stew  Turnips  with  Meat   174 

Turnips   173 

EGGS. 

Baked  Eggs   182 

Rreaded  Eggs   183 

Deviled  Eggs   181 

Eggs  with  Cheese   185 

Fried  Ham  and  Eggs   183 

Hard-boiled  Eggs..;   181 

Omelet  with  Cheese   184 

Omelet  with  Ham   185 

Omelet  (Plaint   184 

Omelet  with  Vegetables   185 

Poached  Etrgs   181 

Scalloped  Eggs  1S2,  183 

Scrambled  Eggs   182 

Shirred  Eggs".."   182 

Soft-boiled  Eggs   181 

Soft  Steamed  Eggs  in  the  Shell   181 

Spanish  Eggs   183 

Steamed  Eggs   182 

Washington  Omelet   185 

CHEESE. 

CheeseCake   187 

Cheese  Fondu   187 

Cheese  Sandwich  187, 188 

Cheese  Straws   188 

Cheese  Wafers   18S 

Crackers  with  Cheese   180 

Curd   189 

Curd,  or  Cottage  Cheese   189 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book.  383 


CHEESE. 


Hominy  and  Cheese   186 

Macaroni  with  Cheese   186 

Ramequins  a  la  Ude   187 

Rice  with  Cheese   186 

Welsh  Rare-bit   188 

CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGE- 
TABLES. 

To  Can  Apples   192 

To  Can  Berries   192 

To  Can  Corn  and  Beans   195 

To  Can  Corn,  Tomatoes,  and  Olira 

for  Soup   195 

To  Can  Fruit  Cold     193 

To  Can  Green  Corn   194 

To  Can  Green  Corn  for  Winter  Use  194 

To  Can  Green  Pease  or  Beans   195 

To  Can  Green  Tomatoes   194 

To  Can  Peaches  ...   191, 192 

To  Can  Tomatoes  and  Corn   194 

To  Can  Tomatoes  for  Cooking   193 

To  Can  Tomatoes  Whule   193 

PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 

Apple  Preserves   200 

Blackberry  Preserves   205 

Cantaleup'Preserves   203 

Cherry  Preserves   204 

Citron  Preserves  201,202 

Cucumber  Sweetmeats   203 

Damson  Preserves   201 

English  Strawberry  Preserves   204 

Fig  Preserves   205 

Glass-melon  Preserves   202 

Gooseberry  Preserves   205 

Grape  Preserves   204 

oreen  Tomato  Preserves   200 

Peach  Chips   198 

Peach  Preserves   197 

Pear  Preserves  198, 199 

Preserves   196 

Quince  Preserves...   199 

Strawberry  Preserves   204 

Tomato  Preserves   206 

To  Preserve  Freestone  Peaches....  198 
To  Preserve  Greengage  or  Blue 

Plums   201 

To  Preserve  Peaches  Whole   197 

To  Preserve  Pears  Whole   199 

To  Preserve  Quinces  Whole   200 

Water-melon  Rind  Preserves   202 

Marmalades. 

Apple  Marmalade   207 

Orange  Marmalade   208 

Peac.n  Marmalade   206 

Pear  Marmalade   207 

Pine-apple  Marmalade   207 

Quince  Marmalade   207 

Jam. 

Apple  Butter  with  Cider   209 

Apple  Butter  without  Cider   209 

Damson  Butter   209  , 


Jam.  pags 

Greengage  Jam   208 

Pear  Butter   209 

Strawberry  Jam   208 

Prepared  Fruits. 

Apple  Meringue    211 

Aunt  Kittie's  Apples   212 

Baked  Apples   211 

Baked  Apples  with  Sauce   211 

Candied  Cherries   213 

Candied  Fruits   213 

Compote  of  Apples  211,212 

Glace  Cherries   213 

Iced  Apples   212 

Peaches  for  Tarts  or  Rolls   210 

Pea'-h  Leather   210 

To  Bake  Peaches   210 

To  Stew  Peaches   210 

jellies. 

Apple  Jelly   216 

Blackberry  Jelly   214 

Crab-apple  Jelly   215 

Currant  Jelly   214 

Grape  Jelly  "   215 

Green  Grape  Jelly   215 

How  to  Serve  Oranges   216 

Peach  Jelly  ".   215 

Quince  Jelly   215 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Jelly   214 

Strawberry  Jelly   214 

PASTRY. 

Apple  Dumplings  in  Batter   231 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings   2 52 

Baked  Cocoa-nut  Pudding   224 

Bean  Pie   228 

Birmingham  Pies   226 

Bailed  Rolls   232 

Boston  Cream  Puffs     234 

Bourbon  Pudding   230 

Buttermilk  Pie../.   228 

Chess  Cake   223 

Chocolate  Pie   230 

Cinnamon  Pie   229 

Cocoa-nut  Funding   224 

Cream  Peach  Pie   225 

Cream  Pie   226 

Custard  Pie   221 

Golden  Pie   221 

Green  vVpple  Puddings   224 

Fruit  Dumplings   232 

Irish  Potato  Pie   228 

Jam  Pies   229 

Jelly  Pie   222 

Jelly  Puddinu   222 

Lenion  Butter  for  Tarts   220 

Lemon  Cream  Pie   220 

Lemon  Dumplings   233 

Lemon  Pie  220,221,223 

Mince-meat   219 

Mince-meat  for  Pies   219 

Mock  Mince-pie   219 

Molasses  Pie  '   230 


384 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


PASTRY.  page 

Orange  Pie   222 

Orange  Pudding   227 

Pie-crust   217 

Pie-crust  Glaze   217 

Pie-paste  of  Lard  ami  Butter   218 

Potato  Pudding   228 

Puff  Paste   218 

Pumpkin  Pie   229 

Pumpkin  Pie  without  Eggs   229 

Pa i sin  Pie   230 

Rich  Pud. ling   224 

Rollv-polv  Pudding   225 

Rhubnrh  Pie  .  229,230 

Silver  Pie   221 

Sliced  Apple  Pie   225 

Sponge  Cream  Pie   226 

Strawberry  Short-cake   233 

Suggestions  on  Pastry   217 

Sweet  Potato  Pie   'I'll 

Transparent  Pie   2-3 

Transparent  Pudding  'Ill,  22:5 

Turn-overs   231 

PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 

Apple  Pudding  240,241 

Baked  Apple  Pudding   240 

Batter  Pudding   238 

Baked  Rice  Pudding  without  Eggs  242 

Blackberry  Pudding  .....  243 

Bread,  or  Queen,  Pudding   241 

Chancellor's  Pudding   240 

Charlotte  Pudding  240,  248 

Chocolate  Pudding   242 

Cocoa-nut  Bread  Pudding   241 

Cocoa-nut  Cream  Pudding   230 

Cocoa-nut  Pudding  7  239,  24u 

Cold  Sauce  for  Puddings   240 

Cousin  Sarah's  Pudding   244 

Cream  Puffs   247 

Currant  Pudding   237 

Lelmonieo  Pudding   244 

Economical  Pudding   230 

English  Plum  Pudding   230 

Fruit  Pud-ling   237 

Ginger-cake  Pudding   241 

Ginger  Pudding   243 

Island  Pudding   244 

Jeff  Davis  Pudding   240 

Mar  malade.  Pudd  irig   240 

Molasses  Pudding   247 

Muncie  Pudding   243 

Nice  Pudding   245 

Old-fashioned  Batter  Pudding   238 

Orange  Pudding   245 

Plain  Fruit  Pudding   237 

Plain  Sauce  for  Puddings.    250 

Plum  Pudding  230,  237 

Poor  Man's  Pudding   "/47 

Popover  Pudding.. .7   240 

Rice  Pudding   242 

Sauce  for  Cake   249 

Sauce  for  Plain  Fruit  Pudding   248 

Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding   218 

Sauce  for  Pudding   218 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES,  page 

Sauce  for  Puddings   240 

Suet  Pudding  '.   230 

Steam  Pudding   238 

Strawberry  Cake  Pudding   247 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding   245 

Switzerland  Pudding   245 

Tapioca  Pudding   240 

Two-egg  Pudding   243 

Whisky  Sauce  ...7   24'.) 

Wine  Sauce   240 

Wine  Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding   24u 

I  Woodford  Pudding   244 


CREAMS,  CUSTARDS,  ETC. 

Almond  Jelly   250 

Ambrosia...,.   258 

Blanc-mange  255,  250 

Boiled  Chocolate  Custard   253 

Boiled  Custard   252 

Bruli   258 

Charlotte-Russe   257 

Chocolate  Bavarian  Cream   254 

Chocolate  Blanc-mange   255 

Chocolate  Creams   255 

Chocolate  Cream   253 

Chocolate  Custard,  Baked   252 

Chocolate  Glace.   250 

French  Cream   250 

Gelatine  Jelly   259 

Italian  Cream   254 

Jelly  Uncooked   200 

Meringued  Apples   257 

Moonshine   258 

Omelet  Souffle   2fi<> 

Orange  Souffle   258 

Pine-apple  Jelly   250 

Tapioca  Cream   254 

Wine  Jelly   258 

WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

Avoirdupois  Weight   .02 

Irregular  Quantities   201 

Liquid  Measure   202 

Liquids   202 

Weights  of  Articles   202 

CAKES. 

Almond  Custard  Cake   270 

Almond  Macaroons   287 

Black  Cake   205 

Cincinnati  Cake   267 

Chocolate  Cake   275 

Chocolate  Jumbles   28!) 

Cocoa-nut  Cake  277,  281 

Cocoa-nut  Tea  Cakes   289 

Coffee  Cake  262,  285 

Confectioner's  Fruit  Cake   200 

Cream  Sponge-cake   270 

Crullers  289,  200 

Delicate  Cake  267,  200 

Lolly  Varden  Cake   270 

Doughnuts  00,2912 

KllisCake   283 

Feather  Cake   27(3 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


385 


CAKES.  page 

Fig  Cake   277 

Fruit  Cake  265,  266 

German  Tea  Cakes   289 

Ginger-bread   286 

Ginger  Fruit  Cake   285 

Ginger-nut?   284 

Ginger  Pound-cake   285 

Gold  Cake   277 

Hani  Ginger-cak^   285 

Hard  Ginger-snaps   284 

Herd  Cake   283 

Joe-cream  Cake  273,  274 

Jam  Cake   275 

Jelly  Cake.   275 

Jelly  Rolls   275 

Jumbles   288 

Lady  Cake   268 

Macaroon  Cakes   287 

Madeline  Cake   281 

Marble  Cake   272 

Minnehaha  Cake   276 

Molasses  Cake   286 

Naples  Cake     288 

Neapolitan  Cake   279 

Nice  Fried  Cakes   291 

Nut  Cake   280 

Orange  Cake   271 

Perfection  Cake   269 

Pound-cake  280,  281 

Raisin  Cake   266 

Ribbon  Cake   280 

Rich  Jumbles   288 

Robert  E.  Lee  Cake   278 

Sand  Tarts   289 

Seed  Cake   283 

Silver  Cake   277 

Snow  Cake   268 

Soft  Ginger- bread   284 

Soft  Ginger-bread  (Eggless)   287 

Spice  Cake  282,  283 

Sponge-cake  270,  271 

Sponge  Ginger-bread   286 

Variegated  Cake   278 

Water-melon  Cake   280 

White  Cake  267,  269,  278 

White  Cup-cake   274 

White  Fruit  Cake   2b8 

White  Mountain  Cake   276 

White  Sponge-cake   271 

White  Sponge-cake  (Angels'  Food)  273 


Yellow  Mountain  Cal 


282 


FILLING  FOR  CAKES. 

Almond  Icing   293 

Cocoa  Icing...   292 

Confectioner's  Icing   294 

Cooked  Icing   294 

Filling  for  Cake   293 

Fruit  Filling   292 

Icing  ;.  293 

Icing  without  Eggs   294 

Lemon  Icing.....   293 

Lemon  Jelly   293 

Orange  Jelly   292 

25 


29S. 


.•-".16. 


ICES. 

Apple  Cream  

Apricot  Cream  

Apricot  Water  Ice  

Banana  Cream  

Bisque  

Caramel  Cream  

Champagne  Ice  

Chocolate  Cream  

Cocoa-nut  Cream  

Delmonieo  

Frozen  Custard  

Frozen  Fruit  

Frozen  Pudding  

Ice-cream  

Ice  Pudding  

Lemon  Ice  

Matrimony  

Orange  Cream  

Orange  Ice  

Peach  Cream  

Pine-apple  Ice  302 

Prepared  Cream  

Roman  Punch  

Sherbet  304 

White  Coffee  Ice-cream  

BEVERAGES. 

Baker's  Cocoa  

Black  Tea  

Breakfast  Cocoa  

Chocolate  308, 

Cocoa  Paste  

Cocoa  Shells  

Coffee  306, 

Dripped  Coffee  

French  Chocolate  with  Milk  

Frothed  Chocolate  

Golden  Coffee  

Iced  Tea  s  

Plain  Chocolate  

Tea  

To  Clear  Coffee  

To  Make  Good  Coffee  

To  Toast  Coffee  


PAGE 

30C 

300 
304 
300 
301 
298 
304 
,  299 
299 
297 
29M 
302 
30! 
297 
301 
302 
301 
300 
304 
29!) 
303 
297 
305 
305 
298 


31 2 
310 
311 
310 
312 
312 
309 
309 
310 
311 
309 
310 
311 
310 
306 
309 
308 


Wines,  Cordials,  Etc. 

A  Good  Summer  JJrink  

Apple  Wine  

Blackberry  Cordial  

Blackberry  Wine  S13. 

Brandy  Peaches  

Cherry  Bounce  

Cherry  Brandy  

Cherry  Wine  314, 

Cream  Nectar  

Currant  Wine  314, 

Damson  Wine  

Egg  Lemonade  

Egg-nog  

Elderberry  Wine  

Ginger  Wine  

Gooseberry  Wine  

Grape  Wine  

Lemon  Punch  


321 
317 
317 
314 
319 
320 
318 
317 
322 
315 
315 
321 
320 
316 
316 
315 
313 
321 


386  The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


Wines,  Cordials,  Etc.  page 

Lemonade   321 

Lemonade  Powder   321 

Lemon  Sirup   322 

Peach  Cordial   318 

Plain  Lemonade   322 

Raisin  Wine   316 

Raspberry  and  Strawberry  Sirup...  323 

Raspberry  Cordial   318 

Raspberry  Shrub   319 

Raspberry  Vinegar   319 

Raspberry  Wine   315 

Rhubarb  Wine  (Sparkling)   316 

Roman  Punch   320 

Soda-water   322 

Soda-water  Sirups   323 

CANDY. 

Candy   326 

Candv  Made  without  Cooking   325 

Chocolate  Caramels   328 

Chocolate  Cream  Drops   327 

"Cocoa-nut  Candy   327 

Cocoa-nut  Drop's   327 

Cream  Almonds   327 

Cream  Candy   326 

Home-made* Candy   326 

To  Sugar  Corn   327 

White  Sugar  Candy  325, 326 

WHEN  FOOD  IS  IN  SEASON. 

Eggs   332 

Fish   332 

Fowls   331 

Fruits   329 

Meats   331 

Vegetables   330 

BILLS  OF  FARE. 

April   334 

August   340 

Christmas  Dinner   347 

February   348 

January   347 

June   337 

March   349 

May   335 

November   344 

September   342 

MENUS. 

A  Kentucky  Home  Breakfast   353 

An  Old-fashioned  Kentucky  Sup- 
per ,   353 

A  Simple  Lunch   353 

Breakfast   353 

Lunch   352 

Spring  351,  352 

Summer   352 

Supper  (Autumn)   353 

Winter   351 

HINTS  FOR  THE  SICK-ROOM. 

Apple  Custard   359 

Arrowroot  357 


SICK-ROOM  HINTS. 

Baked  Apples  

Barberry  Jellv  

Barlev  Gru-1..  

Barley  Wafe-r  

Bat'.er-cakes  fur  Invalids   351 

Beef  Tea   356 

Blanc-mange   359 

Bohemian  Cream   35S 

Chicken  Broth   356 

Cooked  Chicken  for  the  Sick   350 

Corn  Meal  Gruel   356 

I  Drink  for  Invalids   361 

Drinks  for  Invalids   359 

Esg  Flip   361 

Ezs  Panada   358 

Imperial  Drink   360 

Imperial  Granum   360 

Lemon  Nogg   360 

Liquid  Measures   361 

Mock  Oyster  Soup   3-57 

Panada   358 

Rice  Jelly   360 

Roasted  Peach   359 

Sago   357 

Soup  for  Invalids   355 

Superior  Beef  Tea   355 

Tapioca   357 

Toast  Water   360 

Wafers  for  the  Sick   358 

Wine  Jelly   359 

Wine  Whey  360 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

A  Good  Heal  ins  Salve   372 

A  Simple  Remedy  for  Neuralgia....  371 

Catarrn  Remedy   372 

Champion  Carpet-cleaner   369 

Cure  for  Colds   373 

Cure  for  Constipation   371 

Cure  for  Croup   371 

Cure  for  Diphtheria   372 

Cure  for  Earache   372 

Cure  for  Felon,  or  Run-round   373 

Cure  for  Hoarseness   374 

Cure  for  Inflamed  Eyes   374 

Cure  for  Loeked-jaw   372 

Cure  for  Lumbago   371 

Cure  for  Toothache   372 

Cure  for  Weak  Eyes   374 

Excellent  for  a  Cough   374 

Hints  to  Laundresses   365 

Household   375 

Mending  Stoves   370 

Relief  for  Nervous  Headache   374 

Salve  for  a  Strain,.   374 

Sure  Cure  for  Dvsenterv   374 

The  Toilet   374 

Things  Worth  Knowing   362 

To  Clean  Black  Silk....:.   367 

To  Clean  Carpets   369 

To  Clean  Gilt  Frames   367 

To  Clean  Oil-cloth   369 

To  Clean  Rusted  Iron   370 

To  Clean  Straw  Mattins   369 


The  New  Kentucky  Home  Cook  Book. 


387 


MISCELLANEOUS.  page 
To  Clean  White  Ostrich  Feathers..  368 


To  Cure  a  Burn  without  a  Scar   373 

To  Cure  Bunions   373 

To  Cure  Corns   373 

To  Cure  Dvspepsia   37L 

To  Cure  Insect  Stings   373 

To  Cure  Ivy-poisoned  Hands   373 

To  Curl  Tumbled  Feathers   367 

To  Destroy  Red  Ants   370 

To  Destroy  Roaches   370 

To  Drive  Nails  into  a  Soft  Wall   368 

To  Freshen  Black  Lace   367 

To  Freshen  Flowers   368 


MISCELLANEOUS.  page 


To  Freshen  Grenadine   367 

To  Keep  Clear  of  Bed-bugs   371 

To  Mend  China  or  Glass-ware   370 

To  Preserve  Furs  „   368 

To  Remove  Smoke  Stains  from 

Mantels   368 

To  Remove  Stains  from  Marble   369 

To  Remove  Warts   372 

To   Remove  White  Spots  from 

Furniture   370 

To  Restore  Velvet   367 

To  Smooth  Wrinkled  Silk   367 

To  Stop  a  Leak  in  Tin-ware   370 


3d  .    -A*.  LBERT, 

DEALER  IS 

G\mR,  <^iass,  QuEEnsiYare.  ami  Kali  5apei[, 

JEWELRY,   CLOCKS,  and  WATCHES, 

Second  Street,  MAYSVILLE,  IKY. 

J.  B^.LLElTaER, 

Fine  Watches,  Diamonds,  Jewelry,  Slocks,  Silver-ware,  Etc. 

Watch  Repairing  a  Specialty.   Engraving  of  all  Einds. 


No.  33  E.  Second  Street,  MAYSVILLE,  NY. 

IE3  IE       B,  C  E  BBOTHEBS, 

Successors  to  D.  E.  ROBERTS  &  CO., 

PROPRIETORS  OF 

LIMESTONE  MILLS. 

Determined  to  maintain  the  high  character  for  excellence  enjoved  bv  the 
well-known  and  deservedly  popular  "  LIMESTONE "  and  "MAYSVILLE" 
brands  of  flour,  the  proprietors  of 

THE  LIMESTONE  MIWUS 

Have  at  considerable  expense,  rearranged  their  mills,  putting  in  the  very  lat- 
est improved  and  the  best  make  of  Rolls,  Wheat-cleaning  Machinery,  addi- 
tional Purifiers,  Bolts,  etc.,  and  are  now  prepared  to  furnish  the  trade  with  a 
Roller  Flour  Second  to  None  in  the  Market. 
c.  b.  pearce,  jr.  Very  respectfully, 

r?MNpCElRCE.CE'  PEARCE  BROTHERS, 

e.  E.  pearce,  jr.  Proprietors  Limestone  Mills. 

FK-A-ItfX:  IK.  PHISTEE 

Keeps  on  hand  a  fine  assortment  of  the  newest  goods  in  his  line,  embracing 

French  Tissue  Papers,  Gold  and  Silver  Papers,  Card- 
board, Carbon  and  Tracing-  Papers,  Drawing-  and  Painting 
Materials,  Plaques,  Panels,  Brushes,  Crayons,  Soaps,  Per- 
fumes, Powders,  Brushes,  Combs,  Mirrors,  Note  Paper,  Vis- 
iting Cards,  Birthday  Cards,  Pens,  Pencils,  Croquet,  Balls. 
Canes,  Marbles,  Picture  Frames,  Engravings,  Paintings, and 
every  thing  in  the  fancy  or  staple  Book  and  Stationery  line. 

When  you  need  any  thing  to  decorate  your  home,  write  to  Mr.  Phister  and  ninety-nine 
times  out  of  one  hundred  you  will  be  able  to  get  it.    Address  all  orders  to 

Frank  R.  Phister,  Maysville,  Ky. 

G-  .  "\7\7"  .  GEISEL, 

Equity  Grocery,  No.  cj  Second  Street,  Opposite  Opera  House. 

This  popular  Grocery  was  established  a  few  doors  below  his  present  large 
and  magnificent  store-room  in  1865,  and  if  there  is  a  business  in  Maysville 
which  has  been  carefully  guarded  and  received  the  continuous  personal  atten- 
tion of  its  proprietor  it  "is  this  of  the  Equity  Grocery.  The  spacious  interior 
is  amply  stocked  with  the  most  desirable  goods  in  his  line  Staple  and  Fancy 
Family  Groceries  in  great  variety,  including  the  choicest  brands  of  Teas,  Cof- 
fees, Sugars,  Spices,  Canned  Goods,  and  all  articles  for  table  or  culinary  use. 
Country  produce,  always  nice  and  fresh,  forms  an  important  feature  of  this 
model  establishment,  and  the  splendid  rule  of  equity  and  fair  dealing  is  here 
universally  observed.  Mr.  Geisel  is  a  native  and  life-long  resident  of  Mays- 
ville, and  enjoys  a  large  and  lucrative  trade  from  both  city  and  country 


388 


C.  C.  CALHOUN, 

GROCER, 


January's  Block, 


MAYSVILLE,  KY 


SCIBK'CB  HILL 

(A  SCHOOL  FOR  GIRLS j, 
Established  1825 
BY 

MRS.  JULIA  A.  TEVIS, 

LOCATED  AT 

SHELBYVILLE,  KENTUCKY, 

Aims  to  give  its  pupils  the  elements  of  a 
complete  education.  Pretense  and  show 
are  discarded,  and  all  its  force  of  a  compe- 
tent Faculty  directed  toward  the  essentials 
of  education.  Terms  reasonable.  Send  for 
catalogue. 

W.  T.  POYNTER,  D.D.,  Principal. 


T.  J.  CURLEY, 

Plumber, 

Steam  Gas-fitter  and  Sanitary  En- 
gineer, 

Second  Street, 
Opposite  Omar  Dodsoa,     Maygville,  Kt/. 


:0LT  BIGHESON, 

NO.  o  SECOND  STREET, 
MAYSVILLE,  KY. 


Pure  Candies  and  Fine  Tens  a  Spe- 
cialty. 


Established  1832. 

€5.  ?  ]V[meii  ^  "Bito., 


:alees  in 


Boots*  Shoos, 

Leather,  and  Findings, 

No.  I  Second  St.,  cor.  Sutton, 
Maysville,  Ky. 


F.  H.  TRAXEL, 

Dealer  In  Foreign  and  Domestic 

Wholesale  and  Retail 

BAKER  |  GONFEGTIONER, 

CIGARS  and  TOBACCO, 

No.  2b  E.  Second  St., 


MAYSVILLE, 


KENTUCKY 


I).  HECHIKGEB.      F.  HECniNGEE.      L.  ZKCH, 


Hecliinger  Bros.  &  Co.? 

Manufacturers  and  Wholesale 

Gents'  Furnishing  Goods. 
SALT!  IQJE,  MD.       MAYSVILLE,  EY. 


RUNYON  &  HOCKER, 

Dealers  in 
Fancy  and  Staple 

Second  Street, 


MAYSVILLE, 


KENTUCKY. 


J.  HENRY  PECOR, 

LiEALER  IN 

Boots,  Shoes,  Leather, 

-A^itcl  Findings, 
Second  Street, 
Ttto  doors  Tjelov  BanS  of  liaysrille, 

MAYSVILLE7  KY. 

PEARCE  &  ORT, 

Manufacturers  and  Dealers  in 

FupnituPG. 

Mattresses,  Springs,  Etc. 

Fine  Parlor  and  Bed-room  Suits  at 
lowest  Cash  prices.    Repairing  of 
all  kinds  done  promptly  and  in 
the  best  manner.  Charges 
reasonable. 

east  secoxd  st.  Maysville. 

J.  T.  KACKLEY, 

Wholesale  and  Retail 

Md'KmMii 

Stationery,  Wall  Paper  and  Window  Shades, 

A^o.  27  E.  Second  Street, 
Mlaysville,  Kentucky. 

Kackley's  Photograph  Gallery  in  ?ame 
building. 

j      T.  Y.  NK8BITT.                   M.  B.  S  KEELL. 

Nesbitt&McKrGll, 
Dry  Goods  and  Notions. 

No.  20  Sutton  Street, 
TvT  a  ysvill  e,  Ken  tucky. 

Chenoweth  &  Co., 

Wholesale  and  Retail 

DRUGGISTS, 

Maysville,  Kentucky. 

Proprietors  of 

—^-Wills'  World  Worm  SaDdy.s^. 

Prescriptions  carefully  compounded 
night  and  day. 

JOHN  WHEELER, 

Wholesale  Dealer  in 

Oysters,  Fish,  Game. 

Foreign  and  Domestic  Fruits, 
Confections,  Canned  Goods,  Etc.. 
Xo.  31  Market  Street, 
MAYSVILLE,      -  KENTUCKY 

HENRY  ORT, 

Dealer  in 
AA1  Kinds  of 

MAYSVILLE,       -  KENTUCKY. 

WATSON  BEOS.  &  CO., 

Jobbers  and  Wholesale  Dealers  in 

ferslTobaGco, 

No.  25  Second  Street, 

MAYSVILLE,      -  KENTUCKY. 

390 


HERMAN  LANGE, 
Watches,  Diamonds, 

JEWELRY, 

2s" o .  4r3  Second.  St., 

Three  doors  below  Market, 
MAYSVILLE,      -  KENTUCKY. 


GEO.  H.  HEISER, 


DEALER  IN 


JAMES  H.  HALL  &  C0.3 

Manufacturers  of  the 
CELEBRATED 

Limestone  Steel  Plows, 


George  Cox  &  Son, 

DEALERS  IN 

S^aracy:  mttl  Staple 

Dl¥  GOODS, 

Carpets,   Oil-cloths,  Mattings, 
And  HcMSkespirg  C-c:d:  :-5:er:'.:.", 


Mrs.  L.  %.  Davis, 

Fine  Millinery 

15  Court  Street 
MAYSVILLE,     -  KY. 


Groceries,  Confectioneries, 

Foreign  and  Domestic  Fruits, 

Butter,  Eggs,  Etc. 

No.  17  Second  Street, 

MAYSVILLE,  KY. 

WESLEY  VICROY, 

DEALER  IN  ALL  KINDS  OF 

SEWING  MACHINES 

And  Attachments. 

If  you  wish  to  buy  or  trade,  drop 
me  si  line. 

Repairing  Promptly  Attended  To, 

MaysviTle,  Ky. 

J.  JAMES  WOOD, 

Druggist, 

MAYSVILLE,  KY. 

Special  attention  given  to  Prescrip- 

ions. 

C.S.Young  &  J. W.Fitzgerald, 

Sects'  Furnishers, 

HATS   AJSTl  CAPS, 

Jancart's  Block, 
?IAYSriZLE,  KE MUCKY. 


Jas.  F.  Robixsojt.  Geo.  T.  Hunter. 

Robinson  &  Co., 

PROPRIETORS  OF 

Maysville  City  Mills. 

Full  Holler  System. 

OLD  GOLD  PATENT,  ROYAL  PATENT. 
MASON  COUNTY  FANCY, 

KENTUCKY  FANCY. 

FRANK  B.  RANSOM. 

DEALER  IS 

Beets  ctnfl  S^oes, 

No.  jg  Second  Street, 
ZVEaysville,  Kentucky. 

jUabtr  in  5>t£lcs  anfciofo  friers. 


A.R.Glascock.  C.  VP.  Darsal. 

D.  R.  Bollock. 

A.  R.  GLASCOCK  &  CO., 

DEALEBS  ITS 

Diiy  €fcorls 

AND  NOTIONS, 
MAYSVILLE,  KY. 

Stafford  Female  College, 

Stanford,  Lincoln  Co.,  Ky. 


Fifteenth  Session  of   this  School 
will  open  September  i,  1884. 
For   Catalogues  con- 
taining particulars, 

Address 

Mrs.  g.  I  Truerieart 

Principal. 


J.  W.  SPARKS  &  BRO., 

No.  24  Market  Street, 

DEALERS  IN 

DRY  GOODS. 

Carpets,  Oil-cloths,  and  Window- 
shades. 


Prices  Always  the  Lowest. 
Give  Us  a  Call. 


Limestone  Pottery, 

KEITH  BROS., 

Proprietors, 

TJxiion.  Street, 
MAYSVILLE,  KENTUCKY. 


J.  C.  PECOR  &  CO., 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers  in 

B  M  tp  @f  i  * 

Stationery,  Books, 

Medicines  and  Pharmaceuticals, 
Paints,  Oils,  Window-shades, 
Pens,  Inks,  Etc. 
No.  10  Second  St., 


MATSVTLLE, 


KENTUCKY 


MILLERSBURG 

Jamais  Oclleqi?. 

LOCATED  AT 

Millersbarg,  Bourbon  So.,  Ky. 

MORRIS  EVANS,  D.D.,  Pres't. 

Full   Corps   of   Teachers.  Terms 
Reasonable.   Send  for  Catalogue. 


Session,  1§S4, 


.S92 


