Copyright^0. 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


<" 


LULU  THOMPSON  SILVERNAIL 


Nine  Hundred  Successful 

RECIPES 


& 


The  following  RECIPES  have  been  compiled  by  Mrs. 
Silver  nail,  who  for  several  years  has  been  instructing 
Domestic  Science  Classes  in  the  use  of  Hard  Winter 
Wheat  Short  Patent  Flour.  The  recipes  given 
in  this  book  have  been  tested  not  only  by 
Mrs.  Silvernail,  but  have  been  used 
most  successfully  by  hundreds 
of  women  who  have  at¬ 
tended  her  classes. 


By 

LULU  THOMPSON  SILVERNAIL 

Domestic  Science  Teacher  for 

THE  SOUTHWESTERN  MILLING  COMPANY ,  Inc. 


Books  may  be  obtained  from 

‘S.  &  H.  COOK  BOOK” 

700  Dwight  Building 
KANSAS  CITY,  MO. 


■4 


Copyrighted  1923 

Lulu  Thompson  Silvernail 


SEP  14  1923 

©C1A752916 

'Vuj  | 


—  BECKTOLD  — 

PRINTING  AND  BOOK  MFG.  CO. 

St.  Louis,  Mo. 


v  v«- VI. 


CONTENTS 


) 

f 


Chapter  Pages 

Rules  and  Definitions .  4 

1  Bread  and  Rolls  Made  with  Yeast .  9 

II  Fancy  Breads,  Rolls,  Cake  and  Doughnuts  Made 

with  Yeast  .  22 

III  Quick  Breads  Made  with  Baking  Powder .  30 

IV  Muffins  .  39 

V  Waffles  and  Batter  Cakes .  44 

VI  Cake  .  51 

VII  Fillings,  Icings  and  Fondant .  78 

VIII  Cookies  and  Small  Cakes .  86 

IX  Desserts  and  Puddings. . . .  100 

X  Pudding  Sauces .  123 

XI  Pies . 777 .  128 

XII  Fritters  and  Fried  Cakes .  153 

XIII  Soups  .  157 

XIV  Steaks  .  161 

XV  Meat  Dishes  and  Dressings. . .  165 

XVI  Croquettes  and  Dumplings .  182 

XVII  Fish  .  187 

XVIII  Eggs,  Cheese,  Vegetable  and  Breakfast  Dishes. . . .  191 

XIX  Savory  Sauces  .  210 

XX  SalaaTTTTTTr .  215 

XXI  Salad  Dressings .  237 

XXII  Sandwiches  .  244 

XXIII  Punch,  Drinks  and  Appetizers .  252 

XXIV  Jellies  and  Preserves .  255 

XXV  Fried  Chicken  and  Roast  Turkey .  260 

XXVI  Frozen  Desserts .  263 

XXVII  Mincemeat,  Pickles  and  Relish .  268 


—  3  — 


Rules  and  Definitions 


READ  CAREFULLY 


Before  any  of  the  recipes  in  this  book  are  tried,  the  fol¬ 
lowing  instructions  should  be  read  and  followed  closely, 
if  perfect  results  are  to  be  obtained. 


A  high  grade  hard  winter  wheat  flour  should  be  used  in  all  recipes 
to  insure  perfect  results.  If  high  grade  soft  wheat  flour  is  used,  additional 
flour  should  be  added  in  each  recipe;  proportionately  about  2  or  3  level 
tablespoonfuls  to  the  cup. 

All  recipes  have  been  compiled  from  the  use  of  measuring  cups  holding 
exactly  one-half  pint.  A  tablespoon  and  teaspoon,  of  accurate  measure¬ 
ments,  have  been  used  for  all  spoon  measurements. 

All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  has  been  sifted  one  time  and 
then  measured.  Either  dry  or  liquid  ingredients  should  come  to  the  top 
of  cup,  or  level  on  the  spoon. 

To  measure  flour,  first  sift  the  flour  into  bowl;  take  a  spatula  or  spoon 
and  dip  from  the  bowl  filling  the  cup,  tapping  side  of  cup  one  time  to  insure 
against  unfilled  spaces.  Round  the  cup  up  with  flour  then  scrape  it  off  per¬ 
fectly  level.  This  gives  a  level  sifted  cupful  of  flour.  For  a  level  table¬ 
spoon  or  teaspoonful  dip  the  spoon  into  the  dry  ingredients  lifting  up  a 
rounded  spoonful.  Draw  knife  across  the  spoon  in  such  manner  that  all 
of  the  edge  of  spoon  is  touched  by  the  knife  in  the  process.  This  insures 
a  level  spoonful. 

To  measure  one-half  of  a  spoonful,  scrape  spoon  level  first,  then  divide 
by  cutting  lengthwise. 

To  measure  one-fourth,  scrape  spoon  level,  divide  lengthwise,  then 
crosswise. 

To  measure  one-eighth,  scrape  spoon  level,  divide  lengthwise,  cross¬ 
wise,  then  diagonal. 

The  marks  on  measuring  cups  should  be  carefully  watched,  filling 
the  cups  to  line  designated  in  recipe. 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


Y2  pint  . 1  cupful 

2  pints  . 1  quart 

4  quarts  . 1  gallon 

4  saltspoons  . 1  teaspoon 

3  teaspoonfuls  . 1  tablespoon 

2  teaspoons  . 1  dessertspoon 

16  tablespoonfuls  . 1  cupful 

1  gill  . Y2  cupful 

14  cupful  . 1  wineglassful 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour  . 1  ounce 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  . 1  ounce 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  . 1  ounce 

4  cupfuls  sifted  flour  . 1  pound 

2  cupfuls  butter  . 1  pound 

9  or  10  medium  sized  eggs  . 1  pound 

2  cupfuls  milk  . 1  pound 

16  ounces  . ✓ . 1  pound 


—  4  — 


DEFINITIONS 


Agneau — Tender  young  lamb. 

A  la,  au,  aux— With  or  prepared  in  a  certain  manner. 

A  la  Creole— Cooked  with  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers. 

A  la  Printaniere — A  soup  of  stew  served  with  young  spring  vegetables. 
A  la  Neige — Like  snow. 

Allemande — In  German  style. 

Ambrosia — Food  fit  for  the  gods. 

Andalouse — In  Spanish  style. 

Anglaise — In  English  style. 

Aspic- — Meat  stock  jelly. 

Au,  Aux — To  or  with  (singular  and  plural). 

Au  Diable — According  to  the  devil’s  liking.  Highly  seasoned  and  hot. 
Au  Gratin — Food  covered  with  sauce,  crumbs,  usually  grated  cheese, 
and  baked. 

Au  Jus — With  natural  gravy. 

Bannocks — Small  flat  cakes  of  Scotch  origin,  baked  on  a  griddle  and 
made  of  barley  or  oatmeal. 

Blanc  Mange — A  dessert  of  milk  and  cornstarch. 

Bain  Marie- — A  double  boiler  on  a  large  scale. 

Bearnaise — A  Swiss  sauce  used  for  steak. 

Bechamel — A  rich  white  sauce  made  with  stock,  milk  or  cream.  Used 
for  meat  or  poultry. 

Beurre — Butter. 

Biscuit  Glace — In  a  small  cake  of  ice  cream. 

Bisque — It  is  a  term  applied  to  a  soup  made  of  shellfish.  Its  color 
is  red.  Lobster  Bisque,  Crawfish  Bisque  and  others.  The  term  “Bisque” 
is  also  applied  to  an  ice  cream,  to  which  fine  chopped  nuts  are  added. 

Blanch — To  whiten  by  scalding. 

Blanquette — White  meat  in  a  rich  cream  sauce. 

Boeuf  Braise— Braised  beef. 

Boeuf  a  la  Jardiniere — Braised  beef  served  with  an  assortment  of  vege¬ 
tables. 

Bombe  Glace— Ice  Cream  of  two  kinds,  or  an  ice  cream  and  a  water  ice, 
molded  in  some  special  shape.  One  kind  of  cream  on  outer  side  and  dif¬ 
ferent  kind  in  center. 

Bonne  Bouche — A  good  sized  mouthful. 

Bouillon — A  plain,  clear  soup,  not  so  strong  as  consomme. 

Bouquet  of  Herbs — A  bunch  of  various  flavoring  herbs,  thyme,  savory, 
marjoram  and  parsley  used  for  soups  and  stews. 

Braise — To  cook  with  vegetables  in  closely  covered  pan. 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


Cafe  Noir — Coffee  (black)  for  after  dinner. 

Canape — Small  piece  of  bread  or  toast,  spread  ■with  highly  seasoned 
fish  or  egg  compound,  daintily  garnished  and  served  as  an  appetizer  before 
lunch  or  dinner. 

Caramel — Brown  or  burnt  sugar. 

Chaud — Hot. 

Chef  (de  cuisine) — Head  cook  (of  kitchen). 

Chives — Herbs  resembling  small  onion  stalks. 

Chutney — An  East  India  sweet  relish. 

Compotes — Fruits  stewed  in  syrup,  the  syrup  being  made  rich  enough 
so  the  fruits  will  retain  their  shape. 

Courtbouillon  or  Court  Bouillon — Highly  seasoned  liquor  in  which  fish 
is  cooked. 

Croustade — Hollowed  shapes  of  bread  fried. 

Croutons — Small  squares  of  fried  bread  for  garnishing  soup. 

Curry  Powder — A  seasoning  powder  or  condiment  used  in  India.  The 
principal  ingredient  is  turmeric. 

De  or  d — Of. 

Demi  Glace — A  rich  gravy;  or  frosting. 

Demi  Tasse — Half  cup. 

Devilled — Highly  seasoned. 

Diab’e — The  devil. 

En  Brochette — Small  portions  of  meat  cooked  on  skewer. 

Entree — A  made  dish  served  as  separate  course. 

Entremet — A  very  small  side  dish,  usually  of  sweets  or  nuts. 

Farci — Stuffed. 

Filet — Tender  undercut  of  beef. 

Foie  Gras — Liver  of  goose. 

Fondant — Sugar  boiled  and  beaten  to  a  creamy  mass. 

Fondue — Cheese  and  eggs  cooked  together. 

Francaise — In  French  style. 

Frappe — Partly  frozen. 

Fricandeau — Piece  of  veal  larded  and  braised. 

Froid — Cold. 

Gateau — A  cake. 

Gelee — Jelly. 

Glace  (glassy) — Glazed  over  or  iced. 

Grille — Broiled. 

Hoe  Cakes — Southern  cakes  made  of  white  corn  meal,  salt  and  boiling 
water  and  fried  on  a  griddle. 

Hollandaise — In  Dutch  style,  name  of  sauce  used  for  fish,  meat  or 
vegetables. 

Hors  d’oeuvres — Appetizer,  side  dish. 

Jardiniere — Mixed  vegetables. 

Julienne- — Shredded  vegetables  or  a  vegetable  soup. 

Kuchen — German  for  Cake. 

Lait — Milk. 

Lard — To  insert  strips  of  bacon  into  meat  with  larding  needle. 
Macaroni  au  Frontage— Macaroni  with  cheese. 

Macedoine — Mixed  vegetables  or  fruits. 


DEFINITIONS 


Marinate — To  make  savory  in  seasoned  vinegar  and  oil. 

Marrons — Chestnuts. 

Mayonnaise — A  salad  dressing. 

Menu — The  bill  of  fare. 

Meringue — White  of  egg  and  sugar,  beaten  together. 

Mousse — A  light  frothy  mixture  whipped  till  spongy  in  texture;  may 
be  savory  or  sweet. 

Neige- — Snow. 

Noel — Christmas. 

Noir — Black. 

Pain — Bread. 

Panade— Bread  and  milk  cooked  thick  and  pasty. 

Pate — Small  pastry  shell,  or  paste. 

Pate  de  Fois  Gras — A  rich  paste  made  of  geese  livers. 

Potage — Soup. 

Pot-au-feu — Soup. 

Praline — A  Creole  sweet,  made  of  pecan  nuts  and  sugar  or  cocoanut 
and  sugar. 

Pommes — Apples. 

Pommes  de  Terre — Potatoes. 

Puree  (puray) — Thick  soup  or  vegetables,  fish,  etc.,  cooked,  then 
passed  through  sieve. 

Ragout— A  rich  stew  or  dish  of  meat  or  poultry.  Usually  made  with 
vegetables. 

Rechauffe — re-heated. 

Remoualde — A  salad  dressing  made  from  hard  cooked  eggs.  The  yolks 
mashed  to  a  cream,  then  mixed  with  spices  and  vinegar. 

Removes — The  main  dishes  of  the  meal. 

Rissoles — Mint  seasoned  fish  or  meat,  rolled  in  batter  and  fried. 

Roux — Browned  butter  and  flour  for  thickening. 

Salmi — A  rich  soup. 

Saute — To  cook  quickly  over  sharp  fire,  with  just  enough  butter  or  fat 
to  prevent  sticking. 

Souffle — Puffed  up  and  made  light  by  use  of  well  beaten  eggs;  may 
be  savory  or  sweet. 

Tartar© — Sauce  used  for  sea  food. 

Timbale^— Cooked  in  a  mold. 

Vol-au-vent — A  covered  pie  or  puff  paste  in  which  to  serve  savories 
or  sweets. 


t 


CHAPTER  I 


Bread  and  Bolls  Made  with  Yeast 


WHITE  BREAD. 


2  potatoes,  size  of  hen’s  egg 
1  cake  compressed  yeast 
8  tablespoons  sugar 
4  cups  lukewarm  liquid  mix¬ 


3*4  scant  quarts  of  flour,  or 
13  H  cups 
1  tablespoon  salt 
3  tablespoons  shortening 


ture 


Have  potatoes  peeled  and  boiled  until  tender.  When  done,  run 
potatoes  and  water  in  which  they  were  boiled  through  sieve  to  have 
them  mashed  and  free  from  lumps.  Place  in  bowl  in  lukewarm 
condition  and  into  the  potato  mixture  dissolve  the  cake  of  yeast  and 
add  sugar.  Stir  potatoes,  yeast  and  sugar  together,  until  yeast  is 
thoroughly  mixed  and  dissolved.  Add  enough  lukewarm  water  to  this 
mixture  to  make  4  cups  in  all,  or  1  quart.  Measure  carefully  3^ 
quarts,  or  lS1/^  cups  of  flour  and  place  in  large  pan ;  place  pan  over  an 
asbestos  lid,  over  a  turned  down  blaze,  and  warm  the  flour  by  stirring 
it  constantly,  placing  the  palm  of  hand  flatly  in  bottom  of  pan,  keep¬ 
ing  the  flour  in  motion,  that  no  flour  will  be  overheated  or  scorched. 
When  flour  is  warm,  make  a  nest  in  center  and  into  this  nest  pour 
the  liquid  mixture.  With  a  mixing  spoon  gradually  mix  in  the 
flour  until  about  2/3  of  it  has  been  pulled  in,  then  add  the  melted 
shortening  and  salt.  Continue  to  mix  until  it  is  necessary  to  com¬ 
plete  the  mixing  with  hands.  If  liquid  is  properly  measured  and 
flour  accurately  measured,  after  once  sifted,  the  dough  should  be 
just  stiff  enough,  providing  a  good  hard  wheat  flour  is  used. 

Take  dough  out  on  board  and  knead  until  smooth,  usually  5 
minutes  kneading  is  sufficient  to  put  it  in  good  condition.  Select  a 
raiser  not  large  in  circumference,  but  deep,  in  which  to  proof  dough. 
Place  the  dough  in  raiser  to  rise.  If  raiser  is  to  be  tightly  covered 
it  is  not  necessary  to  grease  dough  on  top,  but  if  cover  does  not  fit 
down  securely,  grease  generously,  thus  preventing  dough  from  crust¬ 
ing  on  top.  Place  raiser  in  some  warm  place  at  a  temperature  of 
about  75  or  80  degrees  Fht.  A  fireless  cooker  makes  an  excellent 
place  in  which  to  proof  dough,  warming  the  disc  to  lukewarm  and 
placing  dough  in  receptacle  to  set  on  disc.  When  dough  has  risen  to 
double  in  bulk,  with  greased  fingers  press  it  down,  by  bringing  outer 
edges  of  dough  to  center,  knocking  it  back  to  original  bulk  as  nearly 


—  9  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


as  possible.  After  dough  is  pressed  down,  turn  it  over  and  allow  it  to 
rise  the  second  time  to  triple  its  volume,  then  press  it  back  down 
again  and  turn  it  over.  Pressed  down  the  third  time,  it  may  be  made 
into  bread  and  rolls  or  it  may  be  allowed  to  rise  again  until  light,  then 
made  out  into  rolls  and  loaves.  When  rolls  and  bread  are  placed  in 
greased  pans  and  generously  greased  on  top,  allow  them  to  rise  until 
double  in  bulk  before  baking.  Rolls  and  loaves  should  be  well  cov¬ 
ered  at  this  last  stage  in  rising.  Do  not  rely  upon  a  cloth  covering 
at  any  time  for  dough.  Bread  should  be  baked  a  length  of  time  in 
accordance  with  the  size  of  loaf.  If  dough  has  risen  or  proofed  prop¬ 
erly  it  should  be  baked  in  oven,  tested  in  following  manner:  Place 
a  little  flour  on  pie  pan  and  place  it  in  bottom  of  oven  and  if  flour 
browns  to  a  light  brown  in  5  minutes,  it  is  a  good  oven  for  bread. 
Bread  should  show  only  a  slight  brown  tint  at  end  of  15  minutes  bak¬ 
ing.  Rolls  require  more  heat  at  beginning  of  baking  period  than 
bread. 

If  loaves  or  rolls  should  be  allowed  to  become  too  light  in  pans, 
it  is  better  to  remold  dough  and  allow  it  to  rise  again  and  catch  it  at 
proper  time.  If  it  is  to  be  baked  in  this  over-proofed  condition,  it 
must  be  placed  in  a  very  hot  oven  and  forced  to  crust  over  quickly, 
thus  preventing  further  rising.  Milk  bread  is  better  while  fresh. 
Bread  to  be  kept  on  hand  any  length  of  time  is  better  made  with 
water.  Always  scald  milk  to  be  used  in  yeast  products.  Bread  is 
better  baked  in  individual  or  double  loaves.  Where  three  loaves  are 
baked  together  the  outer  loaves  are  usually  over-baked  while  center 
loaf  is  yet  not  done.  It  is  better  to  keep  dough  too  cool  than  too  hot. 
When  loaves  come  from  oven,  they  should  be  removed  from  pan  at 
once,  each  loaf  broken  apart  and  set  upright  on  cooling  rack  un¬ 
covered.  Loaves  may  be  brushed  over  with  melted  butter  or  sweet 
milk.  If  soft  crust  is  desired,  place  a  small  pan  of  water  in  oven 
while  bread  is  baking  or  place  three  thicknesses  of  damp  cloth  over 
top  of  loaves  while  on  cooling  rack.  Bread  baked  in  tin  pans  does  not 
brown  so  quickly  as  when  baked  in  black  pans.  A  sure  test  of  bread 
being  done  is  to  see  loaves  shrink  from  sides  of  pan  and  where  one 
is  inexperienced  in  baking  this  is  a  safe  method. 

No  additional  flour  should  be  added  to  plain  white  dough,  for 
bread,  after  first  mixing.  Dough  for  rolls,  coffee  cake  and  all  fancy 
articles  should  be  handled  in  soft  condition  and  may  require  a  few 
extra  sprinkles  of  flour  while  handling. 

If  over  night  process  bread  is  desired,  make  dough  in  same 
manner  as  above,  setting  it  to  proof  at  about  10:30  P.  M.,  keeping 
it  warm  and  well  covered,  with  enough  space  in  raiser  for  dough 
to  expand  or  rise  to  nearly  four  times  its  bulk.  The  dough  usually 
rises  and  falls  in  the  night,  so  it  may  be  made  out  into  loaves  and 
rolls  the  first  thing  in  morning.  Each  housekeeper  should  be  equipped 
with  a  thermometer.  It  is  hard  to  determine  temperature  without. 
To  one  quart  of  liquid,  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  is  usually  suffi¬ 
cient  for  plain  white  bread.  Fancy  dough  requires  more  yeast,  and 
more  should  be  used  to  hasten  fermentation.  When  using  extra 

—  10  — 


BREAD  AND  ROLLS  MADE  WITH  YEAST 


yeast  in  recipe,  for  quicker  results  add  l1/^  teaspoonfuls  ginger  to  a 
recipe  where  1  quart  of  liquid  is  used. 

If  bread  is  mixed  properly,  ingredients  accurately  measured, 
and  good  materials  used,  there  should  be  uniform  success  in  baking. 
Particular  attention  should  be  given  to  flour  to  obtain  a  loaf  of  size 
and  flavor.  Different  kinds  of  wheat  contain  different  amounts  of 
gluten.  Winter  or  soft  wheat  contains  less  gluten  than  spring  wheat. 
The  soft  wheat  is  whiter  in  color  and  has  a  feeling  like  that  of  corn¬ 
starch,  but  does  not  give  a  loaf  with  flavor.  Hard  winter  wheat  flour 
has  a  granular  feeling,  absorbs  more  moisture  and  contains  the  neces¬ 
sary  gluten  for  perfect  results  in  products  made  with  yeast. 

There  are  two  ways  to  make  bread.  One  the  straight  dough 
process,  and  the  other  the  process  in  which  a  sponge  is  set  and  al¬ 
lowed  to  ferment  a  given  length  of  time  before  all  ingredients  are 
mixed  into  a  stiff  dough.  Both  methods  bring  excellent  results,  but 
for  many  reasons  the  straight  dough  bread  is  the  better  method  to 
follow,  the  bread  being  of  better  flavor  and  finer  in  texture.  In  mak¬ 
ing  the  straight  dough  bread  it  is  necessary  to  use  yeast  which  is  in 
a  growing  condition,  such  as  compressed  or  liquid  yeast.  In  the 
making  of  sponge  bread  much  harm  is  done  by  allowing  the  sponge  to 
set  too  long,  this  condition  causing  bread  to  be  slightly  soured  in 
flavor,  also  causing  dough  to  be  too  slow  in  rising  after  all  ingredients 
are  combined.  Six  hours  is  about  the  limit  for  a  sponge  to  be  in  fer¬ 
ment,  and  sponges  made  from  growing  yeast  and  properly  cared  for 
should  set  about  two  or  three  hours  for  perfect  results. 

Much  care  should  be  given  utensils  in  which  dough  is  mixed 
and  raised.  The  dough  should  be  handled  in  such  a  way  as  to  expose 
it  to  as  little  dust  as  possible.  Bacteria  are  in  the  dust  and  grow 
under  same  conditions  as  yeast,  and  if  allowed  to  get  into  bread 
will  spoil  the  flavor  by  souring  it.  Air  and  sunshine  are  necessary 
to  pantry  and  all  utensils  used  for  food;  sterlizing  receptacles  at 
regular  intervals  being  necessary  at  all  times.  Flour  should  be  kept 
in  clean,  sterilized  and  aired  cans,  not  too  tightly  covered  and  not  in 
too  warm  a  temperature.  If  a  quantity  of  flour  is  to  be  kept  on  hand 
any  length  of  time  it  should  be  placed  in  a  well  ventilated  place  at  a 
temperature  of  about  65°  to  75°  Fht.  There  are  different  kinds  of 
bread  diseases,  but  mold  is  most  common.  To  prevent  trouble  of  this 
kind  be  careful  and  bake  bread  thoroughly  and  do  not  put  loaves 
away  until  perfectly  cold. 

The  box  in  which  bread  is  kept  should  be  sunned  and  scalded 
frequently.  A  wooden  box  is  not  satisfactory  for  bread.  A  large 
stone  jar  makes  an  excellent  receptacle  for  the  keeping  of  bread, 
from  a  moist  standpoint,  but  during  warm  weather  if  bread  is  kept 
on  hand  any  length  of  time  in  covered  jar  it  molds  quicker  in  this 
way.  A  tin  bread  box  is  always  satisfactory. 

Another  disease,  called  rope  in  the  bread,  is  a  condition  where 
bread  turns  dark,  especially  in  center  of  loaf,  is  sticky  and  ropy  and 
is  foul  smelling,  due  to  the  action  of  bacteria.  The  bacteria  are 
hard  to  kill  and  oft  times  a  baking  temperature  does  not  kill  the 

—  11  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


germs.  The  source  of  this  trouble  is  hard  to  find.  The  bacteria 
may  come  from  dust  or  from  some  form  of  dirt  on  hands  of  worker, 
or  carried  by  flies.  More  often  it  comes  from  the  using  of  dry  yeast 
cakes  where  in  some  instances  yeast  left  unwrapped  has  been 
exposed  to  dust.  This  disease  has  often  been  found  in  homes  where 
cleanliness  prevails.  The  growth  of  the  bacteria  in  the  bread  may  be 
prevented  by  using  about  4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  to  one  quart 
of  liquid  and  keeping  bread  cool  after  baking.  If  this  disease  should 
occur  in  the  home,  clean  thoroughly  by  sterilizing  all  utensils,  and 
in  some  cases  fumigation  is  necessary. 

After  bread  is  baked  it  should  not  be  wrapped  in  cloth.  It  is 
better  to  bake  loaves  in  tin,  aluminum  or  glass.  There  is  more  danger 
in  the  burning  of  bread  where  sheet  iron  pans  are  used,  and  the 
crust  is  usually  much  thicker  baked  in  black  pans. 

In  winter,  when  it  is  more  difficult  to  keep  dough  warm,  it  is 
always  necessary  to  warm  flour  so  that  fermentation  takes  place  im¬ 
mediately.  Before  kneading  dough  on  board  it  is  well  to  warm  the 
board;  the  cold  board  chills  the  dough.  Bread  can  be  baked  in  cov¬ 
ered  pans  with  perfect  results.  This,  too,  gives  a  soft  crust. 

The  kneading  of  dough  is  done  to  thoroughly  mix  the  ingre¬ 
dients  contained  therein,  also  to  distribute  the  yeast  plant.  If 
dough  is  kneaded  the  proper  length  of  time  and  at  the  right  time 
the  bread  will  have  a  finer  texture,  or  the  air  cells  will  be  smaller  in 
the  loaf.  Kneading  also  makes  the  gluten  in  the  bread  more  elastic. 
If  dough  is  kneaded  too  long  it  will  break  the  gluten  cells  and  de¬ 
stroy  the  elasticity.  The  proper  time  to  knead  dough  is  after  mixing 
in  stiff  dough  before  setting  to  rise  the  first  time.  If  straight  dough 
method  is  followed  closely  and  dough  pressed  down  in  the  raiser  two 
or  three  times  before  molding  into  loaves,  five  minutes  time  is  suffi¬ 
cient  for  the  kneading. 

Care  should  be  taken  that  dough  does  not  become  too  warm  in  the 
rising.  Allowing  the  dough  to  become  overheated  will  cause  the  bread 
to  be  dark  in  color,  coarse  in  texture  and  many  times  sour  in  flavor. 
Dough  usually  gets  very  soft  and  sticky  if  too  warm.  During  the 
proofing,  dough  should  be  tightly  covered.  Do  not  rely  on  a  cloth 
for  covering  dough.  Dough  raised  in  a  large  receptacle  where  it  is 
allowed  to  spread  does  not  make  as  satisfactory  a  loaf  as  the  dough 
raised  in  a  tall  receptacle,  where  it  is  forced  up.  A  wooden  raiser  is 
always  good,  especially  if  the  wooden  receptacle  has  been  paraffine 
lined. 


PINK  BREAD. 

Use  same  recipe  as  for  white  bread,  only  add  fruit  coloring,  by 
drops,  to  the  lukewarm  water  until  the  desired  shade  is  obtained.  Al¬ 
ways  make  the  color  a  little  lighter  than  is  desired,  because  in  baking 
the  color  usually  becomes  a  little  darker.  Many  fancy  sandwiches 
may  be  prepared  from  pink  bread  combined  with  white  bread  and 
colored  fillings.  To  make  a  two-tone  loaf,  make  half  white  dough  and 

—  12  — 


BREAD  AND  ROLLS  MADE  WITH  YEAST 


half  pink  dough.  Form  a  piece  of  dough  in  a  round  piece  the  length 
of  a  loaf.  Roll  a  piece  of  white  dough  flat  on  the  board  and  lay  pink 
roll  on  white  dough  and  roll  it  up  and  form  a  loaf.  Many  fancy 
loaves  may  be  arranged  from  pink  and  white  dough.  Other  colors 
besides  pink  may  be  used  also. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  NO.  1. 

%  cup  mashed  and  sieved  po-  8  cups  unsifted  graham  flour 

tatoes  7  cups  white  flour 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  tablespoon  salt 

3%  cups  lukewarm  water  3  tablespoons  shortening 

%  cup  dark  molasses 

Mix  potatoes,  yeast,  water  and  molasses  together.  Warm  the 
flour  in  a  pan,  make  nest  in  center  and  into  this  nest  pour  the  liquid 
ingredients.  Stir  with  a  spoon,  gradually  pulling  in  the  flour  until 
about  2/3  has  been  mixed,  then  add  salt  and  melted  shortening.  Con¬ 
tinue  to  mix  and  knead  into  smooth,  firm  dough.  Place  dough  in 
raiser,  grease  on  top,  cover  and  set  aside  in  warm  place  to  rise.  When 
dough  has  doubled  in  bulk,  press  it  down.  When  risen  to  triple  In 
bulk  the  second  time,  make  it  out  into  loaves.  Place  loaves  in  greased 
pans,  grease  on  top  and  set  aside,  well  covered,  to  rise.  When  loaves 
are  about  double  in  size,  bake  until  they  shrink  from  pans.  To  have 
bread  baked  in  less  time  2  cakes  of  yeast  may  be  used  instead  of  1. 
Graham  flour  being  different  in  quality,  judgment  must  be  used  in 
getting  the  dough  stiff  enough.  The  dough  should  be  in  condition  to 
be  kneaded  on  the  board  without  flour  and  without  dough  sticking. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  NO.  2. 

2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk  1  %  cups  white  flour 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  teaspoons  salt 

cup  dark  molasses  2  tablespoons  shortening 

4  cups  unsifted  graham  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  in  lukewarm  milk,  to  which  add  molasses.  Warm 
graham  flour  and  white  flour  in  a  pan,  make  a  nest  in  the  center  of 
flour  and  into  this  nest  pour  the  liquid  ingredients.  Mix  until  about 
2/3  of  flour  is  taken  up,  then  add  salt  and  melted  shortening.  Mix  and 
knead  all  into  a  smooth  dough.  Place  dough  in  raiser,  grease  on  top 
and  set  aside  to  rise.  When  dough  has  risen  to  double  its  bulk,  press 
it  back  down.  Allow  it  to  rise  very  light  again,  then  make  out  into 
loaves.  Grease  loaves  well  on  top  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When  loaves 
are  light,  bake.  Bake  this  bread  until  bread  shrinks  from  pans — a 
longer  time  being  required  than  for  plain  white  bread.  If  the  graham 
flour  is  of  a  good  quality  this  amount  of  flour  makes  dough  just  stiff 
enough.  If  dough  seems  too  soft,  add  an  extra  one-half  cup  of  white 
flour,  or  an  additional  amount  of  liquid  may  be  added  if  necessary. 
For  rich  graham  bread  add  y2  cup  raisins,  y2  cup  nuts  and  y2  cup 
sugar. 


—  13— 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


BREAD  STICKS. 


*4  cup  scalded  sweet  milk 
%  cup  lukewarm  water 
1 .  cake  compressed  yeast 
3  tablespoons  sugar 


1  egg  white 
16  teaspoon  salt 
U  cup  butter 
3  \6  cups  flour 


Bring  milk  to  lukewarm  point ;  add  lukewarm  water  to  milk  and 
dissolve  yeast  in  this  liquid.  Add  to  this  the  sugar  and  well  beaten 
egg  white.  Warm  the  flour  and  add  ^  to  mixture,  stirring  well,  then 
add  melted  butter,  salt  and  remaining  half  of  the  flour.  Knead  the 
dough  for  about  five  minutes,  until  it  seems  smooth  and  springy.  Place 
dough  in  small  receptacle,  grease  on  top,  cover  tightly  and  set  aside  in 
some  warm  place  until  dough  more  than  doubles  in  bulk.  If  kept  in 
warm  place,  it  will  have  doubled  in  bulk  in  about  two  hours.  When 
dough  has  reached  this  stage,  take  it  from  receptacle  and  mold  into 
forms  on  bread  board,  to  be  baked  on  buttered  sheet  or  bread  stick 
pans.  The  soup  sticks  are  made  by  rolling  the  dough  in  long  strings, 
about  the  size  of  a  lead  pencil.  Take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  these 
strings  in  four  or  five-inch  lengths,  place  on  a  greased  pan,  grease  on 
top  and  set  aside  in  warm  place  to  become  light.  When  sticks  have 
nearly  doubled  in  size,  place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake,  allowing 
them  to  delicately  brown.  The  bread  stick  rolls  are  made  by  cutting 
off  small  pieces  of  dough  and  rolling  on  the  board,  in  sflch  a  manner  as 
to  keep  the  ends  rolled  to  a  point  and  the  thick  part  in  center,  giving 
the  crispy  ends  and  soft  center.  Dough  can  also  be  cut  in  miniature 
loaf  form.  Soup  initials  are  made  by  rolling  dough  in  long  strings, 
size  of  lead  pencil,  then  forming  in  initials  on  greased  pan.  Grease 
initials  and  bread  sticks  on  top,  allow  them  to  rise,  then  bake  in 
moderate  oven. 


DRY  YEAST  SPONGE  BREAD. 

(‘‘Over-Night  Process”) 


%  cake  of  dry  yeast 
16  cup  soft  mashed  and  sieved 
potatoes 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

4  cups  lukewarm  water 


3J4  scant  quarts  or  13  *4  cups 
flour 

3  tablespoons  shortening 
1  tablespoon  salt 


Allow  the  %  cake  of  yeast  to  stand  in  1  cup  of  the  lukewarm 
water  until  it  thoroughly  dissolves,  then  add  to  it  the  mashed  potatoes, 
sugar  and  1*4  cups  of  flour.  Beat  this  mixture  hard  for  one  minute 
and  set  aside  in  covered  receptacle  in  warm  place  for  one  hour.  At 
end  of  hour,  warm  the  remaining  12  cups  of  flour  and  add  to  the  mix¬ 
ture,  together  with  remaining  3  cups  of  lukewarm  water,  melted 
shortening  and  salt.  Knead  into  a  firm  smooth  dough,  usually  knead¬ 
ing  5  or  10  minutes.  Place  dough  in  tightly  covered  raiser,  large 


—  14  — 


BREAD  AND  ROLLS  MADE  WITH  YEAST 


enough  for  dough  to  expand  to  triple  its  bulk.  Grease  dough  on  top 
and  allow  it  to  set  for  about  9  or  10  hours,  keeping  dough  at  a  tem¬ 
perature  of  about  75  or  80°  Fht.,  if  possible.  At  end  of  time,  make 
dough  out  into  loaves,  place  in  greased  pans,  grease  loaves  on  top  and 
set  aside  to  rise  again.  When  loaves  have  doubled  in  size,  bake. 


ROLLED  OATS  BREAD. 


2  cups  rolled  oats  (packed 
down) 

2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk 
1  or  2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
%  cup  sugar 


2  cups  lukewarm  water 
About  11  cups  flour 
2  tablespoons  shortening 
1  tablespoon  salt 


Allow  the  2  cups  of  oats  to  soak  in  the  2  cups  of  scalding  milk 
for  one-half  hour,  keeping  the  mixture  covered  for  this  period.  When 
cooled  to  lukewarm,  add  1  cake  of  yeast,  dissolve  in  2  cups  of  luke¬ 
warm  water.  Add  sugar  next.  Warm  flour,  make  a  nest  in  the 
center  and  pour  mixture  over  in  flour,  stirring  and  gradually  pulling 
in  the  flour  from  sides.  When  about  two-thirds  of  the  flour  has  been 
mixed  in,  add  the  melted  shortening  and  salt  and  continue  to  mix  until 
all  flour  is  used  and  dough  is  smooth  and  firm.  Place  dough  in  raiser, 
grease  on  top,  cover  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When  double  in  bulk,  press 
it  down.  When  tripled  in  bulk  the  second  time,  make  out  into  loaves, 
place  in  pans,  grease  on  top  and  set  away  to  double  in  size.  When 
loaves  have  doubled,  place  in  oven  and  bake.  This  bread  should  bake 
longer  than  plain  bread.  To  be  sure  the  bread  is  done,  bake  till  the 
bread  shrinks  some  from  the  pan.  If  2  cakes  of  yeast  are  used  a 
shorter  proofing  period  is  required. 


SALT  RISING  BREAD. 

4  tablespoons  milk  1  teaspoon  sugar 

2  tablespoons  corn  meal  Pinch  of  salt 

Heat  milk  to  boiling  point ;  pour  over  dry  ingredients  which  have 
been  placed  in  heated  quart  jar.  Keep  in  warm  place  over  night  (must 
be  kept  at  even  temperature).  In  the  morning  take 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Scald  with  one  quart  of  hot 

1  teaspoon  salt  water 

teaspoon  soda 

Add  flour  to  make  batter  a  little  thicker  than  for  batter  cakes; 
then  add  mixture  which  has  risen  over  night.  Beat  a  few  minutes  and 
put  in  ten-pound  lard  bucket  with  tight  cover.  Set  in  kettle  of  hot 
water  to  rise ;  this  water  should  be  as  hot  as  the  hand  will  bear ;  keep 
in  very  warm  place,  free  from  draughts.  When  risen  to  double  orig¬ 
inal  size,  add  warmed  flour  and  make  into  loaves.  Let  rise  and  bake. 


—  15 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


QUICK  RYE  BREAD. 


2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk 
%  cup  lukewarm  water 
1  cake  compressed  yeast 
394  cups  white  flour 


4  cups  rye  flour 
1  tablespoon  shortening 
94  tablespoon  salt 


Cool  scalded  milk  to  lukewarm,  to  which  add  water  in  which 
yeast  has  been  dissolved.  Warm  flour  and  add  one-half  to  mixture 
and  stir  well.  Add  shortening,  salt  and  remaining  flour.  Knead  all 
into  a  smooth  stiff  dough.  Place  dough  in  raiser,  grease  on  top  and 
set  aside  to  rise  to  double  in  bulk.  When  double  in  bulk  make  into 
loaves,  allow  loaves  to  double  in  size,  then  bake.  Rye  bread  should  be 
baked  longer  than  all-wheat  bread. 

IRISH  BISCUITS. 


1  cup  scalded  sweet  milk 

1  cake  compressed  yeast 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Yz  cup  mashed  and  sieved 
potatoes 


1  egg 

5%  cups  flour 
1  cup  shortening 
Yt  tablespoon  salt 


Cool  milk  until  lukewarm,  then  add  yeast,  sugar,  potatoes  and 
well  beaten  egg  then  stir  well.  Warm  flour  in  bowl,  make  a  nest  in 
center  of  flour  and  pour  liquid  ingredients  into  nest.  Stir  in  the 
flour  until  about  2/3  of  flour  is  used,  then  all  warm  melted  shortening 
and  salt.  Mix  and  knead  into  smooth  dough.  Place  dough  in  covered 
raiser  and  allow  it  to  rise  to  double  in  bulk,  then  make  out  into  bis¬ 
cuits  by  rolling  dough  on  board  to  desired  thickness  and  cutting  with 
biscuit  cutter.  Set  biscuits  in  some  warm  place  to  rise  until  light  be¬ 
fore  baking.  Grease  biscuits  well  on  top.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
until  brown.  One-half  of  this  dough  may  be  placed  in  a  jar  in  the 
refrigerator  to  be  made  into  rolls  the  following  day. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD. 


Yz  cup  mashed  and  sieved  po¬ 
tatoes 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
1  quart  lukewarm  water 
1  cup  dark  molasses 


TYt  cups  whole  wheat  flour 
8%  cups  white  flour 

1  Yt  tablespoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  shortening 


Mix  potatoes,  yeast,  water  and  molasses  together.  Warm  flour, 
make  a  nest  in  center.  Pour  liquid  ingredients  in  nest  and  mix.  When 
two-thirds  of  flour  has  been  mixed  in,  add  salt  and  shortening.  Knead 
all  together  in  smooth  dough.  Place  in  raiser,  grease  on  top  and  set 
aside  to  rise.  When  dough  is  double  in  bulk,  press  down,  cover  and 
allow  it  to  rise  again.  When  it  doubles  again,  make  out  into  loaves, 
place  in  greased  pans,  grease  on  top  and  when  loaves  are  doubled  in 
size  place  in  oven  to  bake. 


—  16 


BREAD  AND  ROLLS  MADE  WITH  YEAST 


PLAIN  PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk  6  cups  flour  (scant) 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  4  tablespoons  shortening 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  teaspoons  salt 

Cool  scalded  sweet  milk  until  lukewarm,  into  which  dissolve 
yeast  and  sugar.  Warm  flour  in  pan,  make  nest  in  center  of  flour  and 
into  this  nest  pour  liquid  mixture.  Stir  with  a  spoon,  gradually  pull¬ 
ing  in  flour  from  outer  edges  until  about  2/3  of  flour  has  been  mixed 
in,  then  add  melted  shortening  and  salt.  Knead  dough  until  smooth, 
then  place  in  small  sized  receptacle  not  large  in  circumference,  grease 
dough  on  top,  cover  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When  dough  has  risen 
to  double  in  bulk,  press  it  back  down  in  raiser,  turn  dough  over  and 
allow  it  to  rise  again.  For  white  light  rolls  dough  should  be  pressed 
down  three  times  before  making  out.  Roll  dough  out  on  board  to 
thickness  of  %  inch  and  cut  in  round  shapes  like  biscuits.  Fold  a 
little  less  than  half  the  dough  over  in  envelope  fashion,  then  press 
upper  layer  down  in  center  to  keep  flap  from  flying  up  in  oven. 
Grease  rolls  well  on  top,  set  aside  to  rise  to  double  in  size  before  bak¬ 
ing.  Rolls  may  be  placed  in  pan  close  together  or  apart.  Bake  about 
25  minutes. 


GLUTEN  BREAD. 

2  cups  lukewarm  water  1  tablespoon  butter 

cake  compressed  yeast  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  cups  gluten  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  in  water,  to  which  add  half  of  the  flour  slightly 
warmed  and  beat  hard.  When  about  2/3  of  flour  is  added,  add  melted 
butter  and  salt.  Knead  into  a  smooth  dough,  place  in  covered  raiser 
and  allow  it  to  rise.  When  it  doubles  in  volume,  press  it  down  and 
allow  it  to  rise  again  till  very  light,  then  make  out  into  loaves  and 
place  in  pans  for  baking.  When  loaves  are  double  in  bulk,  place  in 
moderate  oven  and  bake.  When  bread  is  done  place  loaves  upright 
on  cooling  rack  to  cool  but  do  not  cover  loaves.  If  gluten  flour  is  of 
good  quality  4  cups  makes  dough  stiff  enough.  If  dough  is  too  soft 
and  sticky  by  using  4  cups,  add  some  additional  flour.  One  whole  cake 
of  yeast  may  be  used  instead  of  one-half  cake. 


WHOLE  WHEAT  PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 


cup  mashed  and  sieved  po¬ 
tatoes 

1  cake  compressed  yeast 

2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk 
M  cup  sugar 


3  cups  whole  wheat  flour 

3  cups  white  flour 

4  tablespoons  shortening 
2  teaspoons  salt 


Cream  potatoes,  yeast  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  sweet 
milk.  Warm  flour  and  place  in  a  pan.  Make  a  nest  in  center  of  flour 
and  pour  liquid  ingredients  in  nest,  stirring  until  about  2/3  of  flour 


17  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


has  been  mixed  in  with  liquid,  then  add  shortening  and  salt.  Continue 
to  mix  and  knead  the  dough  until  smooth  and  soft,  then  place  dough 
in  a  small  covered  receptacle  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When  dough 
doubles  in  volume  press  it  back  down  in  raiser  and  allow  it  to  rise 
again  until  nearly  triple  in  bulk,  then  make  dough  out  into  rolls  by 
rolling  dough  on  floured  board  to  thickness  of  inch.  Cut  in  shape 
as  for  biscuits.  Lap  half  of  round  shape  over  in  envelope  form,  stick¬ 
ing  one  finger  through  both  layers  of  dough.  This  holds  the  lap  down 
so  it  does  not  rise  up  in  baking.  Grease  rolls  on  top  and  set  aside  to 
rise  until  double  in  size  before  baking.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  When 
done  remove  from  oven  and  brush  each  roll  over  with  melted  butter. 


SCHOOL  BREAD. 

1  cup  sweet  milk  6J4  cups  flour 

3  cups  rolled  oats  2  tablespoons  shortening 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  cups  water  *4  cup  chopped  nuts 

M  cup  syrup  cup  raisins  (if  desired) 

M  cup  sugar 

Bring  1  cup  of  milk  and  1  cup  of  water  to  a  boil  and  into  this 
stir  the  3  cups  of  rolled  oats.  Stir  and  boil  for  1  minute  and  then 
remove  from  the  fire,  place  a  cover  over  the  mixture  and  allow  it  to 
stand  until  lukewarm.  When  lukewarm,  add  the  syrup  and  sugar 
to  the  mixture,  also  remaining  cup  of  lukewarm  water  after  the  cake 
of  yeast  has  been  dissolved  in  it.  Mix  all  thoroughly  together.  Warm 
the  flour  in  a  pan  and  make  a  nest  in  center  of  flour.  Into  this  nest 
pour  the  liquid  ingredients  and  stir  until  2/3  of  flour  has  been  mixed 
in,  then  add  melted  shortening,  salt,  nuts  and  raisins.  Knead  all  into 
a  smooth  stiff  dough,  place  in  a  raiser,  grease  on  top  and  allow  dough 
to  rise  to  double  in  bulk.  When  double,  press  it  back  down  and  allow 
it  to  rise  again.  When  double  the  second  time,  make  into  loaves,  place 
in  pans,  grease  on  top  and  allow  loaves  to  rise  to  double  in  size  before 
baking.  This  bread  requires  a  longer  baking  period  than  ordinary 
bread.  Bake  until  loaves  shrink  from  pans. 


HEALTH  BREAD. 


2  cups  sweet  milk 
2  cups  rolled  oats 
cup  corn  meal 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
2  cups  water 

cup  sorghum  molasses 


%  cup  sugar 

1  cup  graham  flour 
8J4  cups  flour 

2  tablespoons  shortening 
1  tablespoon  salt 

1  cup  raisins 


Bring  the  2  cups  of  milk  to  a  boil  and  stir  into  it  the  rolled 
oats  and  corn  meal,  then  allow  it  to  stand  until  lukewarm.  Next  add 
the  sorghum,  sugar  and  lukewarm  water  in  which  the  cake  of  yeast 
has  been  dissolved.  Warm  the  flour  in  a  pan  and  make  a  nest  in  the 
center  of  flour.  Into  this  nest  pour  the  liquid  ingredients,  stirring 

—  18  — 


BREAD  AND  ROLES  MADE  WITH  YEAST 


and  gradually  pulling  in  the  flour  from  the  outer  edge  of  the  pan. 
When  2/3  of  the  flour  has  been  mixed  in,  add  the  melted  shortening, 
raisins  and  salt.  Continue  to  mix  until  all  the  flour  has  been  taken 
up,  completing  the  mixing  and  kneading  with  the  hands.  When  the 
dough  is  smooth  and  firm,  grease  on  top,  place  in  raiser  and  set  aside 
to  proof.  When  double  in  bulk,  press  it  down  and  set  aside  to  rise 
again.  When  doubled  in  bulk  the  second  time,  remove  from  raiser, 
make  into  loaves,  place  in  pans,  grease  on  top  and  allow  loaves  to 
double  again  before  placing  in  oven  to  bake.  Bake  this  bread  longer 
than  white  bread.  Bake  until  loaves  shrink  from  pan. 

SANDWICH  BUNS. 

2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk  6J4  cups  flour 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  %  \up  shortening 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1 teaspoons  salt 

Cool  milk  until  lukewarm,  to  which  add  yeast  and  sugar.  Mix 
’til  dissolved.  Warm  flour  and  make  a  nest  in  center.  Into  the  nest 
pour  the  liquid  ingredients  and  mix  in  2/3  of  the  flour,  then  add  melted 
shortening  and  salt.  Continue  to  mix  and  knead  dough  until  smooth. 
Place  in  covered  raiser  and  allow  it  to  rise  until  double  in  bulk,  then 
press  down  and  turn  it  over.  Let  rise  again  until  ready  to  fall,  then 
squeeze  off  in  rolls  and  set  each  roll  far  apart  on  a  greased  sheet. 
Crease  generously  on  top  and  let  rise  ’til  double  in  size  before  baking. 
Brush  rolls  over  with  milk  or  water  as  they  come  from  oven,  throw¬ 
ing  a  cloth  over  the  top  while  cooling. 

QUICK  METHOD  FOR  SALT  RISING  BREAD. 

4  cups  lukewarm  scalded  milk  1114  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  shortening, 

14  teaspoon  salt  melted 

%  cup  white  corn  meal 

Mix  the  milk,  sugar,  salt  and  cornmeal  together.  Next  add  to  this 
2  cups  of  the  flour  after  it  has  been  warmed.  Beat  the  mixture  ’til 
free  from  lumps  and  pour  into  a  bucket  that  has  a  tight  cover  and 
let  the  bucket  stand  in  a  larger  bucket  of  nearly  hot  water  for  4 
hours.  The  water  should  be  heated  to  the  point  where  the  hand  and 
wrist  may  be  comfortably  held  in  without  burning.  During  the  4 
hours  standing  it  is  necessary  to  keep  it  at  this  regular  temperature. 
A  fireless  cooker  is  excellent  for  the  purpose.  At  the  end  of  the  4 
hours  add  the  remaining  9*/2  cups  of  warmed  flour  and  shortening 
and  knead  10  minutes,  then  mold  into  three  or  four  loaves.  Grease 
pans  and  loaves  on  top  and  let  them  stand  until  double  their  original 
size  before  baking.  Keep  the  loaves  at  a  temperature  of  about  80°  F. 
during  this  time  and  dough  must  be  protected  from  draught.  Bake 
slowly  for  1  hour. 


—  19 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


BRAN  BREAD. 

2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk  3  cups  bran 

1  cake  yeast  6  cups  flour 

4  tablespoons  molasses  or  syrup  2  tablespoons  shortening 

2  tablespoons  white  or  brown  2  teaspoons  salt 

sugar 

Cool  scalded  sweet  milk  to  lukewarm  temperature,  into  which 
dissolve  yeast,  molasses  and  sugar,  then  add  the  bran  and  mix.  Warm 
the  flour  and  add  about  one-half  to  mixture,  then  add  melted  shorten¬ 
ing  and  salt.  Mix  well,  add  remaining  flour,  and  knead  into  firm 
dough.  Usually  about  5  minutes  kneading  is  sufficient.  Set  dough 
aside  in  warm  place,  covered,  and  allow  it  to  rise  until  fully  double  in 
bulk.  When  double,  press  it  down,  then  let  rise  until  about  triple  its 
original  bulk,  then  make  out  into  one  large  or  two  small  loaves. 
Place  in  pans,  grease  on  top,  keep  covered  in  warm  place  until  loaves 
rise  to  double  their  original  size,  then  bake. 

WATER  ROLLS. 

2  cups  lukewarm  water  6%  cups  flour 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  teaspoons  salt 

Dissolve  yeast  in  water,  to  which  add  warmed  flour  and  salt. 
Knead  for  5  minutes  and  place  in  covered  raiser  and  allow  it  to  stay 
until  double  in  bulk,  then  take  from  raiser  and  knead  another  5 
minutes.  Return  to  raiser  and  let  dough  get  three  times  its  original 
bulk  before  making  out  into  rolls.  Rolls  may  be  molded  in  various 
shapes  and  sizes  to  suit  the  maker.  Crease  the  rolls  very  sparingly 
when  they  are  set  aside  to  rise.  Just  before  baking,  brush  each  roll 
over  with  beaten  egg. 

WHEY  BREAD. 

(Liquid  left  from  cottage  cheese.) 

4  cups  lukewarm  whey  4  tablespoons  melted  short- 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  ening 

13  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the  whey  water,  then  let  set  while  the  flour 
is  placed  in  a  pan  and  warmed.  Make  a  nest  in  the  center  of  the 
flour  and  into  this  nest  pour  the  whey  mixture.  Stir  and  mix  until 
2/3  of  the  flour  is  pulled  in,  then  add  melted  shortening  and  salt. 
Continue  to  mix  and  knead  into  a  smooth  firm  dough.  Place  in  a 
cohered  receptacle  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  30  minutes.  At 
the  end  of  30  minutes,  take  from  receptacle  and  knead  about  2  min¬ 
utes,  then  put  aside  and  allow  it  to  rise  until  light  enough  to  fall, 
which  means  about  4  times  its  original  bulk.  At  this  stage  press  it 
down  and  let  it  rise  again.  When  light  this  time  make  out  into  loaves, 
place  in  greased  pans,  grease  on  top,  then  let  rise  to  double  the  orig¬ 
inal  loaf  size  and  bake.  This  is  a  delicious  white  bread. 


—  20 


BREAD  AND  ROLES  MADE  WITH  YEAST 


CREAM  BREAD. 

3  cups  rich  sweet  milk  9J4  cups  flour 

1  cake  yeast  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Scald  the  milk  and  cool  ’til  lukewarm.  Add  the  yeast  and  sugar 
to  milk  and  dissolve.  'Warm  the  flour  and  make  a  nest  in  the  center. 
Pour  the  liquid  in  the  nest  and  mix  in  about  2/3  of  the  flour,  then  add 
the  salt  and  butter.  Continue  to  mix  and  knead  until  dough  is  smooth 
and  springy,  about  5  minutes  being  required.  Place  dough  in  covered 
receptacle  and  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk,  then  press  it  back  down 
and  turn  the  dough  over.  Let  rise  again  until  at  least  three  times  its 
original  bulk,  then  press  down  and  let  rise  again.  When  light  this 
time  make  out  into  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake.  Three  loaves  of  bread 
may  be  made  from  this  dough,  or  2  loaves  and  1  pan  of  buns. 

ZWIEBACK. 

(Bread  Cooked  Twice.) 

%  cup  scalded  sweet  milk  2  eggs  well  beaten 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  %  cup  shortening 

2  tablespoons  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

Cool  milk  to  luke  warm  into  which  dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar. 
Next  add  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  l1/^  cups  of  warmed  flour.  Beat 
hard  for  one  minute,  then  set  aside  for  one  hour.  When  light,  add 
beaten  eggs,  melted  shortening,  salt  and  enough  additional  flour  to 
make  into  soft  dough.  Knead  five  minutes,  then  set  aside  to  rise  until 
light  again.  Take  out  onto  board  and  mold  into  two  small,  long  loaves. 
Let  loaves  rise  until  light,  grease  on  top  and  bake.  When  baked,  cut 
in  slanting  slices  and  toast  to  light  brown. 

“SAVE  ALL  BREAD  SCRAPS.’ ’ 

Save  all  bread  scraps  and  keep  in  pan  covered  with  cheesecloth. 
When  you  have  a  sufficient  amount,  place  in  dripping  pan  and  set 
in  oven  to  dry  out  and  toast  to  a  very  light  brown  color.  After  toast¬ 
ed,  roll  with  rolling  pin  until  crumbs  are  fine.  Keep  crumbs  on  hand 
to  be  used  for  pudding  and  breading  purposes.  Crumbs  should  be 
kept  in  a  cheesecloth  bag  and  hung  in  the  pantry,  allowing  them  to  be 
well  aired  and  yet  protected  from  dust.  They  will  keep  indefinitely 
in  this  manner.  Do  not  place  crumbs  in  any  covered  receptacle ;  they 
become  rancid  where  they  get  no  air. 


—  21  — 


CHAPTER  II 


Fancy  Breads,  Bolls,  Cake  and 
Doughnuts  Made  with  Yeast 


BUTTER  SCOTCH  NUT  ROLLS. 


1J4  cups  scalded  sweet  milk 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
1  cup  mashed  and  sieved  po¬ 
tatoes 

1  cup  sugar 


2  eggs 

7}4  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
%  tablespoon  salt 
%  cup  shortening 


Cool  milk  until  lukewarm,  into  which  dissolve  yeast.  Add  mashed 
potatoes,  sugar  and  well-beaten  eggs.  Place  flour  in  a  pan  and  warm 
it  slightly,  make  a  nest  in  center  of  flour  and  into  this  nest  pour  the 
liquid  mixture.  Stir,  by  bringing  in  the  flour  from  outer  edges, 
gradually,  and  when  2/3  of  flour  has  been  mixed  in,  add  the  salt,  nut¬ 
meg  and  melted  shortening.  Mix  and  knead  into  smooth  soft  dough. 
Place  dough  in  a  raiser,  grease  on  top,  cover  and  set  aside  to  rise. 
When  double  in  bulk,  press  it  back  down  in  the  raiser  and  let  rise 
until  very  light,  about  triple  in  bulk,  then  roll  dough  out  on  warm 
board  to  thickness  of  *4  inch.  Spread  a  generous  covering  of  butter 
over  rolled  dough  first,  then  spread  a  thick  layer  of  brown  sugar  and 
nuts.  Roll  dough  as  tight  as  it  can  be  rolled  pinching  the  edges  well 
together  at  closing  of  roll.  Cut  off  in  slices,  about  l1/^  inches  long 
and  set  slices  upright  in  a  well  greased  deep  pan  close  together. 
Grease  rolls  on  top  and  set  aside  until  they  become  light  before  bak¬ 
ing.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Sultana  raisins  may  be  rolled  in  with 
the  brown  sugar  instead  of  nuts.  Maple  sugar  may  be  used  in  place 
of  brown  sugar. 


CREAM  PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 


2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk 
1  cake  compressed  yeast 
34  cup  mashed  and  sieved  po¬ 
tatoes 

}4  cup  sugar 


2  eggs 

%  cup  shortening 
1  scant  tablespoon  salt 
7  cups  flour 


Cool  scalded  milk  to  lukewarm  and  add  to  it  the  yeast,  mashed 
potatoes,  sugar  and  well-beaten  eggs.  Warm  3 y2  cups  of  flour  and 
add,  beating  hard  for  two  minutes.  Set  this  sponge  in  warm  place  and 

_ 22 _ 


FANCY  BREADS,  ROLLS,  CAKE  AND  DOUGHNUTS  MADE  WITH  YEAST 


allow  it  to  become  light,  usually  from  an  hour  to  two  hours  being 
necessary  for  this  process.  When  light,  warm  the  remaining  4  cups 
of  flour  and  add,  together  with  the  melted  shortening  and  salt.  Knead 
into  a  smooth  dough.  Place  it  in  a  raiser,  grease  on  top,  cover  and 
set  in  warm  place  to  rise.  When  risen  to  three  times  its  bulk,  roll  out 
on  warmed  board  to  thickness  of  y2  inch.  Cut  in  round  shapes  like 
biscuits.  Lap  a  part  of  the  round  shape  over  in  envelope  form,  then 

run  one  finger  through  both  thicknesses  of  the  dough  at  the  center 

of  lap-over.  This  keeps  lap-over  dough  from  flying  up  in  the  baking. 
Place  rolls  on  greased  pans  close  together,  grease  on  top  and  allow 
them  to  rise  until  light,  then  bake.  A  nut  half  may  be  placed,  in  the 
center  of  each  lap-over,  on  roll. 

QUICK  RAISED  CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

XA  cup  mashed  and  sieved  po-  1  %  cups  lukewarm  water 

tatoes  ny2  cups  flour 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  A  cup  shortening 

%  cup  sugar  y2  tablespoon  salt 

Mix  potatoes,  yeast,  sugar  and  lukewarm  water  together.  Warm 
the  flour,  make  a  nest  in  center  of  flour  and  into  this  nest  pour  the 
liquid  ingredients.  Stir  until  2/3  of  the  flour  has  been  mixed  in, 
then  add  the  melted  shortening  and  salt.  Knead  all  into  a  smooth  soft 
dough.  Place  in  raiser,  grease  on  top,  cover  and  set  in  warm  place  to 
rise.  When  double  in  volume,  press  it  down.  When  double  again] 
take  out  on  board  and  roll  in  oblong  shapes  to  thickness  of  *4  inch. 
Spread  butter  generously  over  dough,  then  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Roll 
up  into  a  tight  roll  and  slice  off  in  slices.  Set  slices  upright  on 
greased  pans  close  together,  grease  on  top  and  let  rise  until  light  be¬ 
fore  baking.  It  is  better  to  separate  the  dough  and  roll  into  two  molds. 
One  mold  can  be  spread  with  plain  butter  and  sugar  and  after  rolls 
are  baked  spread  tops  with  a  coating  of  pulverized  sugar  mixed  with 
milk  and  a  few  chopped  nuts  on  top  of  this. 

QUICK  CREAM  ROLLS. 

2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk  6  cups  flour 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast  2,%  teaspoons  salt 

1  well  beaten  egg  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

Cool  the  milk  until  lukewarm  and  into  this  dissolve  the  yeast. 
Next  add  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar.  Have  the  flour  warmed  and  make 
a  nest  in  the  center.  Into  nest,  pour  the  liquid  and  stir  until  two-thirds 
of  flour  is  mixed  in,  then  add  the  salt  and  melted  shortening.  Mix 
and  knead  until  smooth,  then  put  the  dough  in  tight  covered  tall  re¬ 
ceptacle  and  set  aside  in  warm  place  for  15  minutes  to  rise.  At  end 
of  15  minutes  take  dough  out  onto  board  and  knead  another  3 
minutes  and  return  the  dough  to  raiser.  When  the  dough  rises  to 
fully  three  times  its  original  bulk,  press  it  down  in  raiser,  turn  dough 

—  23  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


over  and  let  it  rise  again.  When  light  again,  make  out  into  rolls. 
Let  rolls  rise  until  very  light,  then  bake.  Parker  House  shapes  are 
more  desirable  than  plain  bun  rolls.  About  3 y2  hours  are  required 
for  making  and  baking  these  rolls. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 


2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
34  cup  mashed  and  sieved  po¬ 
tatoes 

1  %  cups  sugar 


2  eggs 

%  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed 
1  tablespoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
7  cups  flour 


Cool  scalded  sweet  milk  to  lukewarm,  to  which  add  yeast,  pota¬ 
toes  and  sugar.  Next  add  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Warm  3^  cups  of 
flour  and  add  to  this  mixture,  beating  hard  for  one  minute  after  all 
flour  is  added.  Set  this  mixture,  well  covered,  in  some  warm  place 
and  allow  it  to  become  light,  usually  about  l1/^  hours  being  required. 
When  light,  add  the  remaining  4  cups  of  flour  warmed,  salt,  melted 
shortening  and  nutmeg.  Knead  into  a  smooth  soft  dough  and  again 
place  the  dough  in  covered  receptacle  to  become  light.  When  the 
dough  has  fully  doubled  in  bulk,  take  from  raiser,  roll  on  warmed 
board  and  cut  into  doughnut  shapes,  having  dough  rolled  to  about 
!/4  inch  in  thickness.  Place  these  doughnuts  on  greased  paper  or  pans 
and  allow  them  to  get  perfectly  light  before  frying  in  deep  fat.  When 
cold  dredge  in  fine  granulated  sugar.  This  dough  is  quite  soft,  and 
additional  flour  may  be  needed  in  handling. 

SLICED  BREAD. 


34  cup  mashed  and  sieved  po¬ 
tatoes 

1  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  lukewarm  water 
8  cups  flour 


34  teaspoon  cloves 
2  teaspoons  nutmeg 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
2  tablespoons  shortening 
1  tablespoon  salt 
34  cup  raisins 


Cream  potatoes,  yeast  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  water. 
Sift  flour,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  together  and  place  in  a  pan. 
Warm  flour  mixture  until  lukewarm,  make  a  nest  in  center  of  flour 
and  into  this  nest  pour  the  liquid  ingredients.  Stir  until  about  2/3 
of  flour  has  been  pulled  in,  then  add  melted  shortening,  salt  and 
raisins.  Mix  into  a  smooth  dough,  kneading  only  a  short  time.  Place 
dough  in  raiser,  grease  on  top,  cover  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When 
dough  rises  to  double  its  bulk,  knock  it  down  by  bringing  outer  edges 
of  dough  to  center  until  dough  is  pressed  back  to  almost  the  bulk  at 
beginning.  Set  aside,  and  when  light  again  make,  out  into  loaves  for 
baking.  Grease  loaves  generously  on  top  and  set  aside  to  become 
light,  usually  allowing  the  loaves  to  rise  to  double  in  bulk  again. 
Bake  this  bread  until  loaves  begin  to  shrink  from  pan. 

—  24  — 


FANCY  BREADS,  ROLLS,  CAKE  AND  DOUGHNUTS  MADE  WITH  YEAST 


COCOA  BREAD. 


2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk 

1  cake  compressed  yeast 
7  tablespoons  sugar 

2  well  beaten  eggs 


%  cup  cocoa 
7  cups  flour 

li  cup  melted  shortening 
1  ^  teaspoons  salt 


Cool  milk  to  lukewarm,  to  which  add  yeast,  sugar  and  beaten 
eggs.  Sift  cocoa  and  flour  together  and  warm.  Make  a  nest  in  the 
center  of  the  flour  and  into  the  nest  pour  the  liquid  mixture.  Mix  in 
2/3  of  the  flour,  then  add  the  shortening  and  salt  and  continue  to 
mix  and  knead  for  5  or  10  minutes.  When  smooth  place  in  a  small 
covered  receptacle  and  allow  it  to  rise  until  double  its  bulk,  then 
press  it  down,  cover  and  set  aside  again  to  rise  until  it  gets  very  light, 
fully  3  times  its  original  bulk.  At  this  stage  make  it  out  into  loaves. 
Place  loaves  in  greased  pans,  grease  on  top,  keep  covered  until  light, 
then  bake.  Two-thirds  cup  of  currants,  raisins  or  nuts  may  be  added 
to  the  dough. 

RAISIN  GRAHAM  BUNS. 


2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk 
1  cake  yeast 
1  cup  sugar 
4  cups  graham  flour 


3  cups  white  flour 
3  tablespoons  shortening 
%  tablespoon  salt 
1  cup  raisins 


Cool  milk  until  lukewarm,  into  which  dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar. 
Add  the  graham  flour  unsifted  and  warmed,  stirring  all  together. 
Next  add  melted  shortening  and  salt,  and  knead  into  a  smooth  dough, 
adding  the  raisins  last  with  white  flour.  Knead  only  a  few  minutes. 
Place  dough  in  raiser,  grease  on  top  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When  it 
has  risen  to  double  in  bulk,  press  it  down,  cover  and  allow  dough  to 
rise  again  to  triple  its  bulk,  then  make  out  into  buns  and  place  in 
greased  pans.  When  buns  are  double  in  size,  bake.  Keep  dough  well 
greased  on  top  before  baking. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS. 


1  cup  scalded  sweet  milk 
1  cake  compressed  yeast 
*4  cup  sugar 
1  egg 


4ti  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 
14  cup  butter 

cup  raisins  or  currants 


Cool  scalded  milk  to  lukewarm,  into  which  dissolve  the  yeast. 
Next  add  sugar  and  well-beaten  egg.  Warm  the  flour  in  a  pan  and 
make  a  nest  in  center  of  flour  and  into  this  nest  add  the  liquid  ingre¬ 
dients.  Stir  until  about  2/3  of  flour  has  been  mixed  in,  then  add 
melted  butter,  salt  and  raisins.  Knead  into  smooth  soft  dough.  Place 
dough  in  small  tall  receptacle,  grease  dough  on  top,  cover  and  let 
rise  to  double  in  bulk.  When  double,  press  it  down  in  raiser  and  al¬ 
low  it  to  rise  again.  When  risen  to  nearly  triple  its  bulk,  make  out 
into  buns,  by  rolling  dough  to  thickness  of  ^  inch  and  cutting  with 

—  25  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


biscuit  cutter.  Place  buns  on  greased  sheet,  allowing  space  between 
each  one.  Grease  buns  on  top  and  set  aside  to  rise  until  nearly  double 
in  size.  With  a  sharp  knife  make  a  cross  on  each  bun  before  placing 
in  moderate  oven  to  bake.  Remove  from  oven  and  when  cool  spread 
a  mixture  of  pulverized  sugar  and  cream  on  the  cross  lines  on  top  of 
buns  and  over  this  a  sprinkle  of  finely  chopped  nut  meats,  pecans  be¬ 
ing  best.  This  dough  should  be  handled  as  soft  as  possible. 

POPPY  SEED  BUNS. 

1  %  cups  scalded  sweet  milk  6  cups  flour 

1 cakes  compressed  yeast  %  cup  butter  or  lard 

1  egg  1 teaspoons  salt 

94  cup  sugar 

Cool  scalded  milk  to  lukewarm,  to  which  add  the  yeast,  beaten 
egg  and  sugar.  Warm  the  flour  and  make  a  nest  in  the  center.  Into 
this  nest  pour  the  liquid  ingredients  and  stir  until  2/3  of  the  flour 
is  mixed  in,  then  add  the  melted  shortening  and  salt  and  continue  to 
mix  and  knead  into  soft  dough,  then  place  in  small  covered  receptacle 
to  rise.  When  it  has  risen  to  double  its  bulk,  press  back  down  in  the 
raiser  and  turn  the  dough  over.  Let  it  rise  again  until  3  times  its 
original  bulk  the  second  time,  then  press  down  again  and  turn  it  over. 
Now  when  it  rises  light  the  third  time  roll  out  on  board  and  cut  into 
biscuit  or  oval  shapes.  Place  buns  on  greased  pans  and  spread  beaten 
egg  and  poppy  seed  over  each  bun.  Let  rise  ’til  light  then  bake. 


COFFEE  CAKE. 


x/2  cup  mashed  and  sieved  po¬ 
tatoes 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
1  cup  scalded  sweet  milk 
1  cup  sugar 


2  eggs 
6  cups  flour 
Ml  cup  shortening 
94  tablespoon  salt 
%  cup  raisins 


Mix  potatoes,  yeast,  lukewarm  milk  and  sugar  together,  to  which 
add  well-beaten  eggs.  Warm  flour  in  pan,  make  a  nest  in  center  and 
into  this  nest  pour  the  liquid  mixture.  Mix  until  about  2/3  of  flour  has 
been  mixed  in,  then  add  melted  shortening  and  salt.  Continue  to  mix 
dough  until  soft  and  smooth.  Place  dough  in  raiser,  grease  on  top, 
cover  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When  dough  has  fully  doubled  in  bulk, 
press  it  back  down  and  allow  it  to  rise  again  before  making  into  cakes. 
If  Sultana  raisins  are  used,  add  the  raisins  when  shortening  and  salt 
are  added.  If  dark  raisins  arfe  used,  add  them  when  dough  is  being 
molded  into  cakes.  Dark  raisins  allowed  to  remain  in  dough  during 
the  fermentation  period  soften  too  much  and  are  apt  to  cause  the 
dough  to  be  discolored  in  a  circle  around  raisin.  The  Sultana  raisin 
is  small  and  yellow  and  does  not  darken  the  dough.  Coffee  cakes  may 
be  covered  over  with  any  desired  mixture. 


26 


FANCY  BREADS,  ROLLS,  CAKE  AND  DOUGHNUTS  MADE  WITH  YEAST 


SPONGE  COFFEE  CAKE. 


2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk 
%  cup  mashed  potatoes 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
1  t4  cups  sugar 
1  egg 


7M  cups  flour 

%  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed 
J4  tablespoon  nutmeg 
1  tablespoon  salt 
*4  cup  Sultana  raisins 


Cool  scalded  milk  to  lukewarm,  to  which  add  the  potatoes,  yeast 
and  sugar,  seeing  that  yeast  is  well  dissolved.  Next  add  the  beaten 
egg.  Warm  3*4  cups  of  flour  and  add  to  the  liquid  mixture,  beating 
hard  for  1  minute.  Set  this  aside  in  covered  receptacle  in  warm  place 
to  rise.  If  kept  properly  it  will  be  very  light  in  about  one  hour  and 
a  half  or  two  hours.  When  light  add  remaining  4  cups  of  warmed 
flour,  melted  shortening,  salt,  nutmeg  and  Sultana  raisins.  Mix  into 
a  smooth  soft  dough  and  again  set  dough  aside  in  covered  receptacle 
in  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light  take  from  receptacle,  roll  dough 
out  on  warmed  board  to  desired  thickness,  cut  in  shapes  to  fit  the 
pans.  A  covering  can  be  placed  on  top  of  coffee  cakes  at  this  time  or 
cakes  may  be  allowed  to  rise  first,  then  add  covering  and  bake.  Cakes 
should  rise  to  nearly  double  in  thickness  before  baking.  Any  desired 
covering  may  be  used.  Coffee  cake  dough  should  be  handled  in  as 
soft  condition  as  possible. 


SULTANA  RAISED  RICE  MUFFINS. 


1  cup  scalded  sweet  milk 

*4  cup  sugar  (more  if  desired) 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
2  eggs 

1  cup  cooked  rice 


6  cups  flour 

4  tablespoons  shortening 
(butter  preferred) 

1  cup  Sultana  raisins 
1  tablespoon  salt 


Cool  milk  until  lukewarm,  to  which  add  sugar,  yeast  and  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Next  add  rice.  Warm  flour  in  bowl,  make  a  nest  in 
center  of  flour  and  pour  liquid  ingredients  in  nest.  Stir  mixture  by 
pulling  flour  in  from  outer  edges.  When  2/3  of  flour  has  been  stirred 
in  add  the  melted  shortening,  raisins  and  salt  and  continue  to  mix 
until  all  flour  is  used.  Knead  dough  for  3  or  4  minutes  until  dough 
is  smooth  and  firm,  then  place  in  raiser,  grease  on  top  and  set  aside 
to  rise.  When  dough  is  double  in  volume  press  it  down  in  raiser. 
When  it  rises  again  to  triple,  make  out  into  rolls  or  into  loaf  and  rolls. 
Grease  generously  on  top  and  set  aside  to  rise.  When  light  bake. 


POPPY  SEED  CRESCENTS. 

2  cups  scalded  sweet  milk  6t4  cups  flour 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  J4  cup  butter 

3  tablespoons  sugar  1J4  teaspoons  salt 

Cool  milk  to  lukewarm,  to  which  add  the  yeast  and  sugar  and 
stir  until  it  is  dissolved.  Add  3  cups  of  the  flour  (warmed)  to  the 
liquid  and  beat  into  smooth  batter,  then  cover  and  set  it  aside  until  it  is 

—  27  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


very  light.  When  light  add  remaining  warmed  flour,  melted  butter  and 
salt  and  knead  into  a  soft  dough.  When  kneaded  set  aside  in  warm 
place  to  rise.  When  it  rises  to  fully  three  times  its  original  bulk,  roll 
dough  out  into  about  6  inch  square  thin  sheets.  Now  roll  the  squares 
in  such  a  way  that  the  corner  of  dough  comes  in  the  center  of  the  roll, 
then  curve  the  roll  in  shape  of  a  crescent.  Grease  the  crescents  on  top 
and  set  them  far  apart  on  buttered  sheet  and  let  rise  till  double  their 
size  before  baking.  When  half  baked  take  them  from  the  oven  and 
spread  beaten  egg  yolk  over  the  top  of  each  roll,  then  sprinkle  with 
poppy  seed.  Return  to  oven  to  finish  baking  and  brown. 

ALL  PURPOSE  DOUGH. 

2}£  cups  scalded  sweet  milk  8^4  cups  flour 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  sugar  %  cup  melted  shortening 

2  eggs 

Cool  milk  to  lukewarm,  to  which  add  the  yeast  and  sugar  and 
stir  until  dissolved.  Next  add  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Warm  the  flour 
and  make  a  nest  in  the  center.  Into  this  nest  pour  the  liquid  ingre¬ 
dients  and  stir  until  2/3  of  the  flour  is  mixed  in,  then  add  the  melted 
shortening  and  salt.  Knead  into  a  smooth  soft  dough,  then  place  in 
covered  receptacle  and  let  it  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  When  double, 
press  it  down,  cover  again  and  let  rise  the  second  time  until  it  has 
risen  to  three  times  its  bulk.  It  may  be  made  out  into  rolls  or  other 
articles  at  this  time,  or  it  may  be  pressed  down  once  again  before  han¬ 
dling.  This  dough  makes  excellent  cinnamon  rolls,  raised  doughnuts, 
coffee  cakes,  tea  rings,  sugar  buns,  currant  rolls,  raisin  buns  or  bread, 
raised  nut  bread  and  many  other  fancy  articles. 

STOLLEN. 

1J4  cups  scalded  sweet  milk 

3  cakes  yeast 

1  cups  sugar 
3  eggs 
9  cups  flour 
%  cup  butter 

2  teaspoons  salt 
1  cup  raisins 
1  cup  currants 

Cool  milk  to  lukewarm,  to  which  add  the  yeast  and  dissolve. 
Next  add  beaten  eggs  and  4  cups  of  the  flour,  warmed.  Beat  into  a 
smooth  batter,  then  add  melted  butter  and  all  other  ingredients  and 
knead  into  smooth  dough.  The  9  cups  of  flour  usually  make  the 
dough  of  the  desired  stiffness.  If  it  should  seem  too  soft  a  few 
sprinkles  of  flour  may  be  added  during  kneading  process.  When 
kneaded,  place  in  a  receptacle,  grease  on  top,  cover  and  set  in  warm 

—  28  — 


*4  cup  candied  cherries  cut  in 
halves 

%  cup  citron,  chopped  fine 
*£  cup  candied  pineapple, 
chopped 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  cup  blanched  almonds, 
sliced 


FANCY  BREADS,  ROLLS,  CAKE  AND  DOUGHNUTS  MADE  WITH  YEAST 


place  until  dough  rises  to  be  three  times  its  original  bulk,  which 
usually  requires  about  three  hours.  At  this  stage  take  the  dough  out 
and  tit  into  a  tube  or  plain  cake  pans,  grease  on  top  and  set  aside 
again  to  rise.  When  the  dough  is  light,  bake  in  moderate  oven.  When 
cakes  are  baked  and  cold  they  may  be  iced  in  any  desired  way.  The 
cold  icing  or  filling  is  a  favorite  covering  for  these  cakes.  The  dough 
may  be  prepared  in  other  ways — making  fancy  twists  and  rings  and 
covering  with  icing  and  fruit. 


—  29  — 


CHAPTER  III 


Quick  Breads  Made  With 
Baking  Powder. 


SWEET  MILK  BISCUITS. 

2%  cups  flour  3}£  tablespoons  shortening 

4*4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  shortening  into 
dry  ingredients.  Add  sweet  milk,  stir  briskly  and  then  scrape  out  on 
floured  board.  Knead  lightly,  only  long  enough  to  form  the  dough  in 
ball.  Turn  the  seams  of  the  dough  down  on  rolling  board, 
keeping  the  smoother  surface  up.  Roll  to  desired  thickness,  usually 
about  I/2  inch.  Cut  biscuits  and  place  on  biscuit  sheet,  allowing  a 
space  between  each  biscuit.  It  is  not  necessary  to  grease  the  sheet, 
unless  oven  does  not  bake  well  on  bottom,  then  greasing  tends  to 
brown  them  quicker.  Biscuits  may  be  brushed  over  the  top  with 
melted  shortening  or  butter  before  baking,  or  they  may  be  baked  plain. 
Bake  in  quick  oven,  usually  about  eight  minutes  being  required  for 
the  baking  of  a  small-sized  biscuit.  A  little  more  shortening  may  be 
added  if  desired. 


SOUR  MILK  BISCUITS. 

2%  cups  flour  3%  tablespoons  shortening 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  full  and  running  over  of 

3^4  teaspoons  baking  powder  sour  milk 

teaspoon  soda 

Sift  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  soda  together.  Cut  short¬ 
ening  in  with  spatula  or  mixing  spoon.  Add  sour  milk,  stir  briskly, 
roll  on  floured  board  to  desired  thickness.  Cut  in  shapes,  placing 
biscuits  on  pans  so  they  do  not  touch.  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  about 
eight  minutes.  Biscuits  may  be  brushed  over  top  with  melted  butter 
or  left  without  grease.  If  milk  is  very  sour,  it  is  sometimes  neces¬ 
sary  to  add  1/2  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  one  cup  of  milk  instead  of  14 
teaspoonful. 


30  — 


QUICK  BREADS  MADE  WITH  BAKING  POWDER 


EGG  TEA  BISCUIT. 

256  cups  flour  314  tablespoons  shortening 

4  56  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Next  cut  in  the  short¬ 
ening  with  spatula  or  mixing  spoon.  When  dry  ingredients  and  short¬ 
ening  are  mixed,  beat  the  egg  light  and  add  to  the  milk.  Now  com¬ 
bine  all,  stirring  briskly.  Either  toss  dough  on  floured  board,  knead 
lightly,  roll  and  cut,  or  drop  by  spoonfuls  and  bake  on  greased  pan. 
A  tablespoonful  of  sugar  may  also  be  added  to  the  dough  mixture 
if  desired. 

Sour  Milk  Egg  Tea  Biscuits  may  be  made  by  using  1  cup  of  sour 
milk  instead  of  sweet  milk.  Use  314  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  in¬ 
stead  of  4  and  add  14  teaspoon  soda. 


HEALTH  BISCUITS. 


2  M  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
54  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt 
54  cup  bran 


3  56  tablespoons  butter 
56  cup  chopped  and  floured 
raisins 

54  cup  chopped  nuts 
1  cup  sour  milk 


Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt  together.  Next  add  bran 
and  mix.  Add  butter  and  see  that  it  is  evenly  mixed  through  the  dry 
ingredients,  then  add  nuts  and  raisins.  Last  pour  in  the  sour  milk  and 
stir,  getting  it  mixed  as  quickly  as  possible.  Scrape  out  onto  floured 
board,  knead  only  lightly,  then  roll  and  cut  in  biscuit  shapes.  Bake 
in  quick  oven. 


ROLLED  OATS  BISCUITS. 


1 56  cups  flour  1  cup  uncooked  rolled  oats 

1  or  2  tablespoons  sugar  3  tablespoons  shortening 

456  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  short¬ 
ening  through  with  spatula  or  spoon.  Add  rolled  oats  and  milk. 
Stir  briskly,  roll  on  floured  board,  cut  and  bake  in  oven  at  about  500 
degrees  for  about  8  to  10  minutes.  It  is  easier  to  bake  these  biscuits 
in  dropped  form.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  greased  sheets. 


BEATEN  BISCUIT. 

256  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

56  teaspoon  baking  powder  56  cup  shortening 

2  tablespoons  sugar  94  cup  sweet  milk 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt  together.  Cut  short¬ 
ening  into  dry  ingredients  and  then  add  milk.  Mix  all  together  and 
beat  one  hour.  Cut  in  biscuit  shapes,  about  *4  inch  in  thickness,  prick 
each  biscuit  on  top  with  a  fork.  Bake  in  slow  oven. 

—  31  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


IDEAL  CORN  BREAD. 


1  egg 

%  cup  sweet  milk 

2  tablespoons  melted  short¬ 
ening 

1  tablespoon  sugar 


%  cup  flour 
1  cup  corn  meal 
2%  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  salt 


Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk  and  melted  shortening. 
Sift  sugar,  flour,  cornmeal,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and* 
add.  Beat  all  together  and  bake  in  well  greased  pan  or  in  corn  stick 
pans.  Serve  hot  from  oven. 


CHOICE  CORN  BREAD. 


2  eggs 

2  cups  sour  milk 
2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  teaspoon  soda 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  teaspoons  salt 
2  cups  corn  meal 
1  cup  unsifted  graham  flour 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  sour  milk.  Sift  sugar,  soda,  baking 
powder,  salt  and  cornmeal  together  and  add.  Next  add  the  graham 
flour  and  beat  all  together.  Bake  in  pone  or  in  well  greased-  corn 
stick  pans. 

EGGLESS  CORN  BREAD. 

%  cup  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  corn  meal  2  tablespoons  melted  fat 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Sift  flour,  cornmeal,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder  together.  Add 
melted  fat  and  milk.  Beat  hard  one  minute.  Bake  in  well  greased 
pan  in  pone  or  in  corn  stick  pans.  Serve  hot. 


SPOON  CORN  BREAD. 


1  %  cup  corn  meal 


3  cups  milk  or  water 


Cook  liquid  and  meal  together  until  it  is  in  cooked  mush  form. 
Remove  from  fire  and  cool.  Add  the  following  ingredients  to  mush 
mixture  in  order  given,  whites  of  eggs  folded  in  at  last.  Bake  in 
baking  dish  and  serve  from  dish  with  spoon : 

2  tablespoons  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  3  eggs  beaten  separately 

2  teaspoons  salt 


“CRACKLING”  CORN  BREAD. 

Make  the  same  recipe  as  for  “Choice  Corn  Bread”  and  add  to 
the  mixture  1  cup  of  crispy  leaf  lard  “cracklings.” 

—  32  — 


QUICK  BREADS  MADE  WITH  BAKING  POWDER 


SHAMS. 

4  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  sugar 

%  cup  cornstarch  3  tablespoons  cold  water 

Beat  egg  yolks  very  light,  then  gradually  fold  in  the  salt,  corn¬ 
starch,  baking  powder  and  sugar  after  it  has  been  sifted  together  2 
times.  Next  add  cold  water  slowly,  then  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 
Bake  in  well-greased  muffin  tins  in  oven  as  for  muffins.  To  be  served 
for  breakfast  or  luncheon.  Best  with  conserve  or  preserves. 


NUT  BREAD. 


M  cup  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

4  tablespoons  shortening  *4  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  1  cup  water 

2*4  cups  flour  %  cup  chopped  nuts 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar,  to  which  add  unbeaten  egg  and  re¬ 
cream.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add  alter¬ 
nately  to  creamed  mixture  with  water.  Beat  hard,  add  nuts,  place 
in  greased  and  flour-dusted  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  about 
1  hour  at  least. 

QUICK  BREAD. 


1  egg  4  *4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1^4  cups  sweet  milk  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  graham  or  whole  wheat  *4  cup  chopped  pecans 

flour  1  tablespoon  melted  shorten- 

1 14  cups  white  flour  ing 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  the  milk  and  graham  or  whole 
wheat  flour.  Sift  white  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  sugar  together 
and  add.  Last  add  the  pecans  and  melted  shortening.  Beat  mixture 
all  together  and  place  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  loaf  pans.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  until  well  done. 


BAKED  OR  STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 


2  cups  sour  milk 
1  cup  sorghum  molasses 
1^4  cups  white  flour 
M  cup  com  meal 
1  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  salt 


1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  cups  graham  flour  (un¬ 
sifted 

M  cup  chopped  nuts 
1  cup  raisins 


Mix  sour  milk  and  sorghum  together.  Sift  flour,  cornmeal,  soda, 
salt  and  baking  powder  together  and  add,  beating  hard  for  one  min- 

—  33  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


ute.  Next  add  unsifted  graham  flour,  chopped  nuts  and  raisins.  Bake 
in  greased  and  flour-dusted  tin  cans.  Bake  for  about  2 y2  hours. 
Bread  may  be  baked  with  cans  covered  or  uncovered.  Oven  must 
be  on  low  heat  for  this  bread.  If  to  be  steamed,  steam  3  hours  in 
covered  cans. 

BAKING  POWDER  PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

2*4  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  sugar 

teaspoons  baking  powder  4  tablespoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  sweet  milk 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  together.  Cut  butter  in 
with  spatula  or  mixing  spoon.  Add  sweet  milk  and  stir  briskly.  Roll 
dough  on  board  to  thickness  of  *4  inch.  Brush  dough  over  with 
melted  butter  and  cut  in  biscuit  shapes.  Lap  dough  over  in  pocket- 
book  form  for  each  roll  and  place  on  slightly  greased  biscuit  sheet. 
These  rolls  may  be  placed  on  pan  close  together  or  a  space  left  be¬ 
tween  each  roll.  Bake  in  quick  oven.  Place  a  nut  or  raisin  in  the 
center  of  each  roll,  pressing  it  down  into  the  dough. 


QUICK  HONEY  ROLLS. 

2%  cups  flour  4  tablespoons  shortening 

3%  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  cup  sweet  milk 

%  teaspoon  salt  cup  honey 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  shortening 
through,  add  milk  and  honey.  Mix  quickly  with  mixing  spoon,  roll 
on  floured  board  to  thickness  of  *4  inch.  Spread  honey  generously 
over  the  dough,  then  a  little  flour  and  nutmeg.  Roll  over  in  tight 
roll,  cut  off  in  thin  slices,  set  slices  upright  on  greased  pan  like  bis¬ 
cuits,  and  bake.  Serve  hot. 

BREAKFAST  CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

2%  cups  flour  4  tablespoons  shortening 

4%  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  shortening 
through  with  a  spatula  or  mixing  spoon.  Add  milk,  stir  briskly 
into  soft  dough.  Place  dough  on  floured  board  and  roll  to  14  inch 
in  thickness.  Brush  dough  over  with  butter,  then  sprinkle  gener¬ 
ously  with  cinnamon  and  sugar.  Roll  dough  into  a  tight  roll  and 
cut  off  in  slices  about  1  y2  inches  long.  Set  slices  on  greased  sheet 
and.  bake  for  about  12  minutes  in  quick  oven.  Any  kind  of  fruit  or 
raisins  may  be  placed  in  the  roll  with  the  cinnamon  and  sugar. 

—  34  — 


QUICK  BREADS  MADE  WITH  BAKING  POWDER 


HOE  CAKE. 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  boiling  water 

Place  meal,  baking  powder  and  salt  in  bowl  and  pour  over  it 
the  boiling  water,  stirring  briskly.  Allow  this  to  stand  a  few  minutes 
until  mush  mixture  can  be  taken  up  in  hands.  Mold  into  shape  with 
palm  of  hands,  having  the  cakes  about  %  inch  in  thickness.  Grease 
griddle  and  fry,  being  particular  to  allow  the  cakes  to  remain  on 
one  side  long  enough  to  cook  half  through  then  turn  and  cook  oni 
other  side.  Turn  only  once. 


CLAYTON  QUICK  COFFEE  CAKE. 


2  cups  flour 
54  cup  sugar 

354  teaspoons  baking  powder 
54  teaspoon  salt 
54  teaspoon  nutmeg 


54  cup  shortening 
1  egg 

%  cup  sweet  milk 
54  cup  raisins  (Sultana  pre¬ 
ferred) 


Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder,  salt  and  nutmeg  together. 
Cut  shortening  in  with  spatula  or  mixing  spoon.  Beat  egg  light  and 
add  to  sweet  milk.  Pour  the  sweet  milk  and  egg  mixture  into  flour 
and  stir  briskly.  Add  raisins  and  mix  all  well  together.  Place  dough 
in  well-greased  and  flour-dusted  pan,  pulling  the  dough  well  towards 
the  outer  edge  of  the  pan.  Brush  melted  butter  over  the  top,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Crumbs  or 
any  desired  mixture  may  be  used  on  top  of  cakes. 


THOMPSON  BREAKFAST  CAKES. 


254  cups  flour  354  tablespoons  shortening 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  sweet  milk  or  water 

454  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together.  Cut  in  shortening  with 
spatula  or  mixing  spoon.  Next  add  milk  or  water.  Toss  dough  on 
board,  knead  lightly  and  roll  to  thickness  of  about  one-fourth  inch 
or  a  little  thicker,  cut  with  large  size  biscuit  cutter.  Place  griddle  on 
stove  and  sprinkle  a  little  flour  on  it.  When  the  flour  turns  a  very 
light  colored  brown,  then  place  the  biscuit  cakes  on  griddle  and  allow 
them  to  bake  slowly.  Watch  them  rise  and  when  they  have  risen  and 
seem  to  have  cooked  half  through,  turn  them  over  carefully  and  allow 
them  to  brown  and  cook  ’til  baked  through.  Serve  hot  as  biscuits 
are  served. 


SOUR  MILK  THOMPSON  BREAKFAST  CAKES. 

Make  the  same  as  for  sweet  milk,  only  use  one  cup  of  sour  milk 
instead  of  sweet  milk.  Use  3 teaspoons  baking  powder  instead  of  4 
and  add  *4  teaspoon  soda. 


—  35  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


QUICK  CHEESE  COFFEE  CAKE. 

1  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

34  cup  sugar  1  egg 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  34  cup  sweet  milk 

34  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  butter 
into  flour,  having  mixture  well  blended.  Beat  egg  light  and  add  to 
sweet  milk,  then  pour  sweet  milk  and  egg  mixture  into  flour  mix¬ 
ture  and  stir  all  together.  Grease  and  flour-dust  a  cake  pan  and 
spread  this  mixture  in  pan,  pulling  the  dough  well  out  towards  the 
outer  edges  of  pan  before  placing  in  oven.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
and  when  the  dough  mixture  has  risen  in  the  pan  and  about  2/3 
baked,  remove  from  oven  and  have  ready  to  spread  over  the  top  the 
following  mixture: 


CHEESE  COVERING. 


1  cup  cottage  cheese 
34  cup  sugar 
1  tablespoon  flour 
1  egg 


34  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Few  grains  of  salt 
34  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
34  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind 


Beat  egg  light  and  add  to  cheese.  Blend  sugar,  flour,  nutmeg  and 
salt  together  and  add,  together  with  lemon  juice  and  rind.  If  thick 
cheese  covering  is  desired  double  the  ingredients  as  given.  Smooth 
cheese  is  required  for  this  mixture.  Cheese  made  from  heated  milk 
is  not  satisfactory. 

When  the  cheese  mixture  is  placed  on  top  return  to  oven  and 
allow  cake  to  cook  until  cheese  is  set,  ordinarily  requiring  about  15 
to  20  minutes  for  the  process.  If  possible,  bake  this  in  bright  tin  pan. 


BRAN  NUT  LOAF. 


2  34  tablespoons  butter 
34  cup  brown  sugar 
1  large  egg 
34  cup  dark  molasses 

1  cup  bran 

2  34  cups  floor 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
34  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  sweet  or  sour  milk 
94  cup  nut  meats 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  well  together,  to  which  add  beaten  egg 
and  cream  again.  Next  add  the  dark  molasses  and  bran  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt  together 
and  add  alternately  to  cream  mixture  with  sweet  milk.  Add  the 
chopped  nut  meats  and  mix  all  thoroughly,  then  pour  into  greased  and 
flour-dusted  small  bread  pans  and  bake.  This  makes  2  small  loaves  or 
one  large  one.  Bake  slowly  for  about  1  hour  if  in  one  loaf. 


36 


QUICK  BREADS  MADE  WITH  BAKING  POWDER 


PRUNE  BRAN  LOAF. 


3  tablespoons  butter 
cup  sugar 
1  egg  (large  size) 

1  cup  sour  milk 
1  cup  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
%  teaspoon  soda 
2  cups  bran 

%  cup  soaked,  uncooked, 
chopped  prunes 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  to  which  add  beaten  egg  and 
beat  until  light.  Sift  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  soda  together  and 
add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  sour  milk.  Next  add  prunes 
and  beat  for  one  minute.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  loaf  pan 
for  about  45  minutes.  Raisins,  currants  or  other  dried  fruit  may  be 
used  instead  of  prunes. 


ONE  GRAHAM  LOAF. 

1  egg  2  cups  graham  flour 

cup  molasses  (dark  va-  %  cup  white  flour 

riety)  1  teaspoon  salt 

1%  cups  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 

Beat  egg  light  and  combine  with  molasses  and  milk.  Add  the 
graham  flour  to  mixture  in  unsifted  form,  then  add  the  flour,  salt 
and  soda  in  sifted  form.  Beat  ’til  smooth,  pour  into  greased  loaf  pan 
and  bake  1  hour. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

2  cups  flour  1  whole  egg,  or  2  yolks 

J4  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  sweet  milk 

3  tablespoons  sugar  4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Sift  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together.  Add  the 
beaten  egg  or  yolks  to  the  milk  and  add  next.  Last  add  the  melted 
shortening.  Stir  well  and  bake  in  buttered  shallow  pan  for  about  25 
minutes.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  hot  for  breakfast  or  luncheon  for 
bread,  or  it  may  be  served  as  cake  with  fruit  sauce. 


SCONES. 

4  tablespoons  butter  H  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg 

1%  cups  flour  cup  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and 
salt  together.  Beat  egg  light  and  add  to  milk.  Now  add  dry  ingre¬ 
dients  to  creamed  butter  and  sugar  alternately  with  the  milk  and  egg. 

—  37  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


Stir  all  together,  place  on  floured  board  and  roll  to  thickness  of  *4 
inch,  being  careful  to  roll  some  sugar  on  the  dough,  making  a  sugar- 
crusted  top.  Cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  When 
browned  lightly  remove  from  oven,  cool  and  split.  Between  each 
scone  spread  preserves  or  jam.  Also  place  a  dot  on  top.  Serve  as 
dessert,  or  in  place  of  cake. 


? 


—  38  — 


CHAPTER  IV 


Muffins. 


PLAIN  MUFFINS. 


X 

cup  butter 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

X 

cup  sugar 

%  teaspoon  salt 

% 

cup  milk 

1  large  egg 

1  %  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together.  Sift  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt  together  and  add  to  creamed  sugar  and  butter  alter¬ 
nately  with  the  milk.  Beat  egg  light  and  add  last.  Bake  in  greased 
and  flour-dusted  muffin  pans  in  quick  oven. 

WHEAT  AND  CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS. 

3  tablespoons  shortening  3^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

cup  syrup  *4  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  1  egg 

1  cup  cornmeal 

Cream  shortening  and  syrup  together,  to  which  add  milk.  Sift 
flour,  corn  meal,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt  together  and  add  to 
liquid  mixture  and  mix  thoroughly.  Beat  egg  light  and  add  last, 
beating  the  mixture  a  few  minutes  before  placing  in  greased  muffin 
pans  for  baking. 


RICE  MUFFINS. 


1  tablespoon  butter 
3  tablespoons  sugar 
1  cup  boiled  rice 

1  egg 


%  cup  sweet  milk 
1 %  cups  flour 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
%  teaspoon  salt 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  beaten  egg  and 
cream  again.  Add  rice  to  this,  then  sweet  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt  together  and  add.  Beat  mixture  and  bake  in  greased 
and  flour  dusted  muffin  pans.  Bake  about  25  minutes. 

—  39  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECITES 


WHOLE  WHEAT  MUFFINS. 


cup  butter  and  lard  mixed 
H  cup  sugar 
1  egg 

1  cup  sour  milk 
%  cup  white  flour 


1J4  cups  whole  wheat  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 
M  teaspoon  soda 
2}4  teaspoon  baking  powder 
14  cup  raisins 


Cream  shortening  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  unbeaten 
egg  and  cream  again.  Sift  flour,  salt,  soda  and  baking  powder  to¬ 
gether  and  add  alternately  to  creamed  mixture  with  sour  milk.  Beat 
hard  one  minute,  then  add  raisins  and  bake  in  greased  and  flour- 
dusted  muffin  tins.  Bake  in  quick  oven,  usually  from  20  to  25  min¬ 
utes  in  baking.  If  sweet  milk  is  used  in  this  recipe,  leave  out  soda 
and  use  3y2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  instead  of  2y2  teaspoonfuls. 


BREAD  CRUMB  MUFFINS. 


2  tablespoons  butter 

3  tablespoons  sugar 
2  eggs 

2  cups  sweet  milk 


2  cups  fine  bread  crumbs 
%  cup  flour 

3^4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
teaspoon  salt 


Blend  butter  and  sugar  well  together,  to  which  add  eggs  and 
cream  until  mixture  is  light.  Next  add  sweet  milk  and  bread  crumbs. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add  last.  Beat  all 
well  together  and  bake  in  well  greased  and  flour-dusted  muffin  pans  for 
about  25  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

EGGLESS  FRUIT  MUFFINS. 

4  tablespoons  butter  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

34  cup  sugar  H  cup  stoned  and  chopped 

1 J4  cups  sweet  milk  dates 

1  cup  unsifted  graham  flour  *4  cup  chopped  raisins 

1%  cups  white  flour  cup  chopped  citron 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  to  which  add  sweet  milk 
and  graham  flour  alternately.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  to¬ 
gether  and  add.  Next  add  dates,  piece  at  a  time,  so  that  they  will 
not  mass  together  in  dough.  Flour  raisins  and  citron  and  add  last. 
Bake  in  muffin  pans  in  moderate  oven  until  done,  a  longer  time  being 
necessary  on  account  of  fruit.  *4  cup  of  nuts  may  be  added  if  desired. 


GLUTEN  MUFFINS. 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sweet  milk  *4  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  gluten  flour 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder 
and  salt  together  into  mixture.  Beat  one  minute.  Bake  in  slightly 
greased  muffin  pans. 

—  40  — 


MUFFINS 


GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  ^  cup  white  flour 

1  egg  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1*4  cups  unsifted  graham  94  teaspoon  salt 

flour 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  egg  and  re- 
cream.  Next  add  graham  flour  and  milk  alternately  to  creamed  mix¬ 
ture.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add,  beating 
mixture  all  together.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  muffin  tins  in 
quick  oven,  usually  about  20  minutes  being  required  for  baking. 


COCOA  MUFFINS. 

3  tablespoons  butter 
34  cup  sugar 
l  egg 

J4  cup  sweet  milk 


94  cup  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
94  cup  cocoa 
94  teaspoon  salt 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together, to  which  add  well  beaten  egg 
and  cream  again.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  cocoa  and  salt  to¬ 
gether  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  sweet  milk.  Beat 
mixture  hard  and  bake  in  greased  and  flour  dusted  muffin  tins  in 
quick  oven. 

RYE  MUFFINS. 


94  cup  shortening 
1  tablespoon  sugar 
1  egg 

1  cup  sweet  milk 


94  cup  white  flour 
94  cup  rye  flour 
94  teaspoon  salt 
2*4  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Cream  shortening,  sugar  and  egg  thoroughly  together.  Sift  flour, 
salt  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to  creamed  mixture,  al¬ 
ternately,  with  sweet  milk.  Beat  mixture  and  bake  in  greased  and 
flour  dusted  muffin  tins  in  quick  oven. 


POTATO  MUFFINS. 


2  tablespoons  butter 
2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  egg 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes 


1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  cups  flour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
94  teaspoon  salt 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  beaten  egg  and 
re-cream.  Next  add  mashed  potatoes  and  again  cream  for  one  minute. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add  to  creamed  mix¬ 
ture  alternately  with  sweet  milk.  Stir  well  and  bake  in  greased  and 
flour- dusted  muffin  pans.  Serve  hot.  Ordinarily,  about  25  minutes  is 
necessary  for  muffins  to  bake. 


41  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


PLAIN  BRAN  MUFFINS. 

3  tablespoons  shortening  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  large  egg  2  cups  bran 

1  cup  sweet  milk  Vz  cup  nuts  or  raisins  if  de- 

1  cup  flour  sired 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  egg  together,  then  sift  flour,  salt  and 
baking  powder  together  and  add  alternately  to  creamed  mixture  with 
sweet  milk.  Last  add  the  bran  and  beat  one  minute.  Bake  in 
greased  and  flour-dusted  muffin  tins.  This  makes  12  large  muffins. 

SOUR  MILK  PLAIN  BRAN  MUFFINS. 

Use  same  recipe  as  for  sweet  milk  muffins.  Change  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk  to  one  cup  of  sour  milk.  Use  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
and  y2  teaspoon  soda  instead  of  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 


BRAN  MUFFINS  FOR  LUNCHEON. 


4  tablespoons  shortening 
%  cup  sugar 
1  egg 

1  cup  sweet  milk 
%  cup  white  flour 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder 


%  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  salt 
34  teaspoon  nutmeg 
3£  cup  chopped  nuts 
1%  cups  bran 


Cream  shortening  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  egg  and  re¬ 
cream.  Next  add  sweet  milk,  white  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon, 
salt  and  nutmeg,  sifted  together,  and  add,  mixing  well.  Last  add  nuts 
and  bran.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins. 


POP  OVERS. 


1  cup  flour  2  eggs 

34  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  melted  butter 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

Sift  flour  and  salt  together.  Add  one-half  the  milk  and  beat 
until  smooth.  Add  remaining  half  of  milk,  well-beaten  eggs  and 
melted  butter  and  beat  for  about  5  minutes.  Dover  egg  beater  may 
be  used  for  this  purpose.  Pour  dough  in  greased  muffin  pans  and 
place  in  hot  oven  for  first  8  to  10  minutes,  then  decrease  heat  and 
bake  slowly  for  remaining  baking  period.  Twenty-five  to  thirty-five 
minutes  are  required  for  pop  overs  if  well  baked. 

SWISS  FLAKES. 

1  large  egg  %  cup  flour 

34  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  flour  and  salt.  Make  into  smooth 
stiff  dough.  Roll  on  floured  board  as  thin  as  paper  and  cut  in  fancy 

—  42  — 


MUFFINS 


shapes.  Drop  in  deep  fat  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Dredge  generous¬ 
ly  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  hot  or  cold.  Fat  must  be  heated 
as  for  doughnuts. 

CORN  MEAL  WAFERS 

cup  cornmeal  2  tablespoons  butter 

XA  cup  flour  1  egg 

M  teaspoon  salt 


Sift  cornmeal,  flour  and  salt  together.  Cut  butter  into  ingre¬ 
dients.  Beat  egg  very  light  and  add.  Roll  on  floured  board  as  thin 
as  possible.  Cut  in  shapes  and  bake  very  slowly  until  browned 
lightly.  Two  tablespoons  of  sugar  may  be  added  if  desired. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 


1  cup  flour 

M  teaspoon  baking  powder 
%  teaspoon  salt 
3  tablespoons  butter 
1  cup  grated  tasty  cheese,  or 


cheese  that  comes  in  tinfoil 
with  snappy  flavor 
4  tablespoons  ice  water 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  the  butter  well 
through  the  flour,  then  add  cheese  and  have  all  well  blended.  Next 
add  ice  water  and  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Thoroughly  mix,  then 
roll  on  floured  board  as  thin  as  can  be  handled.  With  knife  or 
pastry  crimper  cut  dough  in  strips  about  5  inches  long  and  the  width 
of  a  lead  pencil.  Bake  on  slightly  greased  biscuit  sheets,  being  care¬ 
ful  to  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Care  should  be  taken  to  keep  straws 
from  becoming  too  brown.  This  makes  about  125  straws.  One-half 
recipe  may  be  used  for  small  family.  These  straws  are  good  served 
with  a  salad  course. 


—  43  — 


CHAPTER  V 


Waffles  and  Batter  Cakes 


SUGGESTIONS  ON  WAFFLE  AND  BATTER  CAKE  MAKING. 

Good  batter  cakes,  or  waffles,  require  eggs  and  milk.  Satis¬ 
factory  cakes  may  be  made  by  using  water  if  a  small  amount  of  sugar 
and  melted  butter  is  added  to  the  batter.  To  each  cupful  of  water 
allow  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  1  or  2  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 

Rich  milk  is  not  a  necessity  for  the  making  of  cakes.  Milk,  with 
cream  removed,  is  quite  satisfactory.  If  sour  milk  is  to  be  used, 
much  better  results  will  follow  if  milk  is  not  too  old.  When  sour 
milk  has  reached  the  separated  stage,  the  curd  drawing  to  the  top 
of  whey,  it  is  not  so  satisfactory,  but  if  it  is  to  be  used  it  should  be 
poured  into  a  mason  jar  and  shaken  until  it  has  the  appearance  of 
buttermilk,  or  the  milk  may  be  run  through  a  sieve.  This  cuts  the 
curd  and  puts  it  in  a  smooth  condition.  More  soda  should  be  used 
to  neutralize  the  acid  when  milk  has  reached  this  stage. 

Eggs  should  be  beaten  very  light  for  cakes  and  they  may  be 
added  to  batter  in  two  processes,  i.  e.,  yolks  beaten  separately  and 
combined  with  ingredients,  whites  beaten  separately  and  added  after 
all  the  batter  is  mixed  and  in  smooth  condition.  Waffles  are  better 
where  eggs  are  added  separately.  Good  waffles  require  1  egg  to  each 
cup  of  milk.  Less  eggs  may  be  used,  however,  with  very  good  results. 
When  either  cakes  or  waffles  are  to  be  served  it  is  generally  supposed 
that  they  furnish  the  greater  part  of  the  meal,  so  in  using  a  generous 
number  of  eggs  the  nourishment  is  furnished  and  other  articles  of  food 
may  be  omitted. 

Cakes  are  made  indigestible  by  the  way  they  are  baked.  Where 
it  is  possible,  use  a  soapstone  or  aluminum  griddle.  No  grease  is 
necessary  when  using  either,  thus  making  the  cake  lighter  and  more 
digestible.  Where  an  ordinary  griddle  is  used,  use  as  little  grease 
as  possible  to  prevent  the  cakes  from  sticking.  Take  a  clean  piece  of 
cloth  and  tie  on  the  end  of  kitchen  fork.  Saturate  cloth  with  grease 
and  rub  it  over  griddle  each  time  before  baking  a  cake.  A  small 
amount  of  salt  tied  in  a  cloth  and  rubbed  over  the  griddle  also 
prevents  cakes  from  sticking.  Cakes  should  be  turned  only  one  time 
while  baking.  Allow  the  cake  to  remain  on  one  side  long  enough  to 

—  44  — 


WAFFLES  AND  BATTER  OAKES 


cook  half  through,  then  turn  and  cook  on  the  other  side.  To  turn 
cakes  more  than  one  time  toughens  and  prevents  lightness. 

Batter  for  waffles  and  cakes  should  be  stiff  enough  to  hold  up  and 
keep  cakes  from  sinking  after  they  are  baked.  If  measurements  are 
followed  closely,  in  these  recipes,  there  should  be  no  difficulty  in  hav¬ 
ing  dough  mixture  of  proper  consistency.  Liquid  should  be  level 
with  the  top  edges  of  cup.  Flour  should  be  placed  in  cup  in  unpacked 
form,  scraping  it  off  perfectly  level.  Careless  measuring  may  make 
the  batter  too  thin  or  too  thick.  If  the  batter  should  seem  too  stiff, 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  extra  liquid  may  be  added,  or  if  the  batter  seems 
a  little  thin  more  flour  may  be  added.  Waffle  batter  should  be  stiff er 
than  cake  batter. 


WATER  BATTER  CAKES. 

1  egg 

1  cup  water 
1*4  cups  flour 
34  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  water.  Sift  flour,  salt,  sugar  and 
baking  powder  together  and  add  next.  Melt  butter  and  add,  beat¬ 
ing  mixture  hard  for  one  minute.  Bake  on  soapstone  griddle  or  on 
slightly  greased  ordinary  griddle. 

CANNED  CORN  BATTER  CAKES. 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  sugar 

cup  sweet  milk  34  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  canned  corn  214  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  flour 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  milk  and  corn.  Sift  flour,  sugar, 
salt  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to  mixture.  Beat  hard  one 
minute.  Fry  on  sparingly  greased  griddle  to  golden  brown.  If  corn 
is  juicy,  one  cup  of  flour  usually  makes  mixture  just  stiff  enough.  If 
corn  is  dry  and  not  milky,  it  may  be  necessary  to  use  a  little  less  than 
1  cup  of  flour. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BATTER  CAKES. 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  soda 

234  cups  sour  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  whole  wheat  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  white  flour 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  sour  milk.  Sift  flour,  soda,  baking 
powder  and  salt  together  and  add,  beating  hard  for  one  minute.  Sour 
milk  batter  cake  dough  sometimes  seems  a  little  stiff,  but  better  results 
will  follow  with  a  thicker  batter.  Bake  on  soapstone  griddle  or  on 
ordinary  griddle,  very  sparingly  greased. 

—  45  — 


1  tablespoon  sugar 

234  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  teaspoons  melted  butter 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


SOUR  MILK  BATTER  CAKES. 


1  egg 

234  cups  sour  milk 

2  34  cups  flour 


2J4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
94  teaspoons  soda 
1  teaspoon  salt 


Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  sour  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder, 
soda  and  salt  together  into  the  liquid  and  beat  hard  for  one  minute. 
Bake  on  soapstone  griddle  or  on  ordinary  griddle,  sparingly  greased. 
If  dough  seems  thin  a  few  sprinkles  of  additional  flour  may  be  added. 


CORNMEAL  CAKES. 


1  egg 

2  cups  sour  milk 

1 94  cups  cornmeal 
34  cup  flour 


34  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar 
34  teaspoon  soda 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Beat  egg  until  light,  to  which  add  the  sour  mftk.  Sift  cornmeal, 
flour,  sugar,  soda,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add  to  thev 
mixture.  Beat  hard  for  a  minute  and  then  bake  on  griddle.  If 
sweet  milk  is  used  in  this  recipe,  leave  out  the  soda  and  add  4  tea¬ 
spoonfuls  baking  powder  instead. 

DARK  MOLASSES  CAKES. 


1  egg 

34  cup  dark  molasses 
34  cup  sour  milk 
134  cups  flour 


1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
34  teaspoon  soda 
34  teaspoon  salt 


Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  molasses  and  sour  milk.  Sift  flour, 
baking  powder,  soda  and  salt  together  and  add,  beating  all  well  to¬ 
gether.  Bake  on  griddle  sparingly  greased.  Do  not  have  griddle 
very  hot,  as  these  cakes  burn  quicker  than  other  cakes. 

BUCKWHEAT  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 


134  cups  buckwheat  flour 
94  cup  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 


34  teaspoon  salt 

Sweet  milk  to  make  thin  batter 

1  egg 


Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Add  enough  sweet 
milk  to  make  smooth  thin  batter.  Add  the  well-beaten  egg  last.  Bake 
on  soapstone  griddle  or  if  ordinary  griddle  is  used  grease  very  spar¬ 
ingly. 

RAISED  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 


2  cups  lukewarm  water 
1  cup  scalded  sweet  milk 

1  cake  compressed  yeast 

2  tablespoons  sugar 


2  cups  buckwheat  flour 
1  cup  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 


Dissolve  yeast  in  water  and  milk,  to  which  add  sugar.  Add  flour 
and  salt  gradually  to  liquid,  beating  all  together,  being  careful  to 

—  46  — 


WAFFLES  AND  BATTER  OAKES 


have  mixture  free  from  lumps.  Cover  and  set  aside  in  some  warm 
place  to  rise,  usually  about  l1/^  hours  being  required.  If  this  is  to 
stand  overnight  use  one-half  cake  yeast,  and  do  not  keep  mixture 
too  warm.  If  mixture  seems  to  be  too  stiff  when  frying,  add  a  few 
tablespoonfuls  of  water  extra. 

RICE  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  cup  sweet  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  cooked  rice  *4  teaspoon  salt 

About  1  cup  flour 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Add  cooked  rice  and 
stir  together.  Sift  in  enough  flour  gradually  to  make  a  batter.  Blend 
sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add  last.  Beat  one  min¬ 
ute.  Bake  on  griddle  sparingly  greased. 

ROLLED  OATS  CAKES. 

1  egg  *4  cup  flour 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  cooked  rolled  oats  H  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  egg  light  to  which  add  sweet  milk  and  rolled  oats.  Sift 
flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add,  mixing  ingrediehts 
well  together.  Fry  on  greased  griddle  and  serve  hot  like  other  batter 
cakes.  Left  over  rolled  oats  are  used  for  these  cakes. 


RYE  BATTER  CAKES. 

2  eggs  1  tablespoon  sugar 

2  cups  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  rye  flour  (scant)  3%  teaspoons  baking  powder 

J4  cup  white  flour 

Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  milk.  Sift  flour,  sugar,  salt  and 
baking  powder  together  and  add,  beating  hard.  Bake  on  griddle 
sparingly  greased. 

BREAD  CRUMB  BATTER  CAKES. 

1  egg  %  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1U  cups  bread  crumbs  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  flour 

Beat  egg  light  and  add  to  the  milk.  Next  add  the  bread  crumbs. 
Sift  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together  and  add.  Beat 
all  together.  Bake  on  soapstone  griddle,  or  if  ordinary  griddle  is 
used,  grease  only  slightly.  If  batter  gets  too  stiff,  add  a  little  extra 
milk. 


—  47  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


RAW  POTATO  CAKES. 

2  cups  grated  raw  potatoes  1 M  cups  flour 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  salt 

*4  cup  sweet  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Grate  potato  and  place  in  bowl  with  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Add 
to  this  the  sweet  milk,  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Beat  well  and 
fry  as  batter  cakes  on  griddle.  Serve  hot  as  all  batter  cakes  are 
served.  More  grease  should  be  used  for  frying  potato  cakes. 

CREAM  BATTER  CAKES. 

1  egg  3J4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1J4  cups  rich  sweet  milk  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  sugar 

Beat  egg  until  very  light  to  which  add  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking 
powder,  salt  and  sugar  together  and  add,  beating  all  together  until 
smooth.  Bake  on  griddle  with  very  little  grease.  If  possible  use 
soapstone  griddle  and  no  grease  will  be  needed.  This  amount  of 
dough  will  serve  three  persons.  Turn  cakes  only  one  time.  Allow 
them  to  remain  on  one  side  long  enough  to  cook  half  through,  then 
turn.  If  at  any  time  dough  mixture  should  seem  the  least  bit  stiff, 
a  spoonful  or  two  more  liquid  may  be  added,  or  if  too  thin,  a  few 
sprinkles  of  flour  may  be  added. 

SWEET  MILK  BATTER  CAKES. 

2  eggs  5  34  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sweet  milk  *4  teaspoon  salt 

2  %  cups  flour 

Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt  together  and  add.  Beat  ’til  smooth.  Cook  on  soap¬ 
stone  griddle  or  on  ordinary  griddle  with  as  little  grease  as  possible. 

GERMAN  RAW  POTATO  CAKES. 

6  large  raw  peeled  potatoes  1*4  teaspoons  salt 

3  eggs 

Grate  the  potatoes  and  drain.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  adding 
the  salt  to  the  eggs  during  the  whipping  process.  Now  combine  the 
potato  and  egg,  being  careful  not  to  beat  at  this  time.  Simply  stir 
carefully  to  have  well  mixed.  Fry  on  well-greased  griddle.  Serve  hot. 

OVERNIGHT  YEAST  BATTER  CAKES. 

2  eggs  1  tablespoon  sugar 

3  cups  scalded  sweet  milk  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  4*4  cups  flour 

Beat  eggs  light  first.  Cool  milk  to  lukewarm  point  and  into  same 
dissolve  yeast.  Now  combine  eggs,  milk,  yeast,  sugar,  salt  and  flour. 

—  48  — 


WAFFLES  AND  BATTER  CAKES 


Beat  hard  for  about  2  minutes,  then  set  aside  in  warm  place  over¬ 
night.  It  is  best  to  mix  batter  about  10  P.  M.,  always  keeping  batter 
in  large  enough  receptacle  to  allow  it  to  rise  without  running  over. 
In  the  morning  stir  just  a  little,  but  do  not  beat.  Bake  on  griddle 
as  all  batter  cakes  are  cooked.  If  some  of  the  dough  is  left  over  it 
may  be  used  for  following  morning  by  adding  the  above  ingredients, 
omitting  the  yeast  and  giving  same  overnight  treatment. 

SOUR  MILK  BRAN  BATTER  CAKES. 

1  large  egg  %  teaspoon  soda 

1%  cups  sour  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

1%  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  sugar 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  *4  cup  bran 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder, 
soda,  salt  and  sugar  together  and  add.  Next  add  bran  and  beat  until 
well  mixed.  Bake  on  slightly  greased  griddle. 

SWEET  MILK  BRAN  BATTER  CAKES. 

Make  the  same  as  above  for  sour  milk  cakes,  only  leave  out  the 
soda.  Instead  of  1*4  cups  of  sour  milk,  use  l1/^  cups  sweet  milk  and 
use  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

SUGAR  SYRUP  FOR  BATTER  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

%  cup  water  %  teaspoon  maple  flavoring 

*4  cup  white  corn  syrup 

Place  sugar  and  water  on  stove  and  allow  it  to  boil  hard  for 
4  minutes  after  it  starts  to  boil.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  com 
syrup  and  salt.  Stir  well  and  cool.  If  maple  flavor  is  desired,  add 
from  Y2  to  1  teaspoonful  after  syrup  is  cooled.  The  maple  flavor 
varies  in  strength  so  it  is  better  to  add  the  amount  to  suit  individual 
taste.  By  adding  corn  syrup  to  sugar  syrup  there  is  no  danger  of 
syrup  returning  to  a  sugar  consistency. 

Brown  sugar  syrup  is  made  in  the  same  way.  This  makes  only  a 
small  amount.  Double  or  triple  the  recipe  if  large  amount  is  desired. 
If  recipe  is  doubled,  boil  the  sugar  and  water  5  minutes.  If  recipe 
is  tripled,  boil  the  sugar  and  water  6  minutes. 


SOUR  MILK  WAFFLES. 


3  eggs 

3  cups  sour  milk 
3  %  cups  flour 
1  tablespoon  sugar 


4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  sour  milk.  Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking 
powder,  soda  and  salt  together  and  add  to  milk  and  eggs,  together 

—  49  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


with  melted  butter.  Bake  on  well- greased  waffle  iron.  Yolks  and 
whites  may  be  beaten  separately,  whites  being  folded  in  at  last  mixing. 

SWEET  MILK  WAFFLES  FOR  FOUR. 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  sweet  milk  1  tablespoon  sugar 

3%  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

6  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking 
powder,  salt  and  sugar  together  and  add,  beating  mixture  hard  for 
one  minute.  Add  melted  butter  and  mix  well,  then  add  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites.  Bake  on  well-greased  waffle  iron.  If  waffle  dough  is  not 
stiff  enough  the  waffles  will  sink  after  they  come  from  irons. 

FRENCH  WAFFLES. 

%  cup  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sugar  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

4  eggs  2  cups  sweet  milk 

3%  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  to  which  add  egg  yolks  and  beat  hard. 
Dissolve  yeast  in  sweet  milk  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately 
with  flour.  Add  salt.  Beat  egg  whites  light  and  fold  in  at  last.  Have 
the  milk  and  flour  lukewarm.  Set  the  batter  aside  for  three  hours 
until  it  becomes  light,  then  bake  on  greased  waffle  iron. 

CORN  COB  SYRUP. 

Select  full-sized  red  corn  cobs  and  pack  in  kettle,  standing  on  end 
and  fitting  them  in  closely.  Pour  cold  water  over  cobs,  seeing  that  the 
cobs  are  completely  submerged.  Boil  the  cobs  slowly  for  one  and  one- 
half  hours,  at  all  times  having  the  cobs  under  water.  This  necessitates 
the  addition  of  boiling  water  at  intervals.  When  boiled,  remove  cobs 
from  the  water  and  strain  liquid  through  cloth.  To  each  cupful  of  the 
liquid  add  2/3  cup  of  light  sea  sugar.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  to¬ 
gether  until  its  shows  a  syrup  consistency.  If  5  cups  of  cob  water 
is  used  to  the  amount  of  sugar  necessary,  about  #  or  10  minutes  is  re¬ 
quired  for  boiling.  When  done  remove  from  fire.  Now  for  each  cup 
of  cob  water  that  has  been  used,  *4  cup  of  white  corn  syrup  should  be 
added.  This  makes  a  delicious  syrup. 


—  50  — 


CHAPTER  VI 


Gake 


SUGGESTIONS  ON  CAKE  BAKING. 

Good  cakes  require  accurate  and  careful  measurements,  combined 
with  first-class  materials. 

Each  housewife  should  first  see  that  she  possesses  measuring  cups 
of  one-half  pint  size.  Many  measuring  cups  hold  from  two  to  three 
tablespoonfuls  more  than  one-half  pint.  If  in  doubt  about  the  size 
of  the  cup,  secure  the  druggist’s  graduate  glass,  which  is  always  to 
be  relied  upon.  An  accurate  size  tablespoon  and  teaspoon  must  be 
used  in  spoon  measurements.  A  set  of  5  spoons  on  a  ring  may  be 
bought,  which  is  reliable,  and  are  in  measures  as  follows :  Tablespoon, 
dessertspoon,  teaspoon,  half  teaspoon  and  one-fourth  teaspoon. 

All  utensils  and  cake  pans  used  in  cake  baking  should  be  selected 
with  care,  much  labor  and  time  being  saved  by  the  purchasing  of 
simple  little  devices  at  a  small  cost.  In  the  selecting  of  pans  for  the 
baking  of  cakes,  use  judgment  always  in  the  size  of  cakes  usually 
wanted.  Do  not  place  a  small  amount  of  dough  in  a  large  pan  and 
do  not  place  a  large  mixture  in  a  small  pan.  Aluminum,  tin  and 
glass  pans  are  all  excellent  for  cake  baking,  each  kind  having  its  in¬ 
dividual  good  points.  Do  not  use  granite  pans  for  cake  baking.  Pans 
with  adjustable  sides  and  bottoms  are  good  so  long  as  the  parts  do 
not  become  bent  and  warped.  Using  the  one-piece  pans  and  follow¬ 
ing  instructions  carefully,  for  the  proper  preparation  of  pans,  there 
should  be  no  difficulty  in  removing  cakes  from  pans  after  they  are 
baked.  Two  earthen  or  enamel  rounded-bottom  bowls  should  be  in 
each  kitchen  for  the  mixing  of  cakes.  Dough  can  be  more  thoroughly 
mixed  in  such  bowls.  When  dough  is  properly  mixed,  there  should 
be  no  danger  of  making  a  cake  fall,  if  all  the  dough  is  scraped  from 
the  bowl  into  the  baking  pan.  It  may  be  a  good  rule,  however,  to  re¬ 
member  and  place  the  last  scrapings  from  the  bowl  at  the  outer  edge 
of  cake  pan. 

Before  beginning  to  bake  a  cake,  be  sure  that  you  have  the  recipe 
plainly  before  you,  and  that  no  mistake  may  be  made  in  ingredients 
used.  Select  then  the  materials  called  for  and  have  them  assembled  in 
proper  order,  that  no  part  of  the  cake  will  be  neglected  in  the  prepara¬ 
tion.  Egg  whites  should  not  be  started  in  motion  until  they  are  ready 

—  51  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


to  be  used  immediately  after  being  whipped.  Egg  yolks  may  be 
beaten  and  allowed  to  stand  for  a  short  time  with  less  harm  to  the 
mixture.  In  sifting  flour  and  baking  powder  together,  use  paper 
napkins,  or  clean  pieces  of  paper  for  the  transferring  of  the  ingre¬ 
dients  back  and  forth.  Select  a  wire  paddle  egg  beater  for  the  beat¬ 
ing  of  egg  whites.  The  object  is  to  incorporate  as  much  air  as  pos¬ 
sible  into  the  egg  whites  through  the  whipping  process,  the  long 
stroke  being  the  better  method,  many  persons  using  a  large  platter  on 
which  to  beat  egg  whites  in  order  to  do  this.  The  Dover  or  crank 
wheel  egg  beater  is  excellent  for  egg  yolks  and  for  the  whipping  of 
cream,  but  not  for  egg  whites  where  eggs  are  to  be  used  in  cakes. 
Eggs  should  be  of  normal  size,  cold  and  fresh  for  best  results. 

In  all  recipes  calling  for  sugar,  unless  otherwise  specified,  it  means 
granulated  sugar.  Granulated  sugar  is  to  be  sifted  one  time.  Brown 
sugar  must  be  sifted  before  using  or  the  lumps  will  cause  cake  to 
be  coarse  in  texture.  The  finer  the  granulated  sugar,  the  finer  the 
texture  of  the  cake.  Sifting  removes  all  lumps  and  foreign  sub¬ 
stances.  When  making  butter  cakes  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
should  be  sifted  together  three  times.  Angel  food,  sunshine  and  cakes 
without  butter  usually  require  five  siftings. 

In  cold  weather  much  difficulty  is  experienced  in  creaming  butter 
and  sugar  together  quickly.  It  is  not  satisfactory  to  warm  butter  over 
heat,  and  it  is  usually  a  cake  failure  where  an  attempt  is  made  to  warm 
butter  and  sugar  after  it  is  in  combined  form.  Much  labor  and  time 
may  be  saved  if  the  hot  water  method  is  strictly  adhered  to,  viz., 
first  cream  butter  by  itself,  and  if  it  does  not  soften  quickly  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  boiling  water  to  the  proportion  of  one-half  cup  of 
butter.  This  adds  both  heat  and  moisture,  thus  softening  the  butter 
immediately.  If  the  butter  softens  and  remains  separated  from  the 
hot  water,  pour  it  off  and  this  amount  will  not  have  to  be  accounted 
for  in  final  liquid  measurements.  Then  after  the  butter  and  sugar  are 
combined,  if  the  mixture  does  not  cream  quickly,  add  more  boiling 
water  in  proportion  to  the  amount  of  butter  used,  say  for  the  half¬ 
cup  of  butter  add  another  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls.  From  the  mois¬ 
ture  standpoint  this  adds  to  the  cake  an  additional  two  or  three  table¬ 
spoonfuls  and  this  should  be  deducted  from  the  liquid  allowance  as 
given  in  cake. 

There  is  another  rule  to  be  remembered  in  the  making  of 
butter  cakes.  Before  any  liquid  is  added  to  the  creamed  butter 
and  sugar,  always  add  some  of  the  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder 
to  the  creamed  mixture  and  cream  well  together.  This  binds  the 
creamed  mixture  together  and  avoids  making  the  common  mistake  of 
creaming  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  adding  the  liquid  and  stirring, 
causing  the  butter  and  sugar  to  separate. 

To  properly  prepare  pans  in  which  cakes  are  baked,  first  see  that 
the  pans  are  clean  and  dry,  then  grease  thoroughly  with  lard  or  lard 
substitute  and  flour-dust.  If  pans  are  greased  with  butter,  the  salt  in 
the  butter  seems  to  have  a  tendency  towards  making  the  cake  stick. 
When  butter  is  used  for  greasing,  the  cakes  will  burn  quicker  on  the 


—  52 


CAKE 


sides  and  bottom  than  when  lard  is  used.  All  butter  cakes  should  be 
baked  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  pans.  Cakes  not  containing  butter 
should  be  baked  in  clean,  dry,  ungreased  pans. 

In  placing  a  butter  cake  dough  mixture  in  the  pan  for  baking, 
first  see  that  the  pan  is  properly  prepared.  Place  the  dough  in  the 
pan,  then  jolt  it  down  one  time  hard  on  a  smooth  surface.  Take 
either  a  spoon  or  plate  scraper,  and  draw  the  dough  toward  the  outer 
edges  of  the  pan,  leaving  the  center  of  the  pan  more  sparingly  cov¬ 
ered.  This  causes  the  cake  to  bake  more  evenly  and  keeps  it  from  ris¬ 
ing  higher  in  the  center.  Layer  cakes  should  come  from  the  oven 
about  level  and  free  from  cracks  on  top.  Loaf  cakes  often  crack  on 
top  and  are  excellent,  too.  If  layer  cakes  crack  on  top  it  is  usually 
from  one  or  two  causes — either  too  hot  an  oven  or  too  stiff  a  dough 
mixture. 

Cakes  may  be  mixed  properly,  ingredients  measured  accurately 
and  then  all  efforts  will  have  been  failures,  if  care  and  attention  is 
not  given  the  oven.  There  are  many  instructions  given  on  the  way 
to  bake  cakes,  and  how  the  oven  should  be,  from  a  temperature  stand¬ 
point.  The  main  point  to  be  remembered  is  a  fine  textured,  soft  cake 
in  the  finished  product.  Cakes  baked  in  a  gradually  rising  tempera¬ 
ture  are  usually  much  finer  in  texture,  therefore,  it  is  quite  neces¬ 
sary  to  have  the  oven  on  low  heat  when  cakes  are  placed  in  oven,  see¬ 
ing  that  they  rise  slowly  with  the  rising  of  the  heat.  If  cakes  are 
allowed  to  crust  over  on  top  too  quickly  this  retards  further  rising  of 
the  dough  and  a  heavy  cake  will  be  the  result.  When  it  is  possible 
to  do  so,  keep  all  thick  cakes  covered  during  the  first  three-fourths 
of  the  baking  period.  Especially  should  this  rule  apply  to  loaf 
cakes.  When  cake  pans  have  the  projecting  stems,  simply  place  a 
large  lid  over  the  top  of  the  stems  and  keep  it  over  the  cake  until  the 
beginning  of  last  quarter  of  baking  period.  When  pans  have  no  stems, 
lay  a  lid  on  the  grate  directly  over  the  cake.  This  keeps  the  heat  from 
coming  down  on  top  of  cake  and  crusting  it  before  time.  Where  gas 
or  any  easily  regulated  heat  is  used  there  should  be  no  difficulty  in 
the  baking  of  articles  perfectly,  because  the  heat  may  be  lowered  or 
raised  as  the  condition  may  necessitate. 

Oven  doors  may  be  opened  at  any  time  while  baking  angel  food 
or  butter  cakes.  If,  during  the  baking,  the  oven  becomes  too  hot, 
throw  oven  door  wide  open  and  allow  the  cold  air  to  rush  in  quickly, 
closing  the  door  carefully  again.  When  using  wood  or  coal,  so  ar¬ 
range  the  fuel  in  the  firebox  that  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  replenish 
it  during  baking  period.  Bake  on  a  dying  heat,  rather  than  on  an  in¬ 
creasing  heat.  It  is  necessary  for  each  housewife  to  learn  her  stove 
and  how  to  regulate  the  heat  in  the  oven.  For  that  reason,  it  is  diffi¬ 
cult  to  give  instructions  for  a  cake  to  be  baked  a  given  length  of  time 
without  knowing  what  kind  of  an  oven  and  oven  temperature  the  in¬ 
dividual  may  have. 

Oven  temperature  may  be  divided  into  three  classes,  viz.,  slow 
oven,  moderate  oven  and  hot  oven.  A  slow  oven  would  suggest  a  tem- 


53  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


perature  between  250°  and  350°  Fht.  A  moderate  oven  350°  Fht.  to 
420°.  A  hot  oven  420°  Fht.  to  550°.  These  temperatures  relate  to  the 
use  of  gas  stoves  especially,  but  may  be  followed  where  other  similar 
heat  is  used.  In  the  using  of  coal  range  oven  subtract  85°  from  these 
above  figures.  When  baking  a  cake  divide  the  given  length  of  time 
the  article  is  to  be  baked  in  fourths.  In  the  first  quarter  of  the  time 
the  dough  should  just  be  rising  in  the  pan.  Second  quarter  the  dough 
should  show  a  slight  tint  of  brown.  Third  quarter  cake  should  have 
risen  to  full  expansion.  Fourth  quarter  the  cake  should  be  a  deeper 
brown,  showing  a  slight  shrinking  from  the  pan,  indicating  the  cake 
is  done.  Do  not  test  a  cake  by  using  a  straw  or  toothpick,  unless 
you  have  had  enough  experience  to  know  how  soon  this  test  should 
be  made.  It  is  much  safer  and  better  to  touch  the  top  of  the  cake, 
towards  the  center,  with  the  finger  tip,  and  if  the  pressure  leaves  a 
dent  the  cake  is  not  done ;  if  pressure  dent  rebounds  or  springs  back 
it  is  a  sure  sign  the  cake  can  be  removed  from  oven  with  safety.' 
After  cakes  are  baked  they  should  be  allowed  to  cool  to  lukewarm  in 
the  pans.  It  is  better  to  allow  them  to  cool  naturally  and  slowly  than 
to  resort  to  artificial  means  for  hurrying  the  process.  Taking  a  cake 
from  the  oven  and  placing  it  where  the  wind  strikes  it  or  in  front  of  a 
fan  causes  the  cake  to  sink  and  lose  lightness.  Butter  cakes  should 
remain  upright  in  the  pans  on  the  cooling  rack  until  cold.  This  allows 
the  air  to  circulate  over  and  under  the  cake  pan.  All  cakes  contain¬ 
ing  no  butter  should  remain  in  the  pans  inverted  until  perfectly  cold. 
If  pan  does  not  have  projecting  stems,  the  pan  must  be  supported  in 
such  a  way  as  to  allow  air  to  circulate  under  the  pan.  Angel  food, 
sponge  and  sunshine  cakes  must  be  helped  from  the  pans.  This  is  ac¬ 
complished  by  running  a  spatula  around  the  sides  of  the  pan  first,  then 
loosening  the  tube  from  the  center  of  cake.  This  done,  invert  the 
pan,  giving  it  two  hard  jolts  on  a  table  and  the  cake  falls  out.  If 
angel  food,  sponge  or  sunshine  cakes  drop  out  of  pans  without  help, 
it  means  the  cake  was  not  baked  long  enough  and  usually  means  a 
failure. 

The  proper  place  to  keep  a  cake,  after  baked  and  cold,  is  under  a 
crock  in  a  cool  place.  Place  a  piece  of  peeled  raw  potato  under  the 
crock  with  the  cake.  This  keeps  the  cake  moist  indefinitely.  Do  not 
keep  cakes  in  the  refrigerator. 

Much  care  and  attention  should  be  given  the  selection  of  flour  and 
baking  powder  for  cake  baking  and  all  pastry.  Much  has  been  said 
regarding  the  use  of  soft  wheat"  flour  in  preference  to  hard  winter 
wheat  flour  for  all  kinds  of  pastry,  biscuits  and  cakes.  It  is  gen¬ 
erally  known  that  the  inexperienced  baker,  not  having  been  properly 
instructed  along  these  lines,  will  show  better  results  in  using  soft 
wheat  flour  for  the  above  mentioned  articles.  Where  a  high  grade 
hard  winter  wheat  flour  is  to  be  used  in  all  pastry  work,  with  the 
thought  in  mind  that  less  flour  is  to  be  used  and  with  careful  instruc¬ 
tions  as  given  in  this  book  regarding  the  use  of  the  same,  the  results 
are  equally  good,  if  not  better. 

After  accomplishing  the  art  of  having  baked  a  fine  textured  cake 

—  54  — 


CAKE 


from  hard  wheat  flour,  it  not  only  has  a  better  flavor,  but  it  retains  its 
moist  condition  longer.  In  the  making  of  all  yeast  products,  hard 
winter  wheat  flour  is  far  superior  to  the  soft  wheat  flour.  Then  when 
the  art  of  fine  cake  and  pastry  making  is  accomplished  from  the  use 
of  hard  wheat  flour  the  housewife  is  only  required  to  keep  one  kind 
of  flour  in  the  pantry,  which,  to  the  average  woman,  seems  to  be 
pleasing. 

In  selecting  a  baking  powder,  select  a  powder  of  known  quality. 
The  phosphate  baking  powders  of  high  grade  quality,  properly  used, 
give  better  results  for  all  kinds  of  baking  and  at  the  same  time  can 
be  purchased  usually  at  about  half  the  price  of  a  high  grade  cream  of 
tartar  powder.  Excellent  results  can  be  obtained  by  the  use  of  either, 
however,  and  this  choice  is  usually  to  be  decided  by  the  baker.  In 
these  cake  recipes,  a  high  grade  cream  of  tartar  powder  and  a  high 
grade  hard  winter  wheat  flour  were  used. 


WHITE  LOAF  CAKE. 


*4  cup  white  butter 

1  cup  fine  granulated  sugar 
%  cup  milk  or  water 

2  cups  flour 

3J4  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Pinch  of  salt 
1  to  2  teaspoons  extract 
Whites  of  5  small  eggs  or  4 
large  ones 


Cream  butter  till  soft,  then  combine  with  sugar,  and  cream  until 
mixture  is  light  and  frothy,  if  necessary  adding  a  tablespoon  or  two 
of  boiling  water  to  butter  and  sugar  to  hasten  creaming.  Sift  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt  together  3  times  and  add  5  tablespoonfuls 
of  these  dry  ingredients  to  creamed  mixture  and  cream  all  well  to¬ 
gether  again.  Next  add  milk  or  water  to  creamed  mixture  alternately 
with  remaining  dry  ingredients.  Add  extract  and  beat  hard  for  2 
minutes,  then  carefully  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Do  not 
beat  mixture  after  egg  whites  are  folded  in.  Bake  in  greased  and 
flour-dusted  loaf  pan.  Start  the  cake  in  slow  oven,  bringing  heat 
up  gradually  with  the  rising  of  cake.  Keep,  cake  covered  for  first 
three-fourths  of  baking  period.  See  cake  instructions. 


WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 


1 14  cups  sugar 
14  cup  butter 
2%  cups  flour 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  cold  water 
1  teaspoon  almond  or  pistachio 
flavoring 


%  cup  chopped  nuts 
1  cup  yellow  Sultana  raisins 
1  cup  finely  chopped  candied 
pineapple 

Mt  cup  finely  chopped  candied 
cherries 

J4  cup  finely  chopped  citron 
4  egg  whites 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  together  until  light  and  frothy,  if  neces¬ 
sary  adding  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  to  mixture  to  assist 
in  the  process.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  three  times. 

—  55  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


Add  5  tablespoons  of  the  flour  mixture  to  the  butter  and  sugar  and 
cream  again.  Now  take  remaining  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  creamed 
mixture  alternately  with  the  1  cup  of  cold  water,  beating  the  mixture 
hard  after  all  ingredients  are  combined.  Next  add  chopped  nuts, 
floured  raisins,  floured  pineapple,  floured  citron  and  floured  cherries. 
Mix  all  well  together.  Add  the  extract,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites.  Do  not  beat  mixture  after  egg  whites  are  folded  in.  Bake 
in  well  greased  and  flour-dusted  loaf  cake  pan.  This  cake  requires  a 
moderate  oven  to  begin,  allowing  the  cake  to  rise  gradually,  baking 
for  about  one  hour.  y%  cup  of  candied  peaches  and  1/3  cup  of  candied 
apricots  may  be  chopped,  floured  and  added  when  they  are  obtainable. 


HARD  TIME  CAKE. 


1  cup  water 
1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  cup  seeded  raisins 
%  cup  lard 


1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Vt  teaspoon  salt 
Vz  teaspoon  cloves 


Boil  these  ingredients  together  2  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and 
let  stand  till  cold.  To  this  cold  mixture  then  add  2 y2  scant  cups  of 
flour,  1  teaspoon  soda  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  all  sifted  to¬ 
gether.  Bake  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven  for  about  1  hour.  One-fourth 
cup  finely  chopped  citron  and  one-half  cup  finely  chopped  nuts  makes 
a  more  delicious  cake  but  adds  to  the  expense. 


GOLD  CAKE. 


Vz  cup  butter 
1  Vi  cups  sugar 
8  egg  yolks 
1  cup  cold  water 


2  Vt  cups  flour 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Vt  teaspoon  salt 
2  teaspoons  extract 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  until  mixture  is  soft  and  frothy,  then 
add  egg  yolks  and  cream  again,  long  enough  to  have  a  very  light  mix¬ 
ture.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  three  times.  Add  5 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  dry  ingredients  to  creamed  mixture  and  beat  all 
together  one  minute.  Now  take  remaining  dry  ingredients  and  add  to 
creamed  mixture  alternately  with  cold  water.  Add  extract,  beat  hard 
one  minute  then  bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  loaf  pan. 


ORANGE  CAKE. 

%  cup  butter  6  egg  yolks 

1  cup  sugar  1  Vt  cups  flour  (full  measure) 

Grated  rind  of  1  orange  Pinch  of  salt 

Vt  cup  orange  juice  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  to  which  add  egg  yolk  and 
re-cream.  Grate  the  orange  rind  very  carefully,  using  only  the  outer 
oil  cells.  Add  the  grated  rind  to  creamed  mixture.  Sift  flour,  salt 

—  56  — 


CAKE 


and  baking  powder  together  3  times,  taking  3  tablespoonfuls  and 
adding  to  the  creamed  sugar,  butter  and  egg  mixture.  Cream  this 
well,  then  add  remaining  flour  and  baking  powder  to  creamed  mixture 
alternately  with  the  orange  juice.  Beat  this  mixture  hard  before 
placing  in  pans  for  baking.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  fill  with  orange 
cream  filling  or  cold  icing  made  with  orange  juice.  See  orange  frost¬ 
ing  or  6X  cold  icing. 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE. 

}4  cup  butter 
%  cup  sugar 
1  egg 

1  cup  apple  sauce 
1  %  cups  flour 
teaspoon  soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  well  together.  Add  the  beaten  egg  and  re¬ 
cream.  Sift  flour,  soda,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  or  mace,  baking  powder 
and  salt  together  three  times  and  add  alternately  to  creamed  mixture 
with  apple  sauce.  Beat  mixture  hard  for  one  minute,  then  add  floured 
raisins.  Bake  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven.  Apple  sauce  must  be  smooth 
and  not  too  stiff.  Sauce  is  better  where  apples  are  run  through  a 
sieve. 


}4  teaspoon  cinnamon 
*4  teaspoon  mace  or  nutmeg 
1*4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Pinch  of  salt 
*4  cup  raisins 


APPLE  MERINGUE  CAKE. 

3  tablespoons  butter  1 J4  cups  flour 

H  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  (whites  for  meringue)  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

*4  cup  sweet  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  to  which  add  egg  yolks  and 
re-cream.  Sift  flour,  salt,  nutmeg  and  baking  powder  together.  Place 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sifted  ingredients  in  creamed  mixture  and 
cream  well.  Next  add  milk  and  remaining  dry  ingredients  alternately 
to  creamed  mixture.  Beat  hard  for  3  minutes.  Place  in  greased  and 
flour-dusted  shallow  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  nearly  done. 
Remove  from  oven  and  spread  the  meringue  over  top  and  return  to 
oven  to  bake  for  about  15  minutes. 

“MERINGUE.” 

1  large  tart  apple  2  egg  whites 

*4  teaspoon  cinnamon  *  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

%  tablespoon  flour  4  tablespoons  sugar 

Peel  and  grate  the  apple.  Beat  egg  whites  light,  to  which  add 
cream  of  tartar  and  sugar  blended  together.  Blend  the  cinnamon  and 
flour  and  mix  with  grated  apple.  Now  combine  the  egg  mixture  with 
the  apple  mixture  and  spread  on  cake. 

—  57  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


HONEY  CAKE. 

1  cup  strained  honey  16  teaspoon  salt 

14  cup  butter  14  cup  sour  milk 

3  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

14  teaspoon  soda 

Cream  honey  and  butter  together.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder, 
soda  and  salt  together  three  times.  Add  the  dry  sifted  ingredients 
to  the  honey  and  butter  mixture  alternately  with  the  sour  milk,  beat 
the  mixture  hard,  then  fold  in  the  well  beaten  egg  and  vanilla.  Bake 
in  two  layers  and  put  together  with  following  mixture : 

14  cup  strained  honey  14  cup  chopped  dates 

1  tablespoon  flour  14  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Place  honey  in  small  saucepan.  Cream  butter  and  flour  together 
and  add.  Boil  2  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  dates  and  nuts. 
Cool  until  lukewarm  and  then  spread  between  the  layers. 


SOUR  MILK  SPICE  CAKE. 


14  cup  butter 
1  cup  sugar 
1  egg 

14  cup  sorghum  molasses 

1  cup  sour  milk 
94  teaspoon  soda 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
14  teaspoon  cloves 
14  teaspoon  allspice 
14  teaspoon  ginger 

2  94  cups  flour 
14  cup  raisins 


Cream  butter  and  sugar,  to  which  add  well  beaten  egg  and  cream 
again.  Next  add  sorghum  and  stir  all  well  together.  Sift  flour  and 
dry  ingredients  together  three  times  and  add  to  mixture  alternately 
with  sour  milk.  Beat  hard  2  minutes,  then  add  raisins,  floured  with 
additional  flour.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  pans. 


SOUR  MILK  GINGER  CAKE. 

t4  cup  butter  14  teaspoon  soda 

cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  egg  1  %  cups  flour 

14  cup  sorghum  or  New  1  teaspoon  ginger 

Orlean  molasses  1  teaspoon  salt 

14  cup  sour  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  beaten  egg  and 
sorghum  and  cream  until  smooth.  Sift  soda,  baking  powder,  flour, 
ginger  and  salt  together  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with 

—  58  — 


CAKE 


sour  milk.  Beat  hard  for  two  minutes.  Place  in  greased  and  flour- 
dusted  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Sugar  and  cinnamon  may  be 
sprinkled  over  top  of  dough  before  placing  in  oven.  This  dough  may 
be  baked  in  2  layers  and  set  together  with  any  desired  icing — white 
being  preferable. 


DEVIL’S  FOOD  CAKE. 

%  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate  J4  cup  water 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  egg 

Grate  chocolate  fine,  to  which  add  sugar,  water  and  well  beaten 
egg.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick,  usually 
only  a  few  moments  being  required.  Remove  from  fire,  beat  one  min¬ 
ute  and  cool  before  adding  to  cake  dough  as  follows : 

1  cup  sugar  2%  cups  flour 

t4  cup  butter  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  eggs  beaten  separately  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

cup  cold  water  Few  grains  salt 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  creamy,  then  add  egg  yolks  and 
re-cream.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  three  times  and  add 
alternately  to  creamed  mixture  with  cold  water.  Mix  well,  then  add 
chocolate  mixture  and  vanilla  and  beat  hard.  Last  fold  in  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  either  in  layers  or  loaf.  Ice  with  white  or 
dark  icing. 

SOUR  CREAM  CAKE. 


1  cup  sugar 
3  tablespoons  butter 
1  egg 

*4  cup  sour  milk 
14  cup  sour  cream 


2  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

teaspoon  soda 
Pinch  of  salt 
1  teaspoon  extract 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  well  beaten  egg 
and  re-cream.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt  together  three 
times.  Place  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sifted  dry  ingredients  into  the 
creamed  mixture  and  cream  again.  Add  remaining  dry  ingredients 
to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  sour  milk.  Add  extract.  Beat 
dough  mixture  hard  for  two  minutes  before  placing  in  pan.  Bake  in 
loaf  in  moderate  oven. 


POUND  CAKE. 

1  lb.  butter  1  lb.  fine  granulated  sugar 

1  lb.  flour  (soft  wheat  flour)  1  tablespoon  extract 

1  lb.  eggs  (10  small  eggs) 

Cream  butter  in  bowl  until  it  becomes  soft,  if  necessary  adding  a 
tablespoon  or  two  of  boiling  water  to  put  it  in  this  condition.  Sift 

—  59  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


in  gradually  the  flour,  stirring  and  keeping  an  even  mixture.  When 
all  flour  has  been  added  to  butter,  beat  for  about  five  or  ten  minutes. 
Beat  the  egg  yolks  very  light,  then  gradually  beat  the  sugar  into  the 
yolks,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  when  all  sugar  is  added,  beat  hard  for  five 
minutes.  Next  combine  the  creamed  flour  and  butter  with  yolks  and 
sugar  and  beat  another  five  minutes.  Last  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites  and  extract.  Do  not  beat  after  whites  are  added.  Grease  and 
flour-dust  a  tube  cake  pan  and  place  dough  in  pan.  Bake  cake  for  at 
least  an  hour  in  moderate  oven,  having  the  heat  very  low  at  the  begin¬ 
ning,  allowing  the  cake  to  rise  slowly  with  a  gradual  increasing  heat. 
Allow  the  cake  to  cool  in  the  pan,  setting  the  pan  upright  on  the  cool¬ 
ing  rack.  No  baking  powder  is  used  in  this  cake. 

LEMON  CAKE. 

14  cup  butter  2%  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

4  eggs  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  cold  water  %  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  butter  by  itself  until  it  is  soft  and  creamy,  then  combine 
butter  and  sugar  and  cream  until  mixture  is  very  light  and  frothy, 
using  a  tablespoon  or  two  of  boiling  water  if  necessary  to  put  it  into 
this  condition.  Next  add  the  egg  yolks  and  cream  again  for  about  3 
minutes.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together  three  times. 
Place  5  tablespoons  of  the  sifted  ingredients  into  creamed  mixture 
and  cream  1  minute.  Now  alternately  add  the  remaining  dry  in¬ 
gredients  to  creamed  mixture  with  cold  water,  beating  mixture  hard 
for  a  few  minutes.  Add  extract  and  last  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites,  being  careful  not  to  beat  mixture  after  whites  are  added. 
Bake  dough  in  two  large  layers,  having  pans  well  greased  and  flour- 
dusted.  Bake  in  moderate  oven,  slow  oven  at  first,  allowing  the  cake 
to  rise  with  the  increasing  heat.  Allow  layers  to  cool  in  pans  before 
removing,  then  set  layers  together  with  the  following : 

LEMON  FILLING. 

2  eggs  Juice  of  1  lemon 

94  cup  water  Rind  of  J4  lemon 

5  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  water.  Blend  flour  and  sugar  to¬ 
gether  and  add.  Place  mixture  on  to  cook  in  double  boiler  and  cook 
till  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  done  remove  from  fire,  cool  and 
add  the  lemon  juice,  rind  and  butter.  Spread  on  cake  after  cake  is 
cold  and  lemon  mixture  has  cooled  to  lukewarm.  Dredge  the  top  of 
lemon  covered  cake  with  powdered  sugar. 


—  60  — 


CAKE 


JAM  CAKE. 


}4  cup  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar 
3  eggs 

M  cup  sour  milk 

2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


14  teaspoon  cinnamon 
14  teaspoon  nutmeg 
%  teaspoon  cloves 
%  teaspoon  ginger 
1  cup  raspberry  or  blackberry 
jam 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  the  egg  yolks  and 
cream  again.  Sift  all  dry  ingredients  together  3  times  and  add  to 
creamed  mixture,  together  with  sour  milk  and  jam.  Beat  mixture 
hard  for  3  minutes,  then  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  at  last.  Bake 
in  greased  and  flour-dusted  pans.  If  jam  is  thin  the  2  cups  of  flour 
is  usually  the  amount  needed,  but  if  jam  is  thick  it  takes  less  flour. 
The  dough  mixture  should  be  like  any  other  cake  dough  in  stiffness. 
Any  kind  of  jam  may  be  used  in  this  cake. 


THREE-LAYER  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 


cup  softened  butter 

1  %  cups  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  cup  milk  or  water 


Pinch  of  salt 

1^4  teaspoons  vanilla  extract 
2  94  cups  flour 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Place  all  ingredients  in  mixing  bowl  in  the  order  given  above  and 
beat  hard  10  minutes.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  layer  cake 
pans.  Set  layers  together  with  “ Dixie  Icing.”  The  butter  must  be  in 
a  very  soft  condition,  but  not  melted. 


BANANA  CAKE. 


Make  the  same  recipe  for  ‘‘Three-Layer  Chocolate”  cake.  Instead 
of  using  chocolate  icing,  use  crushed  and  sweetened  bananas  between 
layers,  but  make  a  “Jiffy  Icing”  for  top. 


BANANA  CREAM  CAKE  NO.  1. 


%  cup  sugar 
M  cup  butter 
2  eggs 

1*4  cups  flour 


Pinch  of  salt 

2%  teaspoons  baking  powder 
}4  cup  cold  water 
1  teaspoon  extract 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  unbeaten  egg 
yolks  and  beat  till  light.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together 
3  times,  and  add  alternately  to  the  creamed  mixture  with  the  flour, 
salt  and  baking  powder.  Add  extract,  then  beat  the  mixture  one  min¬ 
ute  before  folding  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  one  large 
sized  greased  and  flour-dusted  layer  pan.  When  cake  is  baked,  remove 
from  oven,  cool,  then  split  the  layer.  Crush  3  medium  sized  bananas 

—  61  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


with  1/3  cup  of  sugar  and  place  between  the  layers.  Make  a  mixture 
with  the  following  ingredients  and  place  over  the  top  : 

1  egg  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  butter 

4  tablespoons  sugar  lb  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  milk.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt  to¬ 
gether  and  add  to  milk  and  egg.  Place  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire,  add  butter  and  vanilla 
and  spread  over  cake. 

BANANA  CREAM  CAKE  NO.  2. 

lb  cup  butter  1  lb  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2%  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

lb  cup  cold  water 

Cream  butter  alone  till  soft,  then  combine  with  sugar,  and  cream 
until  mixture  is  very  frothy.  Add  egg  yolks  and  cream  2  minutes 
longer.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  3  times.  Add  3  table¬ 
spoonfuls  of  the  flour  and  baking  powder  to  creamed  mixture  and  beat 
hard  1  minute,  then  alternately  add  remaining  dry  ingredients  to 
creamed  mixture  with  cold  water.  Beat  all  ingredients  a  minute  before 
folding  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  extract.  Do  not  beat  mix¬ 
ture  after  whites  are  folded  in.  Bake  this  in  a  good  sized  layer  cake 
pan,  or  two  layers  may  be  made.  After  the  cake  is  perfectly  cold 
spread  over  it  a  mixture  of  sweetened  whipped  cream  mixed  with  ripe 
sliced  bananas.  Serve  soon  after  it  is  prepared.  Have  the  whipped 
cream  as  cold  and  stiff  as  possible. 


RED  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 


1 H  cups  sugar 
2  tablespoons  butter 
1  egg  yolk 
1  cup  hot  water 
1  lb  cups  flour 


1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
li  teaspoon  salt 

94  teaspoon  soda 

lb  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 


Evenly  blend  the  butter  with  the  sugar,  then  add  the  egg  yolk 
and  cream  all  well  together.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  to¬ 
gether  three  times  and  add  to  the  creamed  mixture  alternately  with 
one-half  cup  of  hot  water  in  which  the  chocolate  has  been  dissolved. 
Beat  this  mixture  hard  for  one  minute,  then  add  the  remaining  half 
cup  of  hot  water  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Add  vanilla 
last.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  pans  either  in  loaf  or  layer 
cakes.  Jolt  the  dough  down  in  pans  two  times  hard,  before  placing 
in  oven  to  bake.  This  makes  a  very  thin  dough  mixture,  but  it  should 
be  for  this  kind  of  cake.  Take  the  egg  white  and  make  half  recipe  of 
Jiffy  Icing. 


CAKE 


EGGLESS  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 


%  cup  butter 

1  cup  light  or  medium  brown 
sugar 

H  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate 

2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 


teaspoon  nutmeg 
%  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  soda 
1  cup  sour  milk 
*4  cup  currants  or  raisins 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  smooth,  then  add  the  melted  bitter 
chocolate  and  beat  for  1  minute.  Next  sift  flour,  cinnamon,  nutmeg, 
cloves  and  soda  together  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with 
sour  milk.  After  all  ingredients  are  combined,  beat  until  the  mixture 
is  smooth.  Bake  in  2  layers  and  set  together  with  chocolate  icing. 


TUTTI  FRUTTI  CAKE. 


1  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

*4  cup  butter  cup  bitter  chocolate 

1  egg  (melted) 

1  cup  cold  water  *4  cup  chopped  raisins 

1J4  cups  flour  *4  cup  chopped  pecans 

2^4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  well  beaten  egg 
and  re-cream.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  three  times. 
Take  about  3  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sifted  dry  ingredients  and  cream 
with  creamed  mixture,  then  alternately  add  the  cold  water  and  remain¬ 
ing  dry  ingredients.  Add  melted  chocolate  next  and  beat  dough  hard, 
then  add  floured  raisins,  and  last  the  chopped  nuts.  Bake  in  two  small 
layers  and  set  together  with  any  desired  filling,  the  mock  caramel  icing 
being  quick  and  good  for  this  cake.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


WHITE  LAYER  CAKE. 

%  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  vanilla  or  1  tea- 

1  *4  cups  sugar  spoon  of  almond  flavoring 

2  ?4  cups  flour  3  large  egg  whites  or  4  small 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  egg  whites 

1  cup  cold  water 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  until  light  and  creamy.  Sift 
flour  and  baking  powder  together  three  times.  Before  adding  any 
liquid  to  the  creamed  mixture  place  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
flour  and  baking  powder  over  in  butter  and  sugar  mixture  and  cream, 
then  add  the  water  and  remaining  dry  ingredients  alternately.  Add 
extract  and  beat  all  together  three  minutes.  Last,  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  layers  and  use  any  desired  filling.  After 
folding  in  egg  whites  do  not  beat  mixture.  Read  instructions  on  cream¬ 
ing  butter  and  sugar  in  “Cake  Hints”.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

—  63  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


PLAIN  LAYER  CAKE. 

%  cup  butter 
2  cups  sugar 
4  eggs 

1  cup  cold  water 


2%  cups  flour 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  pinch  of  salt 

2  teaspoons  extract 


Cream  butter  alone  and  see  that  it  is  soft  before  combining  it 
with  sugar.  After  sugar  and  butter  are  combined,  cream  until  soft 
and  frothy,  if  necessary,  using  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling 
water  to  put  it  into  this  condition.  Next  add  well  beaten  egg  yolks 
and  cream  again  until  mixture  is  very  light.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder 
and  salt  together  three  times.  Take  from  these  sifted  dry  ingredients 
5  tablespoonfuls  and  place  in  creamed  mixture  and  mix  all  well  to¬ 
gether.  Now  add  remaining  dry  ingredients  to  creamed  mixture  al¬ 
ternately  with  cold  water,  beating  hard  for  about  2  minutes.  Add 
extract  and  at  last  fold  in  the  beaten  egg  whites,  using  the  underfold 
and  being  careful  not  to  beat  dough  mixture  after  egg  whites  are 
added.  Bake  in  layers  in  moderate  oven.  Set  layers  together  with 
any  desired  filling. 


MOLASSES  CAKE. 


1  cup  sorghum  molasses 
xAt  cup  butter 

cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

2%  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  soda 


1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Pinch  of  salt 

cup  sour  milk 
M  cup  chopped  citron 
XA  cup  raisins 

cup  chopped  nuts 


Cream  sorghum,  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  well 
beaten  eggs  and  re-cream.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  soda,  nutmeg, 
and  salt  together  and  add  alternately  to  creamed  mixture  with  sour 
milk.  Beat  dough  hard,  then  add  chopped  nuts,  floured  citron  ana 
raisins  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Bake  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven  one 
hour.  A  longer  time  is  required  for  baking  a  cake  of  this  kind. 


BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE. 


“BURNT  SUGAR.” 

Burnt  Sugar  mixture  is  made  by  taking  y2  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  34  teaspoon  cinnamon,  14  teaspoon  nutmeg,  *4  teaspoon  cloves 
and  placing  it  in  skillet.  Set  skillet  over  a  low  heat  and  stir  con¬ 
stantly  until  the  mixture  is  melted,  and  then  gradually  allow  it  to  burn 
to  a  rich  dark  brown.  Add  to  the  syrup,  after  it  reaches  this  stage, 
34  cup  of  boiling  water  and  allow  it  to  simmer  slowly  until  all  par¬ 
ticles  are  dissolved.  Pour  this  mixture  into  a  measuring  cup  and  fill 
cup  to  top  with  cold  water.  This  gives  you  the  burnt  sugar  mixture 
for  the  cake,  and  it  should  be  cold  before  adding  to  cake  dough. 

—  64  — 


CAKE 


“CAKE  DOUGH.” 

34  cup  butter  4\  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1%  cups  sugar  2%  cups  flour 

1  cup  burnt  sugar  mixture  M  teaspoon  salt 

4  eggs 

Cream  butter  by  itself  until  it  is  soft,  then  combine  the  butter  and 
sugar  and  cream  together  until  the  mixture  is  light  and  frothy,  then 
add  egg  yolks  and  cream  about  two  minutes  longer.  Sift  flour  and 
baking  powder  together  three  times.  Take  5  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
sifted  flour  and  baking  powder  and  add  to  the  creamed  mixture  and 
cream  again  about  one  minute.  Now  add  burnt  sugar  mixture  and 
remaining  dry  ingredients  alternately  to  creamed  mixture  and  beat 
all  together  hard.  Last,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Do  not 
beat  after  egg  whites  are  folded  in.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted 
layer  cake  pans  in  moderate  oven.  Set  layers  together  with  white 
icing.  Nuts  may  be  added  to  icing. 


PORK  CAKE. 


%  cup  sugar 
%  cup  sorghum  molasses 
1  egg 

J4  pound  fat  salt  pork  ground 
fine  (or  plain  fat  fresh  pork) 
1  cup  boiling  water 
2*4  cups  flour 


teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg  or  mace 
%  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
14  cup  raisins 
%  cup  nuts 


Cream  sugar  and  sorghum  well  together,  to  which  add  well  beaten 
egg  and  re-cream.  Pour  the  cup  of  boiling  water  over  the  ground 
salt  pork  and  allow  it  to  stand  until  lukewarm.  Sift  flour,  cloves, 
cinnamon,  nutmeg  or  mace,  soda  and  baking  powder  together  three 
times.  Now  add  pork  and  water  mixture  to  molasses  and  sugar  mix¬ 
ture,  alternately  with  the  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Beat  hard  for  one 
minute,  then  add  floured  raisins  and  nuts.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour- 
dusted  loaf  pan.  Bake  slowly  nearly  an  hour. 


MARBLE  CAKE. 

%  cup  butter  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1%  cups  sugar  1  cup  cold  water 

3U  scant  cups  flour  6  large  egg  whites 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together.  If  butter  and  sugar 
do  not  cream  quickly  add  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  to 
mixture  and  stir  briskly  until  mixture  is  soft  and  fluffy  and  splashes 
with  a  lightness  when  thrown  back  into  mixing  bowl.  Sift  flour  and 
baking  powder  together  three  times.  Take  5  tablespoons  of  the  sifted 
flour  and  baking  powder  and  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar  and  cream 
again.  Now  add  the  remaining  flour  and  baking  powder  to  cream  mix- 

—  65  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


ture,  alternately  with  cold  water.  Beat  hard  one  minute  before  adding 
the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Fold  the  egg  whites  in  carefully,  using 
underfold  method.  Divide  the  dough  mixture  into  four  parts.  Into 
one  part  add  enough  pink  cake  coloring  to  make  a  delicate  shade  and 
to  this  dough  add  also  ^  teaspoon  strawberry  extract.  To  another 
part  add  enough  yellow  cake  coloring  to  make  a  yellow  shade,  or  one 
egg  yolk  may  be  used  as  coloring.  To  this  yellow  dough  add  14  tea¬ 
spoon  of  lemon  extract.  To  another  part  of  dough  add  l1/^  tablespoon¬ 
fuls  of  cocoa,  %  teaspoon  cloves,  *4  teaspoon  nutmeg  and  ^  teaspoon 
cinnamon.  To  the  fourth  part  add  only  teaspoon  of  almond  extract. 
This  makes  the  four  colors.  Grease  and  dust,  with  flour,  a  tube  cake 
pan.  Place  around  the  outer  edge  of  pan  a  circle  of  the  dark  dough. 
Next,  to  dark  place  a  circle  of  yellow.  Next  to  yellow  the  pink,  and 
next  to  pink  the  white.  Place  cake  in  moderate  oven  to  bake  slowly, 
usually  about  one  hour  being  required.  Ice  with  any  desired  icing. 

FUDGE  CAKE. 

%  cup  butter  2%  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1 cups  light  brown  sugar  teaspoon  soda 

sifted  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  %  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2%  cups  flour  (scant) 

Cream  butter  by  itself  until  soft  and  creamy,  then  combine  butter 
and  sugar,  and  cream  until  it  becomes  very  light  and  frothy.  To  this 
mixture  add  the  egg  yolks  and  cream  3  minutes  longer.  Sift  flour, 
soda  and  salt  together  3  times.  Add  5  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sifted  in¬ 
gredients  and  cream  well  before  adding  remaining  dry  ingredients  and 
sour  milk  alternately  to  creamed  mixture.  When  sour  milk  and  dry 
ingredients  are  all  added  beat  hard  for  four  or  five  minutes,  then  add 
vanilla,  melted  chocolate,  and  fold  in  carefully  the  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites.  Do  not  beat  after  egg  whites  are  added.  Bake  in  greased  and 
flour-dusted  layer  cake  pans.  Set  together  with  soft  chocolate  icing. 

CARAMEL  LOAF  CAKE. 

V*  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

2  cups  medium  brown  sugar  2]&  cups  flour 

sifted  after  it  is  measured  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  M  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  or  water 

Have  butter  in  soft  condition  and  place  in  mixing  bowl  first.  Next 
add  sugar,  eggs,  milk,  vanilla,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  and  beat 
all  together  for  10  minutes.  Place  dough  in  greased  and  flour-dusted 
tube  cake  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  about  40  minutes,  allowing 
the  cake  to  rise  slowly  in  the  oven  and  keeping  it  from  browning  over 
too  quickly.  Ice  with  Ideal  Caramel  Icing.  This  may  be  baked  in  2 
layers  instead  of  loaf. 


—  66  — 


CAKE 


RICH  FRUIT  CAKE. 


1  lb.  butter 

1  lb.  light  brown  sugar,  sifted 


4  cups  raisins 
2  cups  currants 
1  cup  chopped  citron 
1  cup  candied  pineapple 
1  34  cups  candied  cherries 
1  cup  blanched  whole  almonds 
1  cup  chopped  pecans 
34  cup  candied  orange  peeling 
34  cup  candied  lemon  peeling 
34  cup  candied  peaches 
34  cup  candied  apricots 
1  cup  dates 


after  it  is  weighed 
10  small  eggs 
34  cup  molasses 
434  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  soda 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
34  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
234  teaspoons  nutmeg 
34  cup  sour  milk 


34  cup  rich  fruit  juice  or  brandy 

Cream  butter  by  itself  until  it  is  soft,  then  add  sugar  and  cream 
again.  Next  add  egg  yolks  and  beat  all  together  for  5  minutes.  Sift 
flour,  soda,  baking  powder,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  together  3 
times  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  sour  milk,  mo¬ 
lasses  and  fruit  juice.  Beat  hard,  then  add  fruit  after  it  has  been 
chopped  and  floured.  Add  pecans  chopped,  but  almonds,  raisins  and 
currants  whole.  Last  fold  in  the  well  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  loaf 
cakes  or  in  one  large  tube  cake  pan.  Grease  pan  and  flour  dust.  Bake 
in  slow  oven  for  about  2 y2  hours  if  baked  in  one  large  cake.  Use  extra 
flour  for  flouring  fruit.  One-half  of  this  recipe  makes  one  good  sized 
family  cake. 


BRIDE’S  CAKE. 


10  teaspoons  baking  powder 
3  or  4  teaspoons  rose  or  al- 


2  cups  uncolored  butter 

3  %  cups  sugar 

234  cups  cold  water 

834  cups  hard  wheat  flour  or 


mond  extract 
15  egg  whites 


10  cups  soft  wheat  flour 

Cream  butter  by  itself  until  soft  and  creamy.  If  it  does  not  soften 
and  become  creamy  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  to  butter. 
Add  the  sugar  to  butter  and  cream  again  until  mixture  is  very  light  and 
frothy,  if  necessary  adding  another  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water 
to  put  it  in  this  condition.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  3 
times.  Add  10  spoonfuls  of  the  flour  and  baking  powder  to  butter  and 
sugar  and  cream  3  minutes.  Now  add  the  cold  water  and  remaining 
dry  ingredients  to  creamed  mixture  alternately,  beating  10  minutes 
after  all  ingredients  are  together.  Last  add  extract  and  carefully  fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  large  tube  cake  pan.  Grease 
and  flour  dust  the  pan  first.  Bake  in  slow  oven  at  first,  gradually 
raising  the  heat  with  rising  of  cake.  Bake  about  1^4  hours  or  until 
cake  springs  back  when  dent  is  made  with  finger  tip. 


—  67  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


LAZY  CAKE. 


M  cup  soft  blitter 
1  cup  sugar 
1  egg 

*4  cup  milk 


Pinch  of  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1 V3  cups  flour  (full  measure) 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Place  ingredients  in  crock  in  the  order  given  and  beat  ten  min¬ 
utes.  Bake  in  loaf  or  two  small  layers.  Grease  and  flour-dust,  pans 
first. 

ZOO  LOO  CAKE. 


li  cup  softened  butter 
2  cups  sugar 
2  eggs 

1J4  cups  sour  cream 
2  %  cups  flour 


1  teaspoon  soda 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
H  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 
1  Cup  grated  bitter  chocolate 


Cream  softened  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  together  5  minutes.  Sift 
flour,  soda,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add  to  mixture  al¬ 
ternately  with  sour  cream.  Beat  mixture  another  5  minutes.  Add 
vanilla  and  melted  bitter  chocolate  and  continue  the  beating  5  minutes 
longer.  Bake  in  layers  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  pans.  Set  together 
with  “Gold  Nut  Icing.”  To  insure  success  sour  cream  must  be  used 
in  this  cake.  Sour  milk  may  be  substituted  and  *4  cup  butter  used 
instead  of  *4  cup. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE. 

%  cup  butter 
1%  cups  sugar 
1  cup  cold  watei 
2%  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  in  a  bowl  until  it  is  soft  and  creamy;  if  necessary 
adding  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water  to  put  it  in  this  condition. 
Combine  the  butter  and  sugar  and  cream  again  until  the  mixture  is 
soft  and  frothy.  Another  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water  may  be  added 
to  butter  and  sugar  to  hasten  creaming.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
together  three  times.  From  the  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder  take 
5  tablespoonfuls  and  place  with  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  cream  one 
minute.  Now  add  the  remaining  dry  ingredients  to  creamed  mixture 
alternately  with  the  cold  water,  beating  hard  after  all  are  combined. 
Add  extract  and  last  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  being  careful 
not  to  beat  after  whites  are  added.  Place  dough  in  greased  and  flour 
dusted  pans  and  place  in  a  slow  oven,  allowing  the  cake  to  rise  slowly 
with  the  rising  of  the  heat. 

Layers  should  bake  about  25  minutes,  or  until  cake  shrinks  a  little 
from  pan.  Cool  the  cakes  in  pan  by  allowing  pans  to  set  upright  on 
cooling  rack.  Put  layers  together  with  the  Lady  Baltimore  Filling  as 
given  under  “Cake  Icings  and  Fillings. ” 

—  68  — 


4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  teaspoons  extract 
(»  egg  whites 


CAKE 


ONE-EGG  COCOANUT  CAKE. 

54  cup  butter  1  cups  flour 

%  cup  sugar  25&  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  yolk  (white  for  frosting)  1  teaspoon  extract 

54  cup  milk  or  water 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  egg  yolk  and  re¬ 
cream.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to  creamed 
mixture  alternately  with  sweet  milk  or  water.  Add  extract  and  beat 
mixture  hard  for  5  minutes.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  cake 
pan.  Make  half  of  the  Jiffy  Icing  recipe  with  the  egg  white  and  use 
cocoanut  as  desired. 

TWO  OR  THREE  LAYER  COCOANUT  CAKE. 

54  cup  butter  1  cup  cold  water 

154  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  almond  flavoring 

254  cups  flour  3  large  egg  whites  or  4  small 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  ones 


Cream  butter  by  itself  until  soft,  then  combine  sugar  and  butter 
and  cream  again  until  light  and  fluffy.  At  this  time  add  2  tablespoons 
of  boiling  water  and  the  mixture  may  be  creamed  in  a  very  short  time. 
This  last  two  spoonfuls  cannot  be  removed  from  mixture,  hence  it  is 
necessary  to  deduct  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water  from  the  one  cupful  to 
be  used.  When  butter  and  sugar  is  in  a  light,  frothy  condition,  sift 
flour  and  baking  powder  together  3  times.  Take  4  or  5  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  flour  mixture  and  add  to  butter  and  sugar  and  cream  1  minute. 
Last  alternately  add  water  and  remaining  flour  to  creamed  mixture, 
beating  hard  after  all  are  combined.  Add  extract  and  at  last  fold  in 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Do  not  beat  mixture  after  egg  whites  are 
added.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  layer  cake  pans.  Set  to¬ 
gether  with  “ Jiffy  Icing’’  and  shredded  cocoanut. 


HOT  WATER  GINGER  BREAD. 


54  cup  sugar 
54  cup  shortening 

1  cup  sorghum  molasses 

2  %  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
54  teaspoon  salt 

54  teaspoon  cloves 

2  teaspoons  ginger 

1  cup  hot  water 

2  eggs 


Cream  sugar  and  shortening  together,  to  which  add  sorghum  and 
re-cream.  Sift  flour,  soda,  baking  powder,  cinnamon,  salt,  cloves,  and 
ginger  together.  Add  dry  ingredients  to  creamed  mixture  alternately 
with  hot  water.  Beat  mixture  thoroughly.  Add  well  whipped  eggs 
at  last.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  like  cake. 


—  69 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


ANGEL  FOOD  LOAF  CAKE. 

INSTRUCTIONS. 

Select  fresh  eggs  and  have  them  cold.  Use  a  large  earthen  bowl 
large  enough  for  a  bulky  mixture.  Use  a  wire  paddle  egg  beater. 
Select  a  cake  pan  with  stems  on  sides  and  tube  in  center.  Before  be¬ 
ginning  the  cake  separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  and  have  whites 
in  bowl  in  readiness.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together  five 
times  and  have  on  paper  napkin.  Measure  and  have  1 1/3  cups  of 
sugar  in  sifted  form  on  a  paper  napkin.  Place  the  cream  of  tartar 
mixed  with  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar  in  another  napkin  and  have  ready. 

RECIPE. 


11  egg  whites  or  1*4  cups 
measured 
%  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 


1  %  cups  fine  granulated  sugar 
1  teaspoon  extract 
1  cup  flour 

yz  teaspoon  baking  powder 


Place  egg  whites  in  bowl,  to  which  add  the  salt  and  beat  until 
eggs  turn  white  and  frothy,  then  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  continue 
to  beat  until  mixture  is  stiff  and  seemingly  dry.  Test  may  be  made  by 
removing  paddle  from  the  mixture  and  inverting  it ;  if  the  egg  whites 
stand  up  straight  in  points  on  the  paddle  the  eggs  are  stiff  enough. 
Fold  in  the  sugar  carefully,  sifting  sugar  into  bowl  with  left  hand  and 
folding  slowly  with  the  right  hand.  When  sugar  is  all  added  pour  in 
the  extract  and  then  in  the  same  careful  manner  fold  in  the  sifted 
flour  and  baking  powder.  Too  quick  movements  during  the  folding 
process  makes  the  dough  gradually  sink,  the  result  a  small  sized  cake. 
Place  dough  in  an  ungreased  tube  cake  pan  and  place  in  a  very  mod¬ 
erate  oven  to  begin,  then  gradually  increase  the  heat  with  the  rising' 
of  the  cake.  When  angel  food  pan  has  projecting  stems,  cover  the 
cake  for  first  two-thirds  of  baking  period,  then  remove  cover  to  allow 
cake  to  finish  baking.  When  done  remove  from  oven  and  turn  pan 
upside  down  and  allow  cake  to  get  perfectly  cold  in  the  pan  before  re¬ 
moving  it.  When  cold  run  a  spatula  around  sides  of  cake,  loosen  the 
tube  from  cake,  turn  pan  upside  down  and  jolt  twice  when  the  cake 
will  fall  out.  This  is  a  plain  loaf  cake  and  may  be  iced  with  any 
desired  icing.  If  cake  is  to  be  served  uniced  use  1 y2  cups  of  sugar 
instead  of  1 1/3  cups. 


SIX-EGG  WHITE  ANGEL  FOOD. 


6  egg  whites  (large  eggs) 
Pinch  of  salt 

%  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
94  cup  of  fine  granulated 
sugar 


%  cup  flour 

teaspoon  baking  powder 
%  teaspoon  extract 


Proceed  and  mix  by  same  process  as  given  for  11-egg  angel  food. 

—  70  — 


CARE 


ANGEL  LAYER  CAKE. 

Make  same  recipe  as  for  loaf  cake,  only  separate  dough  and  bake 
in  two  layer  pans.  Set  layers  together  with  any  desired  icing,  or 
sweetened  and  flavored  whipped  cream  mixed  with  quartered  marsh¬ 
mallows  and  nuts  may  be  used  as  filling,  if  cake  is  to  be  served  soon 
after  layers  are  set  together.  For  delicious  cake  make  Jiffy  Icing  with 
the  marshmallows,  then  add  cut  candied  fruit  and  nuts. 


RIBBON  ANGEL  FOOD. 


cups  granulated  sugar 
cup  water 
1^4  cups  flour 

I  teaspoon  baking  powder 

II  large  egg  whites 


1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
Few  grains  of  salt 
1%  teaspoons  of  almond  or 
other  extract 


Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  spins  a  hair — if  thermometer  is 
used,  to  237°.  When  done  set  aside  to  partially  cool.  Sift  flour  and 
baking  powder  together  5  times.  Place  the  cream  of  tartar  on  a  paper 
and  mix  with  1  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Place  the  11  cold  egg  whites  in  a 
large  bowl  or  crock  and  beat  until  they  turn  white  and  stiff,  then  add 
the  cream  of  tartar  and  continue  to  whip  until  eggs  are  stiff  enough 
to  stand  firm  in  points  when  paddle  is  taken  from  eggs  and  inverted. 
At  this  stage  pour  the  cooked  syrup  into  whites  and  whip  briskly. 
Use  only  the  syrup  that  comes  by  pouring.  Don’t  scrape  the  pan. 
Add  the  extract,  then  fold  in  the  flour  and  baking  powder  carefully. 
Bake  in  2  deep  ungreased  layer  cake  pans.  Start  the  cake  in  a  250° 
temperature  and  finish  at  about  425°  F. 

Set  the  layers  together  with  “Jiffy  Icing”  an  inch  thick  between 
and  on  top  of  layers;  add  a  few  drops  of  pink  cake  coloring  to  the 
icing,  or  the  cake  dough  may  be  tinted  pink  and  the  icing  left  white. 

This  cake  may  be  baked  in  a  plain  loaf  cake  also. 


MOCK  ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE. 

1  %  cups  sugar  M  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour  1 cups  hot  sweet  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  teaspoons  extract 

1  scant  teaspoon  cream  of  5  small  eggs  or  4  large  ones 

tartar 

Sift  sugar,  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  cream  of  tartar  together 
five  times.  Have  milk  heated  but  not  to  the  boiling  point,  and  pour 
slowly  into  these  dry  ingredients,  stirring  constantly,  but  not  beating. 
After  all  are  evenly  mixed,  add  the  extract.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  very 
stiff  froth  and  carefully  fold  in  at  the  last,  being  careful  not  to  beat 
the  mixture  after  egg  whites  are  added.  Bake  cake  in  an  ungreased 
pan  in  a  moderate  oven,  usually  requiring  about  forty-five  minutes  for 
the  baking.  Allow  cake  to  cool  in  pan  before  removing,  having  pan 
inverted  while  cake  is  cooling. 


—  71  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


SPONGE  CAKE— No.  1. 

5  eggs  ?4  teaspoon  salt 

1  %  cups  fine  granulated  sugar  2  teaspoons  extract 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  hot  water 

3%  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  together,  for  one  minute.  Add  the 
sugar  and  continue  the  beating  for  8  minutes  longer.  Sift  flour,  bak¬ 
ing  powder  and  salt  together  5  times  and  add  to  the  egg  and  sugar 
mixture,  beating  until  mixture  is  very  light.  Last  add  the  hot  water 
and  extract.  Stir  well  and  pour  dough  into  an  ungreased  cake  pan. 
Place  cake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  at  first,  then  gradually  increase 
the  heat  as  the  cake  rises.  Bake  for  about  45  minutes.  Test  the  cake 
by  making  a  dent  in  center  of  cake  with  the  finger.  If  the  dent  re¬ 
mains  in  the  cake,  continue  to  bake ;  if  it  springs  back  cake  is  done. 
When  done  remove  cake  from  oven  and  allow  it  to  cool  in  the  pan,  in¬ 
verted,  before  removing  it  from  the  pan. 

SPONGE  CAKE— No.  2. 

3  eggs  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1*4  cups  granulated  sugar  %  cup  hot  water 

1%  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  extract 

teaspoon  salt 

Beat  eggs  light,  then  add  sugar  and  beat  all  together  until  mixture 
is  very  light,  usually  five  minutes  being  necessary  for  the  beating. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  three  times  and  add  to  egg 
and  sugar  mixture  and  beat  again  about  five  minutes.  Last  add  the 
hot  water  slowly  and  beat  briskly  while  doing  so.  Next  add  extract 
and  bake  either  in  loaf  or  layers.  Pans  for  this  cake  may  be  greased 
or  left  ungreased. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

11  egg  whites  1%  cups  sugar 

6  egg  yolks  2  teaspoons  extract 

Pinch  of  salt  1  %  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Place  egg  whites  in  large  bowl.  Place  egg  yolks  in  another  bowl. 
Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  5  times  and  have  on  paper 
napkin.  Mix  the  cream  of  tartar  with  1  teaspoon  of  the  sugar  and 
have  on  another  paper  napkin.  Eggs  should  be  cold.  First,  beat  egg 
yolks  very  light,  usually  requiring  5  minutes  ’  steady  whipping.  Leave 
them  set  while  preparing  other  mixture.  Add  pinch  of  salt  to  egg 
whites  and  beat  until  they  turn  white  and  frothy,  then  add  cream  of 
tartar  and  continue  to  beat  until  eggs  are  very  stiff,  then  fold  in  care¬ 
fully  the  sugar  first,  then  flour  and  baking  powder.  Add  extract  and 
egg  yolks  last  and  see  that  the  dough  is  well  mixed  by  the  slow  fold-  > 
ing  process.  Place  dough  in  ungreased  pan  and  bake  for  about  50 

—  72  — 


CAKE 


minutes ;  very  slow  oven  at  first,  gradually  raising  the  heat  with  rising 
of  the  cake.  Keep  cake  covered  for  three-quarters  of  the  baking 
period,  then  remove  lid  and  finish  the  baking  uncovered.  When  done 
remove  from  oven  and  turn  upside  down  to  cool.  When  perfectly  cold, 
run  spatula  around  edge  of  cake  and  turn  cake  out.  Ice  with  yellow 
icing.  See  cake  suggestions. 

LEMON  SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

1%  cups  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

94  cup  water  H  teaspoon  salt 

11  egg  yolks  2  teaspoons  lemon  extract 

1  %  cups  flour 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads — about  236°  F.,  if  ther¬ 
mometer  is  used.  When  done,  set  it  aside  to  cool  while  the  other  in¬ 
gredients  are  prepared.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  they  are  so  light  they 
show  signs  of  strings  when  being  whipped.  Fold  the  syrup  into  the 
egg  yolks,  whipping  briskly  for  a  minute,  then  carefully  fold  the  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt  into  the  mixture  after  they  have  been  sifted 
together  5  times.  Add  the  extract  last  and  bake  in  ungreased  tube 
cake  pan.  250°  F.  oven  at  first,  then  increase  heat  with  rising  of  cake. 
About  45  minutes  is  required  for  baking. 

PINEAPPLE  CAKE. 

%  cup  butter  1^4  cups  cold  water 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  pineapple  extract 

3  cups  flour  (full  measure)  4  egg  whites 

5J4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  ’til  soft,  then  combine  with  sugar  and  cream  ’til 
frothy,  using  the  hot  water  method.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
together  3  times  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  the  cold 
water.  Beat  2  minutes  after  this  addition,  then  add  extract  and  care¬ 
fully  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  2  large  layers  or 
3  thin  layers.  Set  layers  together  with  “Pineapple  Cake  Filling,”  as 
found  in  “Cake  Icings.”  On  top  of  the  cake  the  “Jiffy  Icing”  should 
be  used. 


PICKANINNY  CAKE. 


1 14  cups  granulated  or  brown 
sugar 

%  cup  softened  butter  or 
drippings 
4  egg  yolks 
1 94  cups  flour 


1 14  teaspoons  soda 
14  cup  cocoa 
%  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  sour  milk 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  until  smooth  and  light,  then  add  egg  yolks 
and  beat  hard  for  about  3  minutes.  Sift  flour,  soda,  cocoa  and  salt 
together  3  times  and  add  alternately  to  creamed  mixture  with  sour 

—  73  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


milk.  Add  vanilla  and  beat  mixture  hard  for  2  minutes.  Bake  in 
greased  and  flour-dusted  layer  cake  pans.  Any  desired  icing  may  be 
used. 

THREE-DAY  GINGER  BREAD. 


1  cup  shortening 

1  %  cups  sifted  brown  sugar 

(Sift  sugar  after  it  is  meas¬ 
ured) 

2  eggs 

1  cup  dark  sorghum  or  New 
Orleans  molasses 

3  %  cups  flour 


1  tablespoon  ginger 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
M  teaspoon  cloves 
94  tablespoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  boiling  water 


Cream  the  shortening  and  sugar  well  together,  then  add  the  2 
whole  unbeaten  eggs  and  beat  for  2  minutes.  Next  add  the  molasses 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Sift  flour,  soda,  ginger,  cinnamon,  cloves,  nut¬ 
meg  and  salt  together  and  add  alternately  to  creamed  mixture  with 
hot  water.  When  all  ingredients  are  combined,  beat  hard  for  one  min¬ 
ute.  Now  take  out  enough  dough  to  make  a  ginger  cake  the  size  to 
serve  the  family  for  one  meal.  Set  the  remaining  dough  in  the  refrig¬ 
erator  to  keep  cold.  A  fresh  cake  may  be  baked  from  this  dough  for 
three  consecutive  days  and  the  dough  baked  on  the  third  day  is  usually 
better  than  that  baked  the  first  day.  Bake  dough  in  greased  and  flour- 
dusted  pans  in  moderate  oven.  For  very  rich  ginger  bread  make  ‘  *  Jiffy 
Icing”  and  spread  on  bread.  If  all  the  dough  is  to  be  baked  the  day  it 
is  mixed,  use  only  %  tablespoonful  of  soda. 


STUFFED  GINGER  CAKE. 

Bake  the  “Sour  Milk  Ginger  Cake”  recipe.  Bake  it  in  one  round 
pan.  When  baked  dig  out  the  center  of  cake,  leaving  a  shell  about 
1  inch  in  thickness,  sides  and  bottom.  Make  a  recipe  and  a  half  from 
the  “Ice  Water  Meringue”  recipe,  and  fill  in  the  cake,  adding  to  it  a 
few  sliced  nut  meats  or  fruit.  Place  in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  for 
about  12  or  15  minutes.  Or  stiff  whipped  cream  may  be  used  in  place 
of  meringue. 


JELLY  CAKE. 

294  cups  flour 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Pinch  of  salt 
2  teaspoons  extract 


M  cup  softened  butter 

1  %  cups  sugar 

2  large  eggs 

1  cup  milk  or  water 


Place  the  ingredients  in  the  mixing  bowl  in  the  order  given  and 
beat  all  together  for  about  10  minutes.  Bake  in  3  or  4  thin  layers  and 
set  together  with  jelly.  Rub  a  little  flour  in  on  each  layer  before  the 
jelly  is  spread. 


—  74  — 


CAKE 


POLLY  ANNA  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  *4  teaspoon  salt 

11  egg  yolks  3  teaspoons  extract 

3  cups  and  2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  cold  water 

Cream  butter  until  soft  and  smooth,  if  necessary  adding  a  table¬ 
spoonful  or  two  of  boiling  water  to  accomplish  this.  The  hot  water 
can  usually  be  poured  off  after  butter  is  softened.  Next  add  the  sifted 
sugar  and  beat  for  at  least  2  minutes.  Now  combine  the  sugar  and 
butter  with  the  unbeaten  egg  yolks  and  beat  mixture  hard  for  5  min¬ 
utes.  At  the  end  of  5  minutes’  beating  process  the  mixture  should  be 
in  a  very  light  condition.  Next  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt 
together  three  times.  Take  5  tablespoonfuls  of  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  and  add  to  the  creamed  mixture  and  bind  it  by  beating  1 
minute.  Next  add  the  extract  and  remaining  dry  ingredients  and  cold 
water,  and  beat  all  together  for  another  5  minutes.  Bake  in  greased 
and  flour-dusted  layer  pans  and  set  layers  together  with  “Polly  Anna 
Icing.”  Bake  the  cakes  slowly  by  placing  them  in  a  very  moderate 
oven  and  bring  the  heat  up  with  the  gradual  slow-rising  of  dough.  If 
baked  in  two  large  layers  usually  about  35  or  40  minutes  is  required 
for  baking.  If  baked  in  loaf,  at  least  one  hour  is  required.  This 
makes  one  very  large  cake  or  one  medium  sized  cake  may  be  made 
and  6  cup  cakes.  Ice  with  “Polly  Anna  Icing.” 


ALMA’S  ICE  BOX  CAKE. 


1  cup  unsalted  butter 
1  %  cups  4x  or  6x  sugar 
3  eggs 

1J4  cups  blanched  and  finely 
ground  almonds 


Enough  lady  fingers  to  circle 
inside  edge  of  cakepan 
30  almond  macaroons 
20  candied  cherries 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  until  smooth  and  light.  Add  the  well 
beaten  egg  yolks  to  this  and  cream  again.  Next  add  the  ground  al¬ 
monds  and  carefully  fold  in  the  stiff  and  well  beaten  egg  whites.  A 
spring  form  pan  should  be  used  for  the  cake,  but  if  not  obtainable, 
select  any  desired  cakepan  and  stand  the  lady  fingers  close  together 
all  around  the  cakepan.  Roll  macoroons  to  fine  crumb  form.  Now 
place  a  layer  of  the  creamed  mixture  in  pan  and  over  this  place  ma¬ 
caroon  crumbs,  then  another  layer  of  creamed  mixture  and  crumbs 
again.  On  the  top  of  all  this  place  the  halved  candied  cherries.  Place 
in  coldest  part  of  ice  box  and  allow  it  to  remain  24  hours.  It  sets  in 
firm  form  and  slices  down  like  cake  and  should  be  cut  so  that  each 
slice  contains  one  lady  finger.  When  spring  form  pan  is  used,  the 
outer  rim  is  loosened  with  spring  catch,  which  allows  the  cake  to  re¬ 
main  upright  on  bottom  of  pan.  When  the  ordinary  cake  pan  is  used, 
in  order  to  remove  cake  from  pan  it  is  almost  necessary  to  turn  it  out 
upside  down  on  plate  or  board.  This  usually  breaks  the  cake.  Spring 

—  75  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


form  cake  pans  are  obtainable  at  a  reasonable  price  at  any  first-class 
hardware  store.  Always  serve  the  cake  with  whipped  cream.  Four¬ 
teen  or  15  persons  may  be  served  from  a  cake  of  this  size. 


BLACK  WALNUT  LOAF  CAKE. 


516  tablespoons  butter 

1  94  cups  sugar 

2  eggs 

2%  cups  flour 

416  teaspoons  baking  powder 


14  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 
116  cups  nutmeats 


Soften  the  butter  to  a  creamy  consistency  and  place  in  a  mixing 
bowl.  Add  the  other  ingredients,  with  the  exception  of  the  nut  meats, 
and  beat  hard  for  5  minutes.  Last  add  the  nut  meats  and  stir  until 
they  are  evenly  mixed  through.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted 
cakepan  and  ice  with  any  desired  icing.  Bake  slowly  and  keep  cake 
covered  for  %  of  the  baking  period,  then  remove  lid.  (See  instruc¬ 
tions  preceding  cake  recipes.)  Serve  plain  or  iced. 


ROSE’S  SPICE  CAKE. 


16  cup  softened  butter 

2  cups  sifted  brown  sugar 

3  eggs 

1 94  cups  flour 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon 


1 16  teaspoons  cloves 
16  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  teaspoon  soda 
16  teaspoon  salt 
16  cup  sour  milk 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  thoroughly,  to  which  add  the  egg 
yolks,  and  cream  again  until  very  light.  Sift  flour,  cinnamon,  cloves, 
nutmeg,  soda  and  salt  together  3  times,  then  add  to  creamed  mixture 
alternately  with  the  sour  milk.  Beat  mixture  for  about  2  minutes, 
then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  loaf  or  layers.  Ice 
with  any  desired  icing,  l1/^  teaspoons  cloves  should  be  used.  It  is  not 
too  much. 


ALMOND  CAKE— “AMBROSIA.” 

6  eggs  v  1 16  cups  finely  ground  al- 

1  cup  confectioner’s  sugar  monds 

1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  for  30  minutes,  then  add  ^  cup  of  the  sugar 
and  beat  another  5  minutes.  Next  add  the  almonds,  then  the  stiffly 
beaten  3  egg  whites,  folding  them  in  briskly.  Bake  in  buttered  sheet 
pan,  moderate  oven,  about  35  minutes.  When  done  make  a  meringue 
with  the  remaining  3  egg  whites  and  place  on  top  of  cake.  Return 
cake  to  oven  for  12  or  15  minutes  for  meringue  to  set  and  bake  slowly. 
The  almond  extract  is  added  to  meringue. 

—  76  — 


CAKE 


ALMOND  TORTE. 

1  cup  almond  meal 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

4  egg  whites 

Mix  the  almond  meal  and  sugar  together.  Beat  the  egg  whites 
light,  then  add  cream  of  tartar  and  continue  to  beat  until  very  stiff. 
Now  combine  the  first  mixture  with  eggs,  add  extract  and  bake  in 
tube  cake  pan.  Pan  may  be  sparingly  greased.  Slow  oven.  Must  be 
served  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 


Vi  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
M  teaspoon  almond  extract 


CHOOEY  CHEESE  CAKE. 


Vz  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  softened  butter 

3  eggs 

1  cup  smooth  cottage  cheese 
1  cups  flour 


3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
teaspoon  soda 
M  teaspoon  salt 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
Crated  rind  of  Vz  lemon 


Blend  sugar  and  butter,  to  which  add  eggs  and  beat  until  very 
light.  Add  cottage  cheese  and  beat  2  minutes  longer.  Next  sift  the 
flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt  together  and  add.  Last  add  juice 
and  rind  and  beat  5  minutes  before  baking  in  a  well  greased  layer 
pan,  in  slow  oven,  for  about  35  minutes. 


MATILDA’S  SCHAUM  TORTE. 

6  egg  whites  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

2  cups  fine  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  egg  whites  ’til  stiff  and  dry,  then  add  the  sugar  and  beat  for 
25  minutes  steadily.  Add  vanilla  and  vinegar  at  last.  Place  in  a 
sparingly  greased  tube  pan  and  bake  slowly  for  30  minutes.  Serve 
with  unsweetened  whipped  cream. 


—  77  — 


CHAPTER  VII 


Fillings,  Icings  and  Fondant 


To  become  an  expert  in  the  making  of  cake  icings  requires  some 
little  study,  practice  and  skill,  and  the  person  who  has  accomplished 
the  art  is  in  position  to  cover  a  defective  cake  in  such  a  clever  way 
that  the  defect  will  never  be  discovered  by  the  person  to  whom  the 
cake  is  served.  On  the  other  hand,  many  a  delicious,  fine-textured, 
soft  and  flaky  cake  is  cast  aside  with  no  comment  due  to  the  fact  that 
it  was  uniced  or  the  icing  was  a  failure,  so  it  seems  that  much  care  and 
attention  should  be  given  the  icing. 

The  “Jiffy  Icing”  herein  given  is  the  easiest  and  best  cooked  icing 
made,  and  with  a  little  practice  one  may  become  an  expert  by  simply 
using  this  recipe  as  a  basic  recipe  for  many  different  coverings  for 
cakes.  There  seems  to  be  some  difficulty  in  making  icings  stand  up 
thick  and  creamy,  the  common  complaint  being,  “It  is  too  hard  or  too 
soft,”  or  “I  can’t  make  a  thick  layer  of  icing  stand  up  between  two 
layers.”  To  make  a  thick  icing  follow  these  instructions: 

Place  two  cake  layers  out  on  a  flat  surface  and  ice  them  as  though 
they  were  to  be  two'  separate  cakes,  piling  the  icing  up  high  on  what 
is  to  be  the  top  layer  first,  then  on  the  other  layer  just  as  high,  also 
placing  a  small  amount  on  the  sides.  Now  allow  layers  to  remain  in 
this  condition  until  the  icing  shows  signs  of  setting  (which  means  a 
thin,  crystallized  sheet  will  form  on  the  surface  of  icing).  At  this 
stage  take  a  spatula,  pancake  turner  or  pie  knife  and  carefully  lift 
one  layer  up  and  place  it  on  top  of  the  other.  The  sides  may  then  be 
touched  up  and  iced  with  icing  left  for  the  purpose,  or  for  a  perfect 
cake  a  small  amount  of  fresh  icing  may  be  made.  In  icing  loaf  cakes 
or  layer  cakes,  too,  it  is  well  to  spread  a  small  amount  evenly  over  the 
cake  first.  This  takes  up  the  crumbs  and  closes  the  pores  and  a 
smoother  surface  will  be  the  result. 

If  jelly,  soft  icing  or  filling  is  to  be  used  between  layers,  it  is  best 
to  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  surface  of  the  cake  first,  then  gently 
rub  it  in  until  no  flour  is  seen.  This  closes  the  pores  of  the  cake  and 
keeps  the  layers  from  absorbing  the  moisture  of  the  filling. 

A  candy  or  icing  thermometer  is  a  handy  instrument  to  have  in 
the  kitchen,  and  if  all  housewives  were  equipped  with  such  the  instruc¬ 
tions  would  all  be  given  according  to  degrees  in  boiling.  Since  about 
one  woman  in  every  one  hundred  possesses  such,  we  still  say,  “Boil 
until  it  hairs,”  “soft  boil,”  “hard  boil,”  etc.  Even  with  a  thermome- 


—  78 


FILLINGS,  ICINGS  AND  FONDANT 


ter  as  guide  one’s  own  judgment  must  be  relied  upon  to  a  large  degree. 
Nearly  all  syrups  are  cooked  to  a  temperature  of  236,  237  or  238°  F. 
Now  if  a  recipe  calls  for  2  egg  whites  to  be  added  in  beaten  form  to  a 
syrup  cooked  to  237°,  and  these  eggs  are  small,  what  will  the  result 
be?  The  syrup  has  been  cooked  a  little  too  long  on  account  of  eggs 
being  small,  and  vice  versa. 

If  cakes  with  icing  are  preferred,  it  is  quite  the  popular  method 
now  to  bake  the  cake  in  sheet  or  layer  form  and  make  the  icing  nearly 
as  thick  as  the  cake,  then  cut  the  cake  in  squares.  These  cakes  are 
good  to  look  upon  and  delicious  in  flavor. 

If  a  tube  cake  pan  is  wanted  and  no  pan  is  available,  one  may  be 
improvised  in  the  following  manner : 

Select  two  small  sized  baking  powder  cans  with  lids  and  fill  them 
with  salt  or  clean  sand  and  set  them  in  the  center  of  any  pan  to  be 
used.  Pour  the  dough  in  around  the  cans  and  the  result  is  the  same 
as  though  the  tube  pan  had  been  used.  Care  must  be  exercised  in  in* 
verting  the  cakes,  however.  The  weight  of  the  can  will  cause  same 
to  fall  from  the  cake  unless  carefully  watched.  If  allowed  to  fall  in 
this  manner  a  torn  cake  will  result. 

DATE  NUT  FILLING. 

1  cup  white  corn  syrup  3  tablespoons  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour  134  cups  finely  chopped  dates 

3  tablespoons  butter  34  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

Place  syrup  in  saucepan  over  the  fire.  Cream  flour,  butter  and 
sugar  together  and  add,  allowing  it  to  boil  2  minutes.  Remove  from 
fire,  add  dates  and  beat  for  one  minute.  Set  mixture  aside  to  cool, 
and  add  chopped  nuts  and  spread  between  cake  layers.  It  is  also  ex¬ 
cellent  spread  between  Graham  crackers,  plain  crackers  or  home-made 
cookies. 


FIG  NUT  FILLING. 

1^4  cups  finely  chopped  figs  1  egg  yolk 

2  tablespoons  cream  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Confectioners’  sugar  34  cup  chopped  nuts 

Mix  figs  and  cream.  To  this  add  enough  6X  confectioner’s  sugar 
to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Beat  egg  yolk  light  and  add,  also  the  tablespoon¬ 
ful  of  melted  butter.  Stir  all  and  spread  between  cake  layers. 

GOLD  CAKE  FILLING. 

cup  cold  butter  2  raw  egg  yolks 

134  cups  confectioners’  sugar  34  teaspoon  vanilla 

1 34  tablespoons  cream 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together,  to  which  add  cream, 
well  beaten  egg  yolks  and  vanilla.  Mix  and  spread  on  cake. 

—  79  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


COLD  ICING  AND  FILLING. 

2  cups  6x  confectioners’  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

Enough  milk,  cream  or  fruit  teaspoon  any  desired  ex¬ 
juice  to  make  a  thick  paste  tract 

M  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Mix  sugar, cream,  milk  or  fruit  juice  and  baking  powder  together 
until  smooth.  Add  to  this  the  butter,  melted  and  boiling  hot.  Stir 
’til  smooth,  then  add  extract  and  it  is  ready  to  spread.  If  at  any  time 
it  seems  too  thin  add  a  little  more  sugar,  or  if  it  seems  too  thick  add 
a  little  more  liquid. 

VIOLA ’S  LEMON  CHEESE  CAKE  FILLING. 

2  lemons  1  cup  sugar 

3  egg  yolks  cup  butter 

Grate  the  lemons  carefully,  using  only  the  outer  oil  cells.  Squeeze 
the  juice  from  lemons,  then  mix  all  ingredients  together  and  cook  ’til 
it  thickens,  stirring  constantly. 

PINEAPPLE  CAKE  FILLING. 

1  egg  5  tablespoons  butter 

M  cup  pineapple  juice  Few  grains  of  salt 

7  tablespoons  flour  %  ring  of  candied  pineapple, 

1  cup  sugar  chopped 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  pineapple  juice.  Mix  flour  and  sugar 
together  and  add.  Next  add  butter  and  salt.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
’til  thick  like  paste.  If  candied  pineapple  is  to  be  used  add  it  when 
mixture  is  cold. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM  CAKE  FILLING. 

Make  as  above  recipe  is  made.  When  paste  is  cold  fold  in  1  cup 
of  whipping  cream  after  it  has  been  whipped  stiff.  Cakes  filled  with 
this  should  not  stand  long  after  baking. 

DIVINITY  FILLING. 

2  cups  sugar  2  egg  whites 

%  cup  corn  syrup  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  hot  water 

Boil  sugar,  corn  syrup  and  water  together  until  it  forms  a  hard 
ball  in  cold  water.  Have  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradu¬ 
ally  combine  the  whites  and  syrup  by  pouring  hot  syrup  into  whites, 
whipping  hard  while  syrup  is  added.  Add  the  vanilla  and  beat  until 
mixture  shows  signs  of  setting.  Spread  on  cake,  or  pour  into  buttered 
sheet  and  mark  in  squares  for  candy. 


—  80  — 


FILLINGS,  ICINGS  AND  FONDANT 


POLLY  ANNA  ICING. 

3  cups  0x  confectioners’  sugar  1  teaspoon  any  desired  extract 

About  4  tablespoons  rich  cream  1  cup  finely  chopped  nut  meats 

2  egg  yolks 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  if  too  stiff  add  melted  boiling 
butter  and  additional  cream  to  make  it  of  consistency  for  spreading. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  ICING. 

Make  the  “Jiffy  Icing”  for  a  foundation.  Before  spreading  the 
icing  on  and  between  layers  have  in  readiness  the  following  ingredi¬ 
ents  mixed  together : 

%  cup  chopped  candied  pine-  %  cup  chopped  pecan  nut  meats 

apple  %  cup  raisins  chopped 

12  candied  cherries,  chopped  cup  raisins  chopped 

These  ingredients  may  be  spread  evenly  on  the  cake  first  and  icing 
placed  over  them,  or  the  chopped  ingredients  may  be  mixed  into  the 
icing.  The  former  method  is  better. 

ALINDA’S  UNCOOKED  COLD  ICING. 

2  cups  6x  sugar  1  tablespoon  soft  butter 

Enough  cream  to  make  thick  1  teaspoon  salt 

paste  %  teaspoon  extract 

Mix  all  well  together  and  spread  on  cake.  Cake  must  be  cold  be¬ 
fore  the  icing  is  spread  over  it. 

JIFFY  ICING. 

(One  Inch  Thick  If  Desired.) 

1  *4  cups  granulated  sugar  *4  teaspoon  any  desired  extract 

2  egg  whites  Few  grains  of  salt 

6  tablespoons  cold  water 

Place  sugar,  unbeaten  egg  whites  and  cold  water  in  rounded  bot¬ 
tom  enamel  pan  and  set  pan  in  boiling  water.  Keep  water  boiling 
while  the  mixture  is  being  whipped  for  about  9  minutes.  Use  a  wire 
egg  beater  and  the  mixture  should  be  whipped  until  there  are  slight 
signs  of  a  granular  condition  at  outer  edge  of  bowl  and  the  bottom  of 
bowl  shows  a  slight  feeling  of  roughness.  At  this  stage  remove  from 
fire,  add  salt  and  extract  and  spread  on  cake  without  further  whipping. 

FOR  MARSHMALLOW  JIFFY  ICING. 

(One  Inch  Thick.) 

When  the  mixture  shows  signs  of  being  cooked  long  enough,  drop 
in  24  marshmallows  in  cut  form  and  whip  until  dissolved,  then  spread 

—  81  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


on  cake  after  the  few  grains  of  salt  and  extract  are  added.  Do  not 
beat  after  it  is  taken  from  fire. 

FOR  CHOCOLATE  JIFFY  ICING. 

When  mixture  is  cooked  until  done,  add  %  cup  of  grated  bitter 
chocolate,  in  melted  form,  to  the  mixture  and  spread  on  cake. 

IDEAL  CARAMEL  ICING. 

2  cups  medium  brown  sugar  Few  grains  of  salt 

cup  scalded  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

14  cup  water  24  marshmallows 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Place  sugar,  milk,  water  and  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  set  di¬ 
rectly  over  the  fire  to  boil  slowly,  being  careful  to  stir  constantly  until 
it  begins  to  boil.  This  point  alone  has  a  tendency  toward  keeping  the 
mixture  from  curding.  About  10  or  12  minutes  even,  slow  boiling, 
with  some  stirring,  is  necessary  before  time  for  testing.  When  a  few 
drops  of  the  syrup,  placed  in  cold  water,  can  be  pressed  into  a  soft, 
firm  ball  it  is  time  then  to  add  the  marshmallows.  After  marshmal¬ 
lows  are  added,  continue  to  cook  and  stir  until  they  are  dissolved, 
then  remove  from  fire  and  add  salt  and  vanilla.  Cool  to  lukewarm 
before  beating.  If  cooked  the  proper  length  of  time  about  15  or  20 
minutes  will  be  required  for  whipping.  If  it  sets  too  quickly  it  is  never 
so  nice.  The  longer  it  is  beaten  the  smoother  it  will  be.  If  for  any 
reason  it  is  cooked  too  long  and  mixture  shows  sign  of  setting  too 
soon,  either  set  the  saucepan  back  on  the  fire  in  hot  water  or  add  a 
little  cream  to  mixture. 

This  recipe  may  be  made  omitting  the  marshmallows. 

DIXIE  CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

3A  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate  2  tablespoons  butter 

%  cup  canned  evaporated  milk  1  pinch  of  salt 

1 M  cups  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  teaspoon  com  syrup  (scant) 

Place  grated  chocolate  and  condensed  milk  in  saucepan  and  cook 
until  it  melts  to  smooth  consistency,  stirring  frequently.  Next  add 
sugar,  syrup  and  butter  and  cook  until  mixture  will  form  a  soft  ball 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  When  it  reaches  this  stage  remove  from 
fire,  add  salt  and  vanilla  and  allow  it  to  stand  in  cold  water  until  it 
cools  to  lukewarm.  Now  beat  mixture  until  it  shows  signs  of  setting, 
then  spread  on  cake.  If  mixture  should  set  too  quickly  a  little  cream 
may  be  added  to  save  it,  but  this  comes  from  having  cooked  mixture 
too  long.  The  mixture  may  also  be  set  on  stove  and  heated  a  little  if 
it  starts  to  set  too  quickly. 


—  82  — 


FILLINGS,  ICINGS  AND  FONDANT 


SOFT  CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

Make  the  same  as  above  recipe  for  ‘ ‘  Cold  Icing  and  Filling,  ’  ’  only 
after  all  ingredients  are  mixed  add  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate. 
Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water  before  adding. 

MOCK  CARAMEL  ICING. 

Make  the  same  as  above  recipe  for  “Cold  Icing  and  Filling,”  only 
instead  of  just  melting  the  butter  to  boiling  point,  allow  it  to  brown 
before  adding.  The  “Cold  Icing  and  Filling”  is  the  foundation  for  all 
cold  icings.  It  may  be  made  and  kept  several  days  before  spreading, 
providing  a  damp  cloth  is  kept  over  top  of  container.  Nuts  may  be 
added  to  the  recipe  or  various  fruits  may  be  added.  Egg  yolks  may 
be  added  if  a  yellow  icing  is  wanted. 

GOLD  NUT  ICING. 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  water  %  cup  blanched  chopped  al- 

1  egg  monds 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  spins  a  long  hair  when  syrup 
is  dipped  from  the  saucepan  and  dropped  back  into  the  pan.  Two  or 
three  minutes  for  boiling  usually  is  sufficient  time.  Beat  white  and 
yolk  of  egg  well  together  and  pour  the  boiling  syrup  very  slowly  into 
the  egg,  whipping  briskly  with  wire  egg  beater.  Do  not  scrape  syrup 
from  pan;  use  only  the  syrup  that  comes  by  pouring.  Beat  the  mix¬ 
ture  until  it  shows  signs  of  becoming  hard,  then  add  vanilla  and 
chopped  nuts.  Spread  on  cake. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  water  1  egg 

%  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  chocolate  together  for  about  8  minutes,  or 
until  it  forms  a  firm  ball  when  dropped  in  water.  Have  the  egg  beaten 
very  light.  Pour  the  boiled  mixture  into  the  egg  and  beat  until  stiff 
enough  to  spread,  usually  meaning  about  15  minutes’  beating.  Add 
extract  while  beating. 

MARSHMALLOW  NUT  ICING. 

1  cup  sugar  24  marshmallows 

4  tablespoons  water  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  egg  white  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  when  dropped  in 
water.  Melt  marshmallows  in  double  boiler  until  marshmallows  run 
together.  Combine  the  boiled  syrup  with  melted  marshmallows,  whip- 

—  83  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


ping  the  mixture  while  still  hot.  Last  whip  in  well  beaten  egg  white, 
nuts  and  vanilla.  Spread  on  cake. 

BOILED  ICING. 

1  cup  sugar  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

%  cup  water  *4  teaspoon  extract 

1  egg  white 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  hairs  when  dipped  by  a 
spoon  and  dropped  back  into  kettle.  Do  not  stir  while  boiling  and 
keep  kettle  covered  during  the  time  it  boils,  thus  keeping  the  sides 
washed  down  by  the  rising  steam.  Beat  the  egg  white  light,  adding 
the  cream  of  tartar  to  egg  while  beating.  When  the  white  is  stiffly 
beaten  and  the  syrup  hairs,  combine  the  two,  whipping  briskly  while 
pouring  the  syrup  on  egg  white.  Add  extract  and  beat  until  stiff 
enough  to  spread.  Double  recipe  for  large  sized  layer  cake.  Do  not 
scrape  syrup  from  kettle. 

ORANGE  FROSTING. 

2  cups  6x  confectioners’  sugar  1  egg  yolk 

Grated  rind  of  %  orange  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Enough  orange  juice  to  mois¬ 
ten  sugar 

Mix  sugar,  grated  orange  and  juice  together,  then  add  egg  yolk 
and  melted  butter.  Beat  all  together,  having  mixture  just  stiff  enough 
to  spread. 


FONDANT  FOR  CAKES  AND  CANDY. 

Place  sugar  and  water  in  kettle  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
When  dissolved,  place  on  the  fire  and  allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil, 
stirring  a  little  at  the  beginning.  After  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  acetic 
acid,  then  wash  the  sides  of  the  kettle  down  with  a  wet  cloth,  being 
careful  to  remove  every  grain  of  sugar  from  sides.  Now  place  a  lid 
over  the  kettle  and  allow  the  syrup  to  steam  and  gently  boil  for  about 
three  minutes,  then  remove  the  lid  and  place  candy  thermometer  into 
the  boiling  syrup,  keeping  the  bulb  down  and  thermometer  leaning 
against  side  of  kettle.  Watch  thermometer  closely  and  when  it  regis¬ 
ters  239°  the  fondant  is  cooked  and  kettle  should  be  carefully  removed 
from  fire.  A  marble  slab  with  four  iron  bars  formed  in  square  on  top 
should  be  in  readiness.  Wipe  off  marble  slab  with  cold  water  first. 
If  marble  slab  is  not  used,  use  a  large  meat  platter,  wiping  platter  with 
damp  cloth  first.  As  soon  as  fondant  is  removed  from  fire  it  must  be 
poured  quickly  onto  slab  or  platter.  Do  not  allow  it  to  drip  and  do 
not  use  any  of  the  scrapings  in  kettle.  If  this  point  is  not  watched 
carefully  candy  will  become  grainy.  Try  to  pour  the  syrup  onto  plat¬ 
ter  or  slab  so  that  it  will  be  as  thin  as  possible,  enabling  it  to  cool 
quicker.  The  more  quickly  it  cools  the  better  the  fondant  will  be. 


—  84 


FILLINGS,  ICINGS  AND  FONDANT 


Allow  the  candy  to  become  perfectly  cold.  Press  the  back  of  hand! 
down  on  candy  and  if  it  does  not  stick  to  your  hand  and  feels  cool1 
it  is  in  perfect  condition.  With  a  paddle  begin  the  kneading  process' 
by  scooping  from  the  outer  edges  to  center.  If  all  instructions  have 
been  carefully  carried  out  the  fondant  should  not  become  granulated 
but  should  be  in  a  soft,  creamy  condition.  Continue  to  work  it  until 
soft  and  smooth  and  then  form  all  the  mixture  in  a  ball.  In  a  few 
minutes  this  ball  will  appear  hard  like  a  stone.  Wring  a  cloth  out 
of  cold  water  and  cover  the  ball,  tucking  cloth  around  the  sides  well. 
Allow  fondant  to  remain  in  this  condition  about  2  or  3  hours.  Remove 
the  cloth,  make  out  into  candy  forms  or  place  the  ball  of  fondant  in  a 
stone  jar,  packing  it  in  good  and  firm.  Dampen  four  thicknesses  of 
cloth  and  keep  over  jar.  When  wanted  for  cake  icing  take  out  a  quan¬ 
tity  and  warm  slightly  over  steam  and  spread  on  cake.  The  cloth 
should  be  kept  damp  over  jar,  but  do  not  allow  cloth  to  touch  fondant. 


—  85  — 


CHAPTER  VIII 


Cookies  and  Small  Cakes 


SUGGESTIONS  ON  COOKIE  BAKING. 

To  properly  bake  cookies  it  is  necessary  to  use  regular  tin  sheet 
pans  with  a  very  narrow  rim,  if  any.  Cookies  baked  in  heavy  black 
pans  with  wide  rims  usually  brown  too  quickly  on  bottom  before  the 
top  is  even  turned  from  the  natural  dough  color.  Do  not  crowd  cookies 
in  pan.  They  should  be  baked  quickly  unless  they  contain  a  generous 
amount  of  fruit  and  nuts.  A  more  moderate  oven  should  be  used  for 
these  and  a  longer  baking  period  allowed.  If  sugar-coated  cookies  are 
wanted,  roll  coarse  white  or  colored  sugar  in  on  top  of  dough  just 
before  cutting  in  shapes.  Macaroons  may  be  baked  on  greased  paper 
or  on  slightly  greased  sheets.  To  prevent  macaroons  from  spreading, 
after  they  are  placed  in  oven  to*  bake,  have  oven  hot  for  first  2  or  3 
minutes,  then  decrease  heat  to  moderate  or  very  low  and  allow  them 
to  remain  until  done  or  browned  to  desired  color.  Remove  macaroons 
from  pans  or  paper  while  warm ;  when  cold  they  become  so  crisp  there 
is  more  danger  in  breaking  them  when  removing  from  pans.  Cookies 
may  be  kept  in  a  soft  condition  by  placing  them  in  a  covered  stone  jar. 

HONEY  COOKIES. 

1  cup  strained  honey 

%  cup  shortening 

2  eggs 

Enough  flour  to  make  stiff 
dough 

Cream  honey  and  shortening,  to  which  add  well  beaten  eggs,  and 

re-cream.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  nutmeg  together  and 

add,  together  with  the  extract.  Make  into  stiff  dough,  roll  thin,  cut 
and  bake  on  greased  biscuit  sheets.  When  dough  is  rolled  nearly  thin 
enough,  sprinkle  sugar  on  top  of  dough  and  roll  it  in. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES. 

%  cup  butter  About  3%  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  vanilla 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  water 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  of  shredded  cocoanut 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together,  then  add  eggs  and 
cream  again.  Sift  baking  powder  and  flour  together  and  add,  also 

—  86  — 


3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
M  teaspoon  salt 
x/<z  teaspoon  nutmeg 
2  teaspoons  lemon  extract 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 


vanilla,  water  and  cocoanut.  Mix  all  together.  Roll  dough  out  on 
floured  board  as  thin  as  can  be  handled.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  in 
squares  or  diamond  shapes,  it  being  hard  to  cut  the  dough  on  account 
of  shreds  of  cocoanut.  Bake  on  greased  tin  sheets  in  quick  oven.  This 
makes  about  80  cookies,  but  they  will  keep. 


CRUMB  COOKIES. 


14  cup  butter 
1  cup  sugar 

1  egg 
1  egg 

14  cup  sweet  milk 

2  cups  finely  rolled  and  toasted 
bread  crumbs 


1  cup  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
14  teaspoon  cinnamon 
14  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  mace  or  nutmeg 
14  teaspoon  salt 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  unbeaten  egg  and 
cream  again.  Add  milk  and  bread  crumbs  next.  Blend  all  the  dry 
ingredients  together  and  add.  Roll  dough  out  as  thin  as  possible, 
sprinkling  a  little  sugar  on  dough  and  rolling  it  in.  Cut  in  shapes  and 
bake  on  greased  sheet  in  hot  oven  until  browned  lightly. 


PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES. 


14  cup  peanut  butter 
3  tablespoons  shortening 
14  cup  sugar 

1  egg 

2  cups  flour 


1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
14  teaspoon  soda 
14  teaspoon  salt 
14  cup  sour  milk 


Cream  peanut  butter  shortening  and  sugar  together,  to  which 
add  well  beaten  egg  and  re-cream.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and 
salt  together  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  together  with  sour  milk. 
Mix  all  well.  Roll  dough  on  floured  board  as  thin  as  can  be  handled, 
always  rolling  sugar  in  on  top  of  dough  to  give  the  cookies  a  sugar 
crusted  top.  Cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  If  sweet 
milk  is  to  be  used  in  this  recipe,  use  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
and  leave  out  soda.  This  makes  about  50  cookies. 


HEALTH  COOKIES. 

1  cup  shortening  14  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  eggs  4  tablespoons  sweet  or  sour 

214  cups  uncooked  rolled  oats  milk 

2  14  cups  flour  14  cup  raisins 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  14  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  teaspoon  soda 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar  together.  Add  eggs  and  re-cream. 
Add  rolled  oats  and  mix  all  together.  Sift  flour,  cinnamon,  soda,  salt 
and  nutmeg  together  and  add  alternately  to  creamed  mixture  with 

—  87  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


milk.  Roll  on  floured  board  as  thin  as  can  be  handled,  cut  in  desired 
shapes  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  If  sugar  coated  cookie 
is  wanted,  sprinkle  sugar  on  the  dough  while  rolling.  These  cookies 
keep  well  and  are  better  with  age. 


CORN  FLAKE  COOKIES. 


1  egg 

%  cup  sugar 
3  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  corn  flakes 
H  cup  cocoanut 


2  teaspoons  vanilla 
%  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
M  teaspoon  salt 


Cream  egg,  sugar  and  butter  thoroughly  together,  to  which  add 
corn  flakes,  cocoanut  and  vanilla.  Mix  this  well  together,  then  sift 
the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  into  mixture  and  mix  and  mash  into 
dough  ball.  Take  dough  out  onto  floured  board  and  knead  until 
dough  can  be  handled,  then  roll  as  thin  as  possible,  sprinkling  sugar 
over  dough  while  rolling. 

Cut  in  shapes  and  bake  as  other  cookies.  Brown  these  cookies 
to  a  delicate  brown  only,  and  remove  from  the  baking  sheet  while  hot. 
Use  a  spatula  for  this. 


SOUR  CREAM 

1  cup  sugar 
*6  cup  butter 

2  eggs 

%  cup  sour  cream 


COOKIES. 

li  teaspoon  soda 
2%  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  teaspoons  extract 
4  cups  flour 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  unbeaten  eggs 
and  cream  again.  Add  sour  cream,  then  soda,  baking  powder  and 
flour,  all  sifted  together.  Add  extract  and  knead  into  a  smooth  dough. 
Roll  on  floured  board,  sprinkling  sugar  on  top  of  dough  during  the 
rolling  process  to  give  cookies  a  sugar  crusted  top.  Cut  in  fancy 
shapes  and  bake  in  quick  oven  on  greased  tin  sheets. 


NUT  COOKIES. 

XA  cup  butter  About  2 14  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  water 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  of  finely  chopped  nuts 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together,  then  add  eggs  and 
cream  again.  Sift  baking  powder  and  flour  together  and  add  with 
vanilla,  water  and  nuts.  Mix  and  roll  dough  out  on  floured  board  as 
thin  as  can  be  handled.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  in  squares  or  diamond 
shapes,  it  being  hard  to  cut  the  dough  on  account  of  chopped  nuts. 
Bake  on  greased  tin  sheets  in  quick  oven.  This  makes  about  80  cookies, 
but  they  will  keep. 


—  88  — 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 


SUGAR  COOKIES. 

194  cups  sugar  3  cups  flour 

94  cup  butter  194  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  94  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  tablespoons  water 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  eggs  and  re-cream. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  nutmeg  together  and  add  together  with 
the  water.  Knead  dough  on  floured  board  and  roll  to  desired  thick¬ 
ness.  Cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  bake  on  greased  tin  sheets  in  quick 
oven.  If  sugar  coated  cookies  are  wanted,  roll  sugar  in  on  dough 
before  cutting  in  shapes. 


CITRON  COOKIES. 


94  cup  butter 
1  cup  sugar 
1  egg 

1*4  teaspoons  baking  powder 


*4  teaspoon  nutmeg 
3  tablespoons  milk  or  water 
1 94  cups  flour 

94  cup  finely  chopped  citron 


Cream  butter,  sugar  and  egg  together.  Sift  baking  powder,  nut¬ 
meg  and  flour  together  and  add  to  mixture  with  the  milk  or  water. 
Last  add  the  citron  well  floured.  Roll  dough  out  on  floured  board  to 
desired  thickness,  cut  and  bake  on  greased  sheets  in  quick  oven. 


PRUNE  COOKIES. 


1  cup  seeded  and  chopped 
prunes 

1  large  egg  or  2  egg  yolks 
1*4  cups  sifted  brown  sugar 
494  tablespoons  melted  short¬ 
ening 


1  teaspoon  soda 
*4  teaspoon  salt 

94  teaspoon  nutmeg 
94  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  94  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


Place  chopped  prunes,  egg  or  egg  yolks,  sugar,  shortening  and 
soda  in  mixing  bowl  and  beat  until  it  is  light  and  creamy.  Now  siift 
salt,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and  add. 
Mix  well,  then  take  out  onto  floured  board,  roll  and  cut  in  desired 
shapes.  If  soft  cookies  are  wanted,  roll  the  dough  thick.  These 
cookies  keep  and  are  better  with  age. 


SOFT  GINGER 

94  cup  sugar 
94  cup  shortening 
94  cup  dark  molasses 
2  teaspoons  ginger 
1 94  teaspoons  soda 


COOKIES. 

2  tablespoons  boiling  water 
1  egg 

94  teaspoon  cinnamon 
94  teaspoon  salt 
294  cups  of  flour 


Boil  the  sugar,  shortening,  molasses  and  ginger  for  one  minute. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  the  soda  after  it  has  been  dissolved  in  the 
two  tablespoons  of  boiling  water.  Stir  until  foamy,  then  add  the  well 

—  89  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


beaten  egg.  Sift  cinnamon,  salt  and  flour  together  and  add  last.  Mix 
thoroughly  before  placing  on  floured  board.  Roll  to  thickness  of  one- 
half  inch  and  cut  in  shapes  to  suit.  This  makes  50  cookies. 

LILLIE’S  SLICED  COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter  or  other  short¬ 
ening 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

3  eggs 

Cream  the  shortening  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  one  un¬ 
beaten  egg  at  a  time,  using  the  3,  beating  hard  after  each  addition. 
Sift  flour,  soda,  salt  and  cinnamon  together  and  add  together  with  the 
nuts.  Mix  well,  and  with  additional  flour  on  the  board  place  dough 
out  and  form  into  an  oblong  shaped  loaf.  It  is  easier  to  form  into  two 
loaves.  Set  these  molded  loaves  in  the  coldest  part  of  refrigerator 
and  let  stand  until  cold  and  firm,  usually  about  3  hours.  Take  from 
refrigerator,  slice  and  bake  on  greased  sheets  in  quick  oven.  This 
makes  about  50  bar  shaped  cookies. 

ECONOMY  COOKIES. 


4  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  soda 
teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  chopped  nutmeats 


1  cup  of  fat  that  fried  cakes 
have  been  fried  in,  or  drip¬ 
pings 

1  cup  sugar 

1  egg 

2  *4  cups  flour 


4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
3  tablespoons  milk  or  water 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
M  teaspoon  cloves 


Cream  fat,  sugar  and  egg  together.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
together  and  add  to  creamed  mixture,  together  with  milk  or  water  and 
spices.  Mix  all  and  roll  out  on  floured  board,  cut  and  bake. 


BRAN  COOKIES. 

}4  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

*4  cup  sugar  }4  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  ginger 

*4  cup  molasses  (dark  va-  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

riety)  %  teaspoon  cloves 

*4  cup  sour  milk  M  teaspoon  salt 

1%  cups  flour  2  cups  bran 

Cream  the  butter,  sugar  and  egg  together  until  light.  To  this 
add  the  molasses.  Next  sift  the  flour,  soda,  nutmeg,  ginger,  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  salt  together  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with 
sour  milk.  Last  add  bran  and  knead.  Place  dough  on  floured  board 
and  roll  very  thin,  cut  and  bake.  This  makes  about  60  medium  sized 
cookies. 


—  90  — 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 


BROWN  SUGAR  COOKIES. 


1  cup  brown  sugar 
34  cup  butter 

1  large  egg 

2  34  cups  flour 


1  teaspoon  vanilla 
%  teaspoon  soda 
Few  grains  of  salt 

2  tablespoons  sour  milk 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  the  egg  and  cream 
again.  Sift  all  other  dry  ingredients  together  and  add,  together  with 
the  sour  milk.  Roll  on  floured  board  to  a  thickness  of  *4  inch.  Cut 
and  bake  in  quick  oven.  This  makes  a  thick  cooky. 


FLORENCE’S  CHRISTMAS  COOKIES. 

34  cup  butter  94  teaspoon  soda 

1  egg  4  tablespoons  sour  milk 

1  cup  sugar  234  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  hot  water  34  teaspoon  anise  oil 

Soften  the  butter  and  place  in  bowl.  Next  add  the  sugar  and  egg 
and  beat  until  light.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  tablespoonful  of  hot 
water,  and  beat  another  minute.  Next  add  the  sour  milk,  'flour  and 
anise  oil  and  form  into  soft  dough.  Take  out  onto  floured  board  and 
roll  either  very  thin  or  make  in  thick  cookies.  Sprinkle  sugar  over 
top  when  rolling  or  each  cooky  may  be  dipped  in  colored  sugar  before 
baking. 


MARIE’S  BUTTER  COOKIES. 

(For  Christmas.) 

34  lb.  sugar  1  lb.  flour 

34  lb.  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3  eggs  Grated  rind  of  34  lemon 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  thoroughly,  to  which  add  eggs  and  beat 
until  very  light.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to¬ 
gether  with  the  lemon  rind.  Mix  and  roll  on  well-floured  board,  if  nec¬ 
essary  using  a  little  additional  flour  to  stiffen  the  dough.  When 
cookies  are  all  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  brush  beaten  egg  over  the  top  of 
all  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

FRANCE’S  ALMOND  COOKIES. 

3  egg  whites  34  lb.  finely  ground  almonds 

34  lb.  pulverized  sugar  Enough  orange  juice  to  flavor 

Beat  egg  whites  very  stiff  and  add  to  them  first  the  sugar,  then 
the  almonds,  using  the  folding  method.  Last  add  the  orange  juice  or 
orange  extract  to  flavor  and  bake  on  buttered  sheets. 

—  91  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


TEA  CAKES. 

1  cup  butter  3%  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  vanilla,  or  2  tea- 

3  eggs  spoons  lemon,  or  1  teaspoon 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  almond 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  unbeaten  eggs  and 
cream  again.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to  these 
ingredients,  mixing  into  a  firm  dough.  Roll  as  thin  as  possible,  cut, 
place  on  greased  pans  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  No  salt  is  needed  in 
this  recipe,  owing  to  the  amount  of  butter  used. 

It  is  hard  to  tell  exactly  the  amount  of  flour  to  be  used  in  cookies, 
an  extra  amount  always  being  needed  for  the  rolling  process. 

ORANGE  TEA  CAKES. 


1  cup  sugar  Grated  rind  of  Vt  or  1  whole 

Vt  cup  butter  orange 

1  egg  Vz  cup  orange  juice 

About  2 Vt  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  egg  and  re-cream. 
Add  grated  orange  peeling  and  orange  juice,  together  with  flour  and 
baking  powder  after  it  has  been  sifted  together.  Roll  dough  thin, 
rolling  granulated  sugar  on  top  of  dough.  Cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Mix 
powdered  sugar  and  orange  juice  together  and  place  one  drop  on  each 
cake,  together  with  one-half  nut. 


ELKHART  DROP  CAKES. 

1 14  cups  dark  brown  sugar  2  cups  flour 

%  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

3  eggs  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  Vt  cup  raisins 

1  teaspoon  cloves  1  cup  black  walnut  nut  meats 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  to  which  add  egg  yolks  and 
cream  again.  Next  sift  all  dry  ingredients  together  and  add.  Fold  in 
the  raisins  and  nuts  and  last  the  well  beaten  egg  whites.  Drop  on 
greased  tins  and  bake  in  quick  oven  for  5  or  10  minutes,  then  decrease 
heat  for  remaining  baking  period. 


ALMOND  SOUR  CREAM  DROP  CAKES. 


1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter 
1  egg 

1  cup  sour  cream 
1 %  cups  flour 


3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
H  teaspoon  soda 
Vt  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  almond  extract 
Vt  cup  chopped  almonds 


Evenly  blend  the  sugar  and  butter,  to  which  add  the  well  beaten 
egg  and  cream  thoroughly.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt 

—  92  — 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 


together  3  times.  Place  3  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sifted  ingredients  into 
the  creamed  mixture  and  beat  all  together,  then  add  sour  cream  and 
remaining  dry  ingredients  to  creamed  mixture  and  beat  hard  for  2 
minutes.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  muffin  tins,  or  dough  may 
be  dropped  by  spoonfuls  on  greased  sheets.  Make  a  cold  icing  and 
place  a  dot  of  cold  icing  on  top  of  each  cake  and  on  top  of  each  drop 
of  icing  place  3  blanched  almonds. 


QUEEN  CUP  CAKES. 


4  tablespoons  rendered  hen 
fat 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar 
1  large  egg 

cup  sweet  milk 


1 *4  cups  flour 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 
Few  grains  of  salt 


Have  fat  in  softened  condition  and  then  place  all  the  ingredients 
in  bowl  in  order  given  and  beat  5  minutes.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour- 
dusted  muffin  tins.  When  done  remove  from  pans  and  cool.  After 
they  are  thoroughly  chilled,  cut  each  cup  cake  in  half,  making  two 
layers.  Between  the  layers  place  a  generous  spreading  of  “Date  Nut 
Filling,”  as  given  in  cake  icings.  These  remain  moist  indefinitely  if 
kept  under  a  crock. 

NOEL  CUP  CAKES. 

cup  butter  or  substitute  1  cup  cold  milk 

1 14  cups  sugar  1J4  teaspoons  extract 

214  cups  flour  3  egg  whites 

414  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  till  soft,  then  combine  with  sugar  and  beat  till 
frothy,  using  hot  water  method.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  to¬ 
gether  three  times  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  milk. 
Beat  2  minutes,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Do  not 
beat  after  whites  are  added.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins.  Ice  with 
thick  covering  of  “Jiffy  Icing.”  On  top  of  each  cake  place  a  large 
gumdrop,  and  evenly  around  the  gumdrop  place  silver  candies.  Use 
different  colored  gumdrops. 


PRUNE  CUP  CAKES. 


1  cup  cooked  and  chopped 
prunes 

1  large  egg  or  2  yolks 

1  cup  white  or  brown  sugar 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  or 
other  shortening 


J4  teaspoon  soda 
*4  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  nutmeg 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
194  cups  flour 
%  cup  sour  milk 


Cook  prunes  until  tender,  but  not  too  soft.  Seed  and  chop  into 
pieces.  Place  the  cup  of  prunes  in  mixing  bowl  together  with  the  egg 
or  yolks,  sugar,  melted  butter,  soda,  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  beat  hard 

—  93  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


for  1  minute.  Next  sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and  add 
alternately  with  the  sour  milk.  Mix  well,  then  place  in  greased  and 
flour-dusted  pans  and  bake.  This  makes  18  large  cup  cakes. 


PLAIN  RICH  CUP  CAKES. 


H  cup  softened  butter 
1  cup  sugar 
1  egg  (large) 

)4  cup  milk  or  water 


1  %  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
)4  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  any  desired  extract 


Place  all  ingredients  in  crock  in  the  order  given  and  beat  5  min¬ 
utes  very  hard.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  muffin  tins. 


COCOA  CUP  CAKES. 

)4  cup  butter 
)4  cup  sugar 
1  egg 

%  cup  sweet  milk 
1)4  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  beaten  egg  and 
cream  again  until  light.  Next  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  cocoa  and 
salt  together  and  add  alternately  to  the  creamed  mixture  with  the 
sweet  milk.  When  all  ingredients  are  combined,  add  vanilla  and  beat 
hard  for  1  minute.  Pour  into  greased  and  flour-dusted  muffin  tins  and 
bake  slowly.  This  makes  12  large  drop  cakes.  Cover  cakes  over  with 
chocolate  icing. 

JUMBLES. 

)4  cup  butter  1)4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  Few  grains  of  salt 

4  egg  yolks  2  tablespoons  water  or  milk 

About  2)4  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  extract 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  egg  yolks  and 
cream  again.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  into  mixture  and  add 
the  milk  and  extract.  Stir  all  together.  Roll  dough  out  onto  floured 
board  to  about  %  inch  in  thickness,  then  sprinkle  coarse  colored  sugar 
over  top  and  roll  the  dough  then  as  thin  as  can  be  handled.  Cut  with 
doughnut  cutter  and  bake  in  quick  oven  on  greased  tin  sheets. 


3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
)4  cup  cocoa 
)4  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


1  cup  sugar 
)4  cup  butter 

1  egg 

2  cups  flour 


VANILLA  WAFERS. 

2)4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
)4  teaspoon  salt 
)i  cup  milk 
2  teaspoons  vanilla 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  egg  and  re-cream. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add  to  creamed  mix- 

—  94  — 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 


ture,  alternately  with  milk  and  vanilla.  Mix  and  roll  on  floured  board 
as  thin  as  it  is  possible  to  roll  the  dough.  Cut  and  bake  on  greased 
sheets  in  quick  oven. 


GRAHAM  WAFERS. 

1  egg 

H  cup  sugar 
%  cup  sour  cream 
M  teaspoon  soda 

Beat  egg  light,  then  combine  with  all  other  ingredients  in  order 
given.  Mix  with  a  spoon,  takeout  onto  floured  board,  roll  as  thin  as 
possible,  cut  and  bake.  Sugar  may  be  rolled  in  on  top  of  dough. 


teaspoon  salt 
cups  graham  flour 
1  cup  white  flour 


HERMITS. 


1 cups  sugar 
1  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed 
3  eggs 

3  tablespoons  sour  milk 
%  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 


teaspoon  cloves 
*4  teaspoon  allspice 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  cup  seeded  raisins 
*4  cup  finely  chopped  citron 
Enough  flour  to  make  dough 
stiff  enough  to  roll 


Mix  ingredients  as  given  in  order,  having  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake 
in  quick  oven  to  delicate  brown.  Hermits  improve  in  flavor  if  kept  a 
few  days. 


ALMOND  TEA  BARS. 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  blanched  chopped  al- 

4  tablespoons  water  monds 

1  egg  wliite 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  hairs.  Have  egg  white  beaten  stiff 
and  slowly  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  egg  white,  whipping  briskly. 
When  mixture  begins  to  stiffen  add  the  chopped  nuts.  Spread  on  long 
shaped  crackers  and  place  in  oven  to  brown  lightly. 


NUT  SQUARES. 


2  eggs 

U 

teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

% 

teaspoon  baking  powder 

%  cup  flour 

% 

cup  nutmeats 

H  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  sugar  and  beat  2  minutes.  Sift 
flour,  cinnamon,  salt  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  together 
with  nutmeats.  Place  dough  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  pan.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  and  when  done  remove  from  oven  and  cut  in  squares. 

—  95  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL,  RECIPES 


CITRON  MACAROONS. 

3  egg  whites  14  cup  finely  chopped  citron 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  blanched  and  chopped  Grated  rind  of  14  lemon 

almonds  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Add  pinch  of  salt  to  egg  whites  and  beat  until  very  stiff.  Fold 
in  powdered  sugar  after  it  has  been  sifted  one  time.  Mix  almonds, 
citron  and  flour  and  add.  Last  add  grated  lemon  rind  and  juice.  Drop 
by  teaspoonfuls  on  greased  sheet.  Place  in  quick  oven  for  first  3  or  4 
minutes,  then  turn  heat  to  very  low  and  allow  macaroons  to  bake  for 
about  20  minutes  longer.  Remove  macaroons  from  pan  while  hot, 
using  a  pancake  turner  or  spatula  for  lifting  them  from  pans. 

BUTTER  MACAROONS. 


4  eggs 

%  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  flour 

14  teaspoon  salt 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
14  teaspoon  nutmeg 
14  cup  chopped  blanched  al¬ 
monds 


Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  eggs.  Drop  the  yolks  in 
boiling  water  and  let  stand  20  minutes.  Remove  eggs  from  hot  water, 
cool  and  place  in  a  bowl.  Mash  the  yolks  thoroughly  and  then  gradu¬ 
ally  add  the  butter  and  cream  to  a  smooth  mixture.  Mix  sugar,  flour, 
salt,  baking  powder  and  nutmeg  together  and  add  to  the  creamecb 
mixture,  beating  hard  after  all  ingredients  are  combined.  Add  al¬ 
monds  and  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Drop  mixture 
by  spoonfuls  on  greased  tin  sheet.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  for  first  2  or  3 
minutes,  then  decrease  heat  to  moderate  for  remaining  baking  period. 


PEANUT  MACAROONS. 


3  egg  whites  1  tablespoon  flour 

Pinch  of  salt  14  teaspoon  cinnamon 

14  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  1  cup  finely  chopped  peanuts 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

Add  pinch  of  salt  to  egg  whites  and  beat  until  light.  Mix  cream 
of  tartar  and  sugar  together  and  add,  beating  until  mixture  is  very 
stiff.  Mix  flour,  cinnamon  and  peanuts  together  and  add  last  by  the 
folding  process.  Drop  on  greased  paper  or  biscuit  sheet  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  until  done. 


CORNFLAKE  ROCKS. 


1  cup  light  brown  sugar 

2  eggs 

3  tablespoons  flour 
2>4  cups  corn  flakes 


14  cup  cocoanut 
14  cup  chopped  walnuts 
14  cup  chopped  raisins 
Few  grains  of  salt 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  sugar  and  cream  again  until  very 
light.  Blend  flour,  corn  flakes,  cocoanut,  walnuts,  raisins  and  salt 


—  96  — 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 


together  and  add.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  greased  sheets.  Place  in 
quick  oven  for  first  3  minutes,  then  decrease  to  moderate  for  remain¬ 
ing  baking  period.  Remove  from  sheets  while  hot,  using  spatula  or 
pancake  turner.  Do  not  bake  too  brown. 


FERGUSON  GEMS. 


cup  sugar 

H 

teaspoon  salt 

cup  butter 

H 

teaspoon  ginger 

14  cup  sorghum  molasses 

H 

teaspoon  cloves 

%  cup  water 

% 

teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  bread  crumbs 

teaspoon  cinnamon 

1H  cups  flour 

% 

cup  raisins 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

U 

cup  chopped  citron 

J4  teaspoon  soda 

% 

cup  chopped  nuts 

Cream  sugar,  butter  and  sorghum  together,  to  which  add  water 
and  bread  crumbs.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  soda,  salt,  ginger, 
cloves,  nutmeg,  and  cinnamon  together  and  add  next.  Add  floured 
raisins  and  citron,  then  the  nuts.  Stir  all  together  and  bake  in  greased 
and  floured  muffin  tins.  Bake  longer  than  for  plain  gems. 

MARGUERITES. 

2  eggs  M  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  flour  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

*4  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  brown  sugar  and  beat  again  until 
mixture  is  very  light.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  into  mixture 
and  beat.  Add  vanilla  and  nuts  and  mix  well.  Bake  in  small  sized 
muffin  tins  greased  and  flour-dusted.  One-third  cup  of  flour  makes  a 
soft,  tender  Marguerite.  If  a  firm  Marguerite  is  wanted  add  ^  cup  of 
flour. 

LADY  FINGERS. 

2  eggs  %  scant  cup  flour 

^4  cup  sugar  (pulverized)  Few  grains  of  salt 

14  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Beat  egg  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  to  which  carefully  fold  in  the 
sugar.  Beat  egg  yolks  light  and  carefully  add  to  whites  and  sugar. 
Add  the  almond  extract  next  and  last  slowly  fold  in  the  flour  and 
pinch  of  salt.  Much  better  results  will  follow  if  regular  lady  finger 
pans  are  used  for  the  baking  of  fingers.  Grease  and  flour-dust  pans. 
If  dough  is  dropped  from  pastry  bag,  use  greased  oil  paper  on  which 
to  bake  them.  The  fingers  may  be  stuck  together  with  egg  whites  and 
pulverized  sugar,  first  dipping  the  fingers  in  egg  whites,  then  in  pow¬ 
dered  sugar  and  firmly  pressing  them  together.  If  fancy  fingers  are 
wanted,  make  a  cold  icing  and  place  between  fingers,  adding  2  gen- 

—  97  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


erous  drops  of  icing  on  top  of  fingers  and  placing  a  nnt  half  in  center 
of  each  drop.  Fingers  may  also  be  iced  all  over  first,  then  rolled  in 
chopped  nuts  or  cocoanut,  or  they  may  be  dipped  in  melted  dipping 
chocolate. 

IDEAL  GINGER  SNAPS. 


1  cup  sorghum  molasses 
%  cup  butter 
3  M  cups  flour 
%  cup  sugar 


2  teaspoons  ginger 
*4  teaspoon  soda 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
teaspoon  salt 


Boil  sorghum  one  minute,  remove  from  fire  and  dissolve  butter  In 
sorghum;  cool  until  lukewarm,  then  sift  in  dry  ingredients  and  mix 
into  stiff  dough.  Roll  on  floured  board  very  thin.  Cut  in  shapes  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven. 


GINGER  SNAPS. 


1  cup  sorghum  molasses 

%  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed 
3J4  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  ginger 


*4  teaspoon  soda 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
teaspoon  salt 


Boil  sorghum  one  minute,  remove  from  fire  and  add  shortening. 
Allow  this  mixture  to  cool  to  lukewarm,  then  add  the  dry  ingredients 
sifted  together.  Roll  dough  out  on  floured  board  as  thin  as  can  be 
handled.  Cut  in  fancy  shapes,  or  plain,  and  bake  in  moderately  heated 
oven.  This  makes  80  ginger  snaps. 

CORN  FLAKE  DROPS  AND  KISSES. 


2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour 


3  cups  corn  flakes 
%  teaspoon  salt 
%  cup  chopped  pecans 


Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  light.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  corn 
flakes,  salt  and  pecans  together  and  add  to  the  creamed  mixture.  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  on  greased  tin  sheets  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  about 
20  or  25  minutes.  When  done  remove  from  pan  with  spatula  or  pan¬ 
cake  turner  while  drops  are  warm.  If  kisses  are  to  be  made  bake  in 
same  way,  only  drops  must  be  taken  quickly  from  the  pan  while  they 
are  very  hot  and  rolled  into  a  ball  in  the  palm  of  hand.  Melt  dip¬ 
ping  chocolate  and  roll  the  kisses  in  the  chocolate.  After  being  dipped 
into  chocolate,  kisses  may  also  be  rolled  in  chopped  nuts  or  cocoanut. 


BLACK  WALNUT  KISSES. 


2  egg  whites 

Few  grains  of  salt 

Small  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar 


1  cup  light  brown  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour 
1  cup  nut  meats 


Add  few  grains  of  salt  to  egg  whites  and  beat  until  eggs  are  half 
stiff,  then  add  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  and  continue  to  beat  until  very 

—  98  — 


COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 


stiff.  Mix  sugar  and  flour  together  and  fold  into  egg  whites.  Last 
add  nut  meats.  Drop  on  slightly  greased  sheets,  placing  in  hot  oven  at 
first,  then  decreasing  heat  and  allowing  kisses  to  remain  until  welL 
done.  Remove  kisses  from  pan  with  spatula  when  yet  warm. 

PECAN  KISSES. 

3  egg  whites  %  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Pinch  of  salt  1  cup  chopped  pecans  \ 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

%  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  '■•3 

Add  pinch  of  salt  to  egg  whites  and  heat  until  stiff ;  add  cream  of 
tartar  and  sugar  and  continue  to  beat  until  mixture  is  very  stiff.  Add 
the  tablespoonful  flour  to  the  chopped  nuts,  evenly  blending,  then  stir 
this  into  the  egg  mixture,  together  with  the  almond  extract.  Drop  on 
greased  paper  and  bake  slowly,  usually  requiring  about  25  minutes  for 
the  baking.  Kisses  may  be  baked  on  greased  tin  biscuit  sheets. 


PEPPER  NUTS. 


3  eggs 

2  cups  brown  sugar 
2%  cups  flour 
1  cup  seedless  raisins 
1  cup  currants 
1  cup  nut  meats,  chopped 


*4  teaspoon  white  pepper 

1  teaspoon  cloves 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

teaspoon  soda 
%  teaspoon  baking  powder 
%  teaspoon  salt 


Beat  eggs  separately,  then  together.  Add  the  flour  gradually  and 
stir  until  smooth,  then  add  raisins,  currants  and  nut  meats.  Mix 
thoroughly,  then  sift  in  the  pepper,  cloves,  cinnamon,  soda,  baking 
powder  and  salt.  Knead  on  floured  board  and  cut  in  tiny  round  shapes 
and  bake  on  greased  sheets. 


SOPHIA’S 


4  eggs 
2  cups  sugar 

%  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate 
(melted) 


BROWNIES. 

^4  cup  butter 
1  cup  flour 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
%  cup  nut  meats 


Separate  whites  and  yolks  and  beat  whites  very  stiff.  Add  to  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  the  sugar  first,  then  the  well  beaten  yolks, 
using  the  folding  method  for  both.  Next  add  the  melted  butter  and 
melted  chocolate.  Spread  dough  in  generously  buttered  sheet  and 
sprinkle  the  nut  meats  evenly  over  the  top.  Bake  about  40  minutes 
in  moderate  oven  at  first,  then  increase  the  heat.  When  the  mixture 
rises  and  sets  firm  and  seemingly  hard,  remove  from  oven  and  cool. 
When  cold,  cut  in  squares  and  serve.  No  baking  powder  is  used  in 
this  recipe. 


—  99  — 


CHAPTER  IX 


Desserts  and  Puddings 


APPLE  CAKE. 

1%  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  6  tablespoons  shortening 

*4  teaspoon  nutmeg  Mt  cup  water 

teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  nutmeg,  salt  and  sugar  together.  Cut 
shortening  in  with  spatula  or  mixing  spoon.  Add  water  and  stir 
briskly.  Roll  dough  out  on  floured  board  to  thickness  of  pie  crust  and 
line  a  large  shallow  pan,  or  dough  can  be  divided  and  two  smaller  pans 
prepared.  Cut  apples  in  eighths  and  place  in  bottom  of  lined  pan. 
Over  the  apples  sprinkle  sugar,  and  either  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  to 
taste.  Over  the  top  of  this  place  butter  in  small  dots  at  regular  spaces. 
Bake  until  apples  are  tender. 

APPLE  TARTS. 

1%  cups  flour  5  tablespoons  shortening 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  egg 

teaspoon  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  cream 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  With  spatula 
cut  shortening  into  dry  ingredients,  having  all  evenly  blended.  Beat 
egg  light  and  combine  with  cream  and  lemon  juice,  then  add  to  dry  in¬ 
gredients.  Mix,  then  roll  dough  out  on  floured  board  as  thin  as  pos¬ 
sible  to  handle,  keeping  dough  on  one  side  and  rolling  from  center  out 
with  each  stroke  of  rolling  pin.  Cut  dough  in  round  shapes.  Have 
apples  cooked  in  candied  form.  Enclose  a  small  piece  of  candied  apple 
in  tart  by  lapping  one-half  of  dough  over  in  envelope  form,  pressing 
edges  down  with  fork.  Apples  may  be  flavored  with  nutmeg  or  cinna¬ 
mon.  Another  way  is  to  roll  the  dough  in  long  strips,  place  a  quarter 
of  candied  apple  on  strip  of  dough  and  roll  it  over  in  one  fold,  then 
cutting  strip  off  and  rolling  another  apple,  and  so  on  until  strip  is 
used.  Bake  these  tarts  in  quick  oven.  Another  tart  may  be  made  by 
rolling  dough  very  thin.  Cut  two  round  sizes  of  dough.  On  larger 
size  of  dough  lay  a  piece  of  apple.  Over  this  place  a  smaller  round  of 


—  100  — 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


dough.  With  fork  press  the  edges  down,  enclosing  apple  in  hat  crown 
form.  After  tarts  are  baked  remove  from  oven,  cool  and  place  a  cirele 
of  stiff  jelly  or  preserves  around  the  crown,  dust  with  pulverized  sugar 
and  serve. 


STEAMED  APPLE 

2  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  salt 
5  tablespoons  butter 


COBBLER. 

94  cup  milk  or  water 
3/4  cups  sliced  apples 
Nutmeg  or  cinnamon  to  taste 
1  cup  sugar 


Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  butter  in  with 
spatula  until  evenly  mixed.  Add  milk  or  water,  stir  briskly  and  roll 
on  floured  board  to  thickness  of  ^4  inch.  Line  a  baking  dish  with  the 
dough.  Mix  apples,  sugar  and  nutmeg  together  and  place  in  lined 
dish,  roll  the  remaining  dough  and  make  cover  for  top  with  air  holes 
in  top  cover.  Set  baking  dish  in  steamer  and  steam  for  2  hours,  keep¬ 
ing  cobbler  covered  while  steaming.  Serve  with  butter  sauce.  This 
cobbler  may  be  baked  instead. 


STUFFED  BAKED  APPLES. 


8  large  firm  apples 
%  cup  chopped  blanched  al¬ 
monds 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar 
94  cup  stale  cake  crumbs  or 
vanilla  wafers 


4  tablespoons  butter 
94  teaspoon  nutmeg 
94  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  water 


Make  a  syrup  from  the  1  cup  of  water  and  1  cup  of  the  brown 
sugar.  Pour  this  syrup  into  a  baking  dish.  Wash,  dry  and  core 
apples  and  set  them  upright  in  syrup.  Mix  together  the  almonds, 
remaining  cup  of  sugar  and  cake  or  vanilla  wafer  crumbs  and  pack 
each  cavity,  if  possible  heaping  it  up  on  top.  Place  butter  in  dots 
all  over  apples  and  in  syrup.  Sprinkle  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  over  top. 
Bake  till  apples  are  tender.  Place  the  apples  on  sauce  dishes  and  serve 
warm,  dividing  the  syrup  in  pan  in  equal  portions  and  serving  with 
each  apple. 

APPLE  ROLL. 

2  cups  flour  94  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  sugar  5  tablespoons  shortening 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  cup  sweet  milk 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  shorten¬ 
ing  in  with  spatula  or  mixing  spoon,  adding  the  milk  and  stirring  all 
together.  Roll  dough  on  floured  board  to  thickness  of  about  *4  of  an 
inch,  keeping  the  dough  rolled  in  oblong  shape.  Spread  melted  butter 
over  the  dough  first,  then  a  generous  layer  of  finely  chopped  apples 
and  sugar.  Sprinkle  either  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  over  this  and  roll 
dough  as  tightly  as  can  be  rolled  in  long  shaped  roll.  Cut  slices  from 

—  101  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


the  roll  about  2  inches  thick  and  place  on  greased  pan  in  same  manner 
as  though  you  were  to  bake  biscuits,  only  keep  slices  close  together. 
On  top  of  each  slice  place  Y$  of  an  apple.  Bake  in  oven  until  apples 
on  top  of  rolls  are  tender.  Serve  hot  with  rich  sauce,  cottage  sauce 
being  excellent  on  these  rolls. 


APPLE  CRUST. 


7  medium  sized  apples 

% 

16  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter 

16 

teaspoon  nutmeg  or  1  tea¬ 
spoon  cinnamon 
cup  water 


Peel  and  chop  apples  fine.  Place  in  pudding  dish  with  sugar, 
butter,  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  and  water.  Prepare  a  crust  in  following 
manner : 


3%  tablespoons  melted  butter 
2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  egg 

16  cup  flour 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Pinch  of  salt 
%  cup  sweet  milk 
1  cup  toasted  bread  crumbs 


Cream  butter,  sugar  and  egg  together.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder 
and  salt  together  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  sweet 
milk.  Next  add  crumbs  and  mix,  then  spread  over  apples  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven.  When  done  remove  from  oven,  dip  out  in  squares, 
turning  crust  down  on  plates,  having  apple  mixture  on  top.  Serve 
with  a  rich  sauce,  cottage  sauce  being  excellent  for  this. 


ESCALLOPED  APPLES. 

4  cups  finely  chopped  apples  16  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  16  cups  bread  crumbs  1  cup  water 

%  cups  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

16  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Have  apples  peeled,  cored  and  chopped.  Place  apples,  crumbs, 
sugar  and  flavoring  in  alternate  layers  in  baking  dish.  Place  the  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  dots  over  the  top  of  mixture.  Pour  the 
water  over  this.  Bake  slowly  in  moderate  oven,  usually  requiring 
about  an  hour  for  the  baking.  Serve  hot  with  rich  sauce,  cottage  sauce 
being  good  on  this. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

2  cups  flour  5  tablespoons  shortening  (6 

2*4  teaspoons  baking  powder  tablespoons  if  short  crust  is 

14  teaspoon  salt  desired) 

%  cup  cold  water 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  shortening  in 
with  spatula  or  mixing  spoon.  Add  water,  stir  briskly  and  roll  on 
floured  board  to  thickness  of  x/2  inch.  Cut  dough  with  round  cutter 
in  shape  large  enough  to  enclose  a  small  sized  apple.  Have  apples 

—  102  — 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


peeled,  cored  and  cavity  filled  with  sugar,  nutmeg  and  butter.  En¬ 
close  each  apple,  prepared  in  this  manner,  in  the  dough  and  have 
dough  well  pinched  together  at  top  of  apple.  To  keep  dough  from 
slipping  down,  place  3  toothpicks  through  dough  and  apple  at  top. 
Place  apples  in  baking  dish,  pouring  in  a  small  amount  of  water. 
Also  place  in  the  pan  with  the  water  enough  sugar  and  butter  to  form 
a  rich  syrup.  Cook  dumplings  until  apples  are  tender.  Serve  hot 
with  cream  or  any  desired  prepared  sauce. 

FRUIT  DUMPLINGS. 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  pinch  of  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  3  tablespoons  milk 

1J4  cups  flour 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  egg  and  re-cream. 
Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to  creamed  mix¬ 
ture,  alternately  with  sweet  milk.  Place  dough  on  floured  board,  roll 
to  thickness  of  Vi  inch,  cut  in  small  diamond  or  round  shapes.  Drop 
into  boiling  sweet  fruit  juice  and  allow  cover  to  remain  on  for  about 
12  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  place  dumplings  on  individual  plates 
and  serve  with  the  fruit  juice  in  which  they  are  cooked,  or  more  juice 
may  be  added. 

PEACH  SHORT  CAKE. 

2M  cups  flour  5  or  6  tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  cup  sweet  milk 

14  teaspoon  salt  }4  teaspoon  vanilla 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  butter  in 
with  spatula.  Beat  egg  light  and  add  to  sweet  milk.  Pour  milk,  egg 
and  vanilla  into  flour  mixture  and  stir  briskly.  Roll  dough  out  on 
floured  board  to  thickness  of  V2  inch.  Knead  as  little  as  possible  be¬ 
fore  rolling.  Cut  in  shapes  larger  than  for  biscuits.  Bake  in  quick 
oven  for  about  10  minutes.  When  cakes  are  browned  lightly,  remove 
from  oven,  split,  add  a  little  butter  to  lower  half  and  lay  slices  of 
sweet  canned  peaches  or  crushed  sugared  peaches  on  cake.  Place  the 
top  of  cake  on  this  and  over  the  top  spread  another  generous  spoonful 
of  crushed  peaches  or  slices.  Serve  warm  with  whipped  cream. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

2^4  cups  flour  6  tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg 

314  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  cup  milk 

teaspoon  salt  *4  teaspoon  vanilla 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Cut  butter  in 
with  spatula  or  mixing  spoon.  Beat  egg  light  and  add  to  the  milk, 

—  103  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


then  combine  the  dry  ingredients,  milk,  egg  and  vanilla.  Knead  into 
a  soft  dough  and  roll  on  floured  board  to  thickness  of  about  ^  inch. 
Cut  in  individual  shapes  larger  than  for  biscuits.  Bake  in  quick  oven 
for  about  10  minutes,  browning  to  a  delicate  brown.  Remove  from 
oven  and  while  yet  warm,  split  each  cake  and  spread  a  little  butter 
on  under  half.  Have  half  crushed  sugared  strawberries  ready  and 
spread  between  the  split  cakes.  On  top  of  cakes  spread  strawberries 
after  they  have  been  rolled  in  powdered  sugar.  On  top  of  strawber¬ 
ries  place  a  generous  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  with  one  red  berry 
on  top  of  this. 

JELLY  ROLL. 

3  eggs  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

134  cups  granulated  sugar  34  cup  nearly  boiling  hot 

134  cups  flour  water 

34  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

Beat  eggs  light,  then  add  sugar  and  beat  all  together  until  mix¬ 
ture  is  very  light,  usually  from  5  to  10  minutes  being  necessary  for  the 
beating.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  three  times  and 
add  to  egg  and  sugar  mixture  and  beat  again  about  two  minutes. 
Last  add  the  hot  water  gradually,  then  the  extract.  Beat  mixture  and 
pour  into  a  pan  prepared  in  the  following  manner :  Select  a  tin  pan 
with  narrow  rim,  about  12x14  or  12x16  inches  in  size.  Grease  this 
pan  generously,  then  lay  a  piece  of  oil  paper  in  bottom  of  pan  on  top 
of  grease,  seeing  that  the  paper  is  just  the  size  of  the  bottom.  When 
paper  is  fitted  in,  then  grease  the  paper  generously  and  dust  flour 
over  this.  Now  pour  the  dough  mixture  in  and  bake  as  you  would 
bake  a  layer  cake,  only  having  the  oven  a  little  hotter.  When  cake  is 
done  take  from  oven  and  turn  it  out  upside  down  on  a  damp  towel. 
Remove  the  paper  from  cake  quickly,  if  it  does  not  adhere  to  pan, 
and  spread  soft  jelly  over  the  cake.  Now  take  the  end  of  towel  next 
to  you  and  roll  it  from  you,  simply  forcing  the  roll  ahead  of  your 
towel.  This  must  all  be  accomplished  in  about  2  minutes  from  the 
time  it  leaves  the  oven,  before  the  steam  escapes  from  the  hot  cake,  or 
roll  will  crack.  A  lemon  filling  or  chocolate  filling  may  be  used  in¬ 
stead  of  jelly,  or  a  marshmallow  mixture  may  be  used. 

LEMON  ROLL. 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Jelly  Roll,  but  fill  with  lemon  filling  made  in 
following  manner,  instead  of  using  jelly : 

1  egg 

1  cup  cold  water 
1  cup  sugar 
7  tablespoons  flour 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  the  water.  Mix  the  sugar  and  flour 
together  and  add  to  the  water.  Place  this  on  to  cook  in  double  boiler 
and  cook  till  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick  remove  from 

—  104  — 


234  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
Grated  rind  of  34  lemon 
3  tablespoons  butter 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


fire,  add  lemon  juice,  rind  and  butter.  Cool  mixture  first,  then  it  is 
ready  to  spread  on  roll. 


FRESH  BLACKBERRY  OR  RASPBERRY  ROLL. 


2  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  tablespoon  sugar 
H  teaspoon  salt 
5  tablespoons  shortening 


%  cup  sweet  milk 
3  cups  fresh  blackberries  or 
raspberries 

1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter 


Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt  together.  Cut  shorten¬ 
ing  in  dry  ingredients  and  then  add  milk  and  mix  quickly  into  a  soft 
dough.  Dredge  board  with  flour  and  roll  dough  in  oblong  shape  to 
thickness  of  ^  inch.  Have  the  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  softened 
and  spread  over  the  dough,  then  spread  fresh  blackberries  evenly  over 
this.  Sprinkle  sugar  and  flour  over  the  top  of  all  and  roll  this  into  a 
long  roll,  rolling  it  as  tight  as  possible,  pinching  the  edges  well  to¬ 
gether  at  last.  Bake  on  greased  sheet  or  pan  in  hot  oven.  Other  fresh 
fruit  may  be  used  in  place  of  blackberries  and  raspberries. 

FRESH  BLACKBERRY  OR  RASPBERRY  ROLL  SAUCE. 


Mix  2 y2  cups  of  berries  with  2/3  cup  of  sugar  and  2/3  cup  of 
cream.  Crush  the  berries  before  combining  with  sugar  and  cream. 
This  does  not  look  good,  but  the  flavor  is  there. 


ANGEL’S  DELIGHT. 


3  eggs  beaten  separately 
cup  finely  chopped  dates 
6  tablespoons  finely  rolled 
cracker  crumbs 
M  cup  sugar 


M  cup  chopped  pecans 
4  tablespoons  flour 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Pinch  of  salt 


Beat  egg  yolks  very  light,  to  which  add  dates,  cracker  crumbs, 
sugar  and  pecans,  mixing  all  thoroughly.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
together  and  add  next,  having  mixture  in  perfect  blended  form.  Add 
pinch  of  salt  to  egg  whites  and  beat  until  stiff,  then  fold  whites  care¬ 
fully  in  crumb  mixture,  stirring  enough  to  have  it  smooth.  Bake  in  a 
loaf  pan.  Pan  should  be  very  slightly  greased.  Allow  pudding  to 
remain  in  pan  till  cold,  then  remove.  Serve  in  slices  with  whipped 
cream,  seasoned  to  suit  taste,  or  any  desired  sauce  may  be  used.  This 
makes  enough  to  serve  six  persons  generously.  Pudding  should  be 
baked  slowly. 


RICH  CHERRY  COBBLER. 


2  cups  flour  6  tablespoons  shortening 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

16  teaspoon  salt  Sweet  milk 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  together.  Cut  shorten¬ 
ing  in  with  mixing  spoon  or  spatula.  Beat  egg  light  and  pour  into 

—  105  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


measuring  cup.  Pour  enough  sweet  milk  in  cup  with  egg  to  make  2/3 
cupful.  Now  combine  liquid  mixture  with  dry  ingredients,  stirring 
briskly.  Roll  dough  out  on  floured  board  to  thickness  of  pie  crust. 
Line  a  deep  pan  with  the  crust.  Mix  together  3  cups  of  fresh  seeded 
cherries,  4  tablespoonfuls  flour,  iy2  cups  sugar,  and  place  in  the  lined 
pan,  placing  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  dots  over  this.  Roll  another 
thickness  of  dough  for  top  cover ;  bring  under-crust  dough  down  from 
outer  edges  and  lap  over  top  covering.  Make  some  air  slits  in  top 
of  crust  and  place  cobbler  in  a  hot  oven  for  first  10  minutes,  then  de¬ 
crease  the  heat  and  continue  to  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  remaining 
period.  The  cobbler  should  be  baked  longer  if  the  cherries  are  fresh. 
Where  canned  cherries  are  used,  make  the  same  way  as  with  fresh. 
Always  be  careful  to  blend  sugar  and  flour  together,  then  add  to  fruit 
in  separate  bowl  before  placing  in  the  crust. 

BLACKBERRY,  RASPBERRY  OR  RED  RASPBERRY  COBBLER. 

Use  the  same  recipe  as  for  Rich  Cherry  Cobbler,  only  make  the  fol¬ 
lowing  changes,  viz. :  Use  one  cup  of  sugar  instead  of  iy2.  Use  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  instead  of  2. 


CREAM  PUFFS. 

1  cup  hot  or  cold  water  1  cup  flour 

cup  butter  4  eggs 

Put  water  and  butter  in  saucepan  or  bowl  and  when  it  comes  to  a 
boil  add  the  flour  all  at  once,  or  sifted  in  quickly  and  stir  briskly  until 
the  dough  leaves  the  sides  of  pan  and  forms  a  smooth  lump.  Take 
from  fire  and  cool  to  at  least  lukewarm.  When  cool,  add  unbeaten 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat  5  minutes  after  the  addition  of  each  egg. 
Grease  a  sheet  pan  slightly  and  drop  dough  on  pan  by  spoonfuls. 
Puffs  should  bake  about  35  minutes,  the  first  8'  or  10  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven  (about  475°  F.),  then  decrease  the  heat  to  moderate.  Unless  the 
puffs  are  thoroughly  baked  they  will  fall  when  taken  from  oven.  An¬ 
other  method  for  baking  is  to  place  the  puffs  in  at  a  temperature  of 
300°  F.,  and  increase  the  heat  gradually  to  500°  F.,  then  turn  heat 
off  and  bake  till  done.  Fill  puffs  with  following  mixture : 


FILLING  FOR  CREAM  PUFFS. 


2  eggs 

2  cups  cold  sweet  milk 
%  cup  sugar 
6  tablespoons  flour  or 


5  tablespoons  corn  starch 
Few  grains  of  salt 
1  %  tablespoons  butter 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Blend  sugar,  flour  and 
salt  together  and  add.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook  till 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick  remove  from  fire,  add  butter 
and  vanilla  and  allow  same  to  cool  before  placing  into  the  puffs. 


—  106  — 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


SPANISH  PUFFS. 

Mi  cup  butter  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  hot  water  3  eggs  (large) 

Place  the  butter  and  water  in  saucepan  over  fire.  When  mixture 
comes  to  boiling  point,  add  the  flour  by  sifting  quickly  into  boiling 
liquid  and  at  the  same  time  stirring  briskly.  Stir  until  the  dough 
drops  from  the  sides  of  saucepan  into  ball,  which  usually  requires 
only  about  1  minute’s  time  for  the  process.  Now  take  mixture  from 
fire  and  cool.  When  cold,  add  one  egg  at  a  time  until  3  large  eggs 
have  been  added,  beating  5  minutes  after  the  addition  of  each  egg,  or 
15  minutes  in  all.  When  this  is  done,  have  fat  heated  to  a  degree 
lower  than  for  doughnuts.  If  the  dough  is  dropped  into  fat  that  is 
too  hot  they  will  brown  too  quickly  and  will  not  be  as  light.  Cook 
them  rather  slowly  and  they  will  turn  themselves.  These  may  be 
served  plain,  dredged  with  sugar  or  served  with  syrup,  or  better  still, 
filled  with  cream  filling  like  cream  puffs,  or  a  fancy  filling  of  whipped 
cream,  marshmallows  and  nuts,  sweetened  to  taste,  may  be  used.  The 
best  way  to  test  fat  to  determine  whether-kot  enough  is  to  drop  a  piece 
of  dough  into  the  hot  fat,  and  if  it  is  about  one-half  second  coming  to 
the  surface,  it  is  about  right.  These  puffs  rise  to  more  than  three  times 
the  size  of  the  dough  when  dropped  in,  so  if  too  much  dough  is  dropped 
in  a  small  amount  of  fat  there  will  not  be  room  enough  for  puffs  to 
turn  themselves.  A  tablespoonful  of  dough  makes  a  large  size  puff 
when  cooked.  About  15  minutes  is  required  for  puffs  to  cook. 

FILLING. 


24  marshmallows  4  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar 

M  cup  chopped  pecans  Mt  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mi  pint  double  cream  whipped 

Cut  marshmallows  in  small  pieces,  and  add  to  the  stiff  whipped 
cream.  Fold  in  sugar  and  nuts,  together  with  vanilla. 

CURRANT  TARTS. 

Mi  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

4  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  large  egg  1  cup  currants 

Cream  the  brown  sugar  and  butter  together  until  frothy.  Next 
add  the  unbeaten  egg,  lemon  juice,  nutmeg  and  currants.  Beat  well 
until  the  mixture  seems  light.  Have  muffin  tin  compartments  lined 
on  the  inside  with  quick  puff  paste  (see  recipe  under  chapter  on  pies), 
and  fill  each  one  two-thirds  full  of  the  currant  mixture.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  for  5  minutes,  then  decrease  heat  and  allow  tarts  to  remain  until 
light  brown.  This  makes  8  large  tarts  or  12  small  ones.  To  make 
tarts  more  delicious  place  whipped  cream  or  jiffy  icing  on  top  of  each. 

—  107  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


RAW  CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Wash,  dry  and  stem  cranberries.  Run  berries  through  a  food 
grinder,  using  the  disc  which  grinds  them  the  finest.  To  each  cup 
of  the  ground  cranberries  add  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved.  When  dissolved  chill  or  cool  in  refrigerator  and 
serve  as  sauce.  If  the  mixture  is  allowed  to  set  6  hours  before  serving 
it  will  be  better.  Excellent  served  with  wild  game,  roast  pork  or  any 
kind  of  fowl. 

SPICED  PRUNES. 

1  lb.  large  prunes  J4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

114  cups  water  %  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  sugar  16  teaspoon  ginger 

34  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Soak  the  prunes  over  night  in  warm  water.  When  soaked,  drain 
from  water  and  place  into  saucepan  with  the  other  ingredients  given 
and  boil  10  minutes  slowly,  or  the  water  and  other  ingredients  may 
be  boiled  5  minutes  first,  then  the  drained  prunes  dropped  in  and  sim¬ 
mered  slowly  10  minutes.  The  latter  method  keeps  the  prunes  in  firm 
form.  One  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  may  be  added  also 
if  desired. 

BAKED  APPLES  STUFFED  WITH  DATES  AND  FIGS. 

Wash,  core  and  pare  large  firm  apples,  removing  a  generous 
amount  of  apple  around  the  core.  To  8  large  apples  use  16  dates  and 
8  figs  cut  in  fine  pieces.  Stuff  the  cavities  with  the  date  and  fig  mix¬ 
ture  and  set  apples  in  baking  dish.  Over  the  top  of  each  apple  sprinkle 
a  little  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  and  in  the  pan  place  2  cups  of  brown 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  water.  Place  in  oven  in 
uncovered  form  and  bake  until  tender,  but  not  mushy.  Remove  to 
plates  and  serve  with  the  sauce  remaining  in  pan  and  additional  cream. 

RHUBARB  SAUCE. 

2  cups  cut  rhubarb,  unpeeled  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  water  1  level  teaspoon  butter 

Place  water  and  sugar  in  enamel  bowl  and  set  over  fire.  When  it 
boils  up,  drop  the  rhubarb  in  and  cover.  Turn  flame  low  and  let  rhu¬ 
barb  cook  until  tender,  which  means  about  7  or  8  minutes.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  butter  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 


CHIFFON  PUDDING. 


3  tablespoons  gelatine 
14  cup  cold  water 
14  cup  boiling  water 
2  cups  whipping  cream 


%  cup  sugar 
14  cup  diced  pineapple 
Juice  of  14  lemon 
Pink  fruit  coloring 


Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  allow  it  to  stand  15  minutes, 
then  combine  with  hot  water.  Whip  the  2  cups  of  cream  stiff.  Com- 

—  108  — 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


bine  the  gelatine,  whipped  cream  and  sugar,  then  add  the  pineapple, 
lemon  and  enough  pink  fruit  coloring  to  tint  to  desired  shade.  Do 
not  stir  more  than  necessary  to  get  all  well  mixed.  Pour  mixture  in 
molds  and  set  on  ice  to  chill.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

LEMON  SNOW  PUDDING. 

1  tablespoon  gelatine  1  cup  sugar 

34  cup  cold  water  34  cup  lemon  juice 

1  cup  boiling  water  Whites  of  3  eggs 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  15  minutes,  then  pour  into  it  the  cup 
of  boiling  water.  Next  add  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Strain  through 
a  cloth  in  bowl.  Set  aside  in  some  cold  place,  and  when  it  has  thick¬ 
ened,  beat  with  egg  beater  until  white  and  frothy.  Have  whites  of  3 
eggs  beaten  very  stiff  and  add  to  the  mixture  and  continue  to  beat 
until  it  seems  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape.  Pour  out  into  individual 
molds,  first  rinsing  molds  out  in  cold  water,  and  set  on  ice  to  chill. 
When  firmly  set,  turn  molds  out  on  sauce  dishes  and  serve  plain  or 
to  make  a  delicious  pudding,  stiffly  beaten,  flavored  whipped  cream 
should  be  placed  on  top.  The  pudding  may  be  made  the  day  before 
serving,  but  whipped  cream  should  be  added  just  before  serving. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING. 

34  pint  whipping  cream  14  teaspoon  vanilla 

24  marshmallows  34  cup  chopped  pecans 

1  egg  white  15  vanilla  wafers 

14  cup  confectioner’s  sugar 

Have  the  %  pint  cream  whipped  stiff,  to  which  add  the  quartered 
marshmallows.  Beat  egg  white  stiff  and  fold  sugar  in  the  egg  white. 
Combine  the  marshmallows  and  cream  with  egg  and  sugar.  Fold  in 
the  chopped  pecans  and  vanilla.  Roll  the  vanilla  wafers  to  fine  crumbs. 
Make  a  molded  heap  of  marshmallow  mixture  on  dessert  plate  and  all 
around  this  heap  place  a  circle  of  crumbs.  On  top  of  each  heap  place 
a  Maraschino  cherry.  Eight  persons  may  be  served  from  this  amount. 
Keep  cool  until  time  to  serve. 

CRUMB  PUDDING. 

1  egg  234  cups  crumbs 

134  cups  sweet  milk  34  cup  sugar 

34  teaspoon  nutmeg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

34  cup  raisins 

Beat  egg  light,  then  add  to  egg  the  milk,  nutmeg  and  raisins. 
Next  add  crumbs,  sugar  and  baking  powder,  after  they  have  been  well 
mixed.  Better  results  will  follow  if  baking  dish  is  set  in  larger  pan 
containing  water.  This  keeps  pudding  soft  and  does  not  allow  heat  to 
crust  pudding  at  sides.  Serve  with  cottage  sauce. 

—  109  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


DAINTY  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

6  peach  halves  2  oranges 

6  thin  slices  of  pineapple  cup  shredded  cocoanut 

2  bananas  18  vanilla  wafers 


Place  slices  of  pineapple  on  small  plates.  On  top  of  the  pineapple 
place  a  peach  half,  placing  it  with  center  of  peach  down  on  pineapple. 
Have  bananas  and  oranges  diced.  Sweeten  bananas  and  oranges  to 
taste  and  mix  with  shredded  cocoannt.  Place  a  circle  of  this  mixture 
all  around  the  pineapple  on  the  plate.  Mash  the  vanilla  wafers  into 
fine  crumbs  and  form  an.  outer  circle  of  vanilla  crumbs  all  around  the 
banana  and  orange  mixture.  For  a  more  delicious  pudding  a  spoonful 
of  whipped  cream  should  be  placed  on  top  of  peach  with  a  candied 
cherry  in  center. 

ROLLED  OATS  PUDDING. 

1%  cups  cooked  rolled  oats  %  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  M  cup  seeded  raisins 

1  %  cups  sweet  milk 


Use  left  over  cooked  oats.  Beat  eggs  light  and  mix  with  oats, 
then  mix  with  sugar  and  raisins.  Bake  in  greased  pudding  dish  until 
mixture  is  set,  which  usually  means  from  25  to  35  minutes.  Serve  with 
cream  or  sauce. 

STEAMED  SUET  PUDDING. 


1  cup  finely  chopped  suet 
1  cup  dark  molasses 
1  cup  sweet  milk 
3  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
M  teaspoon  cloves 
li  teaspoon  nutmeg 


1  teaspoon  soda 
%  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  raisins 

%  cup  chopped  pecans  or 
English  walnuts 

2  tablespoons  citron  chopped 
fine 


Mix  suet  and  molasses  together.  Sift  flour,  spices,  soda  and  salt 
together  three  times  and  add  to  molasses  and  suet  alternately  with 
sweet  milk.  Next  add  floured  raisins,  chopped  nuts  and  floured  citron. 
Mix  all  together  and  last  stir  in  an  additional  *4  cup  of  boiling  water 
into  which  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Pour  dough 
mixture  in  baking  powder  cans  and  steam  3  hours,  filling  cans  only 
half  full  and  placing  tops  on  cans. 


PLAIN  BREAD 

2  eggs 

3  cups  sweet  milk 

2  cups  bread  crumbs 
%  cup  sugar 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 


PUDDING. 

M  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

%  cup  Sultana  raisins  or  cur¬ 
rants 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  milk  and  bread  crumbs.  Mix  sugar, 
nutmeg,  salt  and  baking  powder  together  and  add.  Last  add  melted 

—  110  — 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


butter  and  raisins  or  currants.  Bake  in  pudding  dish  set  in  larger 
pan  with  enough  water  in  to  keep  pudding  from  crusting  at  outer 
edges.  Bake  until  set  and  browned  lightly.  Serve  with  sauce  or  cream. 


DATE  PUDDING. 


1  cup  sugar 
14  cup  butter 
J4  cup  sweet  milk 
1 XA  cups  flour 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
J4  teaspoon  salt 
1 teaspoons  cinnamon 


M  teaspoon  cloves 
Mt  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  cup  chopped  dates 
M  cup  chopped  pecans 
1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
citron 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  together  thoroughly.  Sift  flour,  baking 
powder,  salt,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg  together  and  add  alter¬ 
nately  to  creamed  mixture  with  sweet  milk.  Add  chopped  dates,  pe¬ 
cans  and  citron  next.  Mix  well  and  place  in  covered  baking  powder 
cans  and  steam  for  at  least  2 y2  hours.  Serve  warm  with  rich  sauce 
or  thick  cream. 


BLACK  AND  WHITE  PUDDING. 

2  egg  yolks  1  teaspoon  soda 

%  cup  dark  molasses  *4  cup  warm  water 

1  A  cups  flour 

Beat  yolks  light,  to  which  add  molasses.  Sift  flour  and  soda  to¬ 
gether  and  add  to  mixture  alternately  with  the  warm  water.  At  this 
time  either  ^  cup  of  raisins,  currants  or  chopped  dates  may  be  added. 
Place  the  mixture  in  individual  cups  and  steam,  or  steam  in  one  mold. 
Serve  with  a  sauce  made  in  the  following  manner : 

Cream  1  cup  of  confectioners’  sugar  and  ^  cup  butter  together 
until  very  frothy,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  The  mix¬ 
ture  may  be  beaten  hard  after  the  folding  process  and  chilled  before 
using.  The  pudding  must  be  kept  piping  hot  ’til  ready  to  serve. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

1  cup  tapioca  3A  cup  sugar 

1^4  cups  water  Pinch  of  salt 

3  cups  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  eggs 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  1^  cups  water  for  at  least  2  hours,  or  until 
the  tapioca  is  perfectly  soft.  Pour  cold  water  over  soaked  tapioca  and 
wash  gently,  then  drain.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  light  and  add  to 
the  3  cups  of  milk,  together  with  the  sugar  and  salt.  Place  this  mix¬ 
ture  in  double  boiler  and  when  heated  to  the  boiling  point  stir  in  the 


111 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


tapioca  and  allow  it  to  remain  in  double  boiler  and  cook  for  about  30 
minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  vanilla.  Beat 
the  egg  whites  stiff  and  fold  in  carefully,  then  pour  into  individual 
molds  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold  and  set,  remove  from  molds 
and  place  on  individual  dishes.  Slice  bananas  and  form  in  circle 
around  molds.  Serve  with  rich  cream  or  fruit  juice  boiled  down  to 
almost  a  thick  syrup.  One-half  this  recipe  will  serve  five  persons  gen¬ 
erously. 

RICE  PUDDING. 


1  cup  rice 
3  cups  water 
3  eggs 

3  cups  sweet  milk 
94  cup  sugar 


Pinch  of  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
teaspoon  nutmeg 
M  cup  raisins,  if  desired 


Have  the  3  cups  of  water  boiling.  Pour  the  cup  of  washed  rice 
in  gradually,  keeping  the  water  boiling  all  the  time  the  rice  is  being 
added.  When  all  rice  has  been  added,  cook  slowly  until  it  is  almost 
tender.  Remove  from  fire,  place  in  sieve  or  colander  and  wash  rice  in 
cold  water.  Beat  the  eggs  light,  to  which  add  the  milk,  sugar,  salt, 
vanilla,  nutmeg  and  raisins,  and  combine  with  the  washed  cooked  rice, 
then  pour  all  in  a  greased  baking  dish.  Set  baking  dish  in  a  larger 
pan  of  water  and  bake.  Bake  long  enough  for  custard  to  set.  By 
placing  pudding  dish  in  larger  pan  of  water  the  pudding  does  not 
crust  on  edges  and  custard  does  not  turn  watery. 


RICE  PUDDING  WITH  CRUSHED  FRUIT. 

Place  1  cup  washed  rice  on  to  cook  in  3  cups  of  boiling  water 
and  allow  it  to  cook  till  almost  soft,  then  drain  in  colander  and  wash 
in  cold  water.  Place  rice  in  double  boiler  with  2  cups  of  water  and 
cook  till  it  is  perfectly  tender  and  in  whole  grains.  Beat  1  egg  light 
and  add  to  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Add  to  this  y%  cup  sugar  and  y% 
teaspoonful  nutmeg  and  add  to  rice  in  double  boiler.  Cook  5  minutes. 
Rinse  molds  in  cold  water,  place  the  rice  in  molds  and  chill.  When 
cold  and  firm,  place  on  individual  dishes.  Pour  crushed  sweetened 
fruit  over  rice  molds  and  serve. 


RICH  RICE  PUDDING. 


2  cups  cooked  rice 
1J4  cups  sweet  milk 
y<t  cup  maple  syrup 
2  well  beaten  eggs 


M  cup  sugar 
Vz  cup  shredded  cocoanut 
14  dates  cut  in  quarters 
Dash  of  salt 


Have  the  rice  cooked  until  tender,  either  in  whole  grain  form  or 
glue  cooked  style.  Combine  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given  and 
pour  into  a  baking  dish.  Set  the  baking  dish  in  a  larger  pan  with 

—  112  — 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


either  cold  or  hot  water  and  place  in  oven  to  bake  until  set  like  cus¬ 
tard.  Serve  plain  or  with  cream.  This  serves  eight  persons. 


COTTAGE  PUDDING  NO.  1. 


cup  butter 
%  cup  sugar 
1  egg 

1  cup  sweet  milk 
1  %  cups  flour 


3J4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
*4  teaspoon  salt 
H  teaspoon  extract  or  nut¬ 
meg 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  well-beaten  egg 
and  cream  again.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  nutmeg  together 
and  add  alternately  to  creamed  mixture  with  sweet  milk.  Beat  hard 
one  minute.  Bake  in  greased  and  flour-dusted  pan  in  moderate  oven. 
Serve  warm  with  any  desired  sauce. 


COTTAGE  PUDDING  NO.  2. 

%  cup  butter  2%  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  sugar  M  teaspoon  soda 

1  egg  *4  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  %  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  well-beaten  egg 
and  cream  again.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt  together 
and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  the  sour  milk.  Add  the 
vanilla  and  beat  hard  one  minute.  Place  dough  in  greased  and  flour- 
dusted  pan.  Mix  Y2  cup  bread  crumbs  with  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
y2  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  spread  over  the  top.  Bake  in  mod¬ 
erate  oven.  Serve  hot  with  any  desired  sauce. 


CORNSTARCH  PUDDING. 

(With  Fruit  Dressing.) 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

4  cups  sweet  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

%  cup  sugar  2  large  ripe  bananas 

Few  grains  of  salt  2  oranges  (large  ones) 

6  tablespoons  cornstarch  cup  powdered  sugar 

Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Mix  sugar,  salt  and 
cornstarch  together  and  add.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook 
till  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick,  remove  from  fire,  add 
vanilla  and  butter  and  pour  into  individual  molds  after  they  have 
been  dipped  into  cold  water.  When  cold  and  corn  starch  is  set,  place 
molds  on  individual  dishes  and  serve  with  dressng  made  in  following 
manner:  Mash  the  bananas  into  pulp,  then  squeeze  the  orange  juice 
into  pulp  and  mix  it  with  the  sugar.  A  sprinkle  of  shredded  cocoanut 
over  each  mold  adds  to  it  in  looks  as  well  as  flavor. 


—  113 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


CORN  PUDDING. 


1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour 
2  tablespoons  butter 
1  teaspoon  salt 


2  tablespoons  sugar 
2  cups  corn 
2  eggs 


Place  milk  in  sauce  pan.  Blend  flour,  butter,,  salt  and  sugar  to¬ 
gether  and  add.  Next  add  corn  and  well-beaten  eggs.  Place  in  a 
greased  baking  dish  and  bake  until  mixture  is  firm.  Place  baking 
dish  in  a  larger  dish  with  enough  water  to  keep  corn  mixture  from 
crusting  too  thick  in  pan. 

DANISH  PUDDING. 


1  cup  dark  brown  sugar 
%  cup  boiling  water 
1  cup  sweet  milk 


4  egg  yolks 
1  egg  white 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Place  the  sugar  in  an  iron  skillet  to  melt  and  scorch,  then  add 
water  and  boil  till  all  particles  are  dissolved,  which  means  2  minutes. 
Scald  the  milk  and  pour  it  slowly  into  the  well-beaten  egg  yolks. 
Next  add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Now  combine  this  mixture  with 
the  skillet  mixture  and  pour  into  a  baking  dish  and  bake  slowly  till 
set.  Serve  with  rich  cream. 

MARSHMALLOW  COCOANUT  CREAM  PUDDING. 


1  egg 

2  cups  sweet  milk 
Scant  cup  sugar 
Few  grains  of  salt 

3  tablespoons  cornstarch 


%  teaspoon  vanilla 
96  tablespoon  butter 
94  cup  shredded  cocoanut 
94  cup  whipping  cream 
15  marshmallows 


Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Mix  sugar,  salt  and 
cornstarch  together  and  add.  Pour  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook 
till  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick  remove  from  fire,  add 
vanilla,  butter  and  cocoanut  and  pour  in  individual  molds,  first  dip¬ 
ping  molds  in  cold  water.  When  pudding  is  firmly  set,  place  molds  out 
onto  sauce  dishes.  Quarter  the  marshmallows  and  add  them  to  the 
cream,  after  it  is  whipped  stiff,  and  place  a  generous  heap  of  this  mix¬ 
ture  over  the  molds  in  dish.  Serve  cold.  The  whipped  cream  may  be 
sweetened  and  flavored  if  desired. 


RUTH’S  MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING. 


2  tablespoons  gelatine 
96  cup  warm  water  and  96  cup 
cold  water 


6  egg  whites 
1  cup  granulated  sugar 
1  cup  shredded  pineapple 


Place  the  2  tablespoons  of  gelatine  in  the  ^  cup  of  warm  water 
and  dissolve  by  stirring,  then  pour  in  the  1/3  cup  of  cold  water  and 

—  114  — 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


allow  mixture  to  stand  until  it  begins  to  set.  Next  beat  the  egg  whites 
jrery  stiff.  When  whites  are  stiff,  fold  in  the  sugar  slowly  first,  then 
add  gelatine  and  beat  all  ingredients  together  for  20  minutes.  Pour 
half  of  this  out  into  a  mold  and  into  remaining  half  add  enough  pink 
coloring  to  make  a  delicate  shade.  Drain  the  shredded  pineapple  and 
place  over  first  mixture  poured  into  mold,  then  place  the  pink  on  top 
of  pineapple.  When  set  and  cold,  cut  in  squares  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 


DATE  AND  MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING. 


2  tablespoons  gelatine 
1  cup  cold  water 
1%  cups  boiling  water 
%  cup  sugar 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
1  cup  halved  or  quartered 
dates 


%  cup  pecan  nut  meats,  left 
whole 

%  pint  whipping  cream 
15  marshmallows  in  fine  cut 
form 


Place  the  gelatine  in  the  cup  of  cold  water,  stir  and  let  stand  5  or 
6  minutes.  Next  add  to  it  the  boiling  water,  sugar  and  lemon  juice. 
Stir  until  well  mixed,  then  set  aside.  When  it  begins  to  thicken,  add 
dates  and  nuts  and  pour  into  molds  and  let  stand  until  well  set.  When 
ready  to  serve,  whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff  consistency,  then  add  the 
marshmallows  and  place  a  large  spoonful  of  this  over  each  mold  after 
it  is  turned  out  on  sauce  dish. 


PRUNE  PUDDING  OR  WHIP. 

1  lb.  prunes  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  of  4  eggs 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Wash,  soak  and  cook  1  pound  of  prunes  until  tender.  Remove 
seeds  and  chop  fine,  then  add  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  nutmeg  and  mix. 
Beat  the  egg  whites  very  stiff,  adding  cream  of  tartar  to  whites  while 
beating.  Combine  the  prune  mixture  with  egg  mixture,  mixing  to¬ 
gether  carefully  without  beating.  Place  mixture  in  a  greased  pudding 
pan  and  bake  about  30  minutes,  keeping  a  cover  over  pudding  for 
first  half  of  baking  period.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Do  not  allow 
this  whip  to  cool  where  a  breeze  strikes  it.  This  whip  will  settle  some 
when  done,  but  the  flavor  will  not  be  impaired. 


ORANGE  PUDDING. 


2  eggs 

4  cups  sweet  milk 
1  cup  sugar 
Few  grains  of  salt 


8  tablespoons  cornstarch 

1  tablespoon  butter 

2  large  oranges 
%  cup  cocoanut 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Mix  sugar,  salt  and 
cornstarch  together  and  add.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook 


—  115  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


till  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  mixture  becomes  very  stiff,  re¬ 
move  from  fire,  add  butter  and  cocoanut  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Peel 
the  oranges,  remove  seeds  and  tough  skins  and  cut  in  pieces.  When 
the  cornstarch  mixture  is  cold,  add  the  oranges  and  serve  in  sauce 
dishes  or  mixture  may  be  placed  in  molds  and  chilled.  Avoid  adding 
oranges  to  mixture  while  hot.  Heating  oranges  will  give  a  bitter 
flavor. 


INDIAN  PUDDING. 


2  cups  sweet  milk 
1  cup  water 
6  tablespoons  cornmeal 
J4  cup  sugar 
J4  cup  sorghum  molasses 


2  eggs 

14  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
J4  teaspoon  ginger 
%  teaspoon  nutmeg 


Place  sweet  milk  in  double  boiler  and  allow  it  to  come  to  scalding 
point.  Mix  cornmeal  with  the  cup  of  cold  water  and  add.  Stir  until 
mixture  thickens.  Remove  from  fire,  add  sugar  and  sorghum  and  cool 
until  lukewarm.  When  lukewarm  add  well-beaten  eggs,  salt,  cinna¬ 
mon,  ginger  and  nutmeg.  Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  pour  in 
greased  baking  dish;  either  bake  for  about  2  hours  or  steam  for  3 
hours.  If  baked,  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  must  be  poured  over 
top  of  pudding  if  it  becomes  too  dry.  If  steamed,  keep  covered  during 
full  steaming  process. 


DRIED  PEACH 

2  cups  sweet  milk 
1J4  cups  bread  crumbs 
2  eggs 
Mt  cup  sugar 


PUDDING. 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
Pinch  of  salt 

2  cups  cooked  dried  peaches 


Scald  the  sweet  milk  and  pour  over  bread  crumbs.  Beat  eggs 
light  and  add,  also  sugar,  melted  butter,  salt  and  cooked  peaches.  Mix 
all  together  and  place  in  greased  baking  dish  and  cook  about  30  min¬ 
utes.  Serve  warm  with  any  desired  sauce.  Any  dried  fruit  may  be 
used  in  this  way. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

1  quart  canned  peaches  2  tablespoons  butter 

Place  the  peaches  in  baking  dish  with  the  butter,  adding  enough 
sugar  to  make  peaches  suit  the  taste.  Make  a  dough  mixture  from  the 
following  ingredients  and  spread  on  top  of  peaches : 

%  cup  sugar  1*4  cups  flour 

3  tablespoons  butter  2 14  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  Few  grains  of  salt 

cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  to  which  add  egg  yolk  and  re¬ 
cream.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  three  times.  Add 

—  116  — 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sifted  ingredients  to  the  creamed  mixture  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Add  the  remaining  dry  ingredients  and  milk  to 
creamed  mixture  alternately.  Add  vanilla,  beat  hard  one  minute,  then 
fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Spread  mixture  over  the  top  of 
peaches  in  pudding  pan  and  bake  about  45  minutes  to  an  hour  in  mod¬ 
erate  oven.  If  pudding  browns  too  quickly  on  top,  cover  pan  with  a 
lid.  This  pudding  requires  a  long  baking  period.  Serve  pudding  as 
it  comes  from  the  pan  or  an  additional  sauce  may  be  used.  The 
peaches  may  be  heated  first  before  putting  the  dough  on  top.  This 
hastens  the  baking  of  pudding. 


HEALTH  PUDDING. 

4  cups  water  cup  soaked,  uncooked  f 

1  %  cups  graham  flour  chopped  prunes 

1  teaspoon  salt  *4  cup  seedless  raisins 

cup  chopped  nut  meats 

Bring  the  4  cups  of  water  to  a  boil.  Add  the  graham  flour  gradu¬ 
ally  and  stir  constantly  to  prevent  lumping.  When  all  graham  flour 
has  been  added,  add  the  salt  and  set  back  in  double  boiler  to  cook  with 
cover  on  for  15  minutes.  When  cooked,  remove  from  fire,  add  prunes, 
raisins  and  nuts  and  pour  into  cups  after  they  have  been  dipped  in  cold 
water.  When  cold,  turn  out  onto  sauce  dishes  and  serve  with  rich 
cream. 


DIXIE  PUDDING. 

2  cups  cooked  rice 
1  egg 

1  cup  sweet  milk 
t4  cup  cocoa 


*4  cup  sugar 

2  Vi  tablespoons  cornstarch 
teaspoon  salt 
t4  cup  raisins 


Place  cooked  rice  in  saucepan  to  which  add  milk.  Mix  cocoa, 
sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt  together  and  add.  Place  on  stove  to  cook 
in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick 
and  well  cooked,  remove  from  fire  and  pour  into  water  rinsed  cups  or 
molds  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  it  is  cold  and  molded  in  shape,  turn 
out  on  sauce  plates  and  serve  with  cocoa  pudding  sauce.  (See  recipe 
in  sauce  department.) 


MONDAY  PUDDING. 

(Left  Over  Dish.) 

3  cups  bread  cubes  1  well  beaten  egg 

1  cup  cake  or  cookie  crumbs  H  cup  sugar 

1^4  cups  milk 

Place  bread  cubes  and  cake  or  cooky  crumbs  in  greased  baking 
dish.  Beat  egg  light  and  add  to  milk  and  sugar.  Pour  this  over  the 
bread  mixture,  but  do  not  stir,  simply  press  the  bread  down  to  see 
that  it  all  gets  some  of  the  liquid.  Bake  until  well  set  and  brown. 

—  117  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


Serve  with  lemon  or  cottage  sauce, 
erously. 

ENGLISH  PLUM 

5  eggs 

1  cup  bread  crumbs 

2  cups  chopped  peeled  apples 
Juice  of  1  orange 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

1  cup  seeded  raisins 

2  cups  currants 

1  cup  candied  cherries  cut  in 
halves 

Grated  rind  of  1  orange 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 


This  will  serve  5  persons  gen- 

PUDDING. 

54  cup  finely  chopped  citron 

2  cups  finely  chopped  suet 
1  cup  blanched  almonds 

1  cup  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
1 14  teaspoons  nutmeg 
1  teaspoon  ginger 

54  teaspoon  cloves 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  bread  crumbs  and  chopped  apples. 
Next  add  orange  juice,  lemon  juice,  raisins,  currants,  cherries,  orange 
rind,  lemon  rind,  citron,  suet  and  blanched  almonds.  Mix  flour,  baking 
powder,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  ginger,  cloves,  salt  and  sugar  together  and 
add  last.  Mix  all  together  and  place  in  greased  covered  molds  and 
steam  for  3  hours.  The  pudding  may  be  boiled  in  a  cloth  or  steamed 
in  a  cloth.  The  steaming  in  cans  is  the  best  way. 


BREAD  PUDDING  MADE  WITH  YEAST. 

4  cups  of  bread  in  cube  or  14  cup  sugar 

crumb  form  54  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  54  cups  warm  milk  654  tablespoons  flour 

2  eggs  well  beaten  1  tablespoon  melted  fat 

54  cake  yeast  54  cup  raisins  if  desired 

Place  bread  in  greased  baking  dish.  Combine  milk,  eggs  and  yeast 
and  pour  over  bread  and  mix  well.  Next  combine  sugar,  nutmeg  and 
flour  and  add.  Last  add  the  fat  and  stir  all  well  together.  Set  the 
mixture  aside  in  some  warm  place  and  allow  it  to  rise  for  2  hours 
before  baking.  Serve  this  pudding  with  any  rich  sauce.  Ten  persons 
may  be  served  from  this  amount. 

STEAMED  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

14  cup  butter  2  54  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  354  teaspoons  baking  powder 

54  cup  milk  Any  desired  fruit 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  then  sift  the  flour  and 
baking  powder  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  sweet 
milk.  Place  any  desired  sweetened  fruit  in  individual  molds  or  in  one 
large  mold  and  over  all  place  the  dough  mixture.  Steam  for  1  y2  hours, 
then  serve  with  the  following  sauce : 

Cream  y2  cup  of  butter  with  1  cup  of  confectioners’  sugar  until 
smooth.  Add  1  well  beaten  egg  and  any  desired  flavoring.  Serve  on 
the  hot  pudding. 


—  118  — 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. 


3  cups  cooked  and  mashed 
sweet  potatoes 

cup  granulated  sugar 

4  tablespoons  butter 
H  teaspoon  salt 

M  teaspoon  cinnamon 


H  teaspoon  nutmeg 
M  cup  seedless  raisins 
%  cup  chopped  English 
walnuts 
2  eggs 


Cook  the  sweet  potatoes  with  the  peelings  on,  then  peel  and  run 
through  a  sieve  or  colander.  Measure  and  place  3  cups  in  mixing 
bowl.  Beat  the  potatoes,  then  add  the  sugar,  butter,  salt,  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg  and  stir  well.  Next  add  the  raisins  and  walnuts.  Last 
fold  in  the  well  beaten  eggs,  either  in  separated  form  or  all  together. 
Place  in  oven  and  bake  until  well  set  through  and  browned  lightly  on 
top.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce  or  whipped  cream.  This  amount 
serves  six  persons  generously : 


SAUCE. 

1J4  cups  water  4  tablespoons  sugar 

4  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  of  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Place  water  in  saucepan,  to  which  add  butter.  Blend  flour,  sugar 
and  salt,  and  add  to  mixture  and  stir  until  it  boils  and  thickens.  Re¬ 
move  from  fire  and  serve  hot  over  pudding. 

STRAWBERRY  PUDDING. 

2  cups  strawberries  2  tablespoons  gelatin 

M  cup  confectioners’  sugar  2  large  egg  whites 

J4  cup  granulated  sugar  Few  grains  of  salt 

1J4  cups  cold  water 

Crush  the  strawberries  with  the  ^  cup  of  confectioners’  sugar. 
Boil  i/2  cup  of  the  cold  water  and  the  V2  cup  of  granulated  sugar  for 
10  minutes.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  remaining  1  cup  of  cold  wa¬ 
ter,  stirring  it  thoroughly.  Now  run  the  crushed  strawberries  through 
a  sieve  and  as  the  boiling  syrup  comes  from  the  fire,  pour  it  into  the 
dissolved  gelatine.  Combine  next  the  gelatine  mixture  with  the  straw¬ 
berry  mixture,  fold  in  the  well  beaten  egg  whites.  After  the  whites  are 
added,  beat  for  10  minutes  with  either  a  wire  paddle  or  a  Dover  beater. 
Pour  into  individual  molds  or  in  one  large  mold.  If  in  a  large  mold  it 
may  be  served  in  slices.  Either  whipped  cream  is  to  be  served  on  the 
pudding  or  well  sweetened  crushed  berries. 


CINNAMON  APPLES. 

Pare  even  sized  apples  and  core.  Make  a  syrup  by  combining  2 
cups  of  water,  1  y2  cups  sugar  and  %  cup  cinnamon  drops.  Boil  the 
syrup  for  5  minutes,  then  drop  the  whole  apples  in  and  boil  slowly 
until  tender.  Serve  in  the  juice. 

—  119  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


APPLE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  sweet  milk  2  cups  cooked  quartered 

6  tablespoons  tapioca  apples 

34  cup  sugar 

Soak  tapioca  in  water  until  soft.  Drain  off  water  and  add  milk. 
Beat  eggs  light  and  add,  together  with  sugar  and  vanilla.  Pour  all 
ingredients  in  double  boiler  and  cook  till  thick.  Remove  from  double 
boiler  and  place  in  greased  pudding  dish,  spreading  apples  over  the 
top.  Bake  slowly  for  about  30  minutes.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  sauce 
or  cream. 

JAM  PUDDING. 


3  tablespoons  butter 
34  cup  sugar 
1  egg 

34  cup  milk 

34  cup  raspberry  or  other  jam 


1 34  cups  flour 
34  teaspoon  soda 
34  teaspoon  salt 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  thoroughly  together,  to  which  add  the 
well-beaten  egg  and  cream  again.  Sift  flour,  salt,  soda  and  baking 
powder  together  three  times  and  add  alternately  to  butter,  egg  and 
sugar  mixture  with  the  milk  and  jam.  Beat  hard  after  all  ingredients 
are  together.  Grease  and  flour-dust  two  layer  cake  pans.  Place  a 
layer  of  the  dough  mixture  in  both  pans  and  on  top  of  this  mixture 
place  a  layer  of  raspberry  jam.  Take  remaining  dough  and  place  on 
top  of  jam.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  being  careful  not  to  get  the 
cake  too  crusty.  Ordinarily  about  25  minutes  is  required  for  the  bak¬ 
ing.  One  pan  full  may  be  served  as  cake  by  placing  any  desired  icing 
on  top.  One  pan  full  may  be  used  as  pudding  to  be  served  with  the 
following  sauce: 


SAUCE. 

34  cup  jam  1  cup  water 

34  cup  sugar  34  tablespoon  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  sugar,  flour,  jam  and  butter  together  and  place  in  sauce  pan 
with  the  water.  Stir  constantly  while  cooking.  When  the  mixture 
boils  it  is  done  and  ready  to  serve  hot. 


RICE  BALLS. 

1  cup  rice  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  cups  water 


Wash  rice  and  boil  in  the  4  cups  of  water  with  the  salt  until  it  is 
tender.  When  soft  and  thick  remove  it  from  fire  and  place  in  molds, 
first  dipping  molds  in  cold  water.  Serve  with  the  following  custard 
dressing : 


—  120  — 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS 


CUSTARD  DRESSING. 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1%  cups  sweet  milk  %  teaspoon  vanilla  or  nutmeg 

cup  sugar  %  tablespoon  butter 

Few  grains  of  salt 

Beat  egg  light  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Mix  sugar,  salt  and  corn¬ 
starch  and  add.  Pour  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook  till  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  When  it  thickens  remove  from  fire  and  add  va¬ 
nilla  and  butter.  Serve  hot  over  rice  molds. 

CHOCOLATE  ECLAIRS. 

Make  dough  mixture  as  for  cream  puffs.  Instead  of  dropping 
dough  to  form  round  puffs,  arrange  the  dough  in  an  oblong  shape  on 
the  tin.  Better  results  will  follow  if  lady  finger  tins  are  used  in 
which  to  bake  the  dough.  When  puffs  are  done,  take  a  sharp  knife 
and  open  the  eclair,  making  opening  large  enough  to  fill  with  any 
desired  filling,  chocolate  cream  filling  being  the  best.  Cover  each 
eclair  on  top  with  chocolate  frosting,  or  each  eclair  may  be  dipped  in 
melted  dipping  chocolate. 

STUFFED  PRUNES. 

1  lb.  large  prunes  1  cup  nut  meats 

1  cup  confectioner’s  sugar  2  tablespoons  orange  juice 

Soak  prunes  until  seeds  are  easily  removed,  usually  5  or  6  hours. 
Mix  sugar,  nuts  and  orange  juice  together.  Remove  the  seeds  and 
lay  each  prune  out  flat  and  place  a  portion  of  the  filling  on,  then  bring 
the  prune  edges  together  as  neatly  as  possible.  The  prunes  should  be 
dried  with  a  cloth  after  soaking  and  before  stuffing.  The  filling  should 
be  handled  in  as  dry  condition  as  possible,  because  the  moisture  in  the 
prune  softens  it.  Dust  prunes  with  confectioner’s  sugar  when  stuffed. 

STUFFED  AND  CANDIED  DATES. 

Select  good  firm  dates  and  remove  seeds.  Place  one-half  of  a 
pecan  in  each  seed  cavity.  Mix  together  one  cup  confectioner’s  sugar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  cream  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Dip  each  stuffed 
date  in  this  sugar  mixture  and  lay  on  plates  to  dry.  After  dipping 
in  sugar,  dates  may  also  be  rolled  in  finely  chopped  pecans,  or  almond 
meal. 

VASSAR  TARTS. 

8  egg  yolks  Whipping  cream 

%  cup  butter  Extract 

1 %  cups  sugar  (softened) 

Beat  egg  yolks,  butter  and  sugar  for  15  minutes  hard.  Have  muf¬ 
fin  tins  or  tart  shells  lined  with  unbaked  pastry  and  fill  the  shells  only 

—  121  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


two-thirds  full  of  mixture.  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  8  or  10  minutes,  then 
decrease  heat  and  bake  more  slowly  until  tarts  are  done.  Forty-five 
minutes  for  baking.  Remove  from  oven,  chill  and  serve  with  seasoned 
or  plain  whipped  cream.  The  tarts  will  settle  when  taken  from  oven,, 
hence  the  reason  for  filling  with  whipped  cream. 

PEACH  FLUFF. 

1  cup  crushed  cling-stone  1  unbeaten  large  egg  white 

peaches 

Place  peaches  and  egg  white  in  large  bowl  or  crock  and  beat  with 
a  Dover  egg  beater  until  mixture  stands  up  high  and  frothy.  Chill  and 
serve  with  cake  or  with  puddings.  The  lemon  cling  peach  of  the 
canned  variety  is  best  for  this.  Where  fresh  peaches  are  crushed  and 
used,  sugar  must  be  added  to  suit  taste.  Other  fruit,  such  as  sweet¬ 
ened  crushed  pineapple,  may  be  used  instead  of  peach. 

BLANC  MANGE  WITH  FRUIT  SAUCE. 

2  cups  sweet  milk  2  egg  whites 

5  tablespoons  corn  starch  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  sugar  Few  grains  of  salt 

Place  milk  in  double  boiler  and  add  to  it  the  cornstarch  and  sugar 
in  blended  form.  Stir  and  cook  till  mixture  thickens,  then  remove 
from  fire  and  add  the  vanilla,  salt  and  stiffly  beaten  egg  wjhites.  Use 
the  folding  in  method  for  eggs.  Pour  the  mixture  in  water  rinsed 
molds  and  serve  with  crushed  fruit  or  custard  sauce. 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 


H  cup  cold  water 
1  yz  tablespoons  unflavored 
gelatine 

cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  whipping  cream 

10  candied  cherries,  chopped 


94  cup  blanched  and  sliced 
almonds 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

9  marshmallows  cut  in  small 
pieces 

6  almond  macaroons  in  fine 
crumb  form 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  *4  cup  of  cold  water  until  dissolved,  then 
add  the  boiling  water  and  sugar.  Allow  this  to  get  cold,  then  add 
the  2  cups  of  whipping  cream  in  whipped  form.  Next  add  the  cher¬ 
ries,  almonds,  vanilla,  marshmallows  and  macaroons.  Have  a  spring 
form  pan  in  readiness  with  single  or  double  lady  fingers  standing  up 
all  around  the  inside  of  outer  edge.  Pour  this  mixture  into  the  pan, 
place  in  the  ice  box  and  chill  for  an  hour  or  so.  Cut  in  slices  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream.  A  good-sized  sponge  loaf  cake  may  be 
made  and  the  insides  all  dug  out,  leaving  only  an  outer  and  under  crust 
about  %  inch  or  an  inch  in  thickness.  This  makes  a  better  container 
for  the  filling. 


—  122  — 


CHAPTER  X 


Pudding  Sauces 


CARAMEL  SAUCE 

cup  milk  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

%  cup  water  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  medium  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

1^  tablespoons  flour 

Place  milk  and  water  in  saucepan.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  nutmeg 
together  and  add.  Cook  till  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  boiled 
about  5  minutes,  remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla  and  butter  and  serve 
hot. 

RICH  SAUCE. 

%  cup  butter  3  eggs 

1  cup  confectioners’  sugar  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together.  Add  first  the  well 
beaten  egg  yolks,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  nutmeg. 

PLUM  OR  SUET  PUDDING  SAUCE. 

1  cup  butter  3  eggs 

1  cup  confectioner’s  or  6x  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

sugar  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  well  together.  Beat  eggs  separately, 
having  yolks  light  and  whites  very  stiff.  Combine  the  butter  and 
sugar  mixture  with  the  yolks,  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice.  Beat  hard  for 
1  minute.  Next  fold  in  stiff  egg  whites  and  serve  on  pudding ;  1  table¬ 
spoonful  of  boiling  water  may  be  added  to  soften  it. 

COTTAGE  SAUCE. 

14  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 

14  cup  water  XA  teaspoon  nutmeg 

14  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

Place  milk  and  water  in  saucepan.  Blend  sugar,  flour  and  nutmeg 
together  and  add  to  liquid  mixture.  Cook  until  thick.  Remove  from 
fire  and  add  butter.  Serve  hot.  Instead  of  nutmeg  1  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  may  be  added. 


123  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


LEMON  SAUCE. 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  cup  boiling  water  Pinch  of  salt 

Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt  together  to  which  add  boiling  water. 
Place  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick.  Remove  from  fire  and 
add  lemon  juice  and  butter.  For  mild  flavor  use  only  1  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice. 

HARD  SAUCE,  NO.  1. 

cup  butter  %  teaspoon  extract 

1  cup  confectioners’  or  6x 
sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  then  add  extract  and  serve. 

HARD  SAUCE,  No.  2. 

1  cup  confectioners’  or  6x  %  cup  butter 

sugar  2  egg  whites 

Cream  butter  thoroughly,  to  which  add  sugar  and  cream  again. 
Last  fold  in  stiffly-beaten  egg  whites.  Set  on  ice  till  ready  to  serve. 
Flavor  if  desired. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

1  egg  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  thick  cream  (whipped  or  *4  teaspoon  vanilla 

plain) 

Beat  egg  light.  Add  the  cream,  sugar  and  vanilla  and  serve. 


FRUIT  SAUCE. 


% 

cup  dates 

2  tablespoons  butter 

cup  figs 

Few  grains  of  salt 

H 

cup  corn  syrup 

Sweet  cream  or  top  milk 

% 

cup  water 

cup  sugar 

Place  dates,  figs,  corn  syrup  and  water  on  stove  to  simmer.  When 
fruit  is  soft  remove  from  fire  and  run  through  a  colander.  Add  melted 
butter,  salt  and  sugar.  Add  enough  sweet  top  milk  or  cream  to  make 
the  sauce  the  desired  thickness.  Serve  on  any  kind  of  pudding  where 
sauce  is  needed. 

VICTORY  SAUCE. 

1  cup  corn  syrup  2  tablespoons  butter 

%  cup  sweet  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 

3  tablespoons  brown  sugar  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Place  syrup  and  milk  in  sauce  pan  on  stove.  Mix  sugar,  butter, 
flour  and  nutmeg  together  and  add.  Boil  all  together  two  minutes. 
Serve  hot. 


—  124 


PUDDING  SAUCES 


NUTMEG  SAUCE. 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

2^6  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  water 

Mix  sugar  and  flour  together  and  place  in  sauce  pan.  Pour  the 
water  in  gradually  to  keep  mixture  free  from  lumps,  then  add  nutmeg 
and  cook  in  double  boiler  15  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  butter 
and  serve  hot. 


ORANGE  SAUCE. 

1  cup  sugar  %  cup  water 

1%  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

Few  grains  of  salt  %  cup  orange  juice 

Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt  together,  to  which  add  water.  Pour 
mixture  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  till  thick.  Remove  from  fire  and  add 
butter.  Cool  mixture,  then  add  orange  juice  and  serve. 

MARSHMALLOW  SAUCE. 

%  cup  sugar  *4  lb.  marshmallows 

M  cup  sweet  milk  2  tablespoons  water 

Boil  sugar  and  milk  together  until  it  threads.  Remove  from  fire 
and  cool  until  lukewarm,  then  beat  until  thick.  Set  this  mixture  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  and  stir  until  it  is  soft  enough  to  pour.  Place 
marshmallows  and  water  in  double  boiler  to  melt.  When  melted  add 
the  sugar  and  milk  mixture.  Keep  all  mixed  together  in  double  boiler 
until  ready  to  serve.  Keep  it  only  warm,  not  hot. 

GOLD  SAUCE. 

1  cup  sugar  Few  grains  of  salt 

%  cup  water  1  teaspoon  extract 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  cream 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads ;  usually  1  minute  boiling  is 
sufficient.  Have  the  egg  well  beaten  and  pour  the  hot  syrup  into  egg. 
very  slowly,  whipping  briskly.  If  syrup  is  poured  out  into  egg  too 
quickly  it  cooks  the  egg.  Add  the  grains  of  salt  and  extract  and  whip 
only  until  it  is  smooth.  Add  1  tablespoonful  of  cream,  mix  and  serve 
warm  or  cold. 

BROWN  SUGAR  HARD  SAUCE. 

%  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together,  to  which  add  vanilla 
and  nutmeg  and  serve,  or  1  tablespoonful  of  rich  cream  may  be  added. 

—  125  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


SUNSHINE  SAUCE. 

2  eggs  *4  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  M  cup  cold  water 

Grated  rind  of  M  lemon  H  teaspoon  gelatine 

Place  egg  yolks,  lemon  juice,  rind  and  *4  cup  of  the  sugar  in  a 
rounded  bottom  enamel  bowl  and  set  the  bowl  in  boiling  water.  Keep 
the  water  boiling  and  beat  the  yolk  mixture  till  it  becomes  very  thick. 
Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  combine  with  the  remaining  14  cup  of  sugar, 
then  fold  this  into  the  yolks.  Last  add  the  *4  cup  cold  water  and  gela¬ 
tine  in  dissolved  form.  Serve  on  any  kind  of  pudding  or  dessert. 

COCOA  PUDDING  SAUCE. 

1%  cups  milk  Pinch  of  salt 

14  cup  cocoa  2  tablespoons  butter 

14  cup  sugar  J4  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

Place  the  milk  in  saucepan.  Blend  the  cocoa,  sugar,  cornstarch 
and  salt  together  and  add.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  constantly.  When  cooked,  remove  from  fire  and  add  butter 
and  vanilla.  Serve  on  puddings,  hot  or  cold. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE. 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  light  and  combine  with  1  cup  of  milk. 
Pour  this  mixture  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  to  it  1/3  cup  of  sugar 
blended  with  14  tablespoon  cornstarch.  Stir  till  it  thickens,  then  re¬ 
move  from  fire  and  add  V2  teaspoon  extract.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  This 
recipe  serves  6  persons  generously  or  8  in  proper  amount. 

BURNT  SUGAR  SYRUP. 

114  cups  granulated  sugar  %  teaspoon  cloves 

%  teaspoon  cinnamon  3  cups  boiling  water 

%  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Place  sugar,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  cloves  in  skillet  and  melt  very 
slowly,  then  stir  constantly  and  allow  it  to  brown  to  a  very  dark 
color.  When  brown  enough,  add  the  boiling  water,  allowing  it  to  boil 
until  all  particles  are  dissolved,  which  usually  requires  only  a  minute 
or  two.  Place  in  fruit  jar,  keep  cool,  and  use  for  cakes  and  flavoring. 

MOCK  WHIPPED  CREAM. 

3  egg  whites  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Few  grains  of  salt  10  drops  of  vanilla 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

Place  egg  whites  in  bowl  and  set  bowl  in  pan  with  cracked  ice  and 
salt  while  eggs  are  being  whipped,  adding  a  few  grains  of  salt  to  eggs 

— 126  — 


PUDDING  SAUCES 


at  beginning  of  whipping  period.  When  eggs  are  light  and  stiff  add 
sugar  and  continue  to  whip  a  few  minutes  longer,  then  add  melted 
butter  and  vanilla.  Keep  the  mixture  standing  in  the  ice  water  until 
ready  to  serve. 

SUBSTITUTE  FOR  WHIPPED  CREAM. 

Peel  one  large  ripe  banana  and  mash  thoroughly  in  a  bowl.  Beat 
1  egg  white  stiff  and  add  to  banana.  Continue  to  beat  until  very  light. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  SYRUP  FOR  DESSERTS  AND  ICE  CREAM. 

1 cups  medium  brown  sugar  1  cup  white  or  dark  corn  syrup 

teaspoon  cornstarch  1  cup  cream 

Few  grains  of  salt  1J4  tablespoons  butter 

Blend  the  sugar,  starch  and  salt,  then  combine  with  the  syrup  and 
cream.  Cook  in  double  boiler  directly  over  the  fire  until  it  boils  up 
(stirring  constantly  during  this  period),  then  set  in  the  lower  compart¬ 
ment  of  double  boiler  and  allow  it  to  cook  (not  stirring)  for  30  min¬ 
utes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  the  butter  and  salt,  and  cool.  This  may 
be  served  hot  on  desserts,  but  always  cold  for  ice  cream. 

RICH  CHOCOLATE  SYRUP  FOR  DESSERTS  OR  ICE  CREAM. 

1  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate  1  cup  rich  milk 

1  ^  cups  granulated  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

cup  white  or  dark  corn  Few  grains  of  salt 

syrup 

Place  grated  chocolate  in  double  boiler  and  melt.  When  melted 
add  gradually  the  sugar  first,  then  the  syrup  and  milk,  stirring  con¬ 
stantly.  When  it  reaches  a  smooth  consistency  discontinue  stirring, 
but  allow  it  to  continue  cooking  in  double  boiler  for  45  minutes.  Re¬ 
move  from  fire,  add  butter  and  salt,  then  cool  for  serving.  This  recipe 
makes  about  2Vfc  cups  of  chocolate  syrup  in  finished  form. 


—  127  — 


CHAPTER  XI 


Pies 


SUGGESTIONS  ON  PIE  BAKING. 

Ingredients  for  pastry  should  be  of  high  quality.  To  be  assured 
of  success,  accurate  measurements  must  be  strictly  adhered  to.  The 
shortening  to  be  used  should  be  very  cold  and  the  water  iced.  The 
hollow  glass  rolling  pin,  filled  with  cracked  ice,  is  beneficial  and  claims 
an  important  part  in  the  making  of  perfect  pastry. 

Avoid  kneading  pie  crust.  Ingredients  should  be  placed  in  a  cold 
bowl  and  a  spatula  used  for  the  cutting  in  method.  When  the  shorten¬ 
ing  and  flour  are  evenly  mixed,  the  ice  water  should  be  added  and  the 
cutting  method  still  employed.  The  dough  at  this  time  should  be  in 
kernels  or  crumbs  and  the  mixture  is  then  poured  out  onto  a  cold, 
floured  board  and  squeezed  into  a  ball  without  kneading.  Roll  dough 
only  on  one  side.  With  each  stroke  of  the  roller  the  starting  point 
must  be  in  the  center  of  the  dough,  then  rolling  outward,  keeping  the 
movements  circular  and  the  dough  rounded.  If  all  materials  used  in 
pastry  are  as  cold  as  it  is  possible  to  have  them,  pie  crust  should  be 
baked  at  once.  Allowing  pastry  to  remain  a  few  hours  on  ice  is  espe¬ 
cially  beneficial  only  when  materials  have  not  been  cold  in  the  begin¬ 
ning.  It  is  sometimes  more  convenient  to  prepare  the  pastry  a  day  in 
advance,  which  is  satisfactory  if  kept  on  ice. 

Do  not  grease  a  pie  pan  before  lining  with  pastry.  See  that  the 
pan  is  clean  and  perfectly  dry.  To  dust  the  pan  first,  with  a  little 
flour,  is  a  sure  way  of  having  it  dry. 

To  prepare  a  shell  for  cooked  filling,  roll  the  pastry  to  desired 
thickness  and  in  shape  to  fit  the  pan.  Dust  pan  with  flour,  lay  pastry 
in  pan  and  see  that  it  is  well  fitted,  by  pressing  the  dough  down 
around  the  bend  or  rim  of  the  pan.  Bring  the  dough  up  in  fence  form 
at  the  outer  edge  of  the  rim,  pinching  it  firmly  and  allowing  enough 
dough  for  a  shrinkage  in  baking.  Prick  holes  in  the  pastry  in  bottom 
of  pan  and  place  in  quick  oven.  Only  in  shells  should  holes  be  made. 
This  prevents  dough  from  rising  in  pan  while  baking. 

Shells  are  more  satisfactory  made  on  inside  of  pan.  If  pastry  is 
fitted  to  back  of  pie  pan,  the  shell  sometimes  breaks  when  it  is  re¬ 
moved  and  placed  on  another  plate  and  filled.  Especially  is  this  true 
where  pastry  is  tender  and  flaky.  Fillings  prepared  in  double  boiler 
may  be  placed  in  baked  shell  while  hot,  or  they  may  be  allowed  to  cool 

—  128  — 


PIES 


first.  If  placed  in  shell  hot,  the  filling  will  set  for  the  first  time  in  the 
pie,  making  a  smoother  filling.  If  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  is  sprinkled 
in  the  bottom  of  baked  shell  and  gently  rubbed  in,  before  filling  is 
poured  in,  the  undercrust  will  still  retain  its  crisp  condition.  This  is 
a  good  rule  to  follow  at  all  times. 

A  covered  pie,  especially  of  the  juicy  variety,  must  be  carefully 
arranged  in  the  pan.  The  under  crust  is  rolled  and  fitted  securely  to 
the  pan,  as  for  a  shell,  allowing  a  generous  amount  of  dough  to  stand 
up  in  fence  form  around  the  edge.  A  tablespoonful  of  flour  must  be 
sprinkled  in  the  bottom  of  pastry  and  gently  rubbed  in,  closing  the 
pores  and  forming  a  coating  to  prevent  juice  from  soaking  in  under¬ 
crust.  The  flour  treatment  is  better  than  the  brushing  over  with  egg 
white,  and  much  less  expensive. 

Fruit,  flour  and  sugar  should  always  be  well  mixed  together  be¬ 
fore  placing  in  pie.  Mix  these  ingredients  thoroughly  before  placing 
in  shell  and  there  is  less  danger  of  pie  oozing  out.  Butter  should  be 
placed  in  dots  over  the  top  of  the  fruit  mixture  and  then  pressed 
well  down  into  the  fruit,  so  that  the  butter  does  not  come  in  contact 
with  upper  crust  while  baking.  The  pastry  for  upper  crust  should  be 
rolled  a  little  thinner  than  for  under  crust.  Roll  in  rounded  shape, 
make  slits  in  crust  and  lay  it  over  the  top  of  pie,  after  the  outer  edge 
has  been  moistened  with  water,  stretching  it  over  in  such  a  way  that 
it  does  not  interfere  with  the  pastry  in  fence  form  at  edge.  Cut  qr 
press  off  surplus  pastry  around  the  edge  and  then  pinch  the  two  thick¬ 
nesses  of  pastry  together. 

Make  4  small  incisions  in  pie  cover  about  an  inch  from  outer  edge 
and  at  equal  spaces.  Insert  4  pieces  of  macaroni  in  these  holes.  This 
allows  the  steam  to  escape  and  prevents  juice  from  oozing  out. 

Another  safe  method  to  keep  juice  from  boiling  out  is  to  prepare 
the  undercrust  in  the  same  manner  with  well  built  up  outer  fence, 
then  cut  the  upper  crust  in  rounded  shape,  just  large  enough  to  fit  the 
top,  inside  of  the  fence  at  outer  edge.  This  leaves  an  outlet  for  the 
steam  at  outer  edge  all  the  way  around,  and  the  result  is  the  steam  is 
not  so  apt  to  boil  out  at  any  one  place. 

Trouble  results  from  placing  fruit  in  pie  first,  sugar  on  top  of 
fruit  and  then  probably  a  few  sprinkles  of  flour  on  top  of  it  all. 

All  pies  should  be  placed  in  a  hot  oven  for  first  ten  minutes,  then 
decrease  the  heat  to  moderate.  They  should  never  be  allowed  to  sim¬ 
mer  for  the  first  part  of  baking  period.  Pies  removed  from  pie  pan 
and  placed  on  paper  plates  keep  crisp  longer.  Flour  used  for  thicken¬ 
ing  makes  a  better  flavored  pie  than  corn  starch,  but  more  flour  is 
required  for  thickening  than  corn  starch. 

Pate  shells  may  be  made  from  plain  flake  pastry  or  they  may  be 
made  from  puff  paste.  Have  muffin  pans  thoroughly  cleaned  on  backs. 
Roll  dough,  as  for  pie  crust,  and  fit  dough  neatly  over  each  compart¬ 
ment,  as  muffin  tins  are  turned  upside  down.  Prick  a  few  holes  in 
pastry  to  keep  pastry  from  bubbling  or  rising  while  baking. 

Pies  should  be  baked  long  enough  to  be  well  done ;  crust  should 

—  129  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


be  browned  lightly.  Pies  vary  in  the  length  of  time  they  should  be 
baked.  Some  pies  require  20  minutes  ’  baking,  while  others  may  re¬ 
quire  45  or  50  minutes.  Do  not  allow  pies  to  burn  on  top.  If  pie  be¬ 
comes  brown  enough  and  the  fruit  within  the  pie  is  yet  in  uncooked 
condition,  turn  another  pie  pan  of  same  size  over  pie,  thus  preventing 
further  browning  and  keeping  the  heat  and  steam  within  the  two  pans. 
This  hastens  the  cooking  of  fruit  inside.  Pies  should  be  placed  on 
grate  in  center  of  oven  to  bake. 

A  little  milk  brushed  over  the  top  of  a  two-crust  pie  gives  the  pie 
a  glossy  look  when  baked.  It  also  browns  quicker  with  this  addition. 
If  the  oven  does  not  bake  articles  well  on  the  bottom  it  is  sometimes 
advisable  to  partially  bake  the  shell  before  the  filling  is  placed  in. 

Pie  pans  are  of  all  kinds  and  sizes.  Granite  or  enamel  pie  pans 
are  not  as  satisfactory  for  pie  baking  as  glass,  aluminum  or  tin.  Nine- 
inch  pans  are  supposed  to  be  of  regulation  size,  meaning  9  inches  from 
tip  to  tip  and  1  inch  in  depth.  Most  of  the  pies  in  this  book  were  com¬ 
piled  for  the  use  of  9-inch  pans.  However,  in  instances  where  a  “  large 
pie  ’  ’  is  specified,  a  10  or  11  inch  pan  should  be  used. 

FLAKE  PIE  CRUST. 

1 cups  flour  6%  tablespoons  shortening 

14  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  ice  cold  water 

Sift  flour  and  salt  together  in  bowl.  Add  shortening  and  with  a 
spatula,  or  two  table  knives,  cut  the  shortening  into  the  flour,  being 
careful  to  have  the  flour  and  shortening  blended  until  they  have 
reached  the  crumb  stage.  Add  the  cold  water  next  and  continue  to 
mix  by  chopping  all  ingredients  together.  At  this  time  the  mixture 
should  be  in  crumbs  or  kernels.  Flour  the  board  well  and  pour  crumbs 
out  on  board.  Flour  hands  and  with  two  or  three  strokes  bring  crumbs 
together  in  a  pyramid  form,  squeezing  them  firmly  together.  With  a 
floured  rolling  pin,  roll  the  dough  to  the  desired  thickness,  always 
rolling  the  dough  from  the  center  out  and  being  careful  to  keep  the 
dough  on  one  side  all  the  time.  Do  not  at  any  time  turn  dough  over 
and  roll  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other.  With  a  little  practice 
dough  may  be  handled  in  this  manner  and  the  result  will  be  a  flake 
crust,  usually  requiring  about  five  minutes  for  the  process.  Pie  dough 
should  be  handled  as  little  as  possible.  The  undercrusts  should  be  a 
little  thicker  than  the  upper  crusts.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 

ECONOMY  PIE  CRUST. 

1 M  cups  flour  4*4  tablespoons  shortening 

M  teaspoon  salt  5  tablespoons  cold  water 

}4  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together.  Cut  shortening  in 
with  spatula,  keeping  mixture  in  crumb  form.  Add  next  the  cold 
water  and  continue  to  cut  with  spatula.  Dredge  board  with  flour,  pour 

—  130  — 


PIES 


crumbs  on  board,  squeezing  them  up  in  ball,  then  roll  dough  to  desired 
thickness,  being  careful  to  roll  it  only  on  one  side.  This  means  start¬ 
ing  the  rolling  pin  in  center  of  dough  and  rolling  out  in  different 
turns,  keeping  dough  in  rounded  shape.  Make  any  kind  of  pie  from 
this  pastry. 

PUFF  PASTE. 

1  egg  yolk  1  %  cups  flour 

6  tablespoons  ice  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  tablespoon  lemon  juice  %  lb.  butter 

Beat  egg  yolk  light,  to  which  add  water  and  lemon  juice.  Gradu¬ 
ally  add  the  flour  to  liquid  until  dough  is  mixed  smooth  and  firm,  then 
roll  dough  in  an  oblong  shape.  Wash  butter  through  three  different 
waters,  at  the  last  washing  pressing  all  water  from  butter.  Form 
butter  in  a  flat  sheet,  half  as  large  as  the  sheet  of  dough,  and  lay  it 
on  dough.  Bring  the  other  half  of  dough  over  butter  and  press  edges 
well  together.  Roll  dough  and  butter  into  a  flat  sheet ;  now  fold  again 
by  making  a  third  lap.  Lay  folded  dough  and  butter  on  ice  to  chill. 
When  cold  roll  flat  and  again  fold  over  on  three  folds  and  chill.  Re¬ 
peat  this  process  until  dough  has  been  folded  and  rolled  7  times.  Puff 
paste  may  be  used  for  pies,  patties,  vol-au-vents,  rissoles,  cheese 
straws,  tarts  and  turnovers. 

CRUMB  PUFF  PASTRY. 

1  cup  flour  5  tablespoons  butter 

%  teaspoon  baking  powder  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

%  teaspoon  soda  2  tablespoons  water 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt  together.  Have  the  butter 
as  cold  as  possible  and  cut  it  into  the  flour  mixture  until  crumbs  are 
formed.  Next  add  lemon  juice  and  water  and  mix  by  same  cutting  in 
method.  Pour  the  dough  out  onto  floured  board  and  handle  as  little 
as  possible  before  rolling  to  desired  thickness.  This  pastry  may  be 
used  for  regular  pie  shells  or  for  small  pate  shells.  This  amount  of 
dough  is  sufficient  for  one  large  size  pie  shell  or  it  will  make  6  large 
pate  shells  or  8  smaller  ones.  One  egg  yolk  may  be  beaten  and  added 
if  tinted  shells  are  wanted. 

PLAIN  PIE  CRUST  FOR  ONE  SHELL. 

%  cup  flour  4  tablespoons  cold  shortening 

%  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

Sift  flour  and  salt  together, then  add  the  shortening  and  cut  it 
into  flour  with  spatula  or  fork.  Next  add  water  and  continue  to  mix 
by  the  cutting  in  method.  Pour  dough  out  onto  floured  board  and 
handle  as  little  as  possible  before  rolling.  Roll  dough  carefully  by 
starting  the  rolling  pin  in  center  of  dough  each  time  and  rolling  out- 

—  131  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


ward.  Do  not  turn  dough  over  and  do  not  make,  rolling  pin  roll  back 
and  forth.  Fit  dough  to  pie  pan  and  bake  for  shell  or  use  it  for  one 
crust  filled  pie. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  1. 


3  eggs 

1  Vz  cups  cold  water 
1  cup  sugar 
7  tablespoons  flour 


Pinch  of  salt  (few  grains) 
1  %  tablespoons  butter 
Juice  of  1  large  lemon 
Grated  rind  of  ^  lemon 


Beat  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  the  water.  Mix  the  sugar, 
flour  and  salt  together  and  add.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and 
cook  till  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick  remove  from  fire,  add 
the  butter,  cool  until  lukewarm,  then  add  the  lemon  juice  and  rind. 
Make  a  meringue  from  the  3  egg  whites  and  spread  over  pie  and  return 
to  oven  to  brown  lightly,  usually  12  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  being 
required.  Be  careful  and  grate  only  the  outer  oil  cells  in  grating  the 
lemon  rind.  Adding  the  lemon  juice  and  rind  in  uncooked  form  gives 
the  pie  a  milder  flavor  and  eliminates  any  bitter  taste.  Cook  the  mix¬ 
ture  in  double  boiler  until  a  teaspoonful  of  the  mixture  dipped  out 
and  poured  back  into  the  bulk  will  stand  on  top. 


LEMON  PIE  NO.  2. 


1  %  cups  water 

2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar 
1  cup  bread  crumbs 


1  tablespoon  butter 
Juice  of  1  lemon 
Rind  of  %  lemon 
Pinch  of  salt 


Beat  the  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  water  and  sugar.  Squeeze 
the  juice  of  lemon  and  add  also  the  grated  rind.  Add  the  crumbs  and 
butter.  Allow  this  mixture  to  stand  and  soften  a  few  minutes  before 
placing  a  double  boiler  to  cook,  stirring  constantly  ’til  it  thickens. 
Have  shell  previously  baked.  Add  this  cooked  mixture  to  the  shell 
and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  from  the  two  egg  whites.  In  all 
recipes  where  one  lemon  is  to  be  used,  this  means  an  average  sized 
lemon,  juicy  and  fresh.  If  lemons  are  dried  out  and  undersized  it  may 
be  necessary  to  use  more  than  one  lemon. 

NOVELTY  LEMON  PIE. 

4  eggs  Grated  rind  of  %  lemon 

1  cup  sugar  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice  Few  grains  of  salt 


Beat  the  4  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  the  lemon  juice  first  and 
mix  well,  then  add  the  sugar  and  grated  rind.  Place  this  mixture  in 
a  rounded  bottom  enamel  bowl  and  set  the  bowl  in  another  pan  of 
boiling  water.  Keep  the  water  boiling  and  with  a  wire  egg  beater 
whip  briskly  until  the  mixture  is  very  thick  and  creamy,  then  take  the 
pan  of  boiling  water  from  the  fire,  but  let  the  bowl  with  egg  mixture 
in  it  stand  in  the  hot  water  until  the  whites  are  prepared.  Beat  the 

—  132  — 


PIES 


egg  whites  to  a  stiff,  dry  consistency,  and  fold  the  remaining  y2  cnp 
of  sugar  into  the  whites.  Divide  the  egg  white  mixture  into  two  parts ; 
one-half  is  to  be  folded  carefully  into  the  cooked  mixture  and  then 
poured  into  a  baked  pie  shell.  To  the  remaining  half  egg  white  mix¬ 
ture  add  the  lemon  extract  and  spread  over  the  top  of  pie  for  me¬ 
ringue.  Now  set  the  pie  in  oven  to  brown  lightly,  requiring  about  12 
minutes.  If  the  egg  yolk  mixture  is  cooked  long  enough  the  pie  sets 
perfectly. 

FRESH  STRAWBERRY  PIE  NO.  1. 

3  cups  ripe  strawberries  %  cup  whipping  cream 

1  cup  confectioners’  sugar 

Have  a  baked  pie  shell  ready.  Mix  strawberries  and  sugar  to¬ 
gether,  being  careful  not  to  mash  berries.  Place  the  strawberries  and 
sugar  in  shell.  Whip  the  2/3  cup  of  cream  to  a  stiff  consistency  and 
spread  over  the  berries.  At  regular  intervals  on  top  of  pie  place  ripe 
strawberries.  Serve  soon  after  pie  is  prepared. 

FRESH  STRAWBERRY  PIE  NO.  2. 

2J4  cups  ripe  strawberries  3  tablespoons  flour 

94  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  butter 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  flake  pastry,  being  careful  to  give  the  bottom 
the  flour  treatment.  Place  berries,  sugar  and  flour  in  a  bowl  and  mix 
thoroughly  together,  then  place  in  the  lined  pie  pan.  Place  the  butter 
on  top  of  berries  in  dots,  then  push  dots  of  butter  down  into  berries. 
Either  cover  pie  with  full  upper  crust  or  lay  narrow  strips  of  pastry 
both  ways  over  pie,  forming  a  lattice  work.  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  first 
ten  minutes,  then  decrease  the  heat  to  moderate  for  remaining  baking 
period.  Dredge  pie  with  pulverized  sugar  before  serving. 

FRESH  BLACKBERRY  PIE. 

2^4  cups  fresh  blackberries  3  tablespoons  flour 

94  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  butter 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  flake  pie  crust,  being  particular  to  give  the 
bottom  the  flour  treatment.  Mix  the  blackberries,  sugar  and  flour  to¬ 
gether  and  place  in  the  lined  pan  with  the  butter  on  top  of  berries  in 
dots.  Either  make  a  full  cover  for  the  pie  or  cut  strips  of  pastry  and 
lay  over  pie,  running  both  ways,  forming  a  lattice  work.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  for  first  10  minutes,  then  decrease  the  heat  and  allow  it  to 
bake  slowly  the  remainder  of  baking  period.  Where  strips  are  used 
on  top  of  pie,  whipped  cream  makes  a  delicious  addition.  Place  a  gen¬ 
erous  spoonful  on  top  of  each  piece  of  pie  before  serving. 

FRESH  RASPBERRY  PIE. 

2%  cups  raspberries  2  tablespoons  flour 

94  cup*  sugar  2  teaspoons  butter 

Have  a  pie  pan  lined  with  flake  pie  crust.  Place  raspberries, 
sugar  and  flour  in  bowl  and  mix  well  together.  Place  the  fruit  in  the 

—  133  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


shell,  after  giving  the  crust  the  flour  treatment.  Place  the  butter  on  in 
dots  over  fruit  and  press  down  into  the  fruit.  Make  an  upper  crust  by 
placing  narrow  strips  of  pastry  both  ways  on  pie,  forming  a  lattice 
work.  Bake  pie  in  hot  oven  for  first  8  or  10  minutes,  then  decrease 
the  heat  and  bake  more  slowly  for  remaining  baking  period.  A  gen¬ 
erous  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  should  be  served  on  each  piece  of 
pie.  If  juicy  pie  is  not  wanted,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  fruit 
instead  of  2  tablespoonfuls. 

RASPBERRY  CREAM  PIE. 

%  cup  sugar  1  cup  rich  milk  (half  cream 

4  tablespoons  flour  and  half  milk) 

1  34  cups  raspberries 

Blend  sugar  and  flour  together  and  mix  with  berries.  Add  the 
milk  to  this  and  pour  in  pie  pan  lined  with  flake  crust,  first  giving 
bottom  of  crust  the  flour  treatment.  Bake  in  quick  oven  for  first  8 
minutes,  then  decrease  heat  and  allow  pie  to  bake  slowly  the  remainder 
of  baking  period.  When  the  filling  sets  and  thickens  like  a  custard  pie 
it  is  done.  Cool  before  serving. 


FRESH  GOOSEBERRY  PIE. 

2  cups  gooseberries  3  tablespoons  flour 

134  cups  sugar  4  teaspoons  butter 

Have  pie  pan  lined  with  flake  pie  crust,  being  particular  to  give 
the  bottom  of  the  crust  the  flour  treatment.  Place  the  gooseberries, 
sugar  and  flour  in  a  bowl  and  mix,  then  place  mixture  in  the  lined 
pie  pan  with  the  butter  over  the  top  of  berries  in  dots,  then  push  the 
dots  of  butter  down  into  the  berries.  Make  a  top  crust  for  pie  and 
place  in  hot  oven  for  first  10  minutes,  then  decrease  heat  to  moderate 
for  remaining  time  pie  is  in  oven.  See  that  pie  simmers  long  enough 
for  berries  to  become  perfectly  tender  if  fresh  berries  are  used.  If 
sweetened  canned  gooseberries  are  used,  make  the  pie  the  same,  only 
use  less  sugar. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE. 


1  cup  cranberries 
34  cup  seeded  raisins 

1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour 


1  tablespoon  butter 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
Few  grains  of  salt 
%  teaspoon  soda 


Place  cranberries  and  raisins  on  to  cook  with  1  cup  of  water. 
Allow  them  to  simmer  until  tender.  Remove  from  fire,  add  enough 
water  to  raisins  and  cranberries  to  make  2  cups  in  all.  Mix  sugar  and 
flour  together  and  add,  then  return  mixture  to  fire  to  boil  one  minute. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  butter,  lemon  juice,  soda  and  salt.  Line  a  pie 

—  134  — 


PIES 


pan  with  pastry,  give  bottom  the  flour  treatment,  place  mixture  in, 
cover  with  top  cover  of  pastry  in  regular  pie  order  and  bake. 

CHERRY  PIE. 

2^  cups  fresh  seeded  or  3  tablespoons  flour 

canned  cherries  3  teaspoons  butter 

cups  sugar 

Have  pie  pan  lined  with  flake  crust,  giving  the  bottom  the  flour 
treatment.  Mix  the  cherries,  sugar  and  flour  together  and  place  in  lined 
pan,  and  over  the  mixture  place  the  butter  in  small  dots  at  even  spaces. 
Push  the  butter  down  into  the  fruit.  Make  a  top  cover  in  the  usual 
way.  Place  in  hot  oven  for  first  10  minutes,  then  decrease  the  heat 
to  moderate  for  remaining  baking  period. 

ELDERBERRY  AND  APPLE  PIE. 

1  *4  cups  fresh  ripe  elder-  1  %  tablespoons  flour 

berries  2  eggs 

%  cup  tart  sieved  apple  sauce  2  teaspoons  butter 

%  cup  sugar 

Place  the  elderberries  and  apples  in  a  mixing  bowl,  to  which  add 
the  sugar  and  flour  in  blended  form.  Next  add  the  well  beaten  egg 
yolks  and  place  the  mixture  in  an  unbaked  pie  shell.  Place  the  butter 
on  in  dots  and  bake  till  it  cooks  through  and  sets.  Make  a  meringue 
from  the  remaining  2  whites  and  spread  over  the  pie.  Return  to  oven 
for  the  setting  and  browning  of  merinque,  which  requires  about  12 
minutes. 

FRESH  PEACH  PIE. 

2%  cups  sliced  fresh  peaches  3  or  4  sprinkles  of  nutmeg 

%  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

3  or  4  tablespoons  flour  2  teaspoons  melted  butter 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  flake  pie  crust.  Give  the  bottom  the  flour 
treatment.  Blend  the  flour  and  sugar  together  and  mix  with  peaches, 
then  add  lemon  juice  and  butter  and  mix  well  and  place  in  shell.  Place 
upper  cover  on  and  bake  for  35  minutes  or  longer,  if  necessary. 

MINCED  APPLE  PIE. 

3  cups  chopped  apples  M  teaspoon  nutmeg 

*4  cup  brown  sugar  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

*4  cup  granulated  sugar  3  teaspoons  butter 

Have  pie  pan  lined  with  flake  pastry.  Sprinkle  1  level  tablespoon¬ 
ful  of  flour  in  bottom  of  pan  and  gently  rub  it  in.  Mix  apples,  sugar, 
nutmeg,  and  cinnamon  together  and  place  in  shell.  Place  butter  on  in 
dots  over  apple  mixture.  Bake  long  enough  to  have  apples  cooked  ten¬ 
der.  When  apples  are  tender  remove  from  oven  and  sprinkle  2  table- 

—  135  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


spoonfuls  of  chopped  pecans  over  top  and  make  an  egg  covering  in 
following  manner  and  spread  over  all.  Beat  1  egg  white  and  yolk 
separately.  To  the  egg  white  add  3  tablespoons  of  sugar;  beat  the 
egg  yolk  light  and  add  to  this,  together  with  y2  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  1  tablespoonful  of  sweet  milk.  Spread  over  top  of  the  pie  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  for  about  15  minutes. 


FANCY  APPLE  PIE. 

3  cups  chopped  peeled  apples  34  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  butter 

34  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  flake  pastry.  Mix  apples,  sugar,  nutmeg,  and 
cinnamon  all  together  in  a  bowl,  then  place  in  shell  after  1  tablespoon¬ 
ful  of  flour  has  been  sprinkled  in  bottom  of  pie  shell  and  gently  rubbed 
in.  Place  the  3  teaspoonfuls  of  butter  over  the  chopped  apples  in  dots, 
then  press  butter  down  into  apples.  Roll  pie  crust  very  thin  and  cut 
in  narrow  strips  and  place  over  the  top,  strips  running  in  opposite  di¬ 
rections,  forming  a  lattice  work  over  pie.  Place  pie  in  oven  and  bake 
until  done.  Remove  from  oven  and  add  meringue,  placing  it  only 
around  edge  of  pie  and  in  center,  leaving  a  circle  of  lattice  work  show¬ 
ing  on  pie  top.  Over  the  lattice  top  where  there  is  no  meringue 
sprinkle  shredded  cocoanut.  Place  pie  in  oven  to  set  and  brown  lightly, 
usually  about  12  minutes  being  required  for  this  process.  Any  other 
fruit  may  be  used  instead  of  apples.  Use  10-inch  pan  for  this  pie. 


FRIED  APPLE  PIE. 

3  cups  chopped  apples  1  tablespoon  butter 

34  cup  corn  syrup  1  tablespoon  lard 

34  cup  sugar  A  sprinkle  of  cinnamon 

Select  red  apples,  wash,  core  and  chop  fine,  leaving  the  peelings 
on.  Place  apples,  syrup,  sugar,  butter  and  lard  in  skillet  and  cook 
until  apples  are  mushy,  tender  and  thick.  Have  a  pie  shell  baked. 
Spread  apple  mixture  in  shell,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  cover  the 
pie  over  with  a  covering  as  follows : 

FLOUR  FLUFF  COVERING. 

4  tablespoons  flour  4  tablespoons  milk 

3  tablespoons  sugar  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

34  teaspoon  baking  powder  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  spread  over  top  of  pie  and  place 
pie  in  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  about  15  minutes.  The  apples  may 
be  peeled  if  desired. 


—  136  — 


PIES 


FRESH  RHUBARB  PIE. 

2%  cups  tender  rhubarb  (cut  2  tablespoons  flour 

in  J4  -inch  lengths )  3  teaspoons  butter 

1 M  cups  sugar 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  flake  pie  crust,  giving  the  bottom  the  flour  treat¬ 
ment.  Place  rhubarb,  sugar  and  flour  in  bowl  and  mix  together  before 
placing  it  in  shell.  Place  the  butter  in  dots  on  top  of  rhubarb,  then 
force  it  down  into  the  rhubarb  mixture.  Make  a  top  covering  and 
bake  in  hot  oven  for  first  10  minutes,  then  decrease  the  heat  to  mod¬ 
erate  for  remainder  of  baking  period.  Three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
may  be  used  instead  of  two  if  juicy  pie  is  not  wanted.  When  rhubarb 
is  old  and  beginning  to  be  a  little  tough,  14  teaspoonful  of  soda  may 
be  mixed  with  rhubarb.  When  pie  is  baked,  serve  on  plates  dredged 
with  confectioners’  sugar. 


PINEAPPLE  RAISIN  PIE. 

1  cup  diced  canned  pineapple  Few  grains  of  salt 

cup  seeded  raisins  1*4  tablespoons  flour 

M  cup  water  1  egg 

%  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

Place  pineapple,  raisins  and  water  on  stove  in  saucepan  and  boil 
for  3  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  flour  in 
blended  form  and  allow  mixture  to  set  until  half  cooled,  then  add  well 
beaten  egg  and  butter.  Place  mixture  in  a  lined  and  flour-treated  pie 
shell  and  cover  with  top  crust,  the  same  as  for  other  pies.  Bake  for 
about  25  minutes  until  pie  is  well  browned  over.  A  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar  may  be  added  to  pie  if  desired. 

PLAIN  PINEAPPLE  PIE. 

114  cups  diced  canned  pine-  2  tablespoons  flour 

apple  Few  grains  of  salt 

%  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  butter 

Line  a  shallow  9  or  10  inch  pan  with  flake  pastry.  Mix  pineapple 
in  a  bowl  with  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Place  1  tablespoonful  of 
flour  in  the  bottom  of  lined  pie  pan  and  gently  rub  it  into  the  pastry 
to  close  the  pores,  then  place  the  pineapple  mixture  in  with  the  butter 

on  top  at  regular  spaces.  Make  an  upper  crust  by  either  method  as 

given  in  “Pie  Instructions.’’  Bake  about  25  minutes  or  until  well 
browned. 

ORANGE  PIE. 


2  eggs  (whites  for  meringue) 
1  cup  water 
*4  cup  sugar 
7^4  tablespoons  flour 


Few  grains  of  salt 
1  tablespoon  butter 
Bind  of  orange 
A  cup  orange  juice 


Beat  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  the  water.  Mix  sugar,  flour 
and  salt  together  and  add  next.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and 

—  137  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly  during  cooking  period.  Remove 
from  fire  and  add  butter  as  soon  as  taken  from  fire.  Cool  until  luke¬ 
warm,  then  add  the  grated  orange  rind  and  orange  juice.  Mix  well 
and  spread  in  baked  pie  shell.  Make  a  meringue  out  of  the  2  egg 
whites  and  spread  over  top  of  pie.  Place  pie  in  hot  oven  to  brown 
over  quickly.  This  pie  should  not  be  heated  through  when  browning 
the  meringue — brown  the  meringue  quickly  and  remove  from  oven. 
Grate  only  the  outer  oil  cells  of  orange  rind  for  flavoring. 

PEACH  CREAM  PIE. 

1  cup  crushed  canned  peaches  2  tablespoons  flour 

3  tablespoons  sugar  (more  or  Few  grains  of  salt 

less)  1  tablespoon  butter 

Crush  peaches,  then  add  sugar,  flour  and  salt  and  cook  until  thick, 
usually  about  2  minutes  being  necessary.  Remove  from  fire  and  add 
butter.  Have  a  pie  shell  baked  and  in  readiness.  Place  a  teaspoonful 
of  flour  in  bottom  of  pie  shell  and  gently  rub  it  in  before  pouring  in 
the  peach  mixture.  On  top  of  this  spread  a  layer  of  cream  filling  made 
in  the  following  way: 

1  egg  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  milk  }4  teaspoon  vanilla 

*4  cup  sugar  J4  tablespoon  butter 

Beat  egg  yolk,  to  which  add  milk.  Mix  sugar  and  flour  together 
and  add.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  When  thick  remove  from  fire,  add  butter  and  vanilla. 
While  yet  hot  spread  over  the  peach  mixture  in  pie.  Make  a  meringue 
from  the  1  egg  white  and  spread  over  top,  then  return  pie  to  oven  to 
remain  for  about  12  minutes. 

BANANA-NUT  CREAM  PIE. 

2  eggs  (whites  for  meringue)  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  cups  cold  sweet  milk  14  teaspoon  vanilla 

14  cup  sugar  1  large  banana 

6  tablespoons  flour  14  cup  chopped  pecans 

Few  grains  of  salt 

Beat  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  milk.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and 
salt  together  and  add.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick  remove  from  fire  and  add  but¬ 
ter  and  vanilla.  Place  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  a  baked  pie  shell  and 
gently  rub  it  in  with  finger  tips,  then  place  a  layer  of  sliced  bananas 
in  bottom  of  shell.  Cool  the  cooked  mixture  and  pour  over  the  bananas 
and  on  top  sprinkle  the  nuts.  Make  a  meringue  from  the  2  egg  whites 
and  spread  over  this.  Place  pie  in  oven  and  allow  meringue  to  set 
and  brown  lightly,  usually  about  12  minutes  being  required.  See  “Ice 
Water  Meringue.” 


—  138  — 


PIES 


SOUR  CREAM  PIE. 

2  eggs 

1  cup  sour  cream 
%  cup  raisins 
1  pinch  of  salt 
%  teaspoon  soda 

Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  sour  cream  and  raisins.  Mix  the 
sugar,  flour,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  salt  together  and  add  last.  Pour 
mixture  in  an  uncooked  pie  shell.  Take  a  part  of  the  pie  dough  and 
roll  very  thin.  Cut  in  narrow  strips  and  lay  over  the  top  of  pie — one 
way  only.  The  strips  will  not  sink  in  the  mixture  if  placed  on  care¬ 
fully,  and  after  it  is  baked  the  result  is  pleasing. 


teaspoon  nutmeg 
16  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  tablespoon  flour 
1  cup  sugar 


MARSHMALLOW  CREAM  NUT  PIE. 

COOKED  FILLING. 


1  egg 

1H  cups  sweet  milk 
%  cup  sugar 


3  16  tablespoons  flour 
Few  grains  of  salt 
16  teaspoon  vanilla 


Covering. 

%  cup  whipping  cream  14  cup  confectioners’  sugar 

15  marshmallows  quartered  14  cup  chopped  pecans 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt 
together  and  add.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook  till  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  When  thick,  remove  from  fire  and  add  vanilla. 
Have  in  readiness  a  baked  pie  shell.  Sprinkle  a  teaspoon  of  flour  in 
bottom  of  baked  shell  and  gently  rub  it  in  before  pouring  hot  mixture 
into  shell.  Let  pie  set  till  perfectly  cold,  then  sprinkle  the  pecans  on 
top.  Next  take  the  cold  cream  and  whip  till  stiff.  Add  to  it  the 
quartered  marshmallows  and  sifted  confectioners’  sugar.  Spread  over 
top  of  pie  and  serve  soon  after  pie  is  made. 


CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PIE. 

Have  a  baked  pie  shell  in  readiness  for  the  chocolate  cream  mix¬ 
tures  prepared  in  two  parts  as  follows  : 

CREAM  FILLING. 

1  egg  (white  for  meringue)  3%  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  sweet  milk  Few  grains  of  salt 

14  cup  sugar  14  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  yolk  light,  to  which  add  milk.  Blend  sugar,  flour  and  salt 
and  add.  Pour  into  double  boiler  and  cook  till  thick,  stirring  con¬ 
stantly.  Remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla  and  after  sprinkling  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  bottom  of  baked  shell  and  rubbing  it  in,  pour  in 
the  mixture. 


—  139  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 


1  egg  (white  for  meringue) 
1  cup  water 
cup  sugar 

3  tablespoons  flour 


u  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate 
Few  grains  of  salt 
1  tablespoon  butter 
16  teaspoon  vanilla 


Beat  egg  yolk  light,  to  which  add  water.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  choco¬ 
late  and  salt  together  and  add.  Pour  mixture  into  double  boiler  and 
cook  till  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick,  remove  from  fire  and 
add  butter  and  vanilla.  Spread  chocolate  filling  over  the  cream  filling 
in  the  pie.  Make  a  meringue  from  the  two  egg  whites  and  place  on 
top.  Place  pie  in  oven  to  remain  about  12  minutes  after  meringue 
is  on. 


CREAM  PIE. 


2  eggs  (whites  for  meringue) 
2  cups  sweet  milk 
16  cup  sugar 
6  tablespoons  flour 


Few  grains  of  salt 
1  tablespoon  butter 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Beat  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Mix  sugar,  flour 
and  salt  together  and  add.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook 
till  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick,  remove  from  fire  and  add 
butter  and  vanilla.  Have  baked  and  in  readiness  a  pie  shell.  Place  1 
level  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  shell  and  gently  rub  it  in  before  placing 
in  the  hot  mixture.  Make  a  meringue  from  the  2  egg  whites  and  place 
over  the  cream  mixture.  Place  pie  in  moderate  oven  and  allow  it  to 
remain  for  about  12  minutes.  Do  not  allow  meringue  to  brown  over 
too  quickly.  See  recipe  for  meringue. 

JAM  CREAM  PIE. 

1  cup  whipping  cream  1  cup  jam  or  preserves 

Have  pie  shell  baked  and  cold.  Spread  the  jam  in  bottom  of  shell 
and  on  top  of  this  spread  the  cream  after  it  has  been  whipped  stiff. 
Keep  cool  until  time  to  serve.  A  part  of  jam  may  be  placed  on  in  dots 
over  the  whipped  cream. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  PIE. 


2  eggs  (whites  for  meringue) 
2  cups  sweet  milk 
16  cup  sugar 
6  tablespoons  flour 


Few  grains  of  salt 
1  tablespoon  butter 
16  teaspoon  vanilla 

cup  shredded  cocoanut 


Beat  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  milk.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and 
salt  together  and  add.  Place  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire,  add  butter,  vanilla  and 
shredded  cocoanut.  Have  in  readiness  a  baked  pie  shell.  Place  1  level 
teaspoonful  flour  in  bottom  of  shell  and  gently  rub  it  in  before  placing 

—  140  — 


PIES 


cooked  cream  mixture  in  shell.  Make  a  meringue  from  the  2  egg 
whites  and  place  on  top.  Sprinkle  coeoanut  on  top  of  meringue  and 
place  pie  in  oven  and  let  remain  for  about  .12  minutes,  a  moderate  oven 
being  required  for  the  baking  of  meringue. 

ELIZABETH’S  ICE  CREAM  PIE. 

2  cups  thick  cream  Few  grains  of  salt 

Mi  cup  granulated  sugar  1  %  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  tablespoon  flour  3  egg  whites 

Blend  sugar,  flour  and  salt  and  add  to  cream.  Stir  until  sugar  is 
dissolved,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  an  un¬ 
baked  pie  shell  and  bake  for  about  50  minutes,  or  until  firmly  set. 

GERALDINE’S  BOSTON  CREAM  PIE. 

3  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  rich  milk 

1  cup  flour  (scant  a  little)  Mi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  1  tablespoonful  of  the  milk 
and  the  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  beat  hard  for  5  minutes.  Sift  the  flour 
and  baking  powder  together  and  add,  together  with  the  remaining  2 
tablespoons  of  milk,  and  beat  another  2  minutes.  Last  fold  in  the  egg 
whites  and  vanilla,  but  do  not  beat  after  this  addition.  Bake  in  layer 
cake  pan  and  serve  with  the  following  filling.  When  cake  is  cold  split 
and  place  the  filling  between  and  on  top. 

Cook  in  double  boiler  2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  flour. 
2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  the  eggs 
light  before  combining  with  other  ingredients. 

BANANA  WHIPPED  CREAM  PIE. 

1  cup  whipping  cream  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mi  cup  confecioners’  sugar  2  firm  ripe  bananas 

Have  pie  shell  baked  and  cold.  Slice  1  banana  thin  and  place  in 
bottom  of  baked  shell.  Whip  the  cup  of  cream  stiff  and  into  this  fold 
sugar  and  vanilla.  Spread  this  mixture  over  the  layer  of  bananas. 
Take  the  remaining  banana  and  slice  in  thin  slices  and  place  in  circle 
all  around  the  edge  of  pie  on  top  of  cream.  Serve  soon  after  making. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM  PIE. 

1  cup  grated  pineapple  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Few  grains  of  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Place  pineapple  in  small  saucepan,  to  which  add  the  blended  flour 
and  sugar.  Place  on  stove  and  boil  until  it  thickens,  then  remove  from 
fire  and  add  the  butter  and  few  grains  of  salt. 

—  141  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


CREAM  FILLING. 

1  egg  (white  for  meringue)  Few  grains  of  salt 

1  cup  sweet  milk  3*A  tablespoons  flour 

14  cup  sugar  *A  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  milk.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt  and 
add  next.  Cook  mixture  in  double  boiler  till  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
When  thick,  remove  from  fire  and  add  vanilla.  Have  pie  shell  baked. 
Sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  bottom  of  shell  and  rub  it  in.  First 
spread  the  pineapple  mixture  in  the  shell  and  over  this  spread  the 
cream  mixture.  Make  a  meringue  with  the  1  egg  white  and  spread 
on  top  of  cream  filling.  Place  pie  in  oven  and  allow  it  to  set  for  about 
12  minutes.  Meringue  should  be  browned  lightly. 

LEMON  SPONGE  CREAM  PIE. 

1  cup  sugar  Grated  rind  of  *A  lemon 

2  tablespoons  butter  6%  tablespoons  flour 

3  eggs  1  cups  rich  sweet  milk 

4  or  5  tablespoons  lemon  Few  grains  of  salt 

juice 

Blend  cup  of  the  sugar  with  the  butter,  to  which  add  the  egg 
yolks,  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Beat  until  creamy.  Mix  the  remaining 
V2  cup  of  sugar  with  the  flour  and  add,  beating  again  until  smooth. 
Next  add  the  milk  and  salt  and  stir  well.  Beat  the  3  egg  whites  very 
stiff  and  fold  them  in  carefully,  then  pour  all  the  mixture  into  an  un¬ 
baked  shell  and  bake  for  about  40  or  50  minutes.  The  pie  browns 
very  soon  and  must  be  watched  carefully.  Bake  until  it  feels  firm  and 
well  set  when  the  pan  is  shaken. 

PINEAPPLE  SPONGE  CREAM  PIE. 

Use  the  same  recipe  and  process  as  for  ‘‘Lemon  Sponge  Cream 
Pie,”  only  use  5  tablespoons  of  water  instead  of  lemon  juice,  and  use 
1  teaspoon  high-grade  pineapple  extract  instead  of  grated  lemon  rind. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD  PIE. 

3  eggs  *A  teaspoon  vanilla 

1*4  cups  milk  (scalded  and  %  cup  sugar 

cooled)  V&  cup  shredded  cocoanut 

Separate  2  egg  whites  from  the  3  eggs  and  place  in  bowl.  Take 
the  remaining  whole  egg  and  2  yolks  and  beat  until  mixed,  to  which 
add  the  milk,  vanilla,  sugar  and  cocoanut.  Pour  mixture  in  lined  pie 
pan,  first  giving  the  bottom  the  flour  treatment.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
for  first  8  or  10  minutes,  then  decrease  heat  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  until  custard  is  set  and  firm.  Remove  from  oven  and  spread  over 
the  top  a  meringue  made  from  the  2  egg  whites.  Set  back  in  oven  to 
set  and  brown  lightly,  ordinarily  about  12  minutes  being  necessary  in 
slow  oven. 


— 142  — 


PIES 


2-EGG  CUSTARD  PIE. 


2  eggs 

1  £  cups  milk  (scalded  and 
cooled) 


% 

K 

H 


cup  sugar 
teaspoon  nutmeg 
teaspoon  vanilla 


Beat  eggs  only  until  mixed,  to  which  add  milk,  sugar,  vanilla  and 
nutmeg.  Pour  mixture  in  lined  pie  pan,  giving  the  bottom  the  flour 
treatment  first.  Place  in  hot  oven  for  first  8  or  10  minutes,  decrease 
the  heat  and  allow  pie  to  bake  until  custard  has  set.  Do  not  allow  it 
to  remain  in  oven  after  the  custard  seems  firm. 

CUSTARD  NUT  PIE. 


3  eggs 

1  pint  milk,  scalded  and 
cooled 

£  cup  sugar 


M  level  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  pinch  of  salt 
M  cup  chopped  pecans 


Beat  eggs  until  mixed,  to  which  add  milk,  nutmeg,  sugar,  salt  and 
nuts.  Pour  in  unbaked  sheet  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  first  8  minutes, 
then  decrease  heat,  allowing  pie  to  bake  slowly  until  custard  sets. 
When  pie  is  removed  from  oven  use  either  whipped  cream  or  meringue 
on  top.  Pie  crust  and  filling  all  baked  together  for  this  pie. 

IDEAL  CUSTARD  PIE. 


3  eggs 

2  cups  sweet  milk,  scalded  and 
cooled 
cup  sugar 


*4  teaspoon  nutmeg 
x£  teaspoon  vanilla 
Few  grains  of  salt 


Beat  eggs  long  enough  to  have  them  only  well  mixed,  to  which 
add  the  milk  and  vanilla.  Mix  the  sugar,  nutmeg  and  salt  together 
and  add  next.  Have  pie  pan  lined  with  flake  pastry,  give  the  bottom 
of  crust  the  flour  treatment,  i.  e.,  place  1  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  bottom 
and  gently  rub  it  in  with  finger  tips.  Pour  the  custard  mixture  in  and 
place  pie  in  hot  oven  for  eight  minutes,  then  decrease  the  heat  and  al¬ 
low  pie  to  bake  very  slowly  until  the  custard  is  set.  Test  with  a  silver 
knife. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE. 


2  eggs 

1  x£  cups  milk  (scalded  and 
cooled) 


1M  cups  stewed  apples 
£  cup  sugar 
M  teaspoon  nutmeg 


Quarter  apples  and  cook  until  half  tender,  having  them  sweetened 
to  taste.  Line  a  pie  pan  with  flake  pastry,  giving  the  bottom  the  flour 
treatment.  Cut  the  cooked  apples  in  small  pieces  and  place  in  bottom 
of  lined  pie  pan.  Beat  eggs  only  until  mixed,  then  combine  with  milk, 
sugar  and  nutmeg  and  pour  over  the  apples  in  the  pie  shell.  Place  pie 
in  hot  oven  for  first  ten  minutes,  then  decrease  heat  to  moderate  for 
remainder  of  time.  When  custard  is  set,  pie  is  done. 

— 143  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


CHERRY  CUSTARD  PIE. 


1  Yz  cups  canned  or  fresh 
seeded  cherries 
%  cup  sugar 


4  tablespoons  flour 
1  tablespoon  butter 


Mix  cherries,  sugar  and  flour  together  and  boil  1  minute.  Remove 
from  fire  and  add  butter.  For  the  custard  use 


2  eggs 

1  y2  cups  scalded  and  cooled 
milk 


scant  cup  sugar 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Few  grains  of  salt 


Beat  eggs  until  mixed,  to  which  add  milk,  sugar,  vanilla  and  salt. 
Have  pie  pan  lined  with  flake  pastry,  giving  the  bottom  the  flour  treat¬ 
ment.  First  place  the  cooked  cherry  mixture  in  pie  shell,  then  add 
custard,  spreading  it  over  by  spoonfuls.  Place  in  hot  oven  for  first  8 
minutes,  then  decrease  the  heat  and  allow  pie  to  bake  slowly  until  the 
custard  is  set.  Serve  cold.  Crust  and  filling  all  cooked  together  for 
this  pie.  Bake  pie  in  large  sized  pan. 


Y 


RHUBARB  CUSTARD  PIE. 


1%  cups  cold  or  hot  water 
1M  cups  sugar 
5}4  tablespoons  flour  or  4 
tablespoons  cornstarch 


2  tablespoons  butter 

1^6  cups  tender,  unpeeled  rhu¬ 
barb  cut  in  y<i  -inch  lengths 

3  eggs 


Place  the  water  and  1  cup  of  the  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
it  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  cornstarch,  butter  and  remaining  *4  cup  of 
sugar  in  blended  form,  stirring  until  it  thickens  and  is  free  from 
lumps.  Now  drop  the  rhubarb  in  and  set  mixture  on  an  asbestos  mat 
and  do  not  stir  but  very  little  until  rhubarb  is  tender  but  not  mushy. 
When  done  take  from  the  fire  and  cool  to  lukewarm  by  setting  in  cold 
water.  Beat  2  egg  yolks  with  1  whole  egg  very  light,  and  gradually 
fold  it  into  the  cooked  mixture.  Pour  this  mixture  into  a  baked  pie 
shell  and  set  in  a  medium  hot  oven  while  a  meringue  is  being  made, 
which  usually  means  about  10  or  15  minutes.  Follow  the  “Ice  Water 
Meringue”  recipe  (as  given  in  this  book)  and  make  a  meringue  from 
the  remaining  2  egg  whites,  spread  on  top  of  the  pie  and  return  to 
moderate  oven  for  12  or  15  minutes. 


EGGLESS  CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

%  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

6  tablespoons  flour  1%  cups  sweet  milk 

%  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate  1  tablespoon  butter 

or  cocoa  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  sugar,  flour,  chocolate  or  cocoa  and  salt  together,  to  which 
add  the  milk.  Pour  in  double  boiler  and  cook  till  thick,  stirring  con¬ 
stantly.  When  thick  remove  from  fire  and  add  butter  and  vanilla. 
Have  a  pie  shell  baked.  Place  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  bottom  of 
baked  shell  and  rub  it  in,  then  pour  the  cooked  mixture  in  shell. 

—  144  — 


PEES 


FLOUR  FLUtfF  COVERING. 

4  tablespoons  flour  4  tablespoons  sweet  milk 

3  tablespoons  sugar  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

teaspoon  baking  powder 

Mix  these  ingredients  together  in  the  order  given  and  spread  over 
top  of  pie.  Place  pie  in  oven  and  bake  for  about  15  minutes,  or  until 
covering  is  set  and  browned  lightly. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

2  eggs  (whites  for  meringue)  %  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate 

1^4  cups  water  or  cocoa 

%  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

5  tablespoons  flour  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  water.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  cho¬ 
colate  or  cocoa  and  salt  together  and  add  to  liquid  mixture.  Place 
in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  vanilla  and  butter.  Sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  in 
a  previously  baked  shell  and  gently  rub  it  in  before  pouring  the  hot 
chocolate  mixture  in  shell.  Make  a  meringue  from  the  2  egg  whites 
and  spread  on  top.  Return  pie  to  oven  and  allow  meringue  to  bake 
for  12  minutes  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

If  chocolate  nut  pie  is  wanted,  sprinkle  %  cup  of  finely  chopped 
pecans  over  chocolate  mixture  before  covering  with  meringue.  Then 
sprinkle  a  few  nuts  over  top  of  meringue  if  extra  rich  pie  is  wanted. 


THANKSGIVING  SQUASH  PIE. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  J4  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  cups  stewed  and  sieved  Hub-  teaspoon  ginger 

bard  squash  %  teaspoon  cloves 

%  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  rich  milk  1  cup  whipping  cream 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 


Combine  all  ingredients  but  whipping  cream.  Pour  in  a  large  pie 
pan  lined  with  pastry.  Bake  till  set  and  firm.  Whip  cream  and 
spread  over  top  when  pie  is  cold. 


SQUASH  PIE. 


1  cup  stewed  and  sieved 
squash 

1  cup  sweet  scalded  milk 

2  eggs 

J4  cup  sugar 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
y*t  teaspoon  nutmeg 
M  teaspoon  ginger 
1  tablespoon  flour 
Few  grains  of  salt 


Place  squash  in  bowl  and  add  to  it  the  milk  and  well  beaten  eggs. 
Mix  sugar,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  ginger,  flour  and  salt  together  and  add. 


—  145  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


Line  a  pie  pan  with  flake  pastry,  give  the  bottom  the  flour  treatment, 
and  pour  mixture  into  shell.  Place  pie  in  hot  oven  for  first  10  min¬ 
utes,  then  decrease  the  heat  to  moderate  for  remaining  baking  period. 
Bake  until  squash  seems  well  set.  Two-thirds  cup  of  sugar  may  be 
added  if  sweet  pie  is  wanted. 


VINEGAR  PIE. 

2  eggs 

%  cup  vinegar 
%  cup  water 
1  cup  sugar 

Beat  egg  yolks  light  to  which  add  vinegar  and  water.  Blend  su¬ 
gar,  flour  and  salt  and  add.  Place  mixture  in  double  boiler  and  cook 
till  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick,  remove  from  fire,  add 
salt  and  butter,  then  pour  it  into  a  baked  shell.  Make  a  meringue  with 
the  2  egg  whites  and  spread  on  pie.  See  “Ice  Water  Meringue” 
recipe. 

PLAIN  RAISIN  PIE. 


6J4  tablespoons  flour 
Few  grains  of  salt 
2  tablespoons  butter 


2  cups  seeded  raisins 
1  cup  cold  water 
%  cup  sugar  (scant) 
tablespoon  cornstarch 


2  teaspoons  lemon  juice  or 
vinegar 

2  teaspoons  butter 
Few  grains  of  salt 


Place  the  raisins  and  water  in  a  saucepan  and  bring  to  a  boil. 
After  they  come  to  a  boil  stir  well,  then  dip  the  raisins  out  into  an¬ 
other  dish  with  a  strainer  spoon.  This  leaves  the  liquid  in  which  they 
were  cooked  in  first  saucepan  with  the  sand  from  the  raisins  in  the 
bottom.  Now  carefully  tip  the  pan  in  such  a  way  to  permit  the  liquid 
being  drained  off  onto  the  raisins  again,  allowing  the  sediment  to  re¬ 
main  in  pan  No.  1.  This  process  followed,  none  of  the  sweetness  of 
raisin  is  lost,  and  yet  all  sand  is  removed.  Now  add  the  sugar  and 
cornstarch  to  the  raisin  mixture  in  blended  form  and  boil  for  1  min¬ 
ute.  Take  from  fire,  add  the  lemon  juice,  butter  and  salt,  and  place  in 
pie  and  bake  with  two  crusts. 


PLAIN  CURRANT  PIE. 

Make  the  same  as  ‘  ‘  Plain  Raisin  Pie,  ’  ’  only  use  currants  instead  of 
raisins,  and  see  that  currants  are  washed  thoroughly  before  beginning 
the  process  as  for  raisin  pie. 

RAISIN  NUT  PIE. 

%  cup  raisins  1  pinch  of  salt 

2  cups  water  1  tablespoon  butter 

%  cup  sugar  %  cup  chopped  pecans 

5  tablespoons  flour 

Boil  raisins  and  water  for  3  minutes.  With  a  strainer  spoon,  dip 
the  raisins  from  this  liquid,  leaving  the  sand  settled  in  the  bottom  of 


—  146  — 


PIES 


pan.  Strain  liquid  or  drain  off  into  another  bowl  and  leave  the  sand 
all  in  bottom  of  first  bowl.  Now  return  liquid  and  raisins  to  fire,  and 
to  this  add  the  well  blended  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Stir  until  thick, 
remove  from  fire  and  add  the  butter  and  nuts.  Have  pie  pan  lined 
with  flake  pastry,  giving  the  bottom  flour  treatment.  Pour  mixture 
in  and  place  a  top  crust  on  in  same  manner  as  for  apple  pie.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  for  first  10  minutes,  then  decrease  the  heat  to  moderate 
for  remaining  baking  period. 


MOLASSES  PIE. 


2  eggs 

1  cup  mild  sorghum  molasses 

1  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  flour 


^  teaspoon  cinnamon 
M  teaspoon  nutmeg  or  mace 
2  tablespoons  butter 
Pinch  of  salt 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  sorghum  and  water.  Mix  flour, 
cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  salt  together  and  add.  Add  melted  butter  and 
beat  all  together.  Line  a  pie  pan  with  flaky  crust,  give  the  bottom  the 
flour  treatment,  then  pour  this  mixture  in  shell.  Bake  the  same  as  a 
custard  pie,  allowing  mixture  to  set  firmly.  A  hot  oven  for  first  8  or 
10  minutes,  then  decreasing  heat  for  remainder  of  baking  period. 


PUMPKIN  PIE  NO.  1. 

2  eggs  (for  extra  fine,  3  eggs)  *4  teaspoon  nutmeg  or  mace 

1  cup  stewed  pumpkin  teaspoon  ginger 

1  cup  scalded  sweet  milk  teaspoon  cinnamon 

cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

%  teaspoon  cloves  Pinch  of  salt 

Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  pumpkin  and  milk.  Mix  sugar, 
spices,  flour  and  salt  together  and  add.  Have  pie  pan  lined  with  flake 
pastry,  give  the  bottom  the  flour  treatment,  and  then  add  pumpkin 
mixture.  Place  in  hot  oven  for  first  8  or  10  minutes,  then  decrease 
heat  and  bake  slowly  until  pie  is  set  and  firm.  Bake  pumpkin  pies 
long  enough  to  be  well  done.  To  be  extra  good,  serve  with  whipped 
cream  or  ice  cream  on  top.  If  the  milk  is  yet  warm  when  mixed  with 
other  ingredients,  the  pie  will  bake  quicker. 


PUMPKIN  PIE  NO.  2. 


2  eggs 

2  cups  stewed  pumpkin 
%  cup  sweet  milk  (scalded) 
%  cup  sugar 

%  teaspoon  cloves  (scant) 


%  teaspoon  nutmeg 
*4  teaspoon  ginger 
%  teaspoon  cinnamon 
2  tablespoons  flour 
%  teaspoon  salt 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  the  pumpkin  and  milk.  Blend 
sugar,  cloves,  nutmeg,  ginger,  cinnamon,  flour  and  salt  together  and 
add,  mixing  well.  Have  a  pie  pan  lined  with  flake  pastry  (uncooked) 

—  147  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


and  into  the  pan  pour  this  mixture.  Cook  until  done.  Pumpkin  pies 
require  a  long  baking  period.  The  best  way  to  determine  whether  pie 
is  done  is  to  watch  the  center  of  pie.  When  the  center  of  pie  ha»  the 
dry  appearance  that  the  outer  edge  of  pie  has,  remove  from  oven. 
When  milk  is  scalded  first  and  combined  with  other  ingredients  in 
lukewarm  condition,  the  texture  of  pie  will  be  better  and  pie  will  bake 
in  little  less  time. 

CHEESE  PIE. 


2  tablespoons  butter 
4  tablespoons  flour 
%  cup  sugar 
1  cup  sweet  milk 
Pinch  of  salt 


3  eggs  (whites  for  meringue) 
1%  cups  cottage  cheese 
%  teaspoon  cinnamon 
*4  teaspoon  nutmeg  or  mace 


Mix  butter,  flour,  salt  and  sugar  together  and  add  to  milk.  Place 
in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick.  Remove  from  fire,  cool  to  luke¬ 
warm  and  add  the  well  beaten  egg  yolks  and  cottage  cheese  mixed 
together.  Add  the  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  or  mace  and  mix  with  mix¬ 
ture.  Pour  this  in  a  lined  pie  pan  and  bake  as  a  custard  pie  is  baked. 
Make  a  meringue  with  the  3  egg  whites  and  spread  on  pie  after  it  is 
baked.  Return  pie  to  oven  to  allow  meringue  to  bake  for  about  12 
minutes.  Where  meringue  is  not  used  on  this  pie,  only  use  the  2  whole 
eggs  in  the  cheese  mixture.  Smooth  cheese  is  necessary  for  this  recipe. 
Cheese  made  from  heated  milk  causes  curd  to  become  too  hard  in  pie 
after  baking. 

DIVINITY  PIE  NO  1. 

M  pint  whipping  cream  y3  cup  chopped  pecans 

24  marshmallows  %  cup  candied  cherries 

%  ring  of  candied  pineapple  or  *4  cup  confectioners’  sugar 

1  ring  of  canned  pineapple  1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Have  a  pie  shell  baked  and  in  readiness.  Quarter  the  marshmal¬ 
lows,  chop  the  pecans,  cherries  and  candied  pineapple.  Place  all  these 
ingredients  in  bottom  of  baked  shell.  Whip  the  one-half  pint  of  cream, 
to  which  fold  in  the  confectioners’  sugar  and  vanilla.  Spread  this 
over  the  mixture  in  the  pie  and  allow  pie  to  stand  until  ready  for 
serving.  Some  of  the  marshmallows  and  fruit  may  be  held  back  for 
decorating  the  top  in  attractive  manner. 


DIVINITY  PIE  NO.  2. 


1%  cups  evaporated  milk 
%  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  tablespoon  flour 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 
Few  grains  of  salt 


M  cup  shredded  cocoanut  or 
%  cup  sliced  and  blanched 
almonds 
3  egg  whites 


Blend  sugar  and  flour  and  add  to  milk.  Next  add  vanilla,  salt 
and  cocoanut  or  almonds.  Stir  until  sugar  is  all  dissolved,  then  fold 

—  148  — 


PIES 


in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Ponr  mixture  into  an  unbaked  pie. 
shell  and  bake  for  about  50  minutes,  or  until  it  has  risen  high  or  is; 
well  browned  and  feels  firm  when  shaken.  A  deep  10-inch  pan  should 
be  used  for  this  pie. 


AFFINITY  PIE. 

2  cups  sweet  milk  Few  grains  of  salt 

34  cup  sugar  2  egg  whites 

5  tablespoons  cornstarch  1  cup  whipping  cream 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Place  milk  in  double  boiler,  to  which  add  sugar  and  cornstarch  in 
blended  form.  Cook  and  stir  till  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly. 
When  thick,  remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla,  salt  and  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites.  Be  careful  not  to  fold  the  whites  in  until  mixture  seems  in 
well  blended  form.  Place  this  cream  filling  in  a  baked  pie  shell  and 
allow  it  to  get  perfectly  cold.  When  cold  whip  the  cream  to  stiff  con¬ 
sistency  and  spread  evenly  over  top.  This  should  be  made  in  a  10 
inch  pan. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE. 

2  eggs  %  teaspoon  cloves 

34  cup  syrup  34  teaspoon  nutmeg  or  mace 

1  cup  sweet  milk  34  teaspoon  ginger 

1  cup  mashed  and  sieved  sweet  34  teaspoon  cinnamon 

potatoes  Pinch  of  salt 

34  cup  sugar 

Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  syrup,  milk  and  sweet  potatoes. 
Mix  sugar,  cloves,  nutmeg  or  mace,  ginger,  cinnamon  and  salt  together 
and  add  to  first  mixture.  Have  pie  pan  lined  with  flaky  pastry  and 
pour  this  mixture  in  pan.  Bake  until  the  pie  is  firm  and  done,  a  long 
baking  period  in  moderate  oven  being  necessary.  The  first  8  or  10 
minutes  the  oven  should  be  hot,  then  decrease  the  heat  to  moderate  for 
remainder  of  time. 


CARAMEL  CURRANT  PIE. 


%  cup  brown  sugar 
3  tablespoons  butter 

1  tablespoon  flour 
3  eggs 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 


34  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  currants 

2  tablespoons  milk 
Few  grains  of  salt 


Cream  sugar,  butter  and  flour  together  until  light.  Separate  the 
two  whites  from  the  3  eggs  and  set  aside  for  meringue.  Add  remain¬ 
ing  whole  egg  and  2  yolks  to  creamed  mixture  and  beat  until  light. 
Next  add  lemon  juice,  nutmeg,  currants,  milk  and  salt.  Stir  well  and 
pour  into  a  pie  pan  that  has  been  lined  with  pastry.  Bake  all  to¬ 
gether  until  currant  mixture  is  set  and  crust  browned  lightly.  Take 

—  149  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


from  oven,  make  a  meringue  from  the  2  egg  whites  (follow  ice  water 
meringue  recipe),  and  place  over  top.  Place  the  pie  again  in  a  mod¬ 
erate  oven  for  meringue  to  cook  the  required  10  or  12  minutes.  This 
fills  a  9-inch  pie  pan. 


BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE. 


1  cup  brown  sugar 
6  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter 
*4  cup  hot  water 


1  cup  sweet  milk 
%  teaspoon  salt 
Yolks  of  2  eggs  (whites  for 
meringue) 


Mix  butter,  sugar  and  flour  together  and  add  to  the  hot  water. 
Next  add  milk,  salt  and  well  beaten  egg  yolks.  Place  mixture  in  double 
boiler  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick,  remove 
from  fire,  stir  well  and  pour  into  previously  baked  pie  shell.  Always 
sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  bottom  of  pie  shell  and  with  finger 
tips  gently  rub  it  in  before  adding  the  hot  mixture.  This  keeps  the 
crust  from  becoming  moist.  Make  a  meringue  with  the  two  egg  whites 
and  spread  on  top  of  pie.  Place  pie  in  oven  for  meringue  to  bake, 
which  usually  requires  about  12  minutes.  See  “Ice  Water  Meringue’ ’ 
recipe. 


DATE  PIE. 


lb.  dates 

134  cups  sweet  milk 
%  cup  sugar 
2  tablespoons  flour 


Few  grains  of  salt 
J4  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  egg 


Remove  seeds  from  dates  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  the  milk 
to  dates.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  nutmeg  and  salt  together,  and  combine 
with  well  beaten  egg.  Line  a  pie  pan  with  flake  crust,  sprinkle  a  table¬ 
spoonful  of  flour  in  bottom  of  shell  and  rub  it  in  before  placing  the 
liquid  mixture  in  shell.  Place  pie  in  hot  oven  for  first  10  minutes,  then 
decrease  heat  to  moderate  and  bake  until  filling  is  set. 


SUNNY  SILVER  PIE. 


%  cup  cold  water 
}4  tablespoon  gelatine 
4  eggs 

2  or  3  tablespoons  lemon 
juice 


Grated  rind  of  *4  lemon 
1  cup  sugar 
Few  grains  of  salt 
1  cup  whipping  creaiii 


Set  the  gelatine  to  soak  in  the  1/3  cup  of  water.  Place  the  4  egg 
yolks,  lemon  juice,  lemon  rind  and  y2  cup  of  the  sugar  in  a  rounded 
bottom  enamel  bowl.  Set  the  bowl  in  a  larger  pan  of  boiling  water. 
While  the  water  in  the  larger  pan  is  kept  boiling,  whip  the  egg  yolk 
mixture  until  it  becomes  quite  firm  and  creamy.  When  it  reaches  this 
stage  turn  the  heat  down  and  fold  in  the  gelatine.  Beat  the  egg  whites 
very  stiff  and  combine  with  the  remaining  y2  cup  of  sugar,  then  fold 

—  150  — 


PIES 


this  into  the  yolk  mixture.  Pour  the  filling  in  a  large  baked  pie  shell 
and  set  in  the  refrigerator  for  2  hours.  Whip  the  cream  and  spread 
on  pie  just  before  serving. 

PRUNE  PIE. 

114  cups  stewed,  seeded  and 
chopped  prunes 

1  cup  water 
J4  cup  sugar 
4  tablespoons  flour 

Place  properly  prepared  prunes  and  water  in  bowl.  Mix  flour, 
sugar,  salt,  butter  and  nutmeg  together  and  add  to  this,  then  cook 
until  it  thickens,  remove  from  fire  and  add  butter.  This  usually  re¬ 
quires  about  3  minutes.  Have  a  baked  shell  in  readiness.  Spread  this 
cooked  mixture  in  shell  and  allow  it  to  get  perfectly  cold  before 
spreading  a  generous  coating  of  whipped  cream  over  top.  A  meringue 
may  be  used  made  from  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  but  the  pie  is  much 
more  delicious  made  with  whipped  cream.  Before  placing  cooked  mix¬ 
ture  in  prepared  shell,  always  sprinkle  about  1  teaspoonful  flour  in 
bottom  of  shell  and  gently  rub  in  with  finger  tips.  This  is  to  be  made 
in  large  pie  pan. 

DRIED  APRICOT  PIE. 

2  cups  stewed  apricots  3  teaspoons  butter 

%  cup  sugar 

Stew  apricots  until  perfectly  tender,  then  run  them  through  either 
a  sieve  or  colander.  Boil  with  enough  water  to  keep  apricots  juicy 
and  not  too  dry  when  done.  After  apricots  are  taken  through  sieve 
or  colander  measure  two  cups,  add  the  sugar  and  mix  both  together. 
Line  pie  pan  with  pastry,  give  the  bottom  the  flour  treatment  neces¬ 
sary,  add  the  apricots  and  butter.  Roll  crust  very  thin  for  top  cover¬ 
ing,  bake  in  quick  oven  for  first  ten  minutes,  then  bake  more  slowly 
for  the  remainder  of  the  time.  Sugar  may  be  spread  over  top  crust  of 
pie  before  placing  in  oven,  making  a  crispy  sugar  crusted  top.  Bake 
about  25  minutes. 


%  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  tablespoon  butter 
Pinch  of  salt 
%  cup  whipping  cream 


STEWART  PIE. 


1  cup  medium  brown  sugar 
cup  granulated  sugar 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
3  tablespoons  flour 
1  cup  sweet  milk 


2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  or 
%  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Few  grains  of  salt 


Mix  sugar,  melted  butter,  flour,  milk,  beaten  eggs,  extract  and 
salt.  Have  a  pie  pan  lined  with  pastry ;  give  the  bottom  the  flour  treat¬ 
ment  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the  shell.  Place  in  hot  oven  for  first 
10  minutes,  then  decrease  the  heat  and  bake  slowly  until  mixture 
thickens  and  sets  in  the  pie. 


—  151  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


TIMBALE  SHELLS. 

2  eggs  M  teaspoon  salt 

34  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  sugar 

About  %  cup  of  flour  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

Beat  eggs  to  well  mixed  consistency,  but  not  light.  Add  the  milk 
to  the  eggs.  Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  sugar  together.  Combine  all  in¬ 
gredients  by  pouring  liquid  mixture  into  dry  ingredients,  pouring  and 
stirring  slowly  so  that  the  mixture  is  kept  from  lumping.  Add  olive 
oil  last.  Dip  timbale  iron  in  hot  fat,  then  in  batter,  allowing'  the  iron 
to  remain  in  fat  long  enough  for  shell  to  brown  lightly  and  cook.  Re¬ 
peat  the  process  until  all  batter  has  been  made  into  shells.  When  dip¬ 
ping  the  iron  in  the  batter  do  not  dip  it  in  too  deep  or  difficulty  will 
be  experienced  when  slipping  the  shell  from  the  mold. 

2-EGG  WHITE  MERINGUE. 

Have  2  eggs  cold,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  whip  to  stiff  froth,  then 
add  2  slight  pinches  of  cream  of  tartar  and  continue  to  whip  until 
eggs  are  stiff.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  or  powdered  sugar 
and  whip  again  until  eggs  seem  very  light  and  dry  in  looks.  Spread 
on  pie  and  place  in  oven,  allowing  meringue  to  remain  long  enough 
to  cook  through,  which  usually  requires  about  12  minutes.  If  meringue 
is  allowed  to  remain  in  oven  only  long  enough  to  brown  over,  quickly 
it  usually  falls  or  settles,  if  pie  is  kept  any  length  of  time.  When  pie 
is  to  be  served  at  once  the  quick  browning  process  is  all  right,  the 
meringue  usually  being  a  little  more  tender  when  browning  quickly. 
Extract  may  be  added  to  meringue  if  desired.  Four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  may  be  added  for  2  egg  whites  if  sweeter  meringue  is  wanted. 
The  amount  of  cream  of  tartar  to  be  used  for  each  egg  white  is  the 
amount  that  can  be  held  between  two  finger  tips. 

ICE  WATER  MERINGUE. 

2  egg  whites  2  or  3  tablespoons  fine  granu- 

Few  grains  of  salt  lated  sugar 

34  teaspoon  lemon  juice  Flavoring  to  suit 

1  tablespoon  ice  water 

Have  egg  whites  very  cold.  Add  the  grains  of  salt  and  half  of 
the  tablespoonful  of  ice  water,  and  beat  until  white  and  fluffy;  then 
add  lemon  juice  and  remaining  ice  water  and  beat  one  minute  longer. 
Last  add  sugar  and  continue  beating  until  mixture  is  very  stiff.  Spread 
on  any  kind  of  pie  and  bake  in  oven  about  12  minutes — a  moderate 
oven  always  for  good  meringues.  The  lemon  juice  is  added  to  hold 
the  eggs  up  and  not  as  flavoring.  Instead  of  using  1  tablespoonful  of 
ice  water,  try  putting  a  piece  of  ice  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  in  the  egg 
whites  while  beating.  A  common  mistake  in  the  making  of  a  meringue 
is  that  eggs  are  whipped  a  short  time  before  sugar  is  added  and  a  long 
time  after  the  addition.  The  proper  method  is,  have  whites  very  stiff 
before  sugar  is  added  and  little  beating  afterwards.  By  using  ice  wa¬ 
ter  or  ice  with  egg  whites,  we  have  more  meringue  in  finished  product 
and  of  a  more  tender  variety. 

—  152  — 


CHAPTER  XII 


Fritters  and  Fried  Cakes 


SUGGESTIONS. 

When  cooking  fried  cakes,  or  fritters,  much  better  results  will 
follow  if  the  frying  basket  is  used.  By  this  method  all  fried  cakes  and 
fritters  may  be  lifted  at  once  from  the  grease,  in  this  way  preventing 
any  of  them  remaining  in  the  grease  too  long  and  becoming  too  brown. 
Much  might  be  said  regarding  the  kind  of  receptacle  in  which  to  fry 
them,  but  I  have  found  this  to  be  true,  that  the  average  house¬ 
wife  will  use  the  most  convenient  receptacle  she  has  on  hand  regard¬ 
less  of  advice  given.  Less  heat  is  required  when  an  iron  skillet  is 
used,  but  a  more  even  temperature  may  be  had  by  using  aluminum  or 
granite  pans  large  in  circumference. 

Use  a  wire  egg  beater  for  the  turning  of  fried  cakes  and  fritters. 
A  fork  or  sharp  pointed  article  pricks  holes  in  the  fried  cakes  and 
allows  the  grease  to  soak  in. 

Use  only  a  high  grade  quality  of  grease  for  frying  purposes,  lard 
or  any  known  brand  of  vegetable  compound,  or  oil.  Butter  should 
not  be  used  for  deep  frying.  Better  results  will  be  obtained  if  fresh 
grease  is  used  at  each  frying,  but  fat  used  once  should  be  clarified  and 
either  used  again  for  fritters  and  fried  cakes  or  should  be  used  for 
frying  potatoes  and  croquettes. 

To  prevent  the  grease  from  tasting  in  the  articles  fried,  add  1 
teaspoonful  of  vinegar  to  each  2  pounds  of  fat.  Combine  the  2  while 
both  are  cold.  Do  not  attempt  to  pour  vinegar  into  heated  grease. 
Grease  should  be  watched  very  carefully  while  heating.  Test  by  drop¬ 
ping  a  small  piece  of  dough,  or  a  bread  crumb  into  the  fat ;  if  it  comes 
to  the  surface  immediately  and  shows  a  light  tint  of  brown,  it  is  hot 
enough,  or  if  it  browns  lightly  in  the  time  it  takes  to  count  40. 

Fried  cakes  and  fritters  should  be  turned  over  very  soon  after 
they  are  dropped  into  the  hot  fat.  Keep  them  rolling.  This  keeps  a 
fried  cake  or  fritter  free  from  cracks.  If  cracks  form  on  the  fried 
cake  or  fritters,  they  absorb  the  grease  quickly.  Do  not  crowd  fried 
cakes  or  fritters  in  the  frying  pan.  Dough  for  fried  cakes  should  be 
handled  in  as  soft  condition  as  is  possible  to  handle  it.  Watch  recipes 
carefully  and  avoid  using  too  much  shortening  in  any  article  that  is 
to  be  fried  in  deep  fat. 

Fried  cakes  and  fritters  should  be  removed  from  hot  grease  and 
placed  on  dry,  unglazed  paper.  This  allows  them  to  drain  properly. 
When  they  are  perfectly  cold,  dredge  with  either  granulated  or  pul- 

—  153  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


verized  sugar,  pulverized  sugar  being  preferable.  Place  a  half  cupful 
of  sifted  sugar  in  a  paper  sack.  Into  this  drop  4  or  5  fried  cakes  at 
one  time.  Twist  the  top  of  sack  and  shake.  In  this  way  fried  cakes 
or  fritters  are  evenly  sugared  with  no  waste  of  sugar.  Repeat  this 
process  until  all  fried  cakes  are  sugared,  replenishing  the  sugar  in 
sack  when  necessary. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  candied  apples,  cut  in  M  teaspoon  salt 

pieces  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  flour 

Have  apples  cooked  down  in  heavy  syrup  until  almost  candied. 
Beat  eggs  light  and  add  to  candied  apples.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder, 
salt  and  nutmeg  together  and  fold  in  with  apple  and  egg  mixture. 
Fry  in  deep  fat,  dropping  by  small  spoonfuls.  Fry  to  a  golden  brown 
and  dredge  with  pulverized  sugar. 


BANANA  FRITTERS. 


1  egg 

%  cup  sweet  milk 
%  cup  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


2  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar 
Pinch  of  salt 
2  small  bananas 
Few  drops  of  lemon  juice 


Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder, 
sugar  and  salt  together  and  add  to  egg  and  sweet  milk.  Crush  bananas 
and  add,  together  with  the  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Fry  in  deep  fat 
to  a  golden  brown.  Dredge  fritters  with  powdered  sugar  before 
serving. 

RICE  FRITTERS. 


1  tablespoon  butter 
3  tablespoons  sugar 
1  egg 

1  cup  boiled  rice 


cup  sweet  milk 
1  cup  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
teaspoon  salt 


Blend  butter  and  sugar,  to  which  add  egg,  and  cream  all  together 
until  mixture  is  light.  Then  add  the  rice  and  sweet  milk.  Sift  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add.  Mix  well  and  drop  into 
deep  hot  fat  by  spoonfuls.  Fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Serve  hot,  either 
plain  or  dusted  with  sugar. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 


2  eggs 

1  cup  corn  as  taken  from  can 

1  cup  flour 

2  tablespoons  sugar 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  the  corn.  Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking 
powder,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  together  and  add.  Mix  well  and 

—  154  — 


FRITTERS  AND  FRIED  CAKES 


drop  by  spoonfuls  in  hot  fat  and  fry  until  a  golden  brown.  Turn 
fritters  soon  after  dropping  in  fat.  Keep  them  turned  often.  This 
recipe  may  be  changed  by  beating  yolks  and  whites  separately  and 
adding  stiffly  beaten  whites  at  last.  See  instructions  on  adding  vinegar 
to  fat.  If  the  corn  is  of  a  solid  packed  quality  and  does  not  contain 
much  milk,  use  %  cupful  of  flour  instead  of  1  cup. 

PINEAPPLE  FRITTERS. 

2  eggs  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  shredded  pineapple  2*4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  Vi  cups  flour  Few  grains  of  salt 

Beat  the  eggs  light,  to  which  add  the  shredded  pineapple.  Sift 
flour,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to  the  mixture. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  in  deep  fat  and  fry  to  golden  brown.  Serve  plain 
or  dredged  with  powdered  sugar.  If  pineapple  is  thin  and  juicy,  either 
drain  off  a  little  of  the  juice  or  it  may  be  necessary  to  add  Vfy  cups 
of  flour  instead  of  1. 


CHOCOLATE  FRITTERS. 

cup  grated  bitter  chocolate  2*4  cups  flour 

cup  milk  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  sugar  M  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Place  chocolate,  milk,  sugar  and  butter  in  saucepan  and  boil  until 
smooth,  stirring  constantly.  Usually  2  minutes  boiling.  Remove  from 
fire  and  cool.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add. 
Last  add  vanilla  and  beat  hard.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  in  deep  hot 
fat,  as  for  doughnuts.  Remove  from  fire  and  serve  plain  or  dredged 
with  powdered  sugar.  Dough  must  be  very  stiff  for  these  fritters. 

FRIED  CAKES. 


1  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  butter 

2  eggs 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

3  %  cups  flour 


6  teaspoons  baking  powder 
teaspoon  salt 
M  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Mix  sugar  and  butter,  having  the  butter  evenly  mixed  through  the 
sugar.  Add  eggs  next  and  beat  hard.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt 
and  nutmeg  together  and  add  together  with  milk  and  vanilla.  Mix 
well,  then  take  1  spoonful  of  dough  out  on  floured  board  and  knead 
lightly,  using  an  additional  amount  of  flour,  if  necessary,  to  handle. 
Roll  to  thickness  of  *4  inch,  cut  and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat.  After  you 
have  made  one  cutting,  add  another  spoonful  of  dough  to  rolled  over 
dough,  knead  together  and  roll  and  cut.  Each  time  add  fresh  dough 
to  rolled  over  dough  until  all  dough  has  been  used.  Fried  cakes  should 
be  turned  with  wire  egg  beater  if  frying  basket  is  not  used,  and  should 
be  kept  rolling  in  the  hot  fat,  not  allowing  them  to  remain  on  one  side 
any  length  of  time.  Turn  soon  after  dropping  into  hot  fat.  This 

—  155  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


dough  should  be  as  soft  as  possible  for  best  results.  Where  fried 
cakes  are  not  to  be  dusted  with  sugar,  it  is  better  then  to  use  1*4  cup¬ 
fuls  of  sugar  in  the  dough  instead  of  1  cupful.  Let  fried  cakes  get 
cold  before  dusting  with  sugar.  Shake  the  fried  cakes  in  a  paper 
sack  to  prevent  waste  of  sugar.  See  instructions  preceding  this  chap¬ 
ter  regarding  adding  vinegar  to  fat. 

SOUR  MILK  FRIED  CAKES. 

Use  the  same  recipe  as  given  for  “Fried  Cakes,”  only  use  1  cup 
of  sour  milk  instead  of  sweet  milk.  Use  5  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
and  a  full  *4  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda. 

CURRANT  FRIED  CAKES. 

Make  the  fried  cakes  same  as  recipe  for  plain  “Fried  Cakes,”  only 
add  y2  cup  of  currants  to  the  dough  when  mixing.  Raisins  may  also 
be  added  to  dough  instead  of  currants. 

CARAMEL  FRIED  CAKES. 

Use  recipe  as  for  plain  “Fried  Cakes.”  Cut  fried  cakes  with 
cutter  that  has  good  sized  hole  in  center  and  have  fried  cakes  good 
size.  When  done  and  cold,  make  “Ideal  Caramel  Icing”  and  place  on 
one  side  of  each  fried  cake.  These  are  excellent  for  all  purposes. 

CHOCOLATE  FRIED  CAKES. 

Make  the  same  recipe  “Fried  Cakes”  and  cover  with  any  desired 
chocolate  icing. 


COCOANUT  COVERED  FRIED  CAKES. 

When  fried  cakes  are  cold  make  “Jiffy  Icing”  and  spread  on  side 
of  fried  cakes,  then  dip  in  shredded  cocoanut. 


POTATO  FRIED  CAKES. 


1  cup  sieved  and  mashed  po¬ 
tatoes 

1  cups  sugar 

2  eggs 

cup  rich  sweet  cream 


2  %  cups  flour 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
teaspoon  nutmeg 
Scant  teaspoon  of  salt 


Mash  the  potatoes,  then  run  through  a  sieve  to  insure  against 
lumps.  Combine  the  mashed  potatoes,  unbeaten  eggs  and  sugar,  and 
with  a  wire  egg  beater  whip  until  light  and  creamy.  Sift  flour,  baking 
powder,  nutmeg  and  salt  together  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alter¬ 
nately  with  the  sweet  cream.  Mix  thoroughly,  then  take  out  onto 
floured  board  and  roll  to  the  thickness  of  about  y4  inch  before  cutting 
and  frying  in  deep  fat.  This  recipe  makes  3  dozen  full-sized  fried 
cakes.  Potatoes  should  be  cooked  till  tender,  then  pressed  through  a 
sieve  and  mashed  thoroughly,  but  free  from  milk  or  butter. 


—  156  — 


CHAPTER  XIII 


Soup 


CREAM  OF  PEA  SOUP. 

2  cups  canned  peas  1  tablespoon  flour 

3  cups  rich  milk  Yt  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  white  pepper 

14  teaspoon  sugar 

Press  the  peas  through  a  sieve  into  a  saucepan.  Add  to  the  pea 
pulp  the  milk.  Blend  butter,  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  and  add 
next.  Cook  until  mixture  thickens  some,  usually  about  5  minutes. 
Stir  constantly  while  cooking.  If  soup  seems  too  stiff,  add  extra  milk 
to  suit. 

CREAM  OF  CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Yz  cup  barley  Y&  tablespoon  flour 

%  cup  rice  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tender  stalk  of  celery  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  small  onion,  size  of  walnut  %  teaspoon  white  pepper 

6  cups  stock,  in  which  fowl 
has  been  boiled 


Boil  barley,  rice,  celery  and  onion  together  until  all  the  mixture 
is  massed  together  in  soft  form.  Run  through  a  sieve  into  a  saucepan. 
Add  to  this  the  chicken  stock.  Mix  together  the  flour,  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  add  and  cook  until  thickened.  Serve  hot. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP. 


3  medium  sized  potatoes 
3}4  cups  rich  milk 

1  tablespoon  flour 

3  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  grated  or 
scraped  onion 


1  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

2  tabelspoons  finely  chopped 
celery  hearts 


Boil  potatoes  until  tender  and  run  through  a  ricer  or  sieve  into  a 
saucepan.  Add  milk  to  potatoes.  Mix  flour,  butter,  grated  onion,  salt, 
pepper  and  celery  together  and  add.  Place  over  fire  and  cook  slowly 
until  mixture  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Serve  hot.  Onion  may 

—  157  — 


SOUP 


be  peeled,  cut  in  two  and  with  a  spoon  seraped  in  mush  form.  Celery 
must  be  very  tender  and  chopped  very  fine. 

CREAM  OF  KIDNEY  BEAN  SOUP. 

1  can  kidney  beans  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  sweet  milk  %  teaspoon  white  pepper 

1  tablespoon  flour  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter 

Press  beans  through  sieve  into  saucepan.  Add  milk  to  bean  pulp. 
Mix  fiour,  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  add  to  mixture.  Place  over 
fire  and  cook  until  thickened,  usually  about  5  minutes 7  boiling.  Serve 
hot. 


KIDNEY  BEAN  SOUP  NO.  2. 

If  kidney  beans  are  used  for  salad  there  is  left  on  hand  nearly  a 
cupful  of  the  liquid  that  is  usually  drained  oft*  and  cast  aside.  Make 
into  a  cream  bean  soup  by  placing  it  into  a  saucepan  and  adding  1  cup 
of  milk  first,  then  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  salt  and 
teaspoon  sugar  after  they  have  been  blended.  Add  pepper  to  taste 
and  cook  till  it  thickens.  Serve  hot. 


CREAM  OF  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 


1  small  bunch  of  celery  *4  cup  barley 

2  medium  sized  potatoes  M  cup  rice 


1  medium  sized  onion 

2  small  carrots 
1  large  turnip 

%  of  a  small  head  of 
cabbage 

%  cup  navy  beans 


2  cups  tomatoes 
1  shank  soup  bone  9  inches 
long 

1  tablespoon  salt 
ti  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Wash  and  chop  all  vegetables.  Wash  soup  bone.  Place  vegetables, 
soup  bone,  salt  and  pepper  on  to  cook,  in  enough  cold  water  to  keep  all 
well  covered.  Simmer  three  hours.  When  done  remove  meat.  Take 
remaining  mixture  in  pot  and  run  it  through  a  sieve.  When  all  veg¬ 
etables  have  been  pressed  through  sieve  add  enough  water  to  make 
thickness  desired.  Serve  hot. 


CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP. 

1  small  onion  2*4  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  cut  celery  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  water  %  teaspoon  white  pepper 

3  cups  rich  sweet  milk  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter 

Cook  onion  and  celery  in  the  1  quart  of  water  until  celery  is 
tender.  Strain  all  through  a  sieve,  having  the  mixture  smooth.  Add 

—  158  — 


SOUP 


to  this  the  three  cups  of  milk.  Place  in  double  boiler  and  add  butter, 
flour,  salt  and  pepper  all  creamed  together.  Allow  the  mixture  to 
cook  10  minutes,  then  serve  hot.  Before  serving,  ^  cup  of  finely 
chopped  tender  uncooked  celery  may  be  added.  This  adds  much  flavor 
to  the  soup,  but  celery  for  this  purpose  must  be  very  tender  and  finely 
chopped. 


CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP. 


2  cups  sieved  tomatoes 
%  cup  water 
Mt  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
1  onion  size  of  hickory  nut 


li  teaspoon  celery  salt 
M  teaspoon  soda 
2  teaspoons  sugar 
2  tablespoons  butter 
2  cups  white  sauce 


Strain  tomatoes  through  a  sieve  and  place  in  bowl,  to  which  add 
water,  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  grated  onion,  celery  salt,  soda  and  sugar. 
Boil  all  together  3  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  butter.  Have 
white  sauce  prepared  and  add  to  tomato  mixture.  Serve  hot. 


CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP. 


2  cups  canned  or  fresh  corn  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  small  onion  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  water  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  quart  milk  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Place  the  corn  and  onion  in  a  chopping  bowl  and  chop  until 
mushy,  then  place  on  to  cook  in  a  covered  kettle.  Boil  slowly  until 
the  water  is  nearly  cooked  away,  then  add  the  milk.  Next  blend  the 
butter,  flour,  sugar  and  pepper  and  add.  Stir  until  it  boils  and  thickens 
a  little  and  it  is  ready  to  serve  hot. 


CREAM  OF  CARROT  SOUP. 

1  cup  carrot  puree  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  sweet  milk  V6  teaspoon  pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter  2*4  tablespoons  flour 

Cook  carrots  till  tender  and  run  through  a  sieve.  Combine  carrot 
puree  milk.  Blend  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  add.  Cook  and 
stir  till  it  boils. 


CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 


2  cups  asparagus,  cut  in  inch 
length  pieces 
4  cups  cold  water 
1  cups  milk 


2  tablespoons  butter 
%  teaspoon  salt 
Pepper  to  taste 
1  Vi  tablespoons  flour 


Place  the  asparagus  and  water  in  saucepan  and  cook  slowly  until 
asparagus  is  tender  and  water  nearly  boiled  away.  Pour  the  asparagus 
and  whatever  water  is  still  on  asparagus  into  a  sieve  and  press  as 

—  159  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


much  through  as  can  be  forced.  Add  to  this  pulp  the  milk  first,  then 
blend  the  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  flour  together  and  add.  After  all 
ingredients  are  combined  boil  two  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

CREAM  OF  MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

1  cup  mushrooms,  cut  in  small  2  tablespoons  flour 

pieces  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  Dash  of  white  pepper 

2  tablespoons  water  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

2  cups  sweet  milk 

One-fourth  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms  should  make  1  cup  in  peeled 
and  cut  form.  Place  the  mushrooms  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
a  small  skillet  or  pan  with  the  2  tablespoons  of  water,  then  keep  cov¬ 
ered  and  simmer  very  slowly  until  mushrooms  are  tender,  usually 
about  30  minutes  being  required.  Place  the  milk  on  to  cook  in  another 
saucepan  and  allow  it  to  come  to  a  scalding  point,  then  add  the  re¬ 
maining  2  tablespoons  of  butter  blended  with  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Stir  well  when  adding  this,  and  when  it  boils  up  pour  the  simmered 
mushroom  mixture  in  to  it  and  serve  hot  with  toasted  bread  cubes  or 
crackers.  This  serves  4  persons  sparingly. 

VITALITY  SOUP. 

1  large  potato  2  tablespoons  rice 

2  carrots  3  tablespoons  barley 

1  onion  1  can  peas 

1  celery  heart  or  equal  to  it  2  cups  rich  milk 

1  cup  cabbage  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  large  turnip  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Boil  all  the  ingredients  together  but  the  milk  and  butter  until 
mushy,  keeping  just  enough  water  on  them  to  keep  from  burning. 
When  cooked  down  thick  strain  through  a  colander,  and  combine  with 
the  milk  and  butter.  Return  to  stove  to  boil  for  3  minutes,  then 
serve  hot. 


CHILDREN’S  SWEET  EGG  NOODLE  SOUP. 

1  large  egg  %  cup  flour 

teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  sugar 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  salt  and  flour.  Mix,  knead  and  roll 
very  thin  on  floured  board.  Cut  in  very  small  squares  or  strips  and 
drop  them  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  The  kettle  must  be  large 
enough  to  prevent  boiling  over.  At  last  of  cooking  period,  when  the 
water  is  nearly  boiled  away,  put  in  3  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  quart 
of  milk.  When  this  comes  to  a  boil  it  is  ready  to  serve. 


—  160  — 


CHAPTER  XIV 


Steaks 


BROILED  STEAK. 

Select  a  steak  from  1  inch  to  2  inches  thick.  Remove  surplus 
fat  (too  much  fat  will  fill  the  pan  with  grease  and  cause  fire  and  smoke 
if  not  watched  carefully).  Light  the  broiler  about  5  or  10  minutes 
before  placing  steak  on  rack,  time  for  lighting  burner  to  be  gauged  by 
the  strength  of  heat.  For  the  first  10  minutes  place  the  steak  as  close 
to  flame  as  possible  without  burning,  searing  it  quickly  on  both  sides 
by  turning  several  times  within  the  first  10  minutes.  The  frequent 
turning  at  first  sears  it  over  and  has  a  tendency  towards  keeping  juice 
within  the  steak.  After  the  first  10  minutes  of  quick  broiling  turn 
heat  down,  remove  steak  farther  from  burner  and  allow  steak  to  re¬ 
main  on  one  side  and  broil  slowly  for  10  minutes,  then  turn  on  other 
side  and  cook  another  10  minutes.  Usually  about  30  to  35  minutes  is 
required  for  the  broiling  of  a  2-inch  steak.  When  steak  is  done,  re¬ 
move  from  broiler,  place ,  on  heated  platter,  spread  a  small  amount  of 
butter  over  steak  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with  the 
gravy  as  taken  from  pan.  Round  steaks  are  not  good  for  broiling,  sir¬ 
loin,  club  steak  or  porterhouse  being  preferable.  Garnish  with  parsley. 

SPANISH  STEAK. 

Select  a  good  sirloin  or  round  steak  at  least  U/2  inches  in  thick¬ 
ness.  Lay  on  chopping  board  and  with  a  semi-sharp  knife  hack  the 
steak  two  ways  on  both  sides  of  the  steak.  This  is  called  scoring. 
Spread  soft  butter  on  both  sides  of  steak,  working  it  down  into  crev¬ 
ices.  Roll  steak  in  flour  and  place  in  covered  baking  dish  or  casserole 
and  set  in  moderate  oven,  allowing  it  to  remain  until  half  tender, 
usually  requiring  from  20  to  30  minutes.  Take  from  oven,  add  a  little 
water  if  necessary,  and  place  a  thick  layer  of  finely  chopped  onions 
and  celery  over  steak,  using  half  as  much  celery  as  onion.  Return  to 
oven  and  simmer  until  onions  are  tender.  Take  from  the  oven  again, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  spread  over  this  a  mixture  of  tomatoes, 
a  little  flour  and  cayenne  pepper  mixed  together.  Return  steak  to  oven 
once  more  and  bake  until  tomatoes  are  thick  and  browned  lightly. 
Serve  hot  on  chop  plate  garnished  with  parsley. 

—  161  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


SWISS  STEAK. 

Take  one  thick  cut  of  sirloin  steak  and  bone  it,  or  if  round  steak 
is  of  a  tender  cut,  round  makes  a  delicious  steak  prepared  in  this  man¬ 
ner.  Lay  steak  on  a  plank  or  chopping  board  and  with  a  semi-sharp 
knife  evenly  hack  it  two  ways  of  the  grain  on  both  sides,  so  that  when 
done  the  fiber  is  cut  to  a  thickness  of  almost  half  way  to  center  of 
steak.  Spread  soft  butter  on  both  sides  of  steak,  working  the  butter 
down  into  crevices.  After  the  butter  is  spread,  roll  the  steak  in  flour, 
having  it  generously  floured  on  both  sides.  Chop  white  onions  and 
spread  over  the  steak  an  inch  thick.  Place  steak  in  casserole  or  cov¬ 
ered  pan  in  oven  to  simmer  slowly  for  from  l1^  to  2  hours,  time  being 
gauged  according  to  the  thickness  of  steak.  When  done  remove  from 
oven,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  on  chop  plate  and  garnish 
with  parsley.  Serve  the  juice  from  the  steak  as  it  comes  from  the  pan 
or  it  may  be  thickened. 


STUFFED  STEAK. 

1  thick  round  steak 

2  cups  boiled  rice 
1  green  pepper 
1  small  onion 

Lay  steak  on  chopping  board  and  with  a  semi-sharp  knife  hack  it 
gently  both  ways  of  the  grain  on  one  side.  Spread  melted  butter  over 
the  hacked  side.  Now  mix  rice,  chopped  pepper,  chopped  onion, 
paprika,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  together  and  spread  evenly  on  steak 
on  hacked  side.  Roll  the  steak  now  in  as  firm  a  roll  as  possible,  tying 
it  around  so  roll  holds  its  shape.  Place  in  covered  bake  pan  and  bake 
until  tender,  adding  only  a  small  amount  of  water.  Remove  cover  at 
last  of  baking  period,  allowing  roll  to  brown.  Thicken  gravy  in  pan, 
adding  to  it  1  cup  of  milk. 

ONE  MEAL  STEAK. 

Select  a  good  steak  about  1  y2  inches  in  thickness.  Bone  and  trim 
off  any  surplus  fat.  Lay  steak  on  a  plank  board  and  with  a  semi¬ 
sharp  knife  hack  the  steak  both  ways  of  the  grain  until  the  fiber  is  cut 
to  the  depth  of  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  on  both  sides.  Spread 
butter  on  both  sides  of  the  steak  and  then  roll  in  flour.  Place  steak  in 
skillet  or  dutch  oven  large  enough  to  hold  the  steak  shaped  into  a 
rounded  form.  Place  over  the  steak  the  following  chopped  vegetables : 
1  green  pepper,  1  celery  heart,  1  onion  and  1  large  sized  potato.  Do 
not  salt  or  pepper  the  steak  at  this  time,  but  cover  the  baking  dish 
or  skillet  tightly  and  set  in  oven  to  simmer  and  cook  for  about  45  to 
60  minutes,  or  until  vegetables  are  tender.  Remove  from  oven,  salt 
and  pepper  the  steak  and  make  a  mixture  of  1  pint  tomatoes,  5  table¬ 
spoonfuls  flour,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  y2  cup  of  bread  crumbs 
and  spread  over  the  top  of  steak  and  return  to  oven  to  cook  and  brown, 

—  162  — 


1  teaspoon  paprika 
1  tablespoon  salt 
1  dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


STEAKS 


usually  about  15  or  20  minutes  being  necessary  for  this  process.  When 
done,  lift  the  steak  out  on  a  chop  plate  in  whole  form.  Have  in  readi¬ 
ness  French  fried  potatoes  in  narrow  strips  and  place  all  around  the 
steak,  allowing  the  potato  strips  to  lie  slanting  from  the  steak  to  edge 
of  platter.  At  regular  intervals,  or  between  each  potato  strip,  small 
sprigs  of  parsley  may  be  placed.  The  gravy  in  skillet  or  baking  dish 
may  either  be  served  plain  of  thickened.  If  a  small  steak  is  to  be  pre¬ 
pared  in  this  way,  vegetables  must  be  used  accordingly.  The  veg¬ 
etables  as  given  here  are  for  a  steak  large  enough  to  serve  6  persons; 
generously  or  a  steak  weighing  about  3  pounds.  When  the  steak  is 
taken  from  oven  to  have  the  tomato  mixture  placed  on  top,  additional 
hot  water  may  be  added  at  this  time  if  the  steak  seems  dry. 

MEXICAN  STEAK. 

Select  a  round  steak  about  one  inch  thick  or  thicker.  Place  steak 
on  board  and  hack  it  two  ways  on  both  sides  of  steak.  Spread  soft 
butter  on  both  sides  of  steak  and  then  roll  it  in  flour.  Place  3  table¬ 
spoonfuls  of  grease  in  skillet  and  allow  grease  to  get  very  hot.  Drop 
steak  into  skillet,  brown  on  one  side  quickly  and  then  on  the  other, 
salt  and  pepper  both  sides  slightly.  Chop  one  medium  sized  onion  and 
green  pepper  fine  and  mix  with  1  cup  of  tomatoes,  y2  teaspoonful  salt, 
%  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  spread  over 
the  steak.  Pour  y2  cup  of  water  in  skillet  and  place  in  oven  to  bake 
slowly  for  about  45  minutes.  Mix  y2  cup  of  grated  cheese  with  1  riced 
hard  cooked  egg  and  spread  over  the  mixture  at  the  end  of  45  minutes’ 
slow  baking,  and  return  steak  to  oven  and  brown.  When  done  place 
on  hot  chop  plate  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

STEAK  EN  CASSEROLE. 

Cut  round  steak  in  serving  size  pieces;  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in 
flour  and  droP  in  piping  hot  fat  to  brown  on  both  sides  as  quickly  as 
possible.  When  well  browned  fit  the  pieces  in  baking  dish  or  casserole. 
Put  water  or  milk  in  the  dish  and  a  little  butter  to  season.  Cover  the 
baking  dish  and  bake  slowly  for  1  hour.  If  moisture  bakes  out  add  an 
additional  amount  during  baking  period. 

SKILLET  BROILED  STEAK. 

Secure  a  thick  sirloin  steak  or  one  equally  as  tender  and  juicy. 
Do  nothing  to  the  steak  more  than  remove  any  discolored  edges  or 
outer  skin.  Without  scoring,  pounding  or  hacking,  simply  drop  the 
steak  into  a  smoking  hot  skillet  and  allow  it  to  cook  just  long  enough 
to  sear  over  quickly,  then  turn  to  the  other  side  and  sear.  This  seals 
the  pores  and  helps  to  keep  the  juice  within  the  steak.  Now  allow  the 
steak  to  remain  on  each  side  long  enough  to  cook  half  through,  mean¬ 
ing  it  has  about  4  turnings.  When  done  remove  to  a  very  hot  platter, 
salt  and  pepper  the  steak  to  taste,  place  a  generous  amount  of  butter 
over  the  top  and  serve.  Garnish  with  parsley  always. 

— 163  — 


NEVE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


PLANKED  STEAK. 


Secure  2  good  thick  sirloin  steaks.  Trim  off  surplus  fat,  cut  out 
bone  and  discard  outer  skin  and  tough  edges.  Place  the  steaks  on 
rack  or  in  broiling  pan,  pressing  the  steaks  together  in  oblong  shape, 


making  them  appear  as  one  steak, 
broiled  steak) .  The  plank  should 
the  following  articles : 

1  small  head  of  cauliflower, 
steamed  with  butter 

Green  stringless  beans,  sea¬ 
soned  or  plain 

Tender  young  carrots,  steamed 
with  butter 


Broil  in  the  usual  manner  (see 
hot  and  in  waiting,  so  also  should 

Drained  French  peas 
Tender  asparagus  tips 
Seasoned  and  whipped  mashed 
potatoes 


Place  the  hot  steak  over  on  hot  plank,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
then  arrange  vegetables  in  following  manner : 

Place  potatoes  in  a  pastry  bag  with  fancy  molding  funnel  tip. 
Squeeze  the  potatoes  in  an  overloop  circle  all  around  the  outer  edge 
of  plank.  In  each  loop  of  potatoes  place  peas.  Arrange  carrots  at 
even  spaces,  having  the  carrot  extend  from  outer  edge  toward  steak. 
Asparagus  tips  may  be  placed  between  the  carrot  spaces,  then  stand 
cauliflower  branches  all  around  evenly  next  to  steak.  Arrange  beans 
in  vacant  spaces.  When  this  is  done,  brush  beaten  egg  over  the  pota¬ 
toes  and  set  the  plank  in  oven  to  heat  and  brown  lightly  before  serv¬ 
ing.  The  steak  is  better  broiled  on  the  plank,  but  many  object  to  the 
oven’s  treatment  of  the  plank. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  A  TOUGH  STEAK  TENDER. 

Refrain  from  eating  fried  meats  as  much  as  possible.  Fried  meats 
are  had  on  the  digestive  organs  and  have  a  tendency  toward  wearing 
out  the  human  machinery.  Broiled  steaks  are  far  more  delicious,  more 
tasty,  easier  digested,  therefore  more  satisfying.  Tough  steaks  cannot 
be  broiled,  hence  the  necessity  for  these  instructions : 

Secure  a  thick  round  steak  and  trim  off  the  outer  skin  and  cut  the 
outer  edge  of  the  steak  at  regular  intervals  so  that  the  steak  will  lie 
flat  in  the  skillet.  Now  take  a  semi-sharp  knife  and  cut  the  steak 
two  ways  (which  is  called  scoring)  on  both  sides.  In  the  cutting  the 
knife  should  sink  into  the  flesh  to  a  depth  of  about  %  inch.  When  this 
is  done  take  softened  butter  or  drippings  and  rub  into  the  steak  on 
both  sides.  Sprinkle  flour  on  a  chopping  board  and  spin  the  steak  in 
the  flour  on  both  sides.  Place  fat  in  a  skillet  and  have  it  just  barely 
heated,  then  lay  the  steak  in  and  cover  it  as  tight  as  it  is  possible  to 
cover,  if  necessary  placing  a  weight  on  top  of  the  lid.  Now  allow  the 
steak  to  simmer  very  slowly  for  15  minutes,  then  remove  the  lid,  allow 
it  to  cook  a  little  faster  for  a  minute  or  so  to  brown  before  turning 
to  opposite  side.  This  means  the  steak  is  turned  only  once.  Remove 
the  steak  to  a  hot  platter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  pour  the  gravy 
from  the  skillet  over  it,  or  thicken  it  as  desired.  Serve  hot  and  the 
result  will  be  a  delicious,  tender  steak. 

—  164  — 


CHAPTER  XV 


Meat  Dishes  and  Dressings 


CHICKEN  A  LA  KING. 


2  cups  chicken 
%  lb.  fresh  mushrooms,  or  1 


1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  pimento 

2  hard  cooked  eggs 
Dash  of  white  pepper 

1  cup  thick  sweet  cream 


cup  canned  mushrooms 

1  medium  sized  green  pepper 
3  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  flour 


Have  chicken  cooked  tender,  skinned  and  cut  crosswise  of  the 
grain  in  small  pieces.  Do  not  shred.  Use  both  light  and  dark  meat. 
Cut  green  pepper  in  shreds,  cut  mushrooms  in  half  and  allow  pepper 
and  mushrooms  to  simmer  in  a  skillet  with  the  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter.  Keep  the  skillet  covered  until  pepper  and  mushrooms  are  ten¬ 
der.  Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  cup  of  sweet  milk  together,  having  it 
smooth  and  free  from  lumps.  Place  this  mixture  in  double  boiler  and 
cook  for  about  10  minutes.  When  done  add  first  the  diced  chicken, 
then  the  simmered  mixture  and  chopped  pimento.  Dice  the  eggs  and 
add,  together  with  pepper  and  thick  cream.  Place  all  on  stove  in 
double  boiler  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Serve  hot.  This  amount  will  serve 
10  persons  generously.  Where  canned  mushrooms  are  used,  add  mush¬ 
rooms  as  they  come  from  the  can,  or  they  may  be  cut  in  halves  or 
quarters.  It  is  then  necessary  to  simmer  the  green  pepper  in  one-half 
of  the  butter  and  add  the  remaining  half  to  the  cooked  cream  mixture 
as  it  comes  from  the  fire  and  before  adding  other  ingredients. 

VEAL  A  LA  KING. 

Use  same  recipe  as  for  “ Chicken  a  la  King,”  only  substitute  cold 
diced  veal  in  either  boiled  or  baked  form. 


LAMB  A  LA  KING. 

Use  cold  diced  leg  o’  lamb  meat  in  place  of  chicken. 


SWEET  BREAD  A  LA  KING. 

Use  cold  boiled  or  broiled  sweetbreads  in  place  of  chicken. 


—  165  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Cook  hen  until  meat  falls  from  bones,  placing  hen  on  to  cook  in 
cold  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  done,  separate  the 
meat  from  bones  and  chop.  Place  the  meat  in  bowl  or  crock  and  strain 
the  broth  from  the  chicken  over  into  the  meat.  A  very  little  broth 
should  be  in  pot.  Press  the  meat  down  by  placing  something  heavy  on 
top.  No  liquor  should  be  covering  the  weight.  When  in  mold  and  cold, 
slice  and  serve,  or  slices  may  be  dipped  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs 
and  fried  in  butter.  If  hen  is  too  fat,  skim  off  some  fat. 


CHICKEN  PIE. 

Cook  a  young  hen  until  tender.  Remove  bones  and  skin  from  hen. 
Cut  the  light  and  dark  meat  in  small  pieces,  Crosswise  of  the  grain. 
Place  the  chicken  in  baking  dish  and  over  the  chicken  pour  a  mixture 
made  in  the  following  way :  Place  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  2  table¬ 
spoonfuls  flour  in  saucepan.  Stir  until  smooth  and  browned  lightly, 
then  add  3  cupfuls  of  liquor  in  which  chicken  was  boiled.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut  the  liver,  gizzard  and  heart  in  small 
pieces.  Cut  2  hard  cooked  eggs  in  pieces.  First,  pour  the  gravy  over 
the  chicken  in  pan,  and  over  the  top  of  this  place  the  giblets  and  eggs. 
Prepare  a  crust  for  the  top  as  follows : 

3  cups  flour  314  tablespoons  butter 

*4  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  sweet  milk  or  water 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  this  all  together  like  biscuit  dough.  Roll  thin  and  spread  over 
chicken  mixture,  cutting  slits  in  top  of  dough  to  allow  steam  to  escape. 
Bake  in  quick  oven  at  first,  then  decrease  heat  to  moderate.  If  hen 
is  fat,  skim  off  fat  after  boiling. 


CHICKEN-RICE  IN  CASSEROLE. 


3  cups  boiled  rice 
3  cups  shredded  cooked 
chicken 

1 14  cups  chicken  broth  or  top 
milk 


4  tablespoons  butter 
3  tablespoons  flour 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Butter  a  casserole  dish  and  line  dish  with  the  rice,  retaining  some 
for  top.  Melt  butter  in  saucepan  and  add  flour,  allowing  butter  and 
flour  to  brown  lightly.  Stir  into  this  the  chicken  broth  or  top  milk, 
then  add  the  chicken.  Allow  mixture  to  boil,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Pour  all  in  rice  lined  casserole,  placing  rice  on  top.  Cook  in 
hot  oven  for  15  minutes.  Serve  hot. 


BAKED  HEN  FRICASSEE. 

Have  one  hen  dressed  and  cut  into  pieces  as  for  frying.  Roll  each 
piece  of  chicken  in  flour,  then  drop  into  piping  hot  fat  and  allow  the 

—  166  — 


MEAT  DISHES  AND  DRESSINGS 


pieces  to  brown  on  both  sides  quickly.  When  all  pieces  are  a  golden 
brown,  fit  into  a  casserole  or  baking  pan  just  large  enough  to  hold  the 
pieces  close  together.  Salt  and  pepper  the  chicken  to  taste  and  pour 
enough  milk  or  water  over  it  all  to  nearly  cover.  Place  in  the  oven  in 
covered  form  and  bake  until  the  pieces  may  be  pierced  with  a  fork  and 
meat  shows  signs  of  leaving  the  bone.  Serve  hot.  The  time  for  baking 
is  determined  by  the  age  of  fowl.  One  hour  and  a  half,  slow  oven,  for 
two-year-old  hen.  If  hen  is  not  very  fat,  butter  should  be  added  when 
placing  in  pan  for  baking. 

CHICKEN  TAMALES. 

16  cup  finely  ground  chicken  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  white  corn  meal  %  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

1  well  beaten  egg 

Mix  the  chicken,  meal,  beaten  egg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to¬ 
gether.  Have  in  readiness  large  sized  corn  shucks  (free  from  splits) 
of  either  green  or  dry  variety,  the  dry  ones  being  preferable.  Now 
place  about  a  tablespoonful  of  the  chicken  mixture  on  the  shuck  and 
squeeze  it  into  a  shape  about  2 y2  to  3  inches  long,  then  bring  the 
lengthwise  edges  of  the  shucks  over  and  fold  evenly.  Turn  down  the 
ends,  thus  forming  a  secure  looking  oblong  package.  Tie  these  to¬ 
gether  in  bunches  of  6,  placing  a  string  around  both  ends  of  the 
bunch.  This  recipe  will  make  about  18  tamales.  Place  the  tamales  in 
a  stew  kettle,  add  the  following  ingredients  and  boil  slowly  1  hour : 

7  cups  boiling  water  14  teaspoon  white  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  Generous  dash  of  cayenne 

%  teaspoon  paprika  pepper 

Lean  cold  pork,  ground,  may  be  used  instead  of  chicken.  For 
large  tamales  use  more  mixture  and  two  shucks,  then  tie  each  tamale 
at  both  ends  with  a  string. 

CHICKEN  POTATO  PUFFS. 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes  1  egg 

4  tablespoons  flour  16  cup  chopped  chicken 

16  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Mixed  mashed  potatoes,  flour,  baking  powder  and  well  beaten  egg 
together.  Take  mixture  up  in  hands  and  form  little  pats.  Roll  pats, 
then  drop  in  hot  fat.  Cook  till  a  golden  brown.  Any  other  kind  of 

CHICKEN  OMELET. 

4  eggs  Pepper  to  taste 

4  tablespoons  water  1  cup  finely  ground  seasoned 

16  teaspoon  salt  chicken 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  very  light,  to  which  add  the  water,  salt 
and  pepper.  Beat  again  1  minute  after  this  combination.  Next  beat 

—  167  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


the  whites  to  a  very  stiff  consistency  and  fold  them  carefully  into  the 
yolks  until  well  blended.  Have  skillet  hot  and  buttered.  Pour  egg 
mixture  in  skillet  and  allow  it  to  bubble  and  begin  to  set  at  outer 
edges,  then  place  in  broiler,  if  possible,  and  allow  it  to  cook  slightly 
over  the  top.  When  the  omelet  seems  to  be  set,  sprinkle  the  ground 
chicken  evenly  over  the  top  and  fold  once  in  sandwich  form  or  roll  two 
or  more  times.  Serve  with  tart  jelly. 

left-over  meat  may  be  used  instead  of  chicken.  The  potatoes  and 
chicken  should  be  seasoned  to  taste  before  combining  with  other  in¬ 
gredients. 

ONE  MEAL  BOSTON  BAKE. 


(Leftover  Dish.) 


6  cups  chicken  broth 
1  cup  cooked  diced  chicken 
1  cup  noodles 
1  cup  peas 

1  onion  size  of  walnut  (finely 
minced) 


1  pimento  (shredded) 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  (diced) 
1  cup  cold  boiled  diced  po¬ 
tatoes 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Place  the  chicken  broth  in  kettle  on  fire  and  when  it  comes  to  a 
boil  add  the  noodles.  Cook  until  noodles  are  tender,  then  remove  from 
fire  and  add  the  chicken,  peas,  onion,  pimento,  eggs,  potatoes,  salt  and 
pepper.  Mix  all  well  together,  then  pour  it  out  into  a  flat  baking  dish. 
Make  biscuits  by  either  the  sweet  or  sour  milk  recipe  and  place  over 
the  top  of  this  mixture  as  close  as  they  can  be  placed.  Set  the  baking 
dish  in  oven  and  bake  until  the  biscuits  are  well  cooked  through  and 
browned  on  top.  It  usually  requires  about  25  minutes  for  the  baking 
period.  Yeal  broth  and  veal  may  be  used  instead  of  chicken,  or  shank 
soup  bone  broth  and  the  meat  from  this  may  be  used. 


STUFFING  OR  DRESSING  FOR  CHICKEN. 


1  lb.  stale  bread  or  8  cups 
3%  cups  liquid  or  stock 

2  hard  cooked  eggs 

1  tablespoon  ground  sage 
(more  or  less  may  be  used) 


1  medium  sized  onion 

2  tablespoons  butter 
Giblets 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Take  stale  bread  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Prepare  8  cups.  Take 
SV2  cups  of  milk,  water  or  veal  shank  soup  bone  stock  and  pour  over 
bread,  stirring  but  not  mashing  the  bread  too  much.  Next  add  the 
hard  cooked  eggs  in  chopped  form.  Take  the  2  tablespoons  of  butter 
and  place  in  skillet.  Cut  the  onion  and  giblets  in  small  pieces  and 
simmer,  cooking  until  half  tender,  if  necessary  adding  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  hot  water  to  same  while  simmering.  When  half  tender,  add  thfs  to 
bread  mixture.  Next  add  sage,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  veal 
shank  soup  bone  stock  is  not  used,  more  butter  may  be  added  for  rich¬ 
ness.  If  fowl  is  tough,  it  is  well  to  steam  or  simmer  and  cook  the  fowl 
until  partly  tender  before  preparation  is  made  for  baking.  If  this  is 


—  168  — 


MEAT  DISHES  AND  DRESSINGS 


done  the  water  in  which  the  fowl  is  simmered  should  be  used  instead 
of  the  other  liquid  as  before  mentioned.  In  this  case  the  giblets  are 
cooked  with  the  fowl  and  the  onion  is  simmered  or  fried  alone  in  the 
butter  before  it  is  added  to  dressing.  Stuff  the  fowl  and  draw  a  few 
stitches  through  opening  where  filled,  or  place  remaining  dressing 
over  the  top  of  fowl.  Always  turn  a  fowl  with  the  breast  down  in  the 
roaster,  so  that  the  juice  may  run  through  the  breast  and  give  it  a 
better  flavor.  This  also  causes  it  to  be  more  moist.  It  is  always  well 
to  elevate  the  fowl  a  little  from  bottom  of  roaster  so  that  it  does  not 
brown  on  bottom.  A  small  wire  rack  may  be  used  for  the  purpose. 

BAKED  SQUABS. 


4  good  sized  squabs  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

4  tablespoons  butter  3  cups  diced  potatoes 

3  tablespoons  flour  1  heart  of  celery,  chopped 


Have  the  squabs  dressed  with  wings  clinched  and  drumsticks  tied 
down.  Place  the  potatoes  and  celery  in  casserole  or  baking  dish  and 
lay  the  squabs,  breasts  down,  on  top  of  the  mixture,  cover  and  bake  one 
hour.  Blend  the  butter  and  flour  and  spread  evenly  over  the  tops  of 
squabs,  then  salt  and  pepper.  If  further  browning  is  necessary  remove 
cover  at  last.  At  this  time  additional  liquid  may  be  added. 

OYSTER  AND  CELERY  DRESSING  FOR  FOWL. 


2  cups  meat  stock  or  liquor 
from  fowl 

314  cups  bread  cubes  or 
crumbs 

1  cup  chopped  tender  celery 


1  cup  oysters 
1 14  teaspoons  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
White  pepper  to  taste 
1  well  beaten  egg 


Mix  all  ingredients  in  order  given  and  stuff  the  fowl  with  mixture 
and  bake  all  together,  or  bake  dressing  separately. 


RAISIN  AND  CHESTNUT  STUFFING. 


2  cups  cooked  and  cut 
chestnuts 

214  cups  bread  crumbs 
14  cup  seedless  raisins 
4  tablespoons  melted  butter 


1  well  beaten  egg 
114  teaspoons  salt 
14  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Enough  milk  to  moisten 


Select  good  chestnuts  and  make  a  hole  in  each  chestnut  with  an 
ice  pick.  Boil  them  until  tender,  then  cool,  peel  and  chop.  Combine 
all  other  ingredients  with  chestnuts  and  stuff  hen,  turkey  or  guinea 
hen. 


HOW  TO  ROAST  A  GOOSE. 


Select  a  young  goose  and  bake  in  following  manner : 

Free  the  fowl  from  all  pin  feathers,  singe,  wash,  draw,  wash  again 
and  then  clinch  wings  and  fasten  legs  down.  Place  the  goose  in  an 

—  169  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


uncovered  roasting  pan  to  cook  long  enough  for  quite  a  little  of  the 
grease  to  ooze  out.  Take  it  from  the  oven,  drain  off  the  grease  and 
roll  or  dredge  the  goose  in  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  and  return  to  oven 
to  roast  in  covered  form  until  the  meat  seems  tender.  If  necessary- 
haste  with  the  liquor  in  the  pan  during  this  period.  When  the  meat 
seems  tender,  remove  the  cover  and  brown  the  goose  more  if  necessary. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

SMOKED  HAM  ROAST. 

1  slice  of  ham  1 inches  1  cup  top  milk 

thick  1  green  pepper 

1  tablespoon  dry  mustard  White  pepper  to  taste 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

Select  a  slice  of  ham  from  center  cut  about  l1/^  inches  thick.  Soak 
ham  in  hot  water  30  minutes.  (Do  not  boil.)  Remove  ham  from 
water  and  lay  in  baking  dish.  Mix  sugar  and  mustard  together  and 
rub  it  into  both  sides  of  ham.  Chop  pepper  very  fine  and  sprinkle 
over  the  top  of  ham  after  it  is  placed  in  baking  dish.  Season  with 
white  pepper  and  pour  the  milk  in  baking  dish.  Bake  ham  slowly  for 
about  one  hour  and  a  half,  keeping  it  covered  most  of  time.  When 
done,  serve  hot  with  natural  gravy,  or  it  may  thickened  with  flour 
and  more  milk  added.  If  ham  bakes  dry  add  more  water  or  milk. 

CIDER  BAKED  HAM. 

Soak  one  chosen  sized  ham  over  night  in  cold  water,  enough  to 
cover  it.  In  morning  wash,  place  in  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water. 
Add  1  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  a  quart  of  sweet  cider.  Cover  kettle 
and  cook  slowly  (simmering),  allowing  15  minutes ’  time  for  each 
pound  of  ham.  When  done,  take  from  kettle,  remove  skin  and  place 
in  baking  pan,  fat  side  up.  Make  a  heavy  paste  of  flour  and  water 
and  spread  over  upper  side  of  ham.  Place  another  pint  of  cider  in 
baking  pan  together  with  1  cupful  of  water  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
2  hours.  Cloves  may  be  stuck  into  dough  over  ham,  and  while  it  is 
baking  it  should  be  basted  frequently. 

HAM  AU  GRATIN. 

%  lb.  ground  boiled  ham  2  eggs 

1  ^4  cups  bread  crumbs  2  cups  milk 

Vs  teaspoon  white  pepper  1  tablespoon  butter 

Place  ham  and  crumbs  in  alternate  layers  in  baking  dish,  season¬ 
ing  with  pepper  with  the  mixing.  Beat  eggs  light  and  add  to  the  milk. 
Pour  liquid  over  the  ham  and  crumbs.  Place  butter  on  in  dots  over 
top  and  bake  one-half  hour  in  quick  oven. 

BAKED  HAM  WITH  RICED  EGGS. 

Soak  an  inch  thick  slice  of  ham  in  warm  water  for  15  minutes. 
Remove  from  water,  place  in  baking  dish  with  enough  milk  to  cover. 

—  170  — 


MEAT  DISHES  AND  DRESSINGS 


Cover  baking  dish  and  bake  slowly  for  about  50  minutes.  Remove 
bam  from  liquor  and  place  on  chop  plate.  Rice  4  hard  boiled  eggs 
over  ham  and  season  with  pepper.  Make  gravy  from  the  liquor  in  the 
baking  dish  and  pour  over  this.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Select  a  good 
cut  of  ham  with  fat  edge. 


BROILED  SWEETBREADS  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

2  sweetbreads  34  teaspoon  white  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

34  teaspoon  salt  A  little  lemon  juice 

Allow  sweetbreads  to  remain  in  cold  water  for  at  least  30  minutes. 
Remove  from  water  and  drop  into  boiling  water,  into  which  lemon 
juice  has  been  added  (about  1  tablespoonful).  Cook  slowly  for  25  min¬ 
utes,  remove  from  boiling  water  and  dash  into  very  cold  water. 
Remove  from  cold  water,  wipe  and  split.  Place  on  broiler  with  1  table¬ 
spoonful  of  butter  spread  over  the  top.  Broil  slowly  until  cooked  on 
one  side.  Turn  and  spread  the  other  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cook 
until  done  on  this  side.  Place  on  platter,  seasoning  with  the  salt  and 
pepper.  Have  1  cup  of  canned  button  mushrooms  simmered  in  butter 
and  spread  over,  or  *4  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms  simmered  in  butter 
may  be  used  in  same  way. 


SAGE  PORK  LOAF. 


134  lbs.  finely  ground  lean 
boneless  pork 
2  eggs  beaten  light 
1  cup  water 


1  cup  bread  crumbs 
1  tablespoon  ground  sage 
%  tablespoon  salt 
34  teaspoon  pepper 


Mix  the  pork,  beaten  eggs,  water  and  bread  crumbs  together. 
Mix  the  sage,  salt  and  pepper  and  add,  stirring  all  well  together.  Mold 
into  loaf,  place  in  greased  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  at  first, 
then  allowing  it  to  brown  over  well  at  last  of  baking  period.  Leave 
a  space  between  loaf  and  sides  of  pan,  so  if  necessary  a  little  water 
may  be  kept  in  bottom  of  pan  for  basting.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 


BEEF  LOAF. 


134  lbs.  lean  beef,  ground  fine 
34  lb.  lean  pork,  ground  fine 
134  cups  tomatoes,  mashed 
1  cup  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 
1  large  green  pepper,  chopped 
fine 


1  medium  sized  onion,  chopped 
fine 

%  tablespoon  salt 
34  teaspoon  white  pepper 

2  well  beaten  eggs 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  the  order  in  which  they  are  given. 
Grease  a  baking  pan  and  form  mixture  in  a  loaf  in  the  center,  leaving 
a  space  between  loaf  and  pan  so  loaf  will  not  crust  at  sides.  Water 
may  be  kept  in  bottom  of  pan  and  loaf  basted  several  times,  but  it  is 
better  to  bake  with  as  little  water  as  possible.  Bake  uncovered. 

—  171  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


LIVER  LOAF. 

2  lbs.  calf’s  liver 
*4  lb.  salt  pork 
1  medium  sized  onion 
4  eggs 

Wash  liver  and  place  on  to  boil  with  the  salt  pork  in  whole  piece 
and  onion  peeled  and  whole.  Boil  all  together  in  enough  water  to  keep 
simmering  slowly,  boiling  down  at  last  to  about  %  cup  of  liquor.  Take 
liver,  salt  pork  and  onion  and  run  through  a  food  chopper.  Return 
this  chopped  mixture  to  the  %  cupful  of  liquor.  Have  2  eggs  cooked 
hard  and  add  to  mixture  in  diced  form.  Beat  the  2  remaining  eggs 
light  and  add,  together  with  the  cracker  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper. 
Mold  in  loaf  and  place  in  greased  pan,  pressing  additional  cracker 
crumbs  in  on  outside  of  loaf.  Place  pan  in  oven  and  bake.  It  may  be 
necessary  to  add  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  occasionally  while 
baking.  In  molding  the  loaf  place  it  in  the  pan  so  there  is  a  space 
between  loaf  and  pan.  This  keeps  loaf  from  burning  at  outer  sides. 
Slice  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 


1  tablespoon  salt 
1  cup  cracker  crumbs 
14  teaspoon  pepper 


VEAL  CRUMB  LOAF. 

1  lb.  veal,  ground  fine  %  teaspoon  paprika 

M  lb.  lean  streaked  salt  pork,  1  egg  beaten  light 

ground  fine  cup  water  or  milk 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  1  small  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  onion,  size  of  walnut,  1  teaspoon  salt 

chopped  fine  XA  teaspoon  white  pepper 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  place  in  well  greased  pan.  Place 
in  oven  and  keep  covered  for  15  minutes,  then  uncover  and  bake  until 
loaf  is  done.  Cool  in  the  pan,  then  remove  to  platter  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

VEAL  FRICASSEE. 


1 14  lbs.  tender  veal 
3  tablespoons  butter 
1  onion,  size  of  walnut 
3  tablespoons  flour 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 


Dash  of  white  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
1  teaspoon  (or  more)  of  salt 
1  cup  canned  mushrooms 
cup  or  1  full  cup  cream 


Cut  veal  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  and  place  in  uncovered 
skillet  with  butter  to  simmer  and  brown.  When  brown  add  the 
chopped  onion  and  cover  with  iy2  cups  of  boiling  water.  Place  a  cover 
over  the  skillet  and  allow  this  to  simmer  slowly  until  onion  is  tender. 
Brown  the  flour  and  mix  to  a  smooth  paste  with  2/3  cups  of  hot  water 
and  add  to  veal  mixture.  Next  add  the  lemon  juice,  pepper  and  salt. 
Boil  all  one  minute,  then  add  mushrooms  and  cream.  Rich  top  milk 
may  be  used  in  place  of  cream.  It  is  according  to  thickness  desired 


—  172  — 


MEAT  DISHES  AND  DRESSINGS 


whether  y2  cup  or  1  cup  of  cream  is  to  be  used.  To  brown  flour  prop¬ 
erly  place  the  desired  amount  in  a  small  skillet  or  kettle  and  place  it 
directly  over  low  heat.  Stir  until  flour  is  light  brown.  Fresh  mush¬ 
rooms  may  be  cooked  and  added  instead  of  canned  mushrooms. 

QUENELLES. 

2  cups  ground  cooked  veal  Dash  of  white  pepper 

}4  teaspoon  salt  1  egg  well  beaten 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Mix  veal,  salt,  pepper  and  egg  together.  Mold  into  oval  shapes  by 
pressing  mixture  in  palm  of  hand.  Place  molds  in  a  greased  baking 
dish  and  place  in  oven.  Keep  baking  dish  covered  for  15  minutes; 
uncover  dish,  brush  quenelles  over  with  melted  butter  and  continue  to 
bake  uncovered  until  they  are  evenly  browned.  Serve  hot. 

CALVES  BRAINS  WITH  EGGS. 

Soak  a  pair  of  brains  in  slightly  salted  water  for  10  minutes,  then 
trim  off  the  connecting  membranes  and  drop  into  scalding  water  and 
let  stand  5  minutes.  Remove  from  hot  water  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Place  3  tablespoons  of  butter  in  hot  skillet  and  saute  the  brains  until 
whitened,  then  add  4  beaten  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Turn  the 
eggs  and  brains  carefully  until  eggs  are  just  set.  Place  on  platter  gar¬ 
nished  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  and  a  dash  of  paprika. 


BAKED  VEAL  HEARTS  WITH  STUFFING. 


4  veal  hearts 

5  cups  bread  cubes  or  crumbs 
3J4  cups  water 

2  large  onions 


2  eggs 

%  tablespoon  ground  sage 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Wash  hearts  thoroughly  and  place  in  baking  dish  to  be  covered. 
Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  fill  the  heart  cavities  full,  and  remain¬ 
ing  stuffing  place  on  top  of  hearts.  Cover  the  baking  dish  and  allow 
all  to  bake  slowly  until  hearts  can  be  pierced  through  with  a  fork. 
Bake  uncovered  for  last  of  baking  period.  During  the  baking,  if  nec¬ 
essary,  baste  with  a  little  hot  water. 


BAKED  HEART  FRICASSEE. 


1^4  lbs.  small  veal  hearts 

3  tablespoons  butter 
14  cup  diced  salt  pork 

1  onion  (size  of  walnut) 

4  cups  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  of  flour 


1  tablespoon  salt 
1/6  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
1 14  cups  chopped  raw  po¬ 
tatoes 


Soak  hearts  in  mild  salted  cold  water  until  all  blood  is  drawn 
from  them,  then  cut  them  in  pieces  the  size  of  hickory  nuts,  removing 

—  173  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


any  tough  parts.  Place  hearts,  butter  and  diced  salt  pork  in  skillet 
and  allow  all  to  simmer  and  brown,  keeping  skillet  uncovered  during 
this  process.  When  brown  add  the  chopped  onion  and  2  cups  of  the 
boiling  water,  cover  and  allow  this  to  simmer  until  onion  is  tender. 
Now  mix  flour,  salt  and  pepper  together  and  add  to  the  mixtures,  keep¬ 
ing  it  from  lumping,  also  adding  the  remaining  2  cups  of  boiling  water. 
Pour  all  in  a  baking  dish  and  over  the  top  spread  the  potatoes.  Bake 
until  potatoes  are  tender.  Serve  hot. 


TAMALE  NOODLE  ROLL. 

%  cup  finely  ground  cooked  Dash  of  black  or  white  pepper 

veal,  pork  or  chicken  Generous  dash  cayenne  pepper 

J4  cup  corn  meal  2  well  beaten  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  well  together  and  spread  on  a  very  thin 
rolled  dough  made  from  “Noodle  Recipe  No.  1”  When  the  dough  is 
rolled  very  thin  and  mixture  evenly  spread  over,  then  begin  to  roll  the 
dough  in  a  firm,  tight  roll,  pinching  the  edges  firmly  together  at  close. 
Lay  or  coil  this  around  in  a  baking  dish  and  almost  cover  with  water, 
chicken  broth  or  meat  broth.  Bake  in  covered  form  for  about  an  hour. 
Serve  in  slices  with  gravy  made  from  the  stock  in  pan.  Where  water 
is  used  in  the  baking,  then  butter  must  be  added  for  richness.  If  roll 
bakes  dry,  add  more  water  during  baking  period. 

HAMBURGER  PATS. 


1 lbs.  ground  beef 
1  cup  tomatoes,  canned  or 
fresh 

1  large  sized  onion,  finely 
chopped 

Have  beef  ground  fine, 
bine  all  ingredients  as  given, 
in  drippings,  lard  or  butter, 
pepper  well  cooked  through. 


1  teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce,  or 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  tablespoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour 

1  green  pepper  (if  on  hand) 


Chop  onion  and  pepper  very  fine  and  com 
Make  into  oblong  or  round  pats  and  fry 
Cook  long  enough  to  have  onion  and 


CREAMED  DRIED  BEEF  ON  TOAST  WITH  RICED  EGG. 


1  cup  dried  beef  cut  in  small 
pieces 

1  *4  cups  hot  water 
1  cup  sweet  milk 


2  tablespoons  flour 

3  tablespoons  butter 
White  pepper  to  taste 
2  hard  cooked  eggs 


Place  the  dried  beef  in  saucepan  with  the  1*4  cups  of  hot  water 
and  allow  it  to  simmer  slowly  (in  covered  form)  until  the  water  is 
almost  boiled  away,  then  add  the  cup  of  milk.  Next  combine  the  flour, 
butter  and  pepper,  and  add.  Stir  the  mixture  until  it  boils  and 
thickens.  Place  one  slice  of  toast  on  a  plate  and  pour  over  it  a  spoon- 

—  174  — 


MEAT  DISHES  AND  DRESSINGS 


ful  of  creamed  beef.  Over  this  place  another  slice  of  toast  and  more 
creamed  beef.  Over  the  top  of  all  sprinkle  enough  of  the  riced  hard- 
cooked  egg  to  give  it  a  good  look. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH. 


1  lb.  beef  or  mutton 
1  medium  sized  onion 
1  small  green  pepper 
%  cup  bacon  grease 
1  cup  boiling  water 
3  large  sized  potatoes 


1  cup  rich  milk 

%  teaspoon  paprika 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
%  teaspoon  white  pepper 


Remove  tough  portions  of  meat  and  cut  in  cubes  the  size  of  wal¬ 
nuts.  Place  bacon  grease,  chopped  onion  and  pepper  in  skillet  and 
simmer  for  10  minutes,  keeping  the  skillet  covered.  Add  the  meat  to 
onion  and  pepper  mixture  and  simmer  and  brown  in  skillet  for  at  least 
15  minutes,  leaving  skillet  uncovered.  When  brown  add  the  cup  of 
boiling  water  and  diced  potatoes.  Cover  the  skillet  and  let  cook  till 
potatoes  are  tender,  but  not  too  soft.  Last,  add  the  milk,  salt,  paprika 
and  pepper.  Serve  hot. 


ONE  MEAL  STEW. 


1%  lbs.  boneless  lean  beef 

3  tablespoons  bacon  grease 

1  onion,  size  of  door  knob  or 
more 

4  medium  sized  carrots 
1  large  green  pepper 


1  pint  of  tomatoes 

6  large  sized  potatoes 
M  cup  barley 

2  tablespoons  rice 
94  tablespoons  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Cut  meat  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Place  meat  and  bacon 
grease  in  skillet  for  meat  to  simmer  and  brown,  keeping  skillet  uncov¬ 
ered.  When  brown  remove  the  mixture  from  skillet  and  place  in  stew 
kettle  with  the  barley,  carrots  and  rice.  Pour  in  enough  water  to 
have  mixture  well  covered.  Set  kettle  back  on  stove  and  simmer 
slowly  for  one  hour,  keeping  kettle  covered  at  this  time.  At  the  end 
of  hour  cut  the  onion  in  small  pieces,  chop  the  green  pepper,  mash  the 
tomatoes  and  cut  potatoes  in  medium  sized  pieces  and  add  all  to  the 
meat  mixture.  Return  the  kettle  to  fire  and  cook  until  vegetables 
are  tender,  if  necessary  adding  additional  water  as  needed.  Serve  hot. 
When  using  fireless  cooker  prepare  meat  in  the  same  manner  as  given 
above.  Place  all  ingredients  together  and  let  cook  in  tireless  cooker 
for  3  hours.  Add  only  enough  water  to  mixture  as  it  goes  to  cooker  to 
keep  vegetables  partially  covered. 


NAVY  BEAN  STEW  WITH  DUMPLINGS. 

Select  a  shank  soup  bone  (the  small  part  of  leg),  about  7  inches 
long.  Place  this  on  to  boil  in  cold  water,  adding  1  cupful  of  washed 
navy  beans ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  slowly  until  meat  is  tender 

—  175  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


and  beans  are  soft.  The  slow  simmering  process  is  the  correct  method. 
When  meat  is  tender  and  beans  are  soft,  make  dumplings  by  “Drop 
Dumpling  Recipe,”  and  drop  small  spoonfuls  of  dough  into  bean  mix¬ 
ture.  Before  dumplings  are  added  it  is  best  to  remove  the  meat,  al¬ 
lowing  more  space  for  dumplings.  Plenty  of  soup  mixture  must  be  in 
kettle  to  swim  the  dumplings.  If  necessary,  add  boiling  water  enough 
to  make  desired  amount. 


MEAT  STUFFED  PEPPERS. 


3  cups  ground  lean  beef 

1  cup  sieved  tomatoes 

2  medium  sized  onions, 
chopped 

1  teaspoon  tobasco  sauce,  or  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


1  tablespoon  salt 
Ys  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Yt  cup  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs 

1  well  beaten  egg 


Mix  the  ingredients  all  together  and  place  in  green  peppers  after 
the  stem  end  has  been  cut  off  and  seeds  removed.  The  pepper  end 
may  then  be  placed  on  again  and  held  in  shape  with:  toothpick.  Bake 
in  casserole  or  baking  dish.  They  will  bake  quicker  in  covered  form 
and  also  be  more  moist.  This  mixture  will  fill  8  large  peppers  or  12 
smaller  ones. 


RICE  CHILI  CON  CARNE. 


1  lb.  lean  mutton 
Yi  cup  drippings 
1  medium  sized  onion 
1  cup  sieved  tomatoes 
Yt  cup  water 


I  large  chili  pepper  or  chili 
powder  to  taste 
1  cup  cooked  rice 
Additional  seasoning  of  salt, 
pepper  and  garlic 


Remove  tough  portions  of  mutton  and  cut  in  cubes,  size  of  a  wal¬ 
nut.  Roll  mutton  cubes  in  flour  and  simmer  and  brown  in  a  skillet 
with  the  drippings  and  chopped  onion.  When  meat  and  onions  are 
browned  lightly  and  tender,  add  the  tomatoes,  water,  ground  chili 
pepper  or  powder  and  rice.  Other  seasoning  may  be  added  to  suit 
taste.  Allow  mixture  to  simmer  and  ripen  on  low  heat  for  15  minutes 
after  all  ingredients  are  mixed.  Serve  hot. 


AMERICAN  CHILI  CON  CARNE. 


2  cups  chili  beans 
1  lb.  ground  tender  beef 

(meat  should  have  some  fat 
on) 

1  large  sized  onion,  chopped 
6  tablespoons  bacon  grease 


%  tablespoon  salt 
Yk  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
1  teasppon  chili  powder 
1  Yt  cups  cream 


Soak  beans  several  hours  in  cold  water,  then  boil  until  tender, 
draining  off  the  liquid  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Keep  beans  from 
becoming  mashed  by  cooking  too  long.  Place  the  ground  beef,  chopped 

—  176  — 


MEAT  DISHES  AND  DRESSINGS 


onion  and  bacon  grease  in  skillet  and  simmer  until  onion  is  tender  and 
it  turns  brown,  then  brown  mixture.  When  tender  and  brown,  add 
salt,  pepper,  chili  powder  and  cream.  Let  all  ingredients  reach  the 
boiling  point,  and  serve  hot.  If  mixture  is  too  thick,  additional  water, 
milk  or  cream  may  be  added.  If  one  teaspoonful  of  chili  powder  does 
not  flavor  to  suit,  add  more. 


MEXICAN  CHILI  CON  CARNE. 


2  cups  kidney  or  chili  beans 
Yz  lb.  lean  beef,  ground  fine 
Yz  lb.  lean  fresh  pork,  ground 
fine 

1  green  pepper,  chopped  fine 
6  tablespoons  butter  or  drip¬ 
pings 


1  large  sized  onion,  chopped 
fine 

2  cups  strained  tomatoes 

1  or  2  teaspoons  chili  powder 
%  tablespoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 
%  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Yt  teaspoon  dry  mustard 


Soak  beans  for  several  hours  in  cold  water,  then  boil  until  tender, 
draining  off  the  liquid  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Do  not  cook  beans 
long  enough  to  become  mushy.  Place  pork,  beef,  green  pepper,  butter 
or  drippings  and  onion  in  skillet  and  simmer  until  tender,  then  brown. 
When  cooked  and  brown  add  the  strained  tomatoes  and  stir  all  well 
together.  Mix  chili  powder,  salt,  white  pepper  and  mustard  together 
and  add  last.  Cook  for  5  minutes  after  all  ingredients  are  combined, 
then  serve  hot.  More  water  may  be  added  if  mixture  is  too  thick. 


CORIANDER  AND  PEPPER  BALL  LOAF. 

Grind  enough  cooked  lean  pork  to  make  2  cups.  Soak  1  table¬ 
spoon  gelatine  in  *4  cup  of  cold  water,  then  add  to  it  %  cup  boiling 
water.  Combine  the  pork  and  gelatine  with  2  hard  cooked  eggs  in 
chopped  form.  Add  l1/^  teaspoons  salt,  1  tablespoon  crushed  coriander 
seed,  !/$  teaspoon  white  pepper,  and  tablespoon  crushed  pepper 
balls.  Place  the  mixture  in  a  square  pan  and  set  on  ice.  Slice  and 
serve  cold. 


BAKED  HASH. 


2  cups  chopped  or  ground 
cold  meat 

%  cup  gravy 
%  cup  barley 

3  medium  sized  raw  potatoes, 
chopped 


1  medium  sized  onion, 
chopped 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Pepper  to  taste 
1  cup  water  or  stock 


Use  any  kind  of  cold,  left-over  meat  in  chopped  or  ground  form. 
Combine  with  this  the  %  cup  of  cold,  left-over  gravy.  Place  the  *4 
cup  of  barley  in  saucepan  with  1  cup  of  cold  water  and  cook  till  water 
is  boiled  away  and  barley  soft.  Now  add  the  cooked  barley  to  the 
meat  and  gravy  mixture.  Next  add  the  potatoes  and  onion,  salt,  pep- 

—  177  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


per  and  water  or  stock.  Pour  all  in  casserole  or  baking  dish  and  cook 
for  one  hour.  Bread  crumbs  may  be  sprinkled  over  top  before  placing 
in  oven. 

PIGS  IN  BLANKET. 

(  With  Apple  Stuffing.) 

Secure  lean  slices  of  boneless  pork,  a  slice  for  each  person  to  be 
served.  Make  a  dressing  by  mixing  together  IV2  cups  bread  crumbs, 
1  cup  finely  chopped  apples,  ^2  teaspoon  salt,  pepper  to  taste  and 
enough  milk  to  make  crumbs  stick  together.  Lay  the  pork  slices  out 
flat  and  place  a  heap  of  the  dressing  on  top  of  each.  Boll  them  as  tight 
as  possible,  pinning  edges  down  with  toothpicks.  Put  rolls  in  casserole 
or  baking  dish  and  bake  in  uncovered  form  till  done.  When  rolls  are 
half  done  whole  apples  may  be  placed  in  around  them  and  baked,  first 
removing  cores  and  filling  cavities  with  sugar. 


FISH  STUFFING. 


2  cups  bread  and  cracker 
crumbs  mixed 
teaspoon  salt 
White  pepper  to  taste 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  or 


2  teaspoons  minced  onion 
2  teaspoons  finely  chopped 
parsley 
J4  cup  water 
1  well  beaten  egg 


Mix  all  together.  This  makes  a  dry  stuffing,  as  it  should  be.  More 
liquid  may  be  added  if  wanted.  The  stuffing  may  be  made  with  egg 
omitted. 

PLAIN  OYSTER  STUFFING. 


1  cup  cracker  crumbs 
cup  bread  crumbs 
3  tablespoons  melted  butter 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  all  together  in  order  given. 


White  pepper  to  taste 
2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 
1  cup  drained  oysters 
Enough  milk  to  moisten 

Stuff  fowl. 


SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 


1  quart  oysters 

2  cups  bread  and  cracker 
crumbs  mixed 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


5  tablespoons  butter 
3  tender  shoots  of  celery 
Sweet  milk 
Paprika 


Place  crumbs  and  oysters  in  alternate  layers  in  casserole  or  baking 
dish,  mixing  as  you  go  a  little  of  the  fine  minced  celery  and  dotting 
the  butter  evenly  through.  Have  crumbs  always  on  the  top.  When 
the  mixture  is  all  in  dish,  then  pour  over  enough  sweet  milk  to  moisten, 
but  do  not  allow  it  to  cover  the  crumbs.  Bake  for  about  20  minutes 
in  covered  form,  then  set  under  broiling  oven  to  brown  lightly  on  top. 
Before  serving  sprinkle  a  little  paprika  over  top.  To  economize,  fewer 
oysters  may  be  used. 


—  178  — 


MEAT  DISHES  AND  DRESSINGS 


BATTER  FOR  FRYING  OYSTERS. 

1  egg  %  cup  milk 

M  teaspoon  salt  *4  cup  flour 

White  pepper  to  taste  %  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Beat  egg  light  to  which  add  salt,  pepper  and  milk.  Next  add  flour 
and  baking  powder  and  beat  till  light. 


ITALIAN  RA VIOLA. 


%  lb.  lean  fresh  pork 
1  small  slice  calf’s  liver  or 
1  chicken  liver  and  gizzard 
cup  cheese 

8  medium  sized  spinach  leaves 
1  onion  size  of  large  walnut 
1  small  parsley  sprig 
cup  chopped  cabbage 
1  cup  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 


5  eggs 

Dash  of  cinnamon 
Dash  of  cloves 
%  teaspoon  white  or  black 
pepper 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
1  tablespoon  salt 
M  teaspoon  ground  mustard 


Boil  the  pork  and  liver  until  tender  ands  liquid  boiled  away.  Re¬ 
move  from  fire,  cool  and  run  through  a  food  chopper.  Put  cheese, 
spinach,  onion,  parsley  and  cabbage  through  food  chopper  also.  Next 
beat  the  eggs  light  and  combine  all  the  ingredients  given  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Set  this  aside  while  a  dough  is  prepared  in  the  following 
manner  : 

Beat  4  large  eggs  very  light  and  add  enough  flour  gradually  to 
make  a  very  firm  dough,  usually  about  2  1/3  cups  of  flour  being  re¬ 
quired.  Knead  and  roll  the  dough  on  floured  board  in  large  sheet 
form,  rolling  it  thin.  Spread  the  meat  mixture  over  one-half  of  the 
dough,  spreading  it  on  thin  and  even.  Now  turn  the  other  half  of 
dough  over  in  sandwich  form  and  press  the  outer  edges  well  together. 
Now  take  one  finger  and  press  lines  in  the  dough  about  one  inch  apart 
across  the  form  and  then  press  lines  in  opposite  direction,  making 
squares.  Run  a  sharp  knife  or  pastry  jagger  down  through  these  fur¬ 
rows,  running  both  ways,  which  then  gives  you  so  many  square  sand¬ 
wiches.  Drop  the  sandwiches  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted  water  and 
allow  them  to  cook  slowly  for  30  or  35  minutes.  Remove  to  a  hot  serv¬ 
ing  dish  and  pour  over  them  hot  butter  or  a  thin  rich  tomato  sauce. 
Where  they  are  served  with  butter,  grated  cheese  should  be  sprinkled 
over  all. 


CHICKEN  RAVIOLA. 

Use  2  cups  of  finely  ground  white  and  dark  meat  of  chicken.  Run 
4  tender  celery  shoots  through  the  grinder,  too,  and  then  combine 
with  this  cup  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  3  well  beaten  eggs  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Make  the  dough  in  same  way,  only  make  less. 
Spread  chicken  on  in  same  way,  cut  and  cook  as  in  “Italian  Ra  viola.” 
These  should  always  be  served  in  hot  butter  sauce. 

—  179  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


ONE  MEAL  MACARONI  DISH. 


2  cups  macaroni 
2  cups  sieved  tomatoes 
1  large  green  pepper,  chopped 
1  large  onion,  chopped 
1  %  teaspoons  salt 
H  teaspoon  white  pepper 


Dash  of  cayenne  pepper  or 
Tabasco  sauce 

5  tablespoons  butter  or  bacon, 
or  ham  fryings 
2  hard  cooked  eggs,  diced 
%  cup  cracker  crumbs 


Place  the  macaroni  in  2*4  cups  of  boiling  water  and  cook  for  25 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  drain  and  wash  in  cold  water.  Now  place 
the  maraconi  in  greased  baking  dish  and  add  to  it  the  tomatoes,  green 
pepper,  onion,  salt,  pepper,  cayenne  pepper,  grease  and  hard  cooked 
eggs.  Stir  well  and  over  the  top  sprinkle  the  cracker  crumbs.  Bake 
in  covered  dish  for  40  minutes,  then  remove  the  cover  and  bake  until 
mixture  is  well  cooked  through  and  brown  on  top.  This  serves  6  or 
8  persons. 

ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI. 


2  cups  spaghetti 

3  cups  boiling  water 

1  %  cups  cold  or  hot  water 
1 %  cups  sieved  tomatoes 
1  large  sized  onion,  chopped 
very  fine 

5  tablespoons  bacon  grease  or 
butter 


1  tablespoon  salt 

teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce,  or 
generous  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper 

%  teaspoon  white  pepper 
cup  grated  cheese 


Place  the  2  cups  of  spaghetti  in  3  cups  of  boiling  water  and  allow 
same  to  boil  until  spaghetti  swells  and  is  about  half  tender,  then  drain 
in  a  colander,  allowing  cold  water  to  run  through  it.  Place  the 
washed  spaghetti  back  in  kettle  with  the  11/3  cups  of  cold  water, 
tomatoes,  onion,  bacon  grease  or  butter,  salt,  tabasco  sauce  or  cayenne 
pepper,  and  white  pepper  and  boil  slowly  until  mixture  thickens  and 
onion  is  tender.  Stir  frequently  to  prevent  sticking.  At  last  of  cook¬ 
ing  period,  if  spaghetti  is  set  back  on  stove  and  allowed  to  remain  for 
about  15  minutes  at  the  slow  simmering  stage,  it  will  have  a  better 
flavor.  If  cheese  is  to  be  added,  it  should  be  stirred  in  as  spaghetti 
is  being  removed  from  kettle  to  serving  dish.  This  amount  will  serve 
6  persons.  To  make  this  extra  fine  add  1  cup  canned  button  mush¬ 
rooms. 

HOLUBKI. 

1  medium  sized  solid  cabbage 
head 

1  large  sized  onion,  chopped 
1  large  green  sweet  pepper, 
chopped 

cup  uncooked  rice 
%  cup  yellow  corn  meal 

Trim  off  any  imperfect  leaves  from  the  cabbage  head  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  out  the  heart,  or  partially  do  so  at  least.  Place  the 

—  180  — 


1  lb.  lean  ground  beef 
M  lb.  lean  ground  pork 

2  teaspoons  salt 
White  pepper  to  taste 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
2  tablespoons  butter 


MEAT  DISHES  AND  DRESSINGS 


cabbage  head  on  to  cook  in  boiling  water  and  cook  for  10  minutes,  or 
until  cabbage  begins  to  soften.  Remove  from  fire,  cool  first,  then  re¬ 
move  each  leaf  in  whole  form.  Now  combine  the  onion,  pepper,  rice,, 
cornmeal,  beef,  pork  and  seasoning.  Place  about  a  rounded  table¬ 
spoonful  of  the  meat  mixture  on  each  cabbage  leaf  and  lap  the  edges: 
of  leaf  over  in  firm  package  form.  Use  all  meat  mixture  in  this  way 
and  place  the  cabbage  packages  evenly  and  on  top  of  one  another  in 
stew  kettle.  Pour  enough  boiling  water  over  this  to  nearly  cover  it 
all.  Place  the  butter  in  the  water,  cover  and  cook  slowly  for  about 
one  hour.  If  oven  meal  is  being  prepared,  this  may  be  cooked  in  oven 
or  tireless  cooker.  About  15  minutes  before  removing  from  stove  for 
serving  2  or  3  cups  of  sieved  tomatoes  may  be  poured  into  the  mixture. 

TO  CLARIFY  FAT. 

Melt  fat  and  add  raw  potatoes  cut  in  slices.  Allow  the  fat  to 
heat  gradually.  When  it  ceases  to  bubble  and  potatoes  are  a  golden 
brown,  strain  fat  through  a  double  cheesecloth.  The  potatoes  will 
absorb  any  odors. 

SAVE  MEAT  FRYINGS  AND  ALL  FATS. 

The  economical  housewife  will  have  on  hand  three  cans  or  bowls 
for  grease.  Fryings  from  bacon  and  ham  should  be  kept  in  separate 
jar  and  should  be  used  for  vegetable-frying  and  seasoning.  Fats  from 
roasts,  chops  and  fresh  pork  should  be  kept  in  another  jar  and  if  clari¬ 
fied  and  strained  may  be  used  for  cookies  and  some  kinds  of  pastry 
and  cake  making.  Fats  rendered  from  fowls  are  of  more  delicate 
flavor  and  may  be  used  in  place  of  butter  in  many  articles.  Delicious 
cakes  are  made  from  hen  fat. 

If  grease  is  kept  on  hand  until  it  becomes  rancid,  place  grease  in 
kettle  with  three  times  as  much  water  as  grease  and  boil  30  minutes, 
keeping  kettle  uncovered.  Remove  from  fire,  strain  through  a  cheese¬ 
cloth  into  crock  and  set  in  some  cold  place.  When  cold  skim  the  hard¬ 
ened  fat  from  surface  and  put  in  can.  Throw  the  liquor  away. 


—  181  — 


CHAPTER  XVI 


Croquettes  and  Dumplings 


There  are  many  different  ways  to  make  dumplings  and  numerous 
recipes  to  be  used  in  their  making,  but  the  prevailing  thought  or  ques¬ 
tion  the  average  woman  has  in  mind  is,  “Why  do  dumplings  fall  and 
become  solid  and  heavy  V*  If  the  dumplings  are  of  the  rolled  out  and 
cut  in  biscuit  shape  variety,  there  is  usually  little  cause  for  worry  on 
the  part  of  the  maker.  This  is  conclusive  evidence  that  the  fault,  in 
the  process  of  drop  dumplings,  lies  in  not  getting  the  dough  mixture 
stiff  enough.  Follow  this  one  rule  always  and  no  difficulty  will  be  ex¬ 
perienced  in  the  making  of  excellent  dumplings. 

After  the  dough  mixture  is  prepared,  take  a  clean,  dry  spoon  and 
dip  out  a  full  spoonful  of  dough.  Turn  the  spoon  in  position  for  the 
dough  to  drop.  If  the  dough  drops,  the  mixture  is  not  stiff  enough 
and  the  dumplings  will  probably  fall.  Add  enough  flour  to  the  mix¬ 
ture  so  that  this  test  can  be  made  and  the  dough  will  cling  to  the 
spoon. 

Dumplings  may  be  cooked  in  covered  or  uncovered  form,  but  the 
former  method  is  preferable.  If  the  kettle  is  covered,  careful  atten¬ 
tion  must  be  given  so  that  the  lid  is  not  raised  by  intense  steam  pres¬ 
sure. 

When  dumplings  are  dropped  into  the  stock  watch  and  see  that 
the  heat  is  lowered  to  allow  slow  boiling,  continuing  this  process  for 
about  15  minutes  before  removing  lid.  If  dumplings  are  to  be  cooked 
uncovered  from  start  to  finish  (as  they  should  be  in  such  process) 
more  heat  may  be  allowed  under  the  kettle. 

The  best  dumplings  are  made  with  egg,  sweet  milk  and  baking 
powder.  The  stock  is  usually  rich  in  fat  substance,  and  when  such  is 
the  case,  no  shortening  is  needed  in  the  dough.  If,  however,  dumplings 
are  to  be  dropped  in  plain  salted  water  to  cook,  then  shortening  may 
be  used  accordingly. 

ROLLED  OATS  CROQUETTES. 

1  cup  cooked  oats  1  egg 

cup  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

Mix  all  together,  mold  into  oblong  shapes,  dip  in  egg,  then  roll  in 
cracker  crumbs  and  drop  in  hot  fat,  cook  to  a  golden  brown. 

—  182  — 


CROQUETTES  AND  DUMPLINGS 


SALMON?  CROQUETTES. 

1  cup  salmon  Dash  of  white  pepper 

1  egg  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  1  small  green  pepper 

1  teaspoon  salt  Simmered  in  1  tablespoon  butter 

Chop  the  green  pepper  in  small  pieces  and  simmer  in  1  tablespoon¬ 
ful  of  butter  until  tender.  Shred  and  remove  bones  from  salmon. 
Beat  egg  light,  then  combine  all  ingredients,  mixing  well  together. 
Dip  in  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Mold  mixture 
in  little  pyramid  forms.  It  requires  an  additional  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs  for  the  rolling. 

CURRANT  CRUMB  CROQUETTES. 

1  cup  boiling  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  finely  rolled  bread  or  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

cracker  crumbs  1  egg 

%  cup  currants 

Pour  boiling  milk  over  bread  crumbs  and  allow  mixture  to  stand 
till  cold.  Add  currants  to  mixture,  blend  sugar  and  cinnamon  to¬ 
gether  and  add,  together  with  well  beaten  egg.  Mold  into  shape  in 
hands  and  drop  in  deep  fat.  Cook  to  a  golden  brown.  Remove  from 
fat  and  serve  hot  or  cold,  rolled  in  powdered  sugar. 

BAKED  CORN  CROQUETTES. 

2  cups  mushy  canned  corn  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  egg  y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  %  cups  bread  or  cracker  %  teaspoon  white  pepper 

crumbs 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  corn  and  crumbs.  Mix  sugar,  salt 
and  pepper  with  corn  and  crumbs  and  mold  into  oblong  shapes  in 
even  sizes.  Place  molds  in  well  greased  pan  and  place  in  oven.  Allow 
them  to  bake  slowly  for  15  minutes.  Remove  from  oven,  brush  each 
mold  over  well  with  butter  and  return  to  oven  to  brown,  usually  30 
minutes  being  necessary  for  browning.  Serve  hot. 


LOBSTER  CROQUETTES. 


1  can  lobster 
94  cup  rich  sweet  milk 
1  tablespoon  flour 
1  tablespoon  butter 


1  hard  cooked  egg 
%  cup  bread  crumbs 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Drain  liquor  from  the  lobster  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Place  milk 
in  sauce  pan  and  add  to  it  the  flour  and  butter  creamed  together.  Cook 
till  thick.  Remove  from  fire  and  cool.  When  cold  add  the  lobster, 
hard  cooked  egg  in  riced  form,  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix 

—  183  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


well  and  form  into  pyramid  shape  molds.  Set  molds  in  cold  place  to 
chill  before  cooking.  Have  fat  hot;  roll  molds  in  beaten  egg,  then 
cracker  crumbs,  back  into  beaten  egg  again  and  to  cracker  crumbs 
and  drop  into  fat.  Fry  to  a  golden  brown. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

2  cups  mashed  or  riced  potatoes  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter  Yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten 

14  teaspoon  salt  M  cup  cracker  crumbs 

Dash  of  white  pepper 

Mix  potatoes,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  eggs  and  cracker  crumbs  to¬ 
gether.  Form  into  pryamid  shaped  molds,  roll  in  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs  and  drop  in  deep  fat.  Fry  to  rich  golden  brown.  Serve  hot. 

NOODLES  NO.  1. 

1  large  egg  %  cup  flour 

16  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  flour  and  salt.  Knead  into  smooth, 
stiff  dough,  and  roll  on  floured  board  as  thin  as  it  is  possible  to  roll. 
Allow  the  dough  to  dry  for  a  short  time  after  rolled  to  almost  paper 
thickness.  Cut  either  in  threadlike  strips  or  very  small  squares.  Cook 
in  boiling  stock  or  salted  water  seasoned  to  suit. 

NOODLES  NO.  2. 

1  egg  14  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  milk  14  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and 
salt  together  and  add  2/3  of  the  cup  of  flour.  Stir  into  a  stiff  dough. 
Take  remaining  1/3  cup  of  flour  and  place  on  board.  Roll  dough  as 
thin  as  dough  can  be  handled  and  cut  in  strips  as  narrow  as  it  is  pos¬ 
sible  to  cut  them.  Place  strips  on  clean  white  paper  in  floured  condi¬ 
tion  and  dry  over  night.  Drop  into  boiling  stock.  Noodles  may  be 
made  and  cooked  at  once,  but  drying  over  night  makes  a  better  noodle. 

GOLD  NOODLES  NO.  3. 

2  egg  yolks  14  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  water  %  teaspoon  baking  powder 

14  cup  flour 

Beat  yolks  light,  to  which  add  water  and  beat  until  bubbles  form. 
Sift  in  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Roll  on  flour-dredged  board  as 
thin  as  possible  to  roll.  Either  cut  in  very  narrow  thread-like  strips 
or  in  small  squares.  After  dough  is  rolled  on:  board  to  desired  thick¬ 
ness,  if  it  is  allowed  to  stand  a  few  minutes,  or  until  partially  dry, 

—  184  — 


CROQUETTES  AND  DUMPLINGS 


cutting  will  be  made  easier.  Additional  flour  may  be  needed  in  the 
rolling.  The  noodles  may  be  cooked  at  once  or  they  may  be  kept  on 
hand  several  days. 


DROP  DUMPLINGS. 

1  egg  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  sweet  milk  14  teaspoon  salt 

1  %  cups  flour 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  sweet  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt  together  and  add  to  liquid.  Beat  until  mixture  is 
smooth.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  in  boiling  stock  or  stew.  Keep  kettle 
tightly  covered  for  about  20  minutes  if  dumplings  are  good  size.  Do 
not  allow  it  to  boil  hard  enough  for  the  steam  to  force  lid  up.  If  steam 
escapes,  dumplings  may  fall.  Remove  dumplings  from  kettle  as  soon 
as  lid  is  removed. 


RAW  POTATO  DUMPLINGS. 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  large  potatoes  grated  *4  cup  rice  or  mashed  cooked 

1  tablespoon  flour  potatoes 

J4  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  the  grated  potato  after  it  has  been 
squeezed  in  cloth  until  all  liquid  is  drained  off.  Mix  egg  and  potato 
well  together,  then  add  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Last  add  the 
cooked  potatoes.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  in  boiling 
stock  or  plain  salted  water.  The  mixture  may  be  molded  in  oblong 
shapes  in  hands  by  using  a  little  extra  flour.  Serve  with  fried  onions. 

DAINTY  DUMPLINGS. 

1  egg  %  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  flour 

Pinch  of  salt  Cracker  crumbs 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  melted  butter  and  salt.  Mix  baking 
powder  and  flour  together  and  add.  Add  enough  finely  rolled  cracker 
crumbs  to  this  to  make  it  so  dough  can  be  rolled  in  balls.  Drop  balls 
in  soup  and  cook  about  10  or  15  minutes,  according  to  size  of  dumpling. 

MEAT  DUMPLINGS. 

1  cup  chopped  cooked  meat  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  well  beaten  teaspoon  salt 

14  cup  sweet  milk  Dash  of  white  pepper 

1^4  cups  flour 

Place  chopped  meat  in  bowl  and  add  the  other  ingredients  in 
order  given.  Beat  mixture  one  minute,  then  drop  by  spoonfuls  in  boil- 

—  185  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


ing  stock,  allow  cover  to  remain  on  kettle  for  about  20  minutes,  being 
careful  not  to  allow  steam  to  force  lid  up  while  cooking.  If  steam 
escapes  and  lid  is  lifted  before  the  dumplings  are  cooked  they  are  in 
danger  of  falling. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

1 *4  cups  finely  chopped  cold  1  well  beaten  egg 

chicken  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

J4  cup  bread  crumbs 

Mix  ingredients  together  and  shape  like  cones.  Fry  in  deep  fat. 
If  the  mixture  seems  too  dry,  moisten  with  gravy  or  milk. 


—  186  — 


CHAPTER  XVII 


Fish 


OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 


1  pint  raw  oysters 
6  tablespoons  catsup 
3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
1  teaspoon  prepared  horseradish 


6  drops  tabasco  sauce,  or  more 
*4  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  white  pepper 
J4  cup  finely  chopped  celery 


Mix  all  together  and  serve. 


BAKED  OYSTERS. 


Place  alternate  layers  of  large  oysters  and  finely  rolled  cracker 
crumbs  in  baking  dish.  Between  each  layer  add  white  pepper,  dots  of 
butter  and  salt.  Pour  in  enough  water  to  keep  mixture  moist,  having 
crumbs  as  top  layer.  Bake  for  about  30  or  40  minutes. 


FRIED  OYSTERS. 


Oysters  may  be  fried  in  several  ways,  but  the  three  following  ways 
seem  to  be  the  most  cared  for : 

Select  large  sized  oysters,  drain  and  dry.  Have  in  readiness  egg 
yolks,  well  beaten  and  seasoned  to  taste.  Dip  the  oysters  in  the  egg, 
then  in  very  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  place  in  frying  basket,  then  in 
deep  fat. 

Or  they  may  be  dipped  in  egg  and  cornmeal  and  fried  in  the  same 
manner. 

Or  they  may  be  dipped  in  a  light  egg,  milk  and  baking  powder 
batter  and  dropped  into  deep  fat. 


SALMON  LOAF. 


1  green  pepper 
1  onion,  size  of  walnut 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter 


1  egg 

*4  cup  water 
1  can  salmon,  boned 
%  cup  bread  crumbs 


Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  the  water.  Next  add  the  salmon, 
bread  crumbs,  chopped  pepper,  chopped  onion,  salt  and  melted  butter. 


—  187  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


Mix  all  together  and  mold  into  loaf  form  and  bake  in  greased  pan. 
Serve  plain  or  with  tomato  sauce. 


RICE  SALMON  LOAF. 


3  cups  cooked  rice 
1  cup  salmon 
lit  cup  bread  crumbs 
lit  teaspoon  salt 


2  eggs 

1  small  green  pepper 
H  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Butter  a  baking  dish  or  pan  generously  and  line  the  pan  with 
coked  rice,  holding  some  back  for  top  covering.  Mix  all  other  ingre¬ 
dients  together,  having  eggs  beaten  light  and  green  pepper  chopped 
fine.  Place  mixture  in  lined  baking  pan  and  place  remaining  rice  over 
the  top.  Bake  slowly  for  about  45  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and 
allow  it  to  cool  in  pan.  When  cold  remove  and  place  on  platter,  gar¬ 
nished  with  slices  of  hard  cooked  eggs  and  lemon.  This  loaf  may  also 
be  served  in  slices  with  tomato  sauce. 


JELLIED  SALMON  LOAF. 


1  tablespoon  flour 
1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
1  teaspoon  salt 
li  teaspoon  white  pepper 
1  cup  water 


1  egg 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
1  green  pepper 

1  can  red  salmon 

2  tablespoons  gelatine 


Blend  flour,  mustard,  pepper  and  salt  and  add  to  %  of  the  1  cup 
of  water.  Add  next  the  well-beaten  egg.  Pour  into  double  boiler  and 
cook  till  thick.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  remaining  *4  cup  of  water, 
and  when  thoroughly  dissolved  add  it  to  the  hot  mixture  in  double 
boiler.  Remove  from  fire  and  cool,  then  add  the  chopped  green  pepper 
and  the  salmon  in  shredded  form.  Place  in  a  mold  and  set  directly  on 
ice  cake  to  become  firm.  When  set,  remove  from  mold,  place  on  platter 
and  garnish  with  lemon  slices  and  parsley. 


CREAMED  SHRIMP  IN  PATE  SHELLS. 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  egg 

1  cup  rich  sweet  milk  1  cup  shrimps 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Place  butter  in  saucepan,  to  which  add  the  flour;  stir  and  keep 
the  mixture  smooth.  Next  add  milk  and  simmer  2  minutes.  Remove 
from  fire  and  add  the  pepper,  salt,  well  beaten  egg  and  shrimps.  Re¬ 
turn  to  fire  for  about  2  minutes,  then  serve  hot  in  pate  shells.  If 
mixture  is  too  thick,  add  an  additional  amount  of  milk. 


—  188  — 


FISH 


CREAMED  SHRIMPS  WITH  EGGS. 

1  cup  shrimps  %  teaspoons  salt 

3  hard  cooked  eggs  White  pepper  to  taste 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  tablespoons  flour 

Remove  shrimps  from  can  and  wash.  If  shrimps  are  large  they 
may  be  broken.  Place  shrimps  in  saucepan,  together  with  hard  cooked 
eggs  which  have  been  cut  in  slices  or  quarters.  Cook  eggs,  by  simmer¬ 
ing,  20  minutes  previous  to  cutting.  Now  make  a  white  sauce  by 
recipe  given  in  this  book  and  combine  with  this  mixture.  Serve  hot. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

1  cup  cooked  shredded  codfish  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes  Dash  of  white  pepper 

1  egg 

Take  codfish,  egg,  potatoes  and  pepper  and  mix  all  together  and 
form  into  balls  or  oblong  molds.  Roll  balls  in  well-beaten  egg,  then 
in  finely  rolled  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  drop  in  hot  fat.  If  the 
frying  basket  is  not  used,  use  an  ordinary  wire  egg  beater  for  the 
turning  of  balls.  Allow  them  to  remain  in  fat  long  enough  to  brown. 


CREAMED  CODFISH. 

1  cup  cooked  shredded  codfish  2  hard  cooked  eggs 

1 *4  cups  milk  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter  Dash  of  white  pepper 

1*4  tablespoons  flour  Salt  to  taste 

Place  codfish  and  milk  in  saucepan  on  stove.  Blend  butter  and 
flour  and  add  to  mixture,  allowing  all  to  boil  2  or  3  minutes.  Add  pep¬ 
per  and  remove  from  fire.  Either  add  the  hard  cooked  eggs  in  diced 
form,  or  rice  through  a  ricer  and  add.  This  creamed  mixture  is  de¬ 
licious  served  on  buttered  toast.  If  eggs  are  riced  they  can  be  held 
back  until  mixture  is  poured  over  toast  and  then  eggs  riced  over  top 
of  toast,  making  it  look  more  appetizing.  One  additional  spoonful  of 
flour  may  be  added  if  it  is  to  be  served  plain  and  not  on  toast. 


LOBSTER  CUTLETS. 


2  cups  cooked  lobster  meat, 
minced 

M  teaspoon  salt 
34  teaspoon  white  pepper 


*4  teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce 
1  cup  thick  white  sauce 
1  egg,  well  beaten 
34  cup  cracker  crumbs 


Combine  all  the  ingredients  given  and  mix  well.  Take  the  mix¬ 
ture  up  in  hands  and  mold  into  cutlet  form,  then  place  in  the  coldest 
part  of  ice  box  to  chill.  When  cold,  dip  each  cutlet  in  well  beaten  egg, 

—  189  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  skillet  with  a  generous  amount  of 
butter.  Fry  only  to  a  golden  brown.  Usually  two  eggs,  well  beaten, 
will  be  sufficient  for  dipping.  Serve  cutlets  garnished  with  sprigs  of 
parsley  and  lemon  slices  cut  in  halves  or  quarters. 


CLAM  CHOWDER. 


1  quart  drained  clams 
3  cups  sweet  milk 
1  tablespoon  butter 
1  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  white  pepper 


%  cup  diced  salt  pork 

1  onion  size  of  walnut  (minced) 

2  cups  diced  potatoes  (soaked 


and  drained) 

6  tablespoons  flour 


Place  the  salt  pork  in  a  skillet  and  simmer  until  grease  is  out  of 
the  cubes,  but  not  browned.  Add  to  this  the  finely  minced  onion  and 
potatoes.  Put  a  lid  over  the  skillet  and  cook  by  the  simmering  process 
until  potatoes  are  tender.  Do  not  brown.  Next  add  the  flour  and  half 
of  the  milk,  alternately  doing  this  so  that  no  lumps  will  form.  Stir 
well  and  keep  in  a  hot  condition  while  the  clams  are  prepared.  Have 
the  clams  drained  and  all  shells  removed,  then  drop  them  into  the  re¬ 
maining  half  of  the  milk  after  it  is  brought  to  a  boiling  point.  Allow 
the  clams  and  milk  to  remain  in  this  stage  about  5  minutes,  or  until 
they  scald,  then  combine  with  the  skillet  mixture.  Last  add  the  but¬ 
ter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  hot. 


—  190  — 


CHAPTER  XVIII 


Eggs,  Cheese,  Vegetable  and 
Breakfast  Dishes 


PLAIN  OMELET. 

4  eggs  2  tablespoons  butter 

,4  tablespoons  water  Dash  of  pepper 

Yt  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  to  which  add  water,  salt  and  pepper.  Place 
the  2  tablespoonfnls  of  butter  in  omelet  pan  and  turn  in  the  egg 
mixture.  Prick  with  a  fork,  fold  and  serve  hot.  Milk  may  be 
used  in  place  of  water,  but  omelet  is  always  lighter  with  water. 


PUFF  OMELET  WITH  CHEESE. 

4  eggs  Dash  of  pepper  to  taste 

4  tablespoons  water  1  tablespoon  butter 

Dash  of  salt  to  taste  Yt  cup  grated  cheese 

Separate  the  eggs.  To  the  well  beaten  yolks  add  water,  pepper 
and  salt.  Whip  the  whites  very  stiff  and  fold  into  yolk  mixture. 
Place  the  butter  in  skillet  and  heat.  Pour  mixture  in  skillet  and 
cook  till  it  is  cooked  at  the  edges,  then  remove  to  oven  or  broiler 
and  cook  until  center  is  cooked.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  the  top 
and  with  a  spatula  fold  omelet  in  two  folds.  Remove  to  platter, 
sprinkle  with  parsley  or  paprika  and  serve  hot. 


EGGS  A-LA 

2  cups  sweet  milk 
2  tablespoons  butter 
2  tablespoons  flour 
1  cup  grated  cheese 


GOLDEN  ROD. 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Ys  teaspoon  white  pepper 
4  hard  cooked  eggs 
Paprika 


Simmer  eggs  slowly  for  20  minutes,  then  chill  in  cold  water. 
Place  milk  in  saucepan  on  fire.  Add  to  the  milk  the  creamed  butter 
and  flour  and  allow  all  to  cook  in  double  boiler  for  about  12  minutes. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  diced  hard  cooked  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Place 
mixture  in  large  dish  or  on  buttered  toast  and  sprinkle  over  the  top 

—  191  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


the  grated  or  rieed  cheese.  If  cheese  is  allowed  to  be  mixed  with  the 
hot  mixture  it  is  not  so  good  as  grated  over  the  top  when  ready  to 
serve.  Paprika  should  be  sprinkled  over  top  of  all. 

DEVILED  EGGS. 

6  eggs  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Juice  of  1  lemon  Dash  of  cayemie  pepper 

teaspoon  salt  12  stuffed  olives 

Simmer  eggs  slowly  for  20  minutes.  Cool  in  cold  water,  peel  and 
cut  in  halves  lengthwise.  Place  the  yolks  in  small  bowl  and  mix 
with  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  butter  and  cayenne  pepper.  Cream  mixture 
well  and  place  in  egg  halves.  In  center  of  each  mold  place  a  stuffed 
olive. 

STUFFED  EGGS. 

Simmer  6  eggs  slowly  for  20  minutes.  Cool  in  cold  water,  peel 
and  cut  in  halves,  lengthwise.  Remove  yolks  and  place  in  a  bowl. 
To  these  yolks  add  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  teaspoon  salt 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Mash  into  a  smooth  paste  and  place 
it  in  6  of  the  egg  white  halves.  Have  finely  minced  ham  to  place  in 
the  other  6  egg  halves.  Place  a  ham  half  and  a  deviled  half  together, 
holding  them  together  by  placing  2  toothpicks  through  both  egg 
halves.  Roll  the  eggs  first  in  beaten  egg,  then  cracked  crumbs,  and 
drop  into  deep  fat,  frying  to  a  golden  brown.  Serve  in  place  of 
meat. 


SCALLOPED  EGGS,  MACARONI  AND  CHEESE. 


3  cups  sweet  milk 
M  cup  butter 

2  y2  tablespoons  flour 

4  hard  cooked  eggs 


1  cup  cold  boiled  macaroni 

cup  cracker  crumbs 
14  teaspoon  white  pepper 

2  teaspoons  salt 


Place  milk  in  double  boiler  and  add  to  it  the  butter  and  flour 
well  creamed  together.  Cook  till  thick,  then  remove  from  fire  and 
pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish.  Have  eggs  simmered  slowly  for  20 
minutes  and  chilled  in  cold  water.  Slice  the  eggs  in  pudding  dish 
with  white  sauce.  Have  macaroni  tender  and  cut  in  pieces  and  add 
next.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  mixture,  then  sprinkle  cheese  and 
cracker  crumbs  over  the  top  and  bake  slowly  at  first,  then  brown. 


POACHED  EGGS. 


Break  eggs  in  individual  sauce  dishes  or  molds  first,  then  set 
same  in  a  pan  of  simmering  boiling  water  that  has  been  salted. 
A  few  drops  of  vinegar  may  also  be  added  to  the  water.  The  eggs 
then  may  be  lifted  from  the  boiling  water  and  served  in  the  dish  in 
which  they  were  cooked.  Where  one  is  provided  with  an  egg  poacher, 

—  192  — 


EGG,  CHEESE,  VEGETABLES  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 


this  is  not  a  necessary  process  to  follow.  Eggs  are  more  nourishing 
and  have  a  better  flavor  poached  in  milk.  The  milk  may  be  used 
for  the  making  of  gravy  and  cream  sauce  after  the  poaching  is  over. 

DELMONICO  LUNCH. 

Simmer  3  eggs  slowly  for  20  minutes,  then  cool  in  cold  water. 
When  cold,  shell  and  cut  in  half  lengthwise.  Remove  yolks  and  place 
in  bowl,  keeping  the  white  halves  back.  Add  to  the  yolks  1  table¬ 
spoonful  butter,  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  generous  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Mix  this  together  and  return  to  egg  halves.  Make  a  white 
sauce  by  adding  2  cups  of  top  milk  to  3  tablespoons  of  flour  gradually 
until  all  milk  is  added  and  the  mixture  is  free  from  lumps.  Place 
this  on  to  cook  in  double  boiler  and  cook  12  minutes.  When  done 
add  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  cup  of  canned 
button  mushrooms  cut  in  pieces.  Slice  thin  slices  of  bread  and  with  a 
round  cutter  cut  until  you  have  12  round  slices.  Toast  to  a  delicate 
brown  and  butter  on  one  side  of  each  slice.  Place  one  slice  on  plate, 
buttered  side  up,  and  over  this  spread  a  spoonful  of  the  mushroom 
mixture.  Place  the  second  slice,  buttered  side  down,  over  this  and 
on  top  of  second  slice  place  another  spoonful  of  the  creamed  mixture. 
Place  one-half  of  a  deviled  egg  on  top  of  each  sandwich.  Place  3 
small  sprays  of  parsley  around  the  sandwich.  Between  each  spray 
place  a  stuffed  olive. 


MUSH  LOAF. 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

2*4  cups  cold  water 

Place  corn  meal,  cold  water  and  salt  in  kettle  over  fire  to  cook. 
Stir  constantly,  while  it  boils,  until  thick.  After  it  thickens  set  the 
kettle  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  allow  it  to  simmer  and  cook 
for  about  30  minutes.  Now  add  to  the  mush  either  y2  cup  ground 
dried  beef  or  1  cup  grated  cheese.  Pour  this  mush  mixture  in  square 
pans,  being  careful  to  dip  the  pan  or  pans  in  cold  water  first.  When 
cold  the  mush  is  in  molded  form  and  may  be  sliced  and  fried  plain, 
or  dipped  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fried.  Delicious  breakfast  or 
luncheon  dish.  Omit  meat  or  cheese  for  plain  loaf. 


CHEESE  BARS. 


1  cup  grated  cheese,  or  soft 
nippy  cheese 

2  eggs 

%  cup  cracker  crumbs 


cup  mashed  potatoes 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
Black  or  white  pepper  to  taste 


Beat  eggs  light,  to  which  add  cheese.  Add  cracker  crumbs, 
mashed  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper.  Mold  into  bars  about  2 y2  inches 
long,  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


—  193  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


CHEESE  CRISPS. 

Cut  circles  from  thin  slices  of  bread.  Lay  slices  of  cheese  be¬ 
tween  two  of  these  layers  forming  sandwiches.  Brown  lightly  in 
butter  and  serve  hot,  either  plain  or  with  white  sauce. 

CHEESE  BALLS. 

2  eggs  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  cup  grated  cheese  %  cup  fine  cracker  crumbs 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  cheese,  salt,  pepper  and  crumbs. 
Make  in  balls  and  fry  in  deep  fat  to  a  golden  brown.  Served  for 
light  luncheons  in  place  of  meat. 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

SA  cup  sweet  hot  milk  cheese 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  yAt  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  grated  or  finely  cut  3  eggs 

Combine  milk  and  bread  crumbs,  then  add  cheese,  salt  and  beaten 
egg  yolks.  Mix  well,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour 
in  sparingly  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  covered  for  about  30  min¬ 
utes.  To  brown  on  top  remove  cover  at  last  of  baking  period.  Serve 
as  soon  as  done.  It  settles  a  little  if  allowed  to  stand. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

2  tablespoons  butter  3  eggs 

3  tablespoons  flour  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  milk  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  cup  grated  cheese 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  to  which  add  the  flour,  and  stir 
until  smooth.  Next  add  milk  and  salt.  Take  from  fire  and  add 
cheese  and  well  beaten  egg  yolks,  then  cool.  When  cold,  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  pour  into  a  greased  dish  and  bake  about 
20  minutes.  Serve  at  once  or  it  will  fall  if  allowed  to  stand  when 
it  comes  from  oven. 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  NO.  1. 

Take  equal  parts  of  thick,  sour  milk  and  boiling  water  and 
combine  by  pouring  the  water  into  sour  milk,  stirring  constantly. 
(Be  sure  to  have  water  bubbling  and  boiling.)  Let  stand  10  minutes 
and  pour  into  a  bag  to  drain,  allowing  it  to  drain  slowly.  Remove 
from  bag  and  season  to  suit.  This  method  prevents  overheating 
the  milk. 

—  194  — 


EGG,  CHEESE,  VEGETABLES  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  NO.  2. 

Place  congealed  sour  milk  on  stove  where  there  is  little  heat. 
Allow  this  to  set  until  whey  separates  from  curd,  but  not  allowing 
it  to  boil  because  too  much  heat  causes  curd  to  become  hard.  Strain 
through  a  cloth  and  drain  for  a  couple  of  hours.  Remove  from 
cloth,  add  melted  butter,  sweet  cream,  white  pepper,  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  using  these  ingredients  in  accordance  with 
the  amount  of  curd  on  hand. 


MACARONI  AU  GRATIN. 


3  cups  macaroni 
2  cups  strained  tomatoes 
1  cup  grated  cheese 
1  tablespoon  chopped  onion 
1  tablespoon  flour 


1  teaspoon  salt 
M  cup  bread  crumbs 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
4  tablespoons  butter 


Boil  the  macaroni  in  4  cups  of  water  for  30  minutes,  having 
the  water  boiling  when  the  macaroni  is  added  to  water.  Drain 
macaroni  and  wash  in  cold  water.  Mix  cheese,  onion,  flour,  salt, 
one-half  of  bread  crumbs  and  cayenne  pepper  together  and  place 
them  in  greased  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  macaroni.  Pour 
the  tomatoes  over  all,  shaking  mixture  down,  then  sprinkle  remaining 
bread  crumbs  over  top.  Last  add  the  butter  in  dots  over  top.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. 


SCALLOPED  LEFT-OVERS. 


2  cups  tomatoes 

14  cup  corn 

%  cup  grated  or  finely  cut 
cheese 

1  onion,  size  of  door  knob 

1  green  pepper 

Have  all  vegetables  and  cheese  in  small  pieces  and  place  in 
baking  dish,  together  with  bread  crumbs,  salt,  butter  and  pepper,  and 
mix  all  together.  Add  enough  water  to  come  nearly  to  top  of 
mixture.  Place  in  oven  and  bake.  It  is  always  better  to  leave  out 
enough  crumbs  to  sprinkle  on  top. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

2  cups  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  sugar  %  cup  water 


1%  cup  bread  crumbs 
1  tablespoon  butter 
%  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  pepper 
Water 


Take  1  cup  of  tomatoes  and  the  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and 
place  in  alternate  layers  in  a  small  baking  dish.  Use  1  tablespoon 
butter  for  spreading  over  the  top  of  mixture,  also  y^  °f  the  water. 
Place  in  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  about  30  minutes.  Run  the 


—  195 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


other  cup  of  tomatoes  through  a  sieve  and  place  in  small  kettle 
on  stove.  Add  to  this  the  remaining  water,  butter,  sugar  and  cayenne 
pepper,  then  boil  for  1  minute,  remove  from  fire  and  serve  hot  with 
the  baked  tomatoes  after  they  have  been  removed  from  oven  and 
placed  on  individual  dishes. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

f  4  large  potatoes  Flour 

Salt  Butter 

Pepper  Sweet  milk 

Peel  and  chop  potatoes,  being  careful  to  keep  them  in  pieces 
the  size  of  kidney  beans.  Butter  a  baking  dish.  First  spread  a 
layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  very  small  amount 
of  flour.  Over  this  place  dots  of  butter.  Make  as  many  layers  in  same 
way  as  there  are  potatoes  to  use.  Over  this  pour  hot  milk,  allowing 
the  milk  to  come  nearly  to  top  of  potatoes.  Bake  until  potatoes  are 
perfectly  tender  and  mixture  is  browned  lightly  over  top. 

BAKED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil  1  cauliflower  slightly  in  plain  water  until  tender.  Take 
cauliflower  from  water  and  separate  in  small  pieces.  Make  a  layer 
of  cauliflower  in  greased  baking  dish  and  on  top  of  this  spread  a 
generous  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  and  grated  cheese.  Over  this 
spread  another  layer  of  cauliflower.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Beat  1  egg  light  and  add  to  1  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Pour 
milk  and  egg  mixture  over  all  the  ingredients  and  bake  until  cooked 
through  and  brown  on  top. 

CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Separate  cauliflower  in  branch  sections.  Wash  and  remove  any 
discolored  tips.  Set  cauliflower  to  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  and 
cook  till  tender.  When  done,  place  2  or  3  of  the  branches  on 
individual  warmed  dishes  and  over  this  pour  a  rich  hot  white  sauce. 
Cauliflower  looks  better  and  tastes  better  cooked  and  served  in  whole 
branch  form. 


HOLLANDAISE  BAKED  BEANS. 


3  cups  navy  beans 
2  tablespoons  brown  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 

teaspoon  dry  mustard 
M  teaspoon  white  pepper 


lb.  fat  salt  pork 
2  large  onions 
Boiling  water 

4  tablespoons  tomato  sauce  or 
catsup 


Soak  beans  over  night  in  cold  water.  In  the  morning  drain 
water  from  beans  and  wash.  Place  beans  on  to  boil  in  cold  water 
with  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Boil  about  15  minutes,  drain,  wash  and 

—  196  — 


EGG,  CHEESE,  VEGETABLES  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 


again  place  on  to  boil  in  boiling  water  and  cook' till  the  beans  can  be 
pierced  with  a  pin.  Drain  and  place  in  baking  dish.  Chop  onions 
as  fine  as  it  is  possible  to  chop  them  and  mix  with  beans,  together 
with  sugar,  salt,  mustard  and  pepper.  Pour  boiling  water  over  salt 
pork,  scrape  and  cut  in  strips.  Lay  strips  over  top  of  beans,  pushing 
meat  down  in  beans  to  depth  of  1  inch.  Add  the  tomato  sauce  or 
catsup  and  pour  enough  boiling  water  over  to  almost  cover.  Bake 
6  or  7  hours  in  moderate  oven. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

3  cups  navy  beans  M  teaspoon  white  pepper 

3  tablespoons  brown  sugar  %  lb.  salt  pork 

6  tablespoons  dark  molasses  J4  cup  cream 

1  teaspoon  salt  Boiling  water 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Soak  beans  over  night  in  cold  water1.  In  the  morning  drain 
water  from  beans  and  wash.  Place  beans  on  to  boil  in  cold  water 
with  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Boil  about  15  minutes,  drain,  wash  and 
again  put  on  to  boil  in  boiling  water  and  cook  until  beans  may  be 
pierced  with  a  pin.  Drain  beans  and  place  in  baking  dish.  Mix 
sugar,  molasses,  salt,  mustard  and  pepper  together  and  stir  mixture 
evenly  through  the  beans.  Pour  boiling  water  over  salt  pork,  scrape, 
cut  in  narrow  strips  and  lay  over  beans  at  even  spaces,  pushing 
the  pork  down  into  the  beans  to  a  depth  of  1  inch.  Before  placing 
beans  in  oven,  sprinkle  the  cream  over  beans  and  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  the  whole  mixture.  Cover  baking  dish  and  bake 
slowly  for  about  7  or  8  hours.  The  old  fashioned  covered  bean  jar 
is  best  to  use  if  possible  to  obtain.  These  jars  resemble  a  jug  with 
a  covered  opening  at  top. 


BEAN  LOAF. 


2  cups  cooked  navy  beans 
*4  small  sized  onion 
2  eggs 

1  cup  bread  crumbs 

2  tablespoons  drippings 


1  green  pepper  or  pimento 
li  cup  sweet  milk 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Mix  all  ingredients  together,  having  eggs  beaten  light  and  onion 
and  green  pepper  chopped  fine.  Mold  into  loaf  form  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven.  Serve  hot  and  plain  or  with  tomato  sauce. 


TWO  WAYS  OF  COOKING  RICE. 

Rice  is  valuable  as  a  starchy  food  and  may  be  prepared  to  be 
served  as  a  vegetable,  or  it  may  be  prepared  in  dozens  of  ways  to 
be  served  as  a  dessert. 

Two  kinds  of  rice  may  be  had — the  polished  and  unpolished 
rice.  The  unpolished  rice  is  more  economical  and  furnishes  a  quality 

—  197  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


of  much  higher  food  value.  Through  the  polishing  process  much  of 
the  nutriment  is  removed,  therefore  lowering  the  quality  from  a 
food-value  standpoint. 

Rice  may  be  boiled  in  two  ways — in  one  method  the  rice  is 
boiled  in  one  water  only,  thus,  all  of  the  starch  and  fat  substance 
being  retained,  furnishing  a  more  wholesome  and  nutritious  food, 
but  giving  in  a  finished  product  a  bulky  mass  with  kernels  sticking 
closely  together.  Sacrificing  and  losing  some  of  the  starch  and  fat, 
rice  may  be  boiled  a  length  of  time,  washed  and  placed  on  to  boil 
again  in  fresh  water.  By  this  process  the  kernel  retains  its  shape 
and  the  bulk  does  not  form  a  gummy  mass.  When  cooked  in  this 
manner  the  water  may  be  retained  and  used  for  soups  and  gravies. 

Boiled  Rice,  First  Process. 

1  cup  unpolished  rice  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  cups  boiling  water 

Place  boiling  water  in  upper  compartment  of  double  boiler  and 
set  the  compartment  directly  over  the  fire,  adding  the  salt  to  the 
water.  Have  rice  washed  and  add  it  gradually,  keeping  the  water 
continually  boiling  for  about  15  minutes.  When  the  rice  has  absorbed 
most  of  the  water  and  mixture  is  thickened,  set  the  compartment  in 
lower  base  compartment  to  cook  until  kernels  are  perfectly  soft. 
The  rice  may  then  be  seasoned  in  any  way  to  suit  the  taste. 

Boiled  Rice,  Second  Process. 

Use  same  proportions  as  for  first  process,  placing  washed  rice 
in  bubbling  and  boiling  water,  allowing  it  to  cook  until  kernels  are 
swollen  and  beginning  to  soften.  Take  rice  from  stove,  pour  into  a 
sieve  and  allow  cold  water  to  run  through,  washing  thoroughly. 
Again  place  rice  on  in  double  boiler  with  enough  water  to  barely 
cover.  Cook,  undisturbed,  until  rice  has  absorbed  all  liquid  and 
kernels  are  perfectly  tender.  Rice  may  then  be  placed  in  oven  and 
dried  somewhat  if  it  is  to  be  served  as  a  vegetable.  To  be  served 
as  a  dessert,  eggs,  sugar,  milk  and  other  ingredients  may  be  added 
at  this  time. 


SPANISH  RICE  IN  CASSEROLE. 


1  cup  rice 

2  cups  strained  tomatoes 

3  cups  water 
2  pimentos 


1  onion  size  of  door  knob 

2  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter 
cup  grated  cheese 


Wash  rice  and  add  to  strained  tomatoes  and  water.  Cut  the 
pimentos  and  onion  in  small  pieces  and  add,  and  also  salt  and  butter. 
Boil  all  together  5  minutes,  then  bake  in  casserole  for  one  hour. 
About  ten  minutes  before  removing  from  oven  sprinkle  cheese  over 
top  and  brown.  Serve  hot. 


—  198 


EGG,  CHEESE,  VEGETABLES  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 


RICE  STUFFED  PEPPERS. 


3  cups  cooked  rice 
1  well  beaten  egg 
}4  lb.  ground  lean  pork  or 
beef 

1  large  onion,  chopped  fine 
*4  cup  cracker  or  bread  crumbs 


1  tablespoon  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
White  pepper  to  taste 
1  pint  tomatoes  sieved 
Thin  slices  of  bacon 


Mix  rice,  egg,  pork,  onion,  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  together  and 
place  in  peppers  after  they  are  washed,  ends  removed  and  seeded. 
Place  all  in  baking  dish  and  then  pour  the  strained  tomatoes  in  dish. 
Over  each  pepper  lay  a  thin  slice  of  bacon.  Bake  covered  for  15 
minutes  in  hot  oven,  then  remove  the  cover  and  bake  slowly  until 
well  done  through  and  browned.  This  amount  will  stuff  8  large 
peppers. 

ENGLISH  TOAST. 

14  cup  rolled  uncooked  oats  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk  J4  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  cups  water  Few  grains  of  salt 

Place  rolled  oats,  milk,  water  and  sugar  in  double  boiler.  Have 
milk  cold  and  water  cold.  Add  nutmeg  and  salt.  Cook  1  hour. 
Toast  6  slices  of  bread  and  spread  butter  on  both  sides.  Place 
toast  on  plates  and  pour  cooked  mixture  over  slices.  Serve  hot. 


TOMATO  TOAST. 


6  slices  of  toast 
2  cups  sieved  tomatoes 
2  tablespoons  flour 
2  tablespoons  sugar 


2  tablespoons  butter 
M  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  white  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Have  slices  of  bread  toasted  crisp,  then  butter  each  slice.  Run 
the  tomatoes  through  a  sieve  and  place  in  saucepan.  Blend  flour, 
sugar,  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  to  tomatoes.  Cook  all 
together  for  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Place  toast  on  individual 
dishes  and  cover  with  tomato  mixture. 


FRENCH  TOAST. 

Beat  1  egg  light  and  add  to  it  1  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Dip  l/2-inch 
slices  of  bread  into  the  mixture  and  fry  on  greased  griddle  until 
golden  brown.  A  sweet  French  toast  is  made  by  beating  2  eggs 
light  and  adding  1  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  3  tablespoons  of  sugar. 
Fry  in  the  same  way. 

CHILDREN’S  BREAKFAST  TOASTIES. 

Run  dry  bread  scraps  through  a  food  chopper,  using  the  coarse 
disc.  Place  these  crumbs  in  a  shallow  pan  and  to  each  cup  of  crumbs 

—  199  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Place  in  the  oven  and  toast  to  a  light 
brown,  stirring  until  all  are  of  even  color.  Remove  from  oven, 
place  in  breakfast  food  box  or  cheese  cloth  bag  and  use  as  breakfast 
food.  A  dish  of  these  crumbs,  served  with  milk  or  cream,  is  relished 
by  the  child  and  at  the  same  time  teaches  economy. 

BREAKFAST  PUDDING. 

%  cup  rice  cup  raisins 

cup  pearled  barley  Cold  water 

14  teaspoon  salt 

Place  rice,  barley  and  salt  on  to  cook  in  enough  cold  water  to 
keep  boiling  slowly  without  burning.  When  rice  and  barley  grains 
swell  and  begin  to  be  tender,  add  raisins  and  place  in  double  boiler 
to  cook  for  an  hour.  Serve  hot  with  cream  and  sugar.  This  may  be 
made  night  before  and  warmed  for  breakfast.  Especially  fine  for 
children. 


COCOA  FOR  BREAKFAST  OR  LUNCHEON. 

To  make  4  cups  of  cocoa  use  the  following  method: 

Scald  3 1/2  cups  of  sweet  milk  in  double  boiler.  Mix  8  teaspoons 
cocoa  and  4  tablespoons  of  sugar  together  and  dissolve  in  t/o  cup 
boiling  water.  When  water  and  cocoa  are  evenly  mixed,  combine 
with  the  scalded  milk  and  boil  for  a  minute  or  two,  beating  the 
mixture  with  a  wire  egg  beater  as  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Serve  at  once 
if  possible.  This  is  for  breakfast.  For  luncheon  a  spoonful  of 
whipped  cream  may  be  placed  on  top  of  each  cup. 

ROLLED  OATS. 

2  cups  cold  water  y±  teaspoon  salt  (or  more) 

1  cup  rolled  oats 

Place  the  water  and  oats  in  the  upper  compartment  of  a  double 
boiler  and  set  it  directly  over  the  fire  and  allow  the  oats  to  boil  for 
about  5  minutes,  stirring  almost  constantly.  Now  place  the  com¬ 
partment  in  the  base  kettle  of  double  boiler,  with  boiling  water  in 
it,  and  cook  very  slowly  for  30  minutes  to  an  hour.  Cook  at  night, 
allowing  it  to  stand  in  double  boiler,  then  warm  it  for  breakfast. 

GRAPE  FRUIT. 

Grape  fruit  may  be  served  in  various  ways  for  the  breakfast 
luncheon  and  dinner.  It  may  be  served  as  a  relish  or  a  salad.  When 
people  do  not  care  for  it,  it  is  usually  because  the  pectin  or  fibre 
is  taken  into  the  mouth  with  the  fruit  meat,  thus  giving  it  a  bitter 
flavor.  Then  again,  some  individuals  would  not  care  for  it  were 
it  not  for  the  bitter  flavor.  If  the  center  sections  of  the  grape  fruit 
are  cut  out,  seeds  removed  and  the  outer  edge  left  clinging  to  the 

—  200  — 


EGG,  CHEESE,  VEGETABLES  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 


rind,  it  is  easier  to  eat  the  fruit  without  getting  any  of  the  fibre. 
The  grape  fruit  or  orange  spoon  may  be  forced  down  between  each 
section  in  such  a  way  that  the  fruit  is  removed  and  fibre  divisions 
left  in  positions.  If  the  juice  of  one-half  orange  is  squeezed  over 
each  grape  fruit  half  it  makes  a  more  pleasing  flavor  for  some. 
Grape  fruit  in  plain  form  is  better  eaten  with  a  slight  sprinkling  of 
salt  instead  of  sugar. 

CELERY  LOAF. 


2  cups  rich  meat  or  chicken 
broth 

4  cups  diced  dry  bread 
1  teaspoons  salt 


1  cup  tender  chopped  celery 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
Dash  of  white  pepper 
1  well  beaten  egg 


Place  the  meat  broth  and  all  other  ingredients  in  baking  dish 
and  stir  only  enough  to  have  well  mixed.  If  meat  broth  is  rich, 
no  butter  is  necessary,  but  if  not,  then  2  tablespoons  of  butter  must 
be  added  to  mixture  in  melted  form.  Bake  this  loaf  until  set  and 
browned  over  top.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve  while  hot. 


STUFFED  CELERY. 

Select  tender  center  stalks  of  celery  and  place  soft  tinfoil  cheese 
in  each  stalk,  filling  the  stalk  and  leveling  it  down  with  a  knife. 
When  all  stalks  are  stuffed,  sprinkle  paprika  very  carefully  on  the 
cheese  the  full  length  of  stalk.  Place  the  stuffed  celery  in  refrigerator 
and  chill  before  serving. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 

Secure  brussels  sprouts  as  fresh  as  possible.  Remove  the  outer 
leaves  and  cut  off  discolored  end.  Boil  in  salted  water  for  about 
30  minutes,  or  until  sprouts  may  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork. 
Have  a  piping  hot  white  sauce  in  readiness  and  pour  over  the  sprouts 
in  bulk  form,  or  4  or  5  sprouts  may  be  placed  on  each  individual 
sauce  dish  and  sauce  poured  over.  Sprouts  will  become  tender  quicker 
by  cooking  them  with  a  lid  on,  but  they  will  be  more  delicate  in 
flavor  if  cooked  in  plenty  of  water,  uncovered  and  then  lifted  out. 


NEW  PEAS  AND  CARROTS. 


1  cup  new  peas 

1  cup  sliced  carrots 

2  cups  hot  water 

2  tablespoons  butter 


1  tablespoon  flour 
*4  teaspoon  salt 
Pepper  to  taste 
%  cup  rich  milk 


Place  the  peas  and  carrots  in  saucepan  with  the  hot  water,  cook 
by  slow  boiling  until  tender  and  water  cooked  away.  Blend  the 
butter,  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  add  to  the  carrots  and  peas  and 
stir.  Last  add  the  milk.  Allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil  after  the  milk 
is  added  and  the  mixture  is  ready  for  serving. 

—  201  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


NEW  PEAS. 


Cook  young,  tender  peas  in  the  pods,  placing  them  on  in  just 
enough  water  to  keep  them  boiling  until  tender.  The  pods  will 
separate  from  the  peas  so  it  is  easy  to  skim  them  off.  Do  not  drain 
off  the  liquor  in  which  they  are  cooked.  Flavor  and  nourishment 
is  to  be  found  in  this  liquor,  so  add  the  seasoning  desired  to  this 
and  serve. 

CREAMED  OYSTER  PLANT  (OR  SALSIFY). 

Select  the  number  of  roots  necessary  for  the  number  to  be  served. 
Wash  and  scrape,  then  boil  slowly  in  unsalted  water  ’til  tender. 
When  done  remove  from  hot  water,  cut  into  slices  and  drop  into  a 
hot  white  sauce  and  serve  hot.  Or  the  plant  may  be  cooked  until 
tender,  sliced  and  placed  in  baking  dish  with  cracker  crumbs,  milk, 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Prepared  in  this  form  it  is  then  baked  and 
may  easily  be  served  for  scalloped  oysters. 


SUCCOTASH. 


5  cups  string  beans 
2  cups  corn 
4  cups  water 

4  tablespoons  butter  or  fryings 


Pepper  to  taste 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
1  teaspoon  sugar 
1  small  onion  (if  desired) 


%  tablespoon  salt 

String  the  beans  and  break  in  short  lengths.  If  some  of  the 
beans  seem  tough,  remove  the  pod,  just  using  the  bean.  Have  2  cups 
of  corn  cut  from  the  cob.  Place  beans,  corn,  water,  butter  or  fryings, 
salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  finely  minced  onion  in  kettle  and  cook  by 
simmering  process  until  it  is  in  cooked  down,  thickened  form.  Serve 
hot.  This  amount  serves  8  persons. 

Canned  string  beans  and  canned  corn  may  be  used  in  place  of 
fresh.  More  seasoning  than  the  above  given  amount  may  be  used 
if  a  highly  seasoned  succotash  is  desired. 

If  succotash  is  to  be  made  in  fireless  cooker),  use  only  1  cup  of 
water.  Bring  to  a  boil  on  stove  and  then  place  in  cooker  and  cook 
for  2  hours,  having  one  disc  heated  to  the  point  of  burning  flour 
instantly  when  test  is  made.  For  richer  succotash,  add  1  can  of 
kidney  beans  to  mixture  about  10  minutes  before  removing  from  fire. 


LEFTOVER  POTATOES  WITH  EGGS. 


Take  leftover  mashed  potatoes  and  place  them  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  the  size  of  the  pan  being  determined  by  the  amount 
of  potatoes  to  be  used.  Make  nests  in  the  potatoes  and  break  an 
egg  in  each  nest.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  covered  form.  Leftover 
scraps  of  any  kind  of  meat  or  ham  may  be  chopped  or  ground  and 
added  to  the  potatoes  first. 


—  202  — 


EGG,  CHEESE,  VEGETABLES  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 


POTATO  BALLS. 

Take  leftover  mashed  potatoes  and  form  them  into  little  round 
pats  in  the  palm  of  hand.  Place  on  the  pat  a  spoonful  of  seasoned 
peas,  chopped  leftover  meat  or  grated  cheese  and  round  it  up  into 
ball  form.  Dip  the  balls  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  finely  rolled 
cracker  crumbs,  back  into  egg  again  and  then  to  crumbs  the  second 
time  and  they  are  then  ready  to  drop  into  a  deep  fat  and  fry  to 
a  golden  brown.  The  two  dippings  make  a  thick  delicious  crust 
on  balls  and  they  will  hold  their  shape  much  better. 

PUFFED  POTATOES. 

LEFTOVER  DISH. 

3  cups  mashed  potatoes  Pepper  to  taste 

14  cup  sweet  milk  Leftover  cheese,  meat  or  chicken 

2  eggs 

Combine  milk  and  potatoes  and  beat.  To  this  add  the  well- 
beaten  egg  yolks  first,  then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Place 
this  mixture  in  well  greased  baking  dish  and  over  the  top  sprinkle 
grated  cheese  or  finely  chopped  leftover  meat  or  chicken.  Bake  in 
hot  oven  until  potatoes  are  light  and  well  browned  on  top,  usually 
about  25  minutes  being  required. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

2*4  cups  cold  boiled  diced  or  1  onion  the  size  of  an  egg 

sliced  potatoes  5  tablespoons  butter 

Place  the  butter  and  finely  minced  onion  in  an  iron  skillet  and 
stir  constantly  ’til  the  onion  becomes  tender  but  not  brown.  Remove 
the  onion  and  set  aside  on  a  small  hot  dish.  Heat  the  fat  hot  and 
drop  the  diced  potatoes  in  and  brown  them  all  as  evenly  as  possible. 
When  browned,  then  mix  the  onions  with  the  potatoes  and  serve  piping 
hot,  pressed  into  shape  on  the  dish  and  garnished  with  finely  minced 
parsley. 


POTATOES  O’BRIEN. 

2  cups  evenly  cut  potatoes  (in  1  green  sweet  pepper 

small  cubes)  1  slice  of  onion 

2  pimentos  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Drop  the  potatoes  in  hot  fat  and  evenly  brown  them,  stirring 
constantly.  Shred  the  pimentos,  chop  the  onion  and  pepper  very  fine 
and  add  these  to  the  potatoes,  mixing  all  ingredients  well  together. 
Set  the  potatoes  back  to  simmer  slowly  for  a  few  minutes,  pressing 
the  mixture  all  down  in  skillet  firmly  and  adding  the  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Serve  them  piping  hot,  removing  the  potatoes  in  sections 
so  that  they  may  be  molded  in  shape  on  the  plate  and  garnished  with 
sprigs  of  parsley. 


—  203  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


POTATO  ROSETTES. 

2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  1  well  beaten  egg 

2  tablespoons  butter  Dash  of  white  pepper 

14  teaspoon  salt  4  tablespoons  milk 

Combine  these  ingredients  and  beat  thoroughly.  Place  in  pastry 
bag  with  fancy  tube  end  and  squeeze  out  in  fancy  shapes  on  buttered 
tin.  Place  in  oven  to  brown  lightly.  Serve  hot. 

PLAIN  BAKED  POTATOES. 

Select  smooth,  uniform  sized  potatoes  and  scrub  thoroughly  with  a 
vegetable  brush  until  free  from  every  particle  of  dirt.  Grease  the  sur¬ 
face  of  each  potato  and  place  in  hot  oven  to  bake  quickly.  When  done, 
remove  from  oven  and  either  break  or  eut  the  potato  on  one  side. 
This  allows  steam  to  escape  so  that  potato  will  be  mealy.  The  potato 
peeling  is  also  good  to  eat  and  is  needed  from  the  standpoint  of  rough¬ 
ness. 


BAKED  POTATO  (MOUNTAIN  STYLE). 

Select  smooth  oval  shaped  potatoes  of  medium  size.  Scrub  with 
a  brush,  dry  thoroughly  and  grease  all  over  the  surface  with  drippings 
or  butter.  Place  in  hot  oven  and  bake  quickly.  Remove  from  oven 
and  cut  each  potato  in  half,  lengthwise.  Remove  the  inside  of  thb 
potatoes  to  a  hot  bowl  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  cream! 
Mash  and  beat  ’til  light  and  replace  this  mixture  in  potato  shells, 
heaping  it  up  in  mountain  style.  Paprika  and  grated  cheese  may  be 
sprinkled  over  sparingly,  then  return  potato  to  oven  to  brown  lightly. 
Serve  straight  from  oven  to  plate. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES. 

Select  oval  shaped  potatoes.  Peel  and  cut  lengthwise  in  uniform 
narrow  strips  and  place  in  ice  cold  water  for  about  3  hours  if  possible. 
Remove  from  water  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Have  fat  heated  to  very 
hot  stage  and  drop  a  few  potatoes  in  at  a  time  and  let  them  cook1 
until  browned  lightly,  then  take  out  and  drain.  When  all  potatoes 
are  cooked  to  this  half  tender  stage  and  taken  from  fat  and  drained, 
then  begin  to  return  the  potatoes  to  the  hot  fat  to  finish  cooking  and 
brown  to  the  desired  color.  When  brown  and  well  cooked,  dip  out 
and  drain  again.  >  At  this  time  they  are  ready  for  serving  in  piping 
hot  stage.  Salt  potatoes  before  serving  or  allow  individuals  to  do  so. 
By  dipping  potatoes  out  at  the  half-cooked  stage  and  returning  again 
to  fat,  prevents  potato  from  becoming  soft  or  limber  and  insures  a 
crisp  condition. 


BAKED  ONE-MEAL  POTATO. 

.  Select  large,  oval  shaped,  smooth  potatoes  and  scrub  with  a  brush 
until  clean,  then  dry  thoroughly.  Grease  the  potatoes  all  over  with 

—  204  — 


EGG,  CHEESE,  VEGETABLES  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 


drippings  or  butter  and  place  in  oven  to  bake  quickly.  When  done, 
remove  from  oven  and  cut  each  potato  in  half,  lengthwise.  Remove 
the  insides  of  potatoes  to  a  hot  bowl  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter  and  cream.  Mash  and  beat  ’til  light.  Separate  the  potato 
mixture  into  two  parts.  To  one  part  add  finely  minced  chicken,  veal, 
lamb  or  cold  pork.  Place  this  mixture  in  the  shells  first  and  on  top 
of  this  place  a  layer  of  fresh  cooked  or  canned  peas.  Over  this  place 
the  remaining  plain  mashed  potatoes  and  build  it  up  in  a  heap  on  each 
potato  half.  With  back  of  spoon  bowl,  make  a  deep  impression  in 
the  top  and  into  this  place  riced  eggs.  Sprinkle  paprika  sparingly 
over  all  and  return  to  oven  to  brown  lightly.  Place  each  potato  half 
on  plate  surrounded  by  4  tender  shoots  of  celery  with  4  stuffed  olives 
at  each  crossing. 


SHOESTRING  POTATOES. 

Use  same  recipe  as  for  ‘‘French  Fried  Potatoes,”  only  cut  the 
potatoes  in  very  narrow  strips  and  allow  less  time  for  cooking. 

SARATOGA  CHIPS. 

Pare  even  sized  potatoes  and  slice  in  slices  as  near  like  paper 
as  possible.  Let  them  stand  in  cold  water  for  about  4  hours,  changing 
the  water  once  or  twice.  When  ready  for  frying  dry  potatoes  on 
cloth  and  drop  a  few  in  at  a  time  in  hot  fat,  it  being  almost  necessary 
to  use  a  frying  basket.  Fry  to  a  light  or  golden  brown.  The  same 
method  may  be  used  as  in  the  frying  of  French  fried  potatoes.  Allow 
the  potatoes  to  remain  in  the  hot  fat  long  enough  to  brown  very 
lightly,  then  remove  from  fat  and  return  again  for  further  browning. 
This  method  is  not  so  necessary  for  Saratoga  as  for  French  frys. 
Salt  the  chips  after  they  are  drained  and  cooled. 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN  NO.  1. 

3*4  cups  cold  boiled  diced  po-  White  pepper  to  taste 

tatoes  1  cup  sweet  milk 

3  tablespoons  butter  Yz  cup  grated  cheese 

1  Y%  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  bread  or  cracker 

1  teaspoon  salt  crumbs 

Boil  potatoes  in  salted  water  with  jackets  on,  being  careful  not 
to  allow  them  to  get  too  tender.  Cool,  peel  and  dice.  Place  them  in 
a  baking  dish  or  casserole  and  over  same  pour  a  white  sauce  made 
as  follows: 

Place  3  tablespoons  of  butter  in  saucepan  and  melt,  to  which 
add  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  to  smooth  consistency,  then  add 
milk  and  cook  ’til  it  thickens.  When  this  has  been  poured  over 
potatoes  in  baking  dish,  mix  the  cheese  and  crumbs  together  and 
sprinkle  over  top.  Place  in  oven  and  bake  until  mixture  is  done 
through  and  well  browned  on  top.  Bake  the  potatoes  uncovered  if 
a  brown  top  is  wanted. 


—  205  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


POTATOES  AU  GRATIN  NO.  2. 

2  tablespoons  butter  White  pepper  to  taste 

1 %  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Place  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  to  melt  and  when  melted  add  the 
flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  to  a  smooth  paste  but  do  not  brown. 
When  smooth,  add  the  milk  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Then  set 
aside  and  prepare  the  potatoes  in  the  following  manner  : 

3J4  cups  peeled  and  diced  po-  *4  cup  grated  cheese 

tatoes  2  tablespoons  fine  bread  or 

3  tablespoons  butter  cracker  crumbs 

Wash  and  dyain  potatoes  and  drop  them  into  a  skillet  where 
the  butter  has  been  melted  to  hot  stage.  Stir  the  potatoes  until  evenly- 
browned  and  yet  half  tender.  When  this  is  done,  place  in  a  casserole 
or  baking  dish  and  mix  with  them  the  prepared  white  sauce.  Over 
all  the  mixture  sprinkle  the  cheese  and  crumbs.  Bake  about  30  or  40 
minutes  in  quick  oven,  covered  or  uncovered.  The  butter  in  skillet 
after  browning  potatoes  is  to  be  placed  in  with  mixture  to  bake. 

SWEET  POTATOES  (SOUTHERN  STYLE). 

7  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

5  tablespoons  brown  sugar  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  and  pare  the  sweet  potatoes  and  cut  in  halves,  lengthwise. 
Place  the  butter  and  sugar  in  iron  skillet  and  allow  it  to  boil,  then 
place  the  potatoes  in  the  skillet.  Pour  enough  boiling  water  over  to 
cover  and  allow  them  to  cook  slowly  until  tender  and  almost  dried  out. 
Serve  hot,  using  all  the  syrup  in  the  skillet. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

8  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes  teaspoon  salt 

2^4  cups  brown  sugar  %  cup  water 

4  tablespoons  butter 

Have  the  potatoes  boiled  with  the  jackets  on  and  cook  until 
half  tender.  Remove  from  water,  peel  and  cut  in  halves  lengthwise. 
Place  the  sugar,  butter,  salt  and  water  in  an  iron  skillet  and  boil 
for  2  or  3  minutes,  then  lay  the  potatoes  evenly  in  the  skillet  and 
continue  to  cook.  During  the  cooking  period  dip  the  syrup  up  over 
the  potatoes  frequently  and  turn  the  potatoes  also.  When  syrup 
thickens  set  skillet  aside  until  serving  time.  Place  the  potatoes  on 
plates  or  a  dish  and  place  syrup  on  each  potato. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Select  tomatoes  of  uniform  size  and  of  two-thirds  ripe  variety. 
With  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  center  heart  out,  leaving  space  for  a 

—  206  — 


EGG,  CHEESE,  VEGETABLES  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 


teaspoonful  of  butter  to  be  placed  in  cavity  of  each.  Place  the 
tomatoes,  with  butter  in  center,  in  a  well  greased  baking  dish  just 
large  enough  to  hold  the  number  of  tomatoes  prepared.  Over  all 
sprinkle  salt,  pepper  and  a  small  amount  of  flour.  Bake  in  quick 
oven,  uncovered.  If  baked  in  covered  form  the  tomatoes  will  not 
retain  their  shape  so  well.  Either  serve  as  taken  from  oven  or  serve 
with  tomato  and  cheese  sauce.  A  clove  may  be  placed  in  each  tomato 
or  garlic  or  onion  may  be  used  to  season. 

FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Select  medium  sized  half  ripe  tomatoes  and  slice  about  one-half 
inch  thick.  Roll  or  dip  slices  in  flour  and  fry  in  butter.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  during  the  frying.  Turn  with  pancake  turner  or 
spatula  so  that  each  slice  may  be  browned  and  yet  retain  its  shape. 
Tomatoes  hold  their  shape  better  if  they  are  not  peeled.  A  dainty 
way  to  serve  fried  tomatoes  is  to  have  in  readiness  very  thin  round 
slices  of  buttered  toast,  placing  a  tomato  slice  on  each. 

STEAMED  CABBAGE  IN  WHITE  SAUCE. 

Cut  a  solid  head  of  cabbage  in  eighths  and  steam  in  steamer 
until  it  can  be  easily  pierced  with  toothpick,  usually  requiring  about 
35  minutes.  When  tender,  remove  from  steamer  to  hot  vegetable 
dish  and  pour  over  it  a  hot  white  sauce  made  from  either  recipe  as 
given  in  this  book.  Serve  hot. 

FRIED  CABBAGE. 

Chop  cabbage  medium  fine  and  place  in  skillet  with  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  the  cabbage.  Cover  tightly  and  allow  this  to 
simmer  until  water  is  nearly  dried  out,  then  add  a  generous  amount 
of  butter  or  fryings;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  continue  to  cook 
by  frying  process  until  tender.  A  few  drops  of  tabasco  sauce  or  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper  should  be  added  also.  Serve  hot.  A  small 
amount  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  may  be  added  for  sour  cabbage. 

BOILED  BEETS. 

If  beets  are  wilted  and  need  reviving,  allow  them  to  remain 
in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Cut  tops  off  to  within  2  inches  of  the 
beet.  If  cut  down  too  close  the  beet  will  bleed  and  lose  color  and 
flavor  in  cooking.  When  thoroughly  washed,  set  them  to  cook  in 
plenty  of  boiling  water.  Cook  ’til  tender,  using  a  toothpick  to  test 
the  beet’s  tender  condition.  When  tender,  remove  from  fire  and 
lift  beets  out  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  cool  quickly  or  cool  by 
natural  process  of  standing.  When  cool,  peel,  slice  and  place  in  plain 
or  spiced  vinegar,  or  place  slices  in  casserole  or  baking  dish ;  sermon 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  bake  in  oven  a  few  minutes.  This 
last  named  process  gives  you  the  buttered  beets  so  much  desired 
by  many. 


—  207  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


TURNIPS. 

Peel  turnips  and  cut  crosswise  of  the  grain  in  slices  to  suit.  Put 
turnips  on  to  cook  in  unsalted  boiling  water  and  cook  ’til  tender,, 
if  possible  allowing  the  water  to  cook  out.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  a  small  amount  of  sugar,  then  mash  like  potatoes  and  serve  hot. 

Or  turnips  may  be  allowed  to  remain  in  slices  and  combined  with 
a  rich  white  sauce,  or  creamed  by  adding  milk,  butter  and  flour. 

FRIED  EGG  PLANT. 

Peel  egg  plant  and  slice  in  one-half  inch  slices.  It  may  be 
allowed  to  stand  in  salted  water  for  a  few  minutes.  Drain  and  dip 
each  slice  in  beaten  egg  then  flour,  back  to  egg  again  and'  then  to 
flour.  Have  fat  heated  piping  hot  and  drop  the  slices  in  and  watch 
closely.  Brown  well  on  both  sides  and  see  that  it  is  cooked  tender. 
Avoid  any  extra  turnings.  One  time  over  is  usually  sufficient. 

CREAMED  EGG  PLANT. 

Peel  egg  plant  and  cut  in  even  shaped  squares  as  nearly  as 
possible.  Set  the  egg  plant  to  cook  in  boiling  water  and  cook  ’til 
tender  and  water  almost  dried  out.  When  done,  drain  off  any  addi¬ 
tional  water  and  have  ready  a  hot  white  sauce  made  by  either  recipe 
in  this  book.  Combine  the  two  and  serve  hot. 

PARSNIPS. 

Peel  or  scrape  firm  parsnips  and  set  them  to  cook  in  unsalted 
boiling  water.  When  tender,  remove  from  boiling  water  and  cut  in 
halves  lengthwise.  The  parsnips  now  may  be  placed  in  hot  butter 
and  fried  brown,  or  they  may  be  dipped  into  an  egg  and  flour  batter 
and  fried  in  deep  fat,  or  they  may  be  combined  with  a  rich  white 
sauce  and  served.  Salt  the  parsnips  after  they  are  taken  from  water 
and  added  to  white  sauce  or  fried. 

STUFFED  BAKED  ONIONS. 

6  large  yellow  or  white  onions  14  cup  toasted  bread  crumbs 

1  cup  ground  cold  meat  %  teaspoon  white  pepper 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  large  egg  beaten  light 

2  tablespoons  butter  Paprika 

Cook  the  onions  in  water  with  a  small  amount  of  salt.  When 
tender  enough  to  be  pierced  through  with  a  fork,  remove  from  fire 
and  slice  off  a  thin  slice  from  the  top  end  and  scoop  out  the  center. 
Mix  the  scooped  portion  with  the  cold  meat,  salt,  butter,  crumbs, 
pepper  and  well  beaten  egg.  Stuff  each  center  with  the  mixture  and 
place  in  casserole  or  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  paprika  over  the  top  of 
all  and  also  place  a  small  amount  of  water  in  pan.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
for  about  15  minutes.  The  top  end  means  where  the  onion  top  once 
was.  Don’t  cut  off  root  end. 

—  208  — 


EGG,  CHEESE,  VEGETABLES  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 


BAKED  SQUASH  IN  THE  SHELL. 

Select  a  well  matured  hubbard  squash,  wash  thoroughly  and  dry. 
In  order  to  get  the  squash  divided  in  even  sized  pieces  it  may  be 
necessary  to  use  a  saw  to  accomplish  this.  Saw  in  generous  sized 
pieces  and  place  in  oven  on  rack  and  bake  till  tender.  When  tender, 
remove  from  oven  and  dig  out  all  yellow  meat  and  put  into  a  hot 
dish.  Mash  thoroughly  and  season  with  a  generous  amount  of  butter, 
salt  and  some  pepper.  Beat  to  a  smooth  consistency  and  spread  back 
on  shells  and  return  to  oven  to  become  heated  and  browned  over. 
Serve  hot. 


SPINACH. 


Get  spinach  as  fresh  from  the  ground  as  possible.  If  wilted, 
revive  by  allowing  same  to  stand  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Discard 
all  undesirable  leaves  and  cut  root  end  off  into  leaf  far  enough  to 
free  each  leaf  from  the  root.  By  this  method  no  sand  is  left  imbedded 
where  leaves  are  joined.  Wash  by  lifting  spinach  from  one  pan  of 
water  to  another.  By  repeating  this  process  several  times  all  sand 
is  removed.  Put  spinach  on  to  cook  in  a  small  amount  of  salted 
boiling  water  and  cook  uncovered  if  deep  green  color  is  to  be  retained. 
Lift  and  turn  spinach  during  cooking  period  and  when  the  leaves 
are  easily  pierced  and  tender,  drain  in  a  colander  over  the  kettle. 
Remove  from  colander  to  vegetable  dish  and  season  with  hot  melted 
butter  to  taste.  Hard  cooked  eggs  and  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  may 
be  added. 


WELSH  RAREBIT. 


1  tablespoon  butter 
%  cup  grated  cheese 
M  cup  cream 
%  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
%  teaspoon  celery  salt 


Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
1  egg  beaten  with  1  tablespoon 
water 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 


Melt  butter  in  double  boiler,  to  which  add  cheese  and  cream. 
Mix  mustard,  celery  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  together  and  add. 
When  the  cheese  mixture  begins  to  thicken  stir  in  the  beaten  egg 
and  lemon  juice.  Serve  hot  on  buttered  toast. 


209 


CHAPTER  XIX 


Savory  Sauces 


DRAWN  BUTTER. 

H  cup  butter  Dash  of  white  pepper 

3  tablespoons  flour  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

J4  teaspoon  salt  1}4  cups  hot  water 

Place  3  tablespoonfuls  of  the  butter  in  saucepan.  When  melted 
add  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  to  smooth  paste,  then  gradu¬ 
ally  add  the  hot  water,  stirring  while  it  boils  and  thickens,  then 
add  remaining  butter.  Cayenne  pepper  may  be  omitted. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

1  pint  can  tomatoes  Dash  of  soda 

J4  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  flour 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper  2  tablespoons  butter 

Run  tomatoes  through  sieve.  Add  salt,  cayenne  and  soda.  Place 
in  saucepan  on  fire.  When  boiling  add  the  flour  and  butter  after 
the  two  have  been  well  creamed  together.  Serve  hot.  If  seasoned 
sauce  is  desired,  add  1  onion  and  1  green  pepper,  chopping  and  boiling 
them  with  the  tomatoes. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

%  cup  finely  chopped  mint  14  cup  vinegar 

leaves  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Wash  and  dry  mint  leaves,  removing  stems,  then  chop  as  fine 
as  possible.  Dissolve  sugar  in  vinegar  and  pour  on  mint,  allowing 
mixture  to  stand  10  minutes.  This  may  be  allowed  to  stand  on 
stove,  a  little  below  simmering  point,  for  25  minutes.  More  water 
may  be  added  to  the  heated  sauce,  giving  it  a  little  different  flavor. 

BROWN  SAUCE. 

4  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  pepper 

14  medium  sized  onion  2  cups  broth  or  milk 

3  tablespoons  flour  1  hard  cooked  egg 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Place  butter  and  oninon  in  skillet  to  simmer  and  brown,  having 
onion  minced  very  fine.  When  onion  is  tender  add  flour  and  stir 

—  210  — 


SAVORY  SAUCES 


until  mixture  is  golden  brown.  Add  the  pepper!,  salt  and  broth  or 
milk.  Have  egg  run  through  a  ricer  or  a  sieve  and  add  last.  Serve 
hot.  Brown  sauce  takes  the  place  of  gravy  where  a  meal  is  served 
without  meat. 

TARTAR  SAUCE  NO.  1. 


1  cup  mayonaise  dressing 

2  tablespoons  capers 

2  tablespoons  ripe  or  green 
olives 

2  tablespoons  sweet  pickles 


2  tablespoons  onions 
1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 
Few  drops  of  pepper  sauce  or  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Use  either  olive  oil  mayonnaise  dressing  or  any  cooked  salad 
dressing,  but  an  olive  oil  dressing  is  preferable.  Chop  capers,  olives, 
pickles,  onions  and  parsley  just  as  fine  as  it  is  possible  to  chop  them 
and  mix  with  the  dressing.  Last  add  the  pepper  sauee  or  dash  of 
cayenne.  This  may  be  served  with  fish  or  any  kind  of  meat. 


TARTAR  SAUCE  NO.  2. 


1  cup  mayonnaise  dressing 
1  teaspoon  prepared  mustard 
1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
parsley 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
pickle 


1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
chives  or  onion 
1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
capers 


Add  all  ingredients  to  mayonnaise  dressing  and  mix  well.  Chill 
before  serving.  An  uncooked  oil  mayonnaise  dressing  is  better  for 
this  sauce. 


WHITE  SAUCE  NO.  1. 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  cups  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 


Place  butter  in  saucepan,  melt  and  add  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
When  the  mixture  is  evenly  mixed,  but  not  brown,  gradually  add 
the  milk,  being  careful  to  keep  mixture  smooth.  When  cooking  in 
saucepan  directly  over  the  fire,  cook  3  or  4  minutes,  stirring  con¬ 
stantly.  If  cooked  in  double  boiler,  cook  about  12  minutes. 


WHITE  SAUCE  NO.  2. 

2  tablespoons  butter  Dash  of  white  pepper 

1%  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  sweet  milk 

teaspoon  salt 

Place  butter  in  saucepan  and  melt.  When  melted  add  flour 
gradually,  stirring  into  a  smooth  paste.  Do  not  brown.  Add  salt, 
pepper  and  milk.  Continue  to  stir  and  cook  for  3  minutes  if  kept 
directly  over  the  fire.  If  cooked  in  double  boiler,  cook  12  minutes. 

—  211  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

14  lb.  fresh  mushrooms  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  medium  sized  green  pepper  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  white  pepper 

2  cups  sweet  milk 

Dash  mushrooms  in  boiling  water  for  2  minutes.  Take  from 
boiling  water  and  blanch  in  cold  water;  removing  outer  skin.  Cut 
mushrooms  and  green  pepper  in  shreds  and  place  both  in  skillet  with 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  simmer  slowly  until  tender,  keeping  skillet 
covered  during  this  process.  Add  a  little  milk  at  a  time  to  the  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  until  a  smooth  batter  is  made,  then  add  all 
the  milk.  Place  this  on  in  double  boiler  and  cook  12  minutes.  When 
done  add  the  simmered  mixture  to  the  white  sauce  together  with  the 
salt,  pepper  and  remaining  butter.  Serve  hot.  Canned  mushrooms 
may  be  used  in  same  way  in  place  of  fresh  mushrooms. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 

2  egg  yolks  16  teaspoon  salt 

14  cup  butter  16  teaspoon  pepper 

Juice  from  %  large  lemon  14  cup  boiling  water  (or  more) 

Beat  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  melted  butter.  Place  egg 
and  butter  in  double  boiler  and  add  to  it  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  pepper 
and  water.  Stir  constantly  while  cooking.  Serve  with  meat,  vege¬ 
tables  or  fish. 


VINAIGRETTE  SAUCE. 


14  cup  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  salt 
14  teaspoon  paprika 
1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
pickle 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
green  pepper 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Serve 


1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
onion 

Few  drops  of  Tabasco  sauce 
1  teaspoon  sugar 
14  teaspoon  ground  mustard 


on  cabbage  or  cold  meats'. 


CREOLE  SAUCE. 


3  tablespoons  butter 
1  onion  size  of  walnut 
14  teaspoon  salt 
White  pepper  to  taste 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


2  tablespoons  flour 
2  cups  sieved  tomatoes 
1  green  sweet  pepper 
1  small  sweet  pickle 


Place  butter  and  finely  minced  onion  in  skillet  to  simmer  slowly. 
When  tender  add  the  pepper  and  flour,  stirring  ’til  smooth,  but  not 
brown.  Next  add  tomatoes  and  allow  it  to  boil  1  minute.  Remove 
from  fire,  chill,  then  add  the  finely  chopped  pepper  and  pickle.  This 
is  particularly  good  served  with  fish. 

—  212  — 


SAVORY  SAUCES 


CHEESE  AND  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  butter  34  cup  grated  tasty  cheese 

1  34  tablespoons  flour  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  34  cups  strained  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  minced  green 

34  teaspoon  salt  pepper 

34  teaspoon  white  pepper 

Place  creamed  butter  and  flour  in  bowl,  to  which  add  the 
tomatoes.  Allow  this  mixture  to  boil  2  minutes.  Remove  from  fire 
and  add  salt,  pepper,  grated  or  riced  cheese,  cayenne  and  finely 
chopped  green  pepper.  Serve  hot  with  fish. 


HORSERADISH  CREAM  SAUCE. 


2  tablespoons  butter 
1 34  tablespoons  flour 
34  teaspoon  salt 
34  teaspoon  white  pepper 


1  cup  sweet  milk 
34  cup  fresh  grated  horse¬ 
radish 

1  well  beaten  egg 


Place  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  when  melted,  but  not  hot, 
add  the  flour.  Stir  until  well  mixed,  then  add  salt  and  pepper  and 
gradually  add  the  milk.  Stir  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  When 
thick  add  the  horseradish  and  egg.  Only  let  it  heat  through  after 
horseradish  and  egg  are  added.  Serve  hot  or  cold  on  various  kinds 
of  meat. 


MOCK  HORSERADISH. 

Grate  firm  sweet  turnips,  add  white  vinegar,  white  pepper,  salt 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  If  turnips  are  good  and  not  pithy, 
this  makes  a  mild  substitute  for  horseradish. 


HORSERADISH  DRESSING. 

4  tablespoons  freshly  grated  34  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

horseradish  34  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  vinegar  4  tablespoons  thick  cream 

34  tablespoon  sugar 

Mix  horseradish  and  vinegar.  Let  stand  for  15  minutes.  Mix 
sugar,  mustard  and  salt  together  and  add  to  horseradish  and  vinegar. 
Last  add  the  cream.  Serve  very  cold. 

ROQUEFORT  CHEESE  AND  HORSERADISH  DRESSING. 

2  tablespoons  cheese  2  tablespoons  fresh  grated  horseradish 

|  1  cup  salad  dressing 

Make  a  salad  dressing  from  the  “  3-Egg  Yolk  Salad  Dressing  ” 
recipe  and  allow  it  to  chill.  Mix  the  cheese  and  horseradish  together 
and  add.  Additional  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  may  be  added.  Nippy  or 
tasty  cheese  may  be  substituted  for  Roquefort  cheese. 

—  213  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


MUSTARD  DRESSING. 


3  tablespoons  dry  mustard  1  cup  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  egg 

%  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  butter  or  olive  oil 


Mix  mustard,  sugar  and  salt  together.  Gradually  add  the  vinegar 
and  keep  mixture  from  lumping.  Last  add  the  well-beaten  egg 
Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  till  it  thickens.  Remove  from  stove, 
add  butter  and  set  away  to  cool.  This  dressing  should  stand  a  day 
before  using. 

CUCUMBER  DRESSING. 

2  large  cucumbers  34  teaspoon  white  pepper 

1  medium  white  onion  34  teaspoon  paprika 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  34  cup  white  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  salt 


Peel  cucumbers  and  split  lengthwise.  Remove  all  seeds.  Place 
cucumbers  and  onion  in  food  chopper  and  grind  them  as  coarse  as 
possible.  Add  olive  oil,  salt,  pepper,  paprika  and  vinegar,  chill 
before  serving. 

CHEESE  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 


1  cup  hot  water 

134  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter 
34  teaspoon  salt 

34  teaspoon  white  pepper 


1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  grated  tasty 
cheese 

(Mild  cheese  does  not  give 
flavor) 


Place  hot  water  in  saucepan.  Blend  flour,  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  and  add  to  water  and  boil  2  minutes.  Remove  from  fire, 
cool  and  add  lemon  juice  and  grated  cheese. 


LEMON  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

Juice  of  1  large  lemon  34  teaspoon  white  pepper 

34  cup  butter  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

34  teaspoon  salt 

Place  lemon  juice  and  butter  in  saucepan  and  heat,  stirring 
constantly.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  slowly  the  well-beaten  egg 
yolks,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  until  mixture  stiffens,  then  serve  on  fish. 


—  214  — 


CHAPTER  XX 


Salads 


SUGGESTIONS  ON  SALAD  MAKING. 

Salads  are  sometimes  considered  a  luxury,  or  as  an  unneces¬ 
sary  addition  to  the  dinner  or  luncheon,  and  by  many  persons 
looked  upon  as  an  indigestible  mixture.  Salads,  properly  prepared 
and  ingredients  carefully  selected  and  combined,  form  an  important 
course  at  all  well  appointed  dinners.  Salads  served  with  a  dinner, 
however,  should  be  simple  and  light,  the  principal  ingredients  being 
vegetables,  fruit  and  French  dressing.  Where  a  salad  is  to  be  the 
main  part  of  a  luncheon,  the  heavier  foods,  such  as  meat,  fish  and 
vegetables,  combined  with  mayonnaise  or  salad  dressings  in  cooked 
form  should  be  served. 

Much  care  should  be  given  the  preparation  of  good  salads.  Green 
vegetables  should  be  fresh  and  crisp.  Lettuce,  endive,  watercress 
and  all  vegetables,  of  green  or  crisp  nature,  should  be  thoroughly 
washed  and  clean.  Allowing  vegetables  to  remain  in  cold  water  for 
a  short  time  improves  them,  but  vegetables  must  be  wiped  dry  before 
using.  Do  not  at  any  time  allow  lettuce,  celery  or  any  green  vege¬ 
table  to  remain  a  length  of  time  in  water  to  cause  it  to  become  water 
soaked.  About  30  to  45  minutes  is  long  enough  where  the  water 
is  cold.  After  vegetables  are  dried,  if  they  are  not  to  be  used 
immediately,  lay  them  in  dry  cloth  on  ice,  or  place  them  in  paper 
sack  and  lay  on  ice.  Vegetables  may  be  prepared  some  time  in 
advance  if  taken  care  of  in  this  manner. 

The  ingredients  composing  salads  should  not  be  combined  until 
just  before  serving,  unless  it  is  salad  in  molded  form.  All  dishes  in 
which  salad  is  to  be  placed  should  be  thoroughly  chilled. 

Care  should  be  taken  in  the  mixing  of  salads  that  the  mixture 
does  not  become  mashed.  Meat  for  salads  should  be  diced  and  cut 
crosswise  of  the  grain.  Fish  should  be  separated  with  a  fork  but 
not  shredded  or  mashed.  Vegetables  should  be  cut  in  even  sized 
pieces.  Hard  cooked  eggs  should  be  sliced  very  carefully  to  prevent 
crumbling,  especially  the  yolks.  Marinating  ingredients  gives  a  better 
flavor,  especially  to  vegetables.  To  marinate,  pour  French  dressing 
over  the  ingredients  chosen  and  allow  them  to  stand  in  a  cold  place 

—  215  — 


SALADS 


until  well  seasoned  by  soaking.  If  a  mayonnaise  dressing  is  then 
to  be  used,  pour  off  the  French  dressing. 

There  are  many  kinds  of  salad  dressings  commonly  called 
mayonnaise.  The  mayonnaise  dressing  is  a  combination  of  olive  oil, 
vinegar,  paprika,  salt  and  egg  mixed  in  uncooked  form,  but  the 
principal  part  of  a  mayonnaise  is  the  olive  oil. 

There  are  many  who  do  not  care  for  the  olive  oil  flavor  and  as 
the  result  many  delicious  dressings  with  olive  oil  as  the  foundation 
are  not  served.  We  now  find  various  high  grade  salad  oils  on  the 
market  and  there  is  no  reason  for  the  olive  oil  to  be  used  only  where 
there  is  a  decided  liking  for  it.  In  all  mayonnaise  or  cooked  dressings, 
where  olive  oil  is  mentioned,  these  salad  oils  may  be  used  as  a 
substitute  with  perfect  success.  All  oils  are  valuable  food  and  should 
be  an  important  part  of  our  regular  diet. 

The  cottonseed  oil  has  little  flavor  and  some  known  brands 
are  exceptionally  clear  and  very  desirable  for  salad  mixtures  and 
dressings. 

Corn  oil  is  a  high  grade  product  and  contains  much  food  value, 
as  well  as  furnishing  heat  and  energy  to  the  body,  if  consumed 
regularly. 

Peanut  oils  are  not  to  be  forgotten,  and  when  such  oil  is  of  highly 
refined  quality  is  a  most  valuable  substitute  for  olive  -oil.  None  of 
these  oils,  however,  give  the  flavor  that  is  obtained  through  the  use 
of  the  oil  from  the  olives,  so  if  that  rich  flavor  is  desired,  the  higher 
price  is  to  be  paid  and  this  product  used. 

To  those  who  abstain  from  the  use  of  oil  dressings,  on  account 
of  flesh  building  properties,  we  would  recommend  the  use  of  a  high 
grade  mineral  oil.  While  the  mineral  oils  are  sold  through  the  drug 
stores  and  act  as  a  lubricant,  yet  they  make  a  most  excellent  foun¬ 
dation  for  French  dressings  and  various  other  oil  dressings,  and  to 
the  person  who  keeps  close  watch  on  the  number  of  calories  consumed 
daily  this  might  prove  to  be  a  valuable  suggestion. 

Usually  where  a  mayonnaise  dressing  can  be  used,  a  cooked 
salad  dressing  may  be  substituted,  especially  where  olive  oil  is  not 
liked.  When  making  cooked  salad  dressings,  especially,  where  a 
number  of  whole  eggs  or  egg  yolks  are  to  be  used,  much  attention 
should  be  given  the  bowl  in  which  the  mixture  is  to  be  cooked.  Select 
a  granite  or  porcelain  bowl  rounded  at  the  bottom,  so  that  in  the 
brisk  whipping  ,  of  the  mixture,  during  the  cooking  period,  all  the 
liquid  may  be  kept  in  motion.  Always  set  the  bowl  in  a  larger  pan 
with  enough  water  in  the  larger  pan  to  keep  the  mixture  from  coming 
in  direct  contact  with  heat  and  scorching.  A  wire  egg  beater  with 
wire  coil  around  the  edge  of  paddle  is  best  for  the  making  of  salad 
dressings.  The  faster  the  mixture  is  whipped  during  cooking  period 
the  lighter  the  dressing  will  be.  This  is  true  only  where  eggs  are 
used.  Keep  all  salad  dressings  as  cold  as  possible  until  served.  In 
most  dressings  where  recipe  calls  for  vinegar  the  lemon  juice  may 
be  substituted. 


—  216  — 


SALADS 


CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

Cucumbers  Cream  cheese 

Pimentos  Melted  butter 

Select  even  sized  cucumbers.  Peel  and  cut  in  halves,  length¬ 
wise.  Cream  pimentos,  cheese  and  melted  butter  into  a  paste  and 
build  up  on  half  of  cucumber  to  rounded  shape,  having  cucumber 
nearly  round  when  done.  See  that  the  paste  is  well  fitted  to  cucumber. 
Place  cucumber  on  ice  to  chill.  Before  serving  take  sharp  knife  and 
split  each  half  lengthwise,  making  quarters.  Lay  quarters  on  lettuce 
leaves  and  pour  highly  seasoned  French  dressing  over  quarters.  Slice 
stuffed  olives  very  thin  and  lay  along  the  side  of  cucumber  quarters. 

GRAPEFRUIT,  CUCUMBER  AND  CHEESE  SALAD. 

Grapefruit  French  dressing  or  spiced 

Small  cucumbers  vinegar 

Tasty  soft  cheese 

Peel  grapefruit  and  separate  parts,  removing  all  fiber,  seeds  and 
cords.  Cut  grapefruit  then  in  small  pieces  and  place  in  bowl.  Peel 
small  sized  cucumbers.  Slice  thin.  Take  the  soft  cheese  and  spread 
between  two  slices  of  cucumber  until  you  have  prepared  as  many 
as  needed  to  serve.  Heap  the  prepared  grapefruit  in  a  little  pile  on  a 
crisp  lettuce  leaf  and  place  these  tiny  cucumber  sandwiches  in  a  circle 
around  the  grapefruit.  Now  pour  a  generous  amount  of  spiced 
vinegar  or  French  dressing  over  all  the  mixture.  Chill  and  serve. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Place  grape  fruit  in  diced  pieces  on  tender  lettuce  leaves  and 
serve  cold  with  French  dressing.  Be  sure  and  remove  all  tough  skins, 
seeds  and  strings  from  the  fruit. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

Make  the  same  as  “Grape  Fruit  Salad,”  only  use  oranges. 


POTATO  SALAD  NO.  1. 


4  cups  cold  diced  potatoes 
1  onion 

6  red  radishes,  unpeeled 
1  green  sweet  pepper 
1  cucumber 
1  teaspoon  salt 


1  cup  mayonnaise  or  cooked 
salad  dressing 
*4  cup  thick  sweet  or  sour 
cream 

Dash  of  white  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Boil  potatoes  in  salted  water  until  tender,  then  cool  and  dice. 
Potatoes  should  not  be  boiled  until  they  crumble.  Chop  onion  and 
green  pepper ;  slice  radish  and  cucumber  thin.  Mix  all  together  with 
the  mayonnaise,  sweet  or  sour  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  If  all  mayon 

—  217  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


liaise  is  used  and  no  cream,  use  about  1  2/3  cups  of  mayonnaise.  Place 
salad  in  dish  and  chill.  A  few  sprinkles  of  paprika  or  finely  minced 
parsley  on  top  adds  in  looks.  Celery  may  be  substituted  for  cucumber 
in  winter  months. 

POTATO  SALAD  NO.  2. 


4  cups  diced  cold  boiled  po¬ 
tatoes 

1  onion 

2  pimentoes  (canned) 

1  celery  heart 


1%  cups  cooked  salad  dressing 
Dash  of  white  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
3  hard  cooked  eggs 


Boil  potatoes  in  salted  water  until  tender,  then  cool  and  dice. 
Chop  onion  fine  and  add  to  potatoes.  With  sharp  knife  cut  pimentos 
in  small  pieces.  Take  only  tender  stalks  of  celery  and  cut  with  knife. 
Combine  the  salad  dressing  and  vegetables,  together  with  the  two 
kinds  of  pepper.  Separate  the  yolks  from  whites  of  hard  cooked  eggs. 
Dice  the  egg  whites  and  add  to  potato  mixture.  Line  a  salad  bowl 
with  tender  lettuce  leaves,  place  salad  in  heap  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
over  the  top  rice  the  egg  yolks.  If  salad  is  to  be  served  on  individual 
plates,  prepare  each  dish  in  same  manner.  Finely  minced  parsley 
may  be  sprinkled  sparingly  over  top  of  riced  egg. 


RELISH  OR  SALAD. 

12  small  beets  or  6  large  ones  3  onions  size  of  walnuts 

1  medium  sized  cucumber 

Cook  the  beets  until  tender.  Dice  beets,  cucumber  and  onions 
and  allow  them  to  soak  in  cold  spiced  vinegar  before  serving. 

PEPPER  AND  ONION  SALAD. 


6  green  sweet  peppers 
1  small  red  pepper 


1  medium  sized  Bermuda 
onion 

French  dressing 


Allow  peppers  to  stand  in  ice  water  after  the. stems  and  seeds 
are  removed.  Place  chilled  peppers,  red  pepper  and  bermuda  onion 
in  bowl  and  chop  fine.  Mix  with  dressing  and  place  on  lettuce  leaf. 
Serve  very  cold. 

MEXICAN  SALAD. 


4  large  green  peppers 

1  red  pepper 

2  large  tomatoes 

1  medium  sized  white  onion 


1  cup  finely  chopped  cabbage 
Watercress 

%  cup  mayonnaise  dressing 
Stuffed  olives 


Cut  green  peppers  in  half,  lengthwise,  then  remove  seeds  and 
place  in  cold  water.  Take  one  small  red  pepper  and  chop  very  fine. 
Dice  the  tomato.  Have  cabbage  chopped.  Combine  red  pepper, 

—  218  — 


SALADS 


tomato  and  cabbage  and  mix  with  5  tablespoonfuls  of  the  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Remove  peppers  from  the  cold  water,  wipe  dry  and  place 
on  salad  plates.  Fill  the  peppers  with  this  mixture,  heaping  it  up. 
Lay  watercress  all  around  on  salad  plate  with  the  stuffed  olives  cut 
in  halves.  Pour  remaining  mayonnaise  dressing  over  top  of  each  filled 
half  pepper.  If  more  vinegar  is  wanted,  1  teaspoonful  of  white 
vinegar  may  be  poured  over  the  pepper  before  remaining  mayonnaise 
dressing  is  added. 

BUFFET  SALAD. 

12  firm  slices  of  peeled  to-  *4  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

matoes  hearts 


%  cup  grated  cream  cheese  t4  cup  French  peas 

1  cup  finely  chopped  white  Salad  dressing 

cabbage 

Chill  firm  tomatoes  before  peeling.  After  peeling,  slice  thick 
enough  for  slice  to  hold  its  shape.  Place  grated  cheese  between  two 
slices  of  tomato  and  lay  on  salad  plate.  Have  cabbage  and  celery 
chopped  fine,  chilled  and  mixed  together.  Place  a  circle  of  the 
chopped  cabbage  and  celery  all  around  the  slices  of  tomato.  Lay 
peas  in  a  circle  around  on  top  of  cabbage  and  celery.  Have  in 
readiness  dressing  in  stiff  form  and  heap  a  generous  spoonful  on  top 
of  tomato.  The  success  of  the  salad  is  in  having  all  the  ingredients 
cold  and  the  dressing  stiff. 


COMBINATION  SALAD. 

cup  celery  }4  cup  radishes 

%  cup  cucumber  M  cup  small  green  onions 

*4  cup  tomato  (not  too  ripe)  M  cup  pecan  halves 

%  cup  green  pepper  1  teaspoon  salt 

Have  all  these  vegetables  chopped  and  measured,  being  careful 
not  to  have  them  cut  in  too  small  pieces.  If  possible,  keep  pieces  about 
the  size  of  a  dime.  Mix  all  together  with  salt  in  a  bowl.  Line  salad 
dishes  with  tender  lettuce  leaves,  place  mixture  on  lettuce  leaves,  with 
a  few  nut  meats  on  top.  Serve  with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing, 
French  being  the  better. 

SPINACH  AND  EGG  SALAD. 

Cooked  spinach  French  dressing 

Hard  cooked  eggs 

Chop  spinach  and  place  on  salad  plate  in  following  manner: 
Place  one  spoonful  in  center  of  plate,  keeping  spinach  in  round  shape. 
Leave  one-half  inch  bare  circle  around  this  and  place  another  circle 
of  spinach.  Have  hard  cooked  eggs  riced  and  placed  in  this  bare 
circle.  In  the  center  of  the  spoonful  of  spinach  place  one-half  of  a 
highly  seasoned  deviled  egg.  Set  this  on  ice  until  time  for  serving, 
then  pour  French  dressing  over  all. 

—  219  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


CELERY  AND  TOMATO  SALAD. 

6  tomatoes  French  dressing 

1  cup  celery  %  teaspoon  salt 

Peel  tomatoes,  cutting  a  slice  from  stem  end.  Dig  out  center  and 
mix  with  the  cup  of  finely  chopped  celery  and  salt  and  refill  tomatoes. 
Place  tender  white  celery  leaves  on  plate  with  tomato  in  center.  Place 
on  ice  to  chill.  Before  serving  pour  French  dressing  on  each  tomato. 

QUICK  SALAD. 

1  can  kidney  beans  2  hard  cooked  eggs 

2  sour  pickles  1  large  sized  boiled  potato 

1  celery  heart  1  pimento 

1  onion  1 %  teaspoons  salt 

Drain  liquor  from  kidney  beans  and  place  beans  in  bowl.  Chop 
pickles,  celery  and  onion  together  and  add  to  beans.  Cut  eggs,  pota¬ 
toes  and  pimento  in  small  sized  pieces  and  add  to  mixture.  Mix  all 
together  with  salt,  mayonnaise  or  cooked  salad  dressing  and  serve  on 
lettuce  leaf. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD. 

Take  three  tender  asparagus  shoots  and  lay  on  salad  plate.  Lay  2 
narrow  bands  of  pimento  across  asparagus  in  center.  Pour  a  small 
amount  of  dressing  over  each  serving. 

DRESSING. 

Mix  3  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  with  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 
To  this  add  ^  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  ^2  teaspoonful  salt,  1/6 
teaspoonful  white  pepper,  1  teaspoon  grated  onion,  and  1  teaspoonful 
grated  horseradish.  Let  this  mixture  stand  one  hour,  then  strain 
through  sieve  and  serve  on  salad. 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Lettuce  heads  Thousand  and  One  Island  Dress¬ 

ing 

Place  chilled  half  lettuce  heads  on  plates  and  serve  with  Russian, 
Ideal,  Thousand  Island,  Mexican  or  Thousand  and  One  Island  Dress¬ 
ing. 

LETTUCE  AND  ONION  SALAD. 

1  head  of  lettuce  1  Bermuda  or  Spanish  onion 

Select  a  small  solid  head  of  lettuce  and  remove  enough  leaves  to 
use  on  salad  plates.  Use  an  onion  the  size  of  a  teacup  and  place  re 
maining  lettuce  and  onion  in  chopping  bowl  and  chop  as  fine  as  for 
slaw.  Place  a  generous  spoonful  of  the  chopped  mixture  on  lettuce 

—  220  — 


SALADS 


leaf  and  over  each  ponr  a  generous  amount  of  roquefort  cheese  dress¬ 
ing,  as  made  from  “Roquefort  Cheese  Dressing  No.  2.”  French  dress¬ 
ing  may  be  used  instead.  A  stuffed  olive  may  be  placed  in  the  center 
of  mixture  if  desired.  Also  a  sprinkle  of  paprika  over  each. 


ONE  MEAL  SALAD. 


1  can  kidney  beans,  drained 
1  onion 

1  green  pepper 
6  round  red  radishes 


1  cup  cabbage 
1  cucumber 
3  hard  cooked  eggs 


Place  pepper,  cabbage  and  onion  in  bowl  and  chop  fine.  Dice  the 
cucumber,  radishes  and  egg  and  mix  with  the  beans.  Mix  with  the 
following  dressing  after  it  is  cooked  and  cooled : 


1  egg 

%  cup  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  water 
4  tablespoons  sugar 
2  tablespoons  flour 

%  teaspoon  dry  mustard 


Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
Black  pepper  to  taste 
teaspoon  paprika 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  or  3 
tablespoons  butter 


Beat  the  egg  very  light,  to  which  add  the  vinegar  and  water. 
Mix  the  sugar,  flour,  mustard,  pepper,  paprika  and  salt  together  and 
add.  Place  in  double  boiler  and  cook  till  thick.  When  thick,  remove 
from  fire  and  add  the  olive  oil  or  butter.  When  radishes  are  not  in 
season,  celery  may  be  substituted. 


CHEESE  AND  TOMATO  SANDWICH  SALAD. 

Slices  of  tomatoes  Olives 

Neufchatel  cheese 

Select  firm  tomatoes,  chill,  peel  and  slice  inch  thick,  using  slices 
that  will  fit  together.  Place  tender  lettuce  leaves  on  salad  plates. 
Place  a  slice  of  tomato  on  lettuce  leaf,  then  a  thin  layer  of  Neufchatel 
cheese.  On  top  of  this  place  another  slice  of  tomato.  Make  a  small 
mold  of  cheese  for  each  top  and  in  center  of  this  mold  place  a  stuffed 
olive.  Chill,  and  pour  French  dressing  over  all  before  serving. 

t 

CANOE  SALAD. 

Select  medium,  even-sized,  straight  cucumbers.  Wash  and  polish 
thoroughly.  Cut  a  slice  from  the  cucumber  lengthwise  to  within  an 
inch  of  the  stem  end.  Dig  out  inside  of  cucumber  with  a  spoon.  Mix 
the  cucumber  that  you  have  removed  from  the  inside  with  finely 
chopped  celery,  green  pepper  and  red  radishes.  Mix  chopped  vege¬ 
tables  with  a  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing  and  fill  cucumber  shells 
with  the  mixture.  Take  a  thick  slice  of  cream  cheese  and  place  across 
center  of  cucumber  to  represent  a  seat.  Select  very  small  green 
onions  and  trim  off  some  of  the  green  tops.  Fasten  an  onion  to  either 


—  221 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECH'ES 


side  of  the  boat  to  represent  oars.  A  tiny  flag  should  be  stuck  in 
front  end  of  cucumber.  Place  the  cucumbers  on  a  dish  or  plate  large 
enough  to  hold  cracked  ice.  Peel  round  radishes  and  fix  in  tulip  form 
and  place  in  cracked  ice  around  the  cucumber  boat. 

POINSETTIA  SALAD. 

6  medium  sized  round  red  to-  teaspoon  celery  seed 

matoes  Celery  leaves  and  stalks  or 

M  cup  stiff  salad  dressing  parsley 

Peel  tomatoes  carefully,  then  cut  in  half,  only  cutting  down  to 
within  an  inch  of  stem  end.  Keep  the  tomatoes  from  coming  apart. 
Now  cut  the  halves  in  3  parts,  cutting  down  to  an  inch  of  stem  end. 
Set  the  tomato  on  a  salad  plate,  stem  end  down,  and  flatten  the  cut 
portions  out  on  dish,  forming  petals.  A  little  practice  gives  you  a 
very  good  imitation.  Now  place  one  large  dot  of  salad  dressing  in 
center  of  each  tomato,  fixed  in  this  manner,  and  over  the  dressing 
sprinkle  celery  seed.  Arrange  either  celery  stalks  and  leaves  on  plate 
for  stems  and  leaves,  or  parsley  may  be  artistically  arranged. 

GREEN  MOUNTAIN  SALAD. 

2  large  cucumbers  French  dressing 

1  medium  sized  white  onion  Cooked  salad  dressing 

1  cup  chopped  cabbage  3  large  green  peppers 

Peel,  and  cut  lengthwise,  the  cucumbers,  removing  seeds.  Place 
cucumbers  and  onion  in  chopping  bowl  and  chop  fine,  then  drain. 
Have  cabbage  chopped  fine,  chilled  in  ice  water  and  drained.  Com¬ 
bine  the  cucumbers,  onion  and  cabbage  and  marinate  with  French 
dressing,  allowing  mixture  to  set  in  cold  place  1  hour.  Drain  off 
French  dressing,  place  mixture  in  heaps  on  salad  plates,  placing  a 
circle  of  stiff  cooked  salad  dressing  around  this  heap.  Chop  peppers 
very  fine  and  sprinkle  over  the  top  of  each  heap.  Serve  cold.  Try  “3- 
Egg  Yolk  Salad  Dressing”  for  this,  or  “Velvet  Salad  Dressing”  is 
excellent.  Additional  salt  may  be  added  to  vegetables. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD. 

1  large  cauliflower  1  green  pepper 

2  medium  sized  cucumbers  1  cup  mayonnaise  dressing 

1  large  Spanish  onion 

Cook  cauliflower  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Remove  from  boil¬ 
ing  water  and  place  in  cold  water.  Remove  branches  carefully,  keep¬ 
ing  them  whole.  Place  the  branches  on  salad  plate  in  circle,  having 
stem  ends  toward  center  of  plate.  Chop  cucumbers,  onion  and  green 
pepper  fine  and  place  a  spoonful  in  center  of  cauliflower  sprays,  mould¬ 
ing  and  keeping  salad  in  neat  form  on  plates.  Pour  mayonnaise  dress¬ 
ing  over  all  and  serve  very  cold.  Other  salad  dressings  may  be  used 
instead  of  mayonnaise. 


—  222 


SALADS 


GREEN  BEAN  AND  PIMENTO  SALAD. 

1  can  green  stringless  beans  1  onion  size  of  walnut,  or 

3  canned  pimentos  2  teaspoons  chives 


Select  a  good  quality  of  green  beans.  Remove  beans  from  the  can, 
drain  and  cut  in  lengths  of  about  1  inch.  Cut  pimentos  in  pieces  half 
that  size.  Chop  the  onion  or  chives  as  fine  as  can  be  chopped  and 
then  mix  all  together  with  mayonnaise  or  cooked  salad  dressing.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves. 

NASTURTIUM  SALAD. 


2  cups  chopped  good  flavored 
apples 

54  cup  chopped  tender  celery 
hearts 

54  cup  sliced  English  walnut 
meats 


54  cup  finely  chopped  nastur¬ 
tium  stems 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
%  cup  thick  cooked  salad 
dressing 


(Use  “3-Egg  Yolk  Salad  Dressing”  Recipe.) 

Combine  all  these  ingredients  and  serve  soon  after  combining. 
Select  perfect  nasturtium  leaves,  wash  and  dry,  then  place  leaves  on 
salad  plates  in  circle  so  that  a  generous  little  heap  of  the  mixture  may 
be  placed  on  top.  When  making  the  3-egg  yolk  salad  dressing  recipe 
for  this,  use  4  or  5  tablespoons  of  sugar. 


LIMA  BEAN  SALAD. 

2  cups  baby  lima  beans  Enough  oil  mayonnaise  dressing 

1  canned  pimento  to  moisten 

54  cup  tender  chopped  celery 


Select,  if  possible,  the  small  baby  lima  or  butter  bean,  either  cook¬ 
ing  the  fresh  ones  until  they  are  tender  or  use  canned  variety.  Shred* 
the  pimento,  then  combine  all  with  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  tender 
lettuce  leaf. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE  SALAD. 


3  cups  finely  shredded  cabbage 

1  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

2  hard  cooked  eggs,  cut  in  small 
pieces 

1  medium  sized  onion,  finely 
chopped 


3  tablespoons  sugar 
54  teaspoon  salt 
56  teaspoon  white  pepper 
54  cup  vinegar 
1  cup  thick  sweet  cream 


Combine  cabbage,  celery,  eggs,  onion,  sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  vine¬ 
gar.  Stir  well,  then  add  cream  at  last.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf.  This 
serves  8  or  10  persons  generously. 

GERMAN  POTATO  SALAD. 


Place  1/3  cup  diced  bacon  in  a  skillet  and  let  it  fry  until  grease  is 
out  but  bacon  not  too  hard.  Mix  2  tablespoons  flour,  *4  teaspoon  dry 

—  223  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


mustard.  *4  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  *4  teaspoon  white  pepper 
together  and  sprinkle  it  into  the  skillet.  Do  not  have  the  grease  too 
hot.  When  it  thickens,  add  %  cup  of  vinegar  and  V2  cup  water.  Stir 
and  let  it  boil  till  thick.  Pour  this  hot  mixture  over  3  cups  cold  boiled 
diced  potatoes  and  1  chopped  onion.  Stir  mixture  well,  serving  warm 
or  cold.  Finely  minced  parsley  should  be  added  or  sprinkled  on  top. 

WHITE  SALAD. 

2  cups  finely  shredded  cabbage  1  cup  diced  pineapple 

1  cup  quartered  marshmallows  cup  sliced  blanched  almonds 

Mix  with  a  dressing  made  by  using  the  following  ingredients : 

4  tablespoons  lemon  juice  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  white  vinegar  1  egg  white,  stiffly  beaten 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  whipping  cream 

Combine  the  lemon  juice  and  vinegar,  to  which  add  the  sugar  and 
flour  in  well  blended  form.  Cook  this  in  double  boiler  form,  stirring 
constantly.  When  thick,  remove  from  fire,  add  stiffly  beaten  egg  white 
by  folding  process,  and  chill.  When  cold,  add  to  it  the  whipped  cream 
and  it  is  ready  to  be  mixed  with  first  given  ingredients.  Ten  persons 
may  be  served  from  this.  Keeping  this  cold  is  secret  to  success. 

PEA  SALAD. 

2  cups  sifted  canned  peas  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

%  cup  diced  cream  cheese  Mayonnaise  dressing 

cup  coarse  cut  unsalted  peanuts 

Select  a  good  grade  of  peas.  Cut  cheese  in  small  square  pieces  to 
correspond  in  size  with  peas.  Shell  fresh  roasted  peanuts  and  cut  nuts 
in  pieces  to  equal  size  of  cheese  cubes.  Place  all  in  bowl  and  mix  with 
lemon  juice  and  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf.  This  will  serve 
10  persons. 


SEPTEMBER  SALAD. 

(For  All  Winter.) 


12  medium  sized  carrots 

1  3^  lb.  head  of  cabbage 
3  large  green  peppers 

2  large  red  sweet  peppers 
2  dwarf  bunches  of  celery 

cup  sugar 


2  tablespoons  white  mustard 
seed 

1  tablespoon  celery  seed 
1  tablespoon  salt 
2%  cups  white  vinegar 
1 %  cups  carrot  juice 


Cook  the  carrots  until  they  are  tender  and  yet  firm.  Then  cool 
and  cut  in  even  sized  small  pieces.  Shred  the  cabbage  on  shredder  as 
fine  as  possible  to  make  it.  Take  time  and  shred  the  green  and  red 
peppers  so  the  shreds  will  correspond  with  cabbage.  The  celery  is 
best  cut  in  small  pieces  to  correspond  with  carrots.  Pack  this  cut 


—  224 


SALADS 


vegetable  mixture  in  pint  mason  jars  and  set  in  pan  of  boiling  water 
while  the  sugar,  mustard  seed,  salt,  vinegar  and  carrot  juice  is  boiled 
together  for  3  minutes.  After  it  has  boiled,  pour  it  into  each  jar  of 
shredded  mixture  and  seal  airtight.  This  is  to  be  served  on  lettuce 
leaf  with  mayonnaise  dressing  during  winter  months.  The  1%  cups 
of  carrot  juice  is  taken  from  the  kettle  in  which  carrots  were  boiled. 

ONE  MEAL  ENDIVE  SALAD. 


2  crisp  bunches  of  endive 

1  medium  sized  Bermuda  onion 

2  cups  cold  boiled  diced 
potatoes 

1  cup  diced  bacon  (partly  lean) 


Vt  cup  vinegar 
2  hard  cooked  eggs,  diced 
%  cup  sweet  or  sour  cream 
1  teaspoon  or  more  of  salt 
M  teaspoon  white  pepper 


Wash  the  endive  and  chop  medium  fine  with  the  onion.  Boil  the 
potatoes  with  jackets  on  in  salted  water,  and  when  tender  peel  and 
dice.  When  potatoes  are  cold  combine  endive,  onion  and  potatoes. 
Place  the  diced  bacon  in  skillet  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown,  and  when 
done,  but  yet  hot,  add  the  vinegar  to  the  bacon  and  pour  over  the 
endive,  onion  and  potato  mixture.  Next  add  the  hard  cooked  eggs, 
sour  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  either  warm  or  cold.  If  a  sweet 
salad  is  wanted,  add  1/3  cup  of  sugar  to  the  cream  before  adding. 


COOKED  CABBAGE  SALAD. 

Select  a  small,  solid  head  of  cabbage  and  cut  in  four  pieces,  remov¬ 
ing  the  greater  part  of  center  heart.  Place  the  cabbage  in  boiling 
salted  water  and  cook  exactly  30  minutes.  Eemove  from  kettle  care¬ 
fully  so  that  portions  will  hold  their  shape.  When  cold  place  on  let¬ 
tuce  leaf  and  over  all  pour  French  dressing.  Other  dressings  may  be 
used  instead.  If  cabbage  quarters  are  too  large  for  one  serving,  they 
may  be  cut  in  two  parts. 


VEGETABLE  SALAD  IN  MOLD. 


1  tablespoon  gelatine 
Vi  cup  water 
1  cup  boiling  water 
Vi  cup  sugar 
Juice  of  V,  lemon 
Vi  cup  vinegar 
Vt  teaspoon  salt 


Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  cup  shredded  cabbage 

Vi  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

2  canned  pimentos  cut  in  small 
pieces 

1  large  red  cooked  beet  cut  in 
cubes 


Dissolve  gelatine  in  the  ^4  cup  of  cold  water  and  allow  it  to 
stand  15  minutes.  Mix  boiling  water,  sugar,  lemon  juice,  vinegar, 
salt  and  pepper  and  allow  to  heat  again  to  the  boiling  point,  then 
pour  it  into  the  gelatine.  Strain  through  a  cloth  into  bowl  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  When  mixture  begins  to  set,  add  cabbage,  celery, 
pimentos  and  beet.  Pour  out  into  individual  molds,  first  dipping 


—  225  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


molds  into  cold  water.  Chill,  then  turn  out  on  to  crisp  lettuce  leaves 
and  over  each  mold  place  salad  dressing. 


MACEDOINE  SALAD. 


%  cup  tomato 
%  cup  French  peas 
14  cup  canned  string  beans 
%  cup  tender  celery 


1  small  sized  cucumber 
1  cooked  beet 
Mayonnaise  dressing 


Select  a  pink,  firm  tomato  and  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  thimble. 
Cut  beans  in  1  inch  lengths.  Cut  celery  in  even  sized  pieces.  Dice 
cucumber.  Cut  beet  in  pieces  the  size  of  beans.  Place  all  vegetables 
in  a  bowl  and  marinate  with  French  dressing,  keeping  mixture  in  cool 
place.  Drain  off  French  dressing,  place  vegetables  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 


DAINTY  FRUIT  SALAD. 


2  cups  diced  oranges 
*4  cup  diced  pineapple 
4  large  bananas 
%  cup  confectioners’  sugar 
li  cup  shredded  cocoanut 


M  cup  chopped  nuts 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
French  dressing 
1  cup  double  cream,  whipped 


Place  diced  oranges,  pineapple  and  2  of  the  bananas  diced  in 
bowl  and  mix  with  sugar,  cocoanut,  lemon  juice  and  nuts.  Mix  all 
together  and  place  on  salad  plates  in  little  heaps.  Take  remaining 
2  bananas  and  slice  thin  and  lay  slices  in  circles  all  around  the  heap 
of  fruit  mixture,  sprinkle  with  the  French  dressing,  then  whip  cream 
stiff  and  either  place  in  pastry  bag  and  squeeze  out  in  rose  form  on 
top  of  salad  or  with  a  spoon  dip  the  cream  out  and  place  in  heap  on 
top  of  diced  fruit. 


FRUIT  SALAD 

1  tablespoon  gelatine 
H  cup  cold  water 
M  cup  lemon  juice 
4  tablespoons  sugar 
M  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  boiling  water 


IN  MOLD. 

*4  cup  diced  pineapple 

J4  cup  diced  orange 

J4  cup  diced  banana 

Y\  cup  coarsely  chopped  pecans 

Salad  dressing 


Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water,  allowing  it  to  stand  about  10 
minutes.  Have  the  cup  of  water  boiling  and  add  to  this,  together 
with  lemon  juice,  sugar  and  salt.  Strain  into  bowl  and  cool.  When 
mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  the  fruit  and  nuts.  Dip  molds  in 
cold  water,  then  pour  mixture  out  in  molds  and  set  on  ice  until  it  sets. 
When  ready  to  serve,  place  tender  lettuce  leaves  on  salad  plates  and 
on  each  leaf  place  a  mold  with  a  generous  spoonful  of  salad  dressing 
on  top  of  mold.  To  make  this  especially  good  the  3  egg  yolk  salad 

—  226  — 


SALADS 


dressing,  with  chopped  marshmallows  added  to  dressing  when  cold, 
is  delicious.  (See  3  egg  yolk  salad  dressing.) 

APPLE  SALAD. 

Red  or  green  apples  Nuts  (pecans) 

Celery  Cooked  salad  dressing 

Select  medium  sized  smooth  apples  and  polish.  Cut  off  a  thick 
slice  at  stem  end.  Dig  out  the  inside  of  apple  carefully  so  the  bottom 
will  not  leak.  Place  the  dug  out  portion  of  the.  apple  in  a  bowl  with 
the  celery  and  nuts.  Chop  all  together,  keeping  pieces  about  as  large 
as  navy  beans.  Add  enough  salad  dressing  to  mixture  to  moisten, 
then  pack  the  apple  shell  full.  Place  the  slice  of  apple,  cut  from 
the  top,  back  on  apple.  Set  apple  on  salad  plate.  Plates  may  be 
garnished  with  nasturtium  or  geranium  leaves.  Excellent  salad  for 
Hallowe’en  luncheon. 


GUEST  SALAD. 


5  medium  sized  chopped  apples 
1  bunch  dwarf  celery  (tender 
stalks  only) 

1  cup  white  seeded  grapes 
cup  pecans 


Whole  pineapple  ring 
Mayonnaise 
Whipped  cream 
Candied  cherries 


Chop  apples  and  celery  medium  fine,  having  pieces  about  the  size 
of  navy  beans.  Nuts  should  also  be  of  same  size.  Hold  back  enough 
half  pecans  for  decorating.  Halve  and  seed  white  grapes,  leaving  half 
of  the  grapes  in  half  form  and  quarter  the  others  and  add  to  chopped 
celery  and  apples.  Mix  grapes,  celery,  apples  and  mayonnaise  to¬ 
gether.  Place  whole  slices  of  pineapple  on  individual  plates.  Around 
the  edge  of  pineapple,  place  at  even  intervals  grape  halves.  On  top 
of  pineapple,  make  a  pyramid  of  the  prepared  mixture.  Over  this 
pyramid  place  one  tablespoonful  whipped  cream  in  stiff  unsweetened 
form.  In  center  of  whipped  cream  place  one  candied  cherry  with  three 
pecan  halves. 

BANANA  SALAD. 

Large,  firm,  plain,  yellow  Pineapple 

bananas  French  dressing 

Marshmallows  Whipped  cream 

Bananas  must  be  large,  firm  and  yellow.  Place  the  banana  on 
table  and  see  which  way  it  lies  flat.  Wash  and  wipe  banana  and 
with  a  sharp  knife  cut  a  slice  lengthwise  a  third  down  from  top. 
Dig  out  the  inside  of  banana  and  use  what  has  been  cut  off.  Use 
equal  parts  banana,  pineapple  and  chopped  marshmallows.  Fill  the 
banana  with  this  mixture,  pour  in  a  little  French  dressing  and  heap 
whipped  cream  on  top  all  along  the  banana.  Set  on  ice  to  chill. 
Mixture  may  be  sweetened  to  taste. 

—  227  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


BANANA,  PINEAPPLE  AND  NUT  SALAD. 

6  slices  of  pineapple  %  cup  cooked  salad  dressing 

3  large  firm  bananas  Lettuce  leaves 

%  cup  nut  meats  (coarsely 
cut) 

Place  the  pineapple  on  lettuce  leaves.  Dice  the  bananas  and  mix 
with  nuts  and  Mayonnaise.  Place  a  generous  heap  on  top  of  each 
slice  of  pineapple  and  serve  very  cold. 


WALDORF  SALAD. 


16  cup  diced  apples 
16  cup  diced  celery  hearts 
1  cup  seeded  white  grapes 
16  cup  diced  pineapple 


16  cup  pecans  in  halves 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
1  cup  thick  mayonnaise  dress¬ 
ing 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  serve  on  tender  lettuce  leaves. 


PEAR  SALAD. 

6  canned  pear  halves  16  cup  grated  cream  cheese 

2  celery  hearts  Mayonnaise  dressing 

14  cup  chopped  pecans 

Have  firm  cooked  pears  for  this  purpose.  Dice  pears  and  chop 
celery  and  nuts.  Mix  all  together  with  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaf.  Over  the  top  of  mayonnaise,  sprinkle  the  cheese  in  riced  or  grated 
form.  Four  very  narrow  straw  strips  of  cheese  should  be  placed 
around  salad. 


PINEAPPLE  AND  PIMENTO  SALAD. 

6  slices  of  pineapple  Tender  lettuce  leaves 

3  pimentos  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing 

Place  tender,  crisp  lettuce  leaves  in  circle  on  salad  plate.  Lay  a 
slice  of  pineapple  in  center  of  each  group  of  leaves.  Cut  pimentos  in 
strips  and  form  a  star,  from  the  strips  in  center  of  each  slice  of  pine¬ 
apple.  Pour  either  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing  over  all. 

BRIDE’S  ORANGE  BASKET  SALAD. 

Oranges  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Bananas  French  dressing 

Pineapple  Cocoanut 

Confectioners’  sugar 

Select  even  sized  firm  oranges.  Cut  orange  lengthwise  to  about 
1/3  of  depth  through  orange,  cutting  to  within  y2  inch  of  center 
both  ways.  This  allows  for  the  handle  on  basket.  As  carefully  as 
possible  take  out  the  inside  of  orange,  leaving  the  plain  basket. 

—  228  — 


SALADS 


Remove  tough  skin  from  orange  and  dice.  Dice  equal  portions  of 
pineapple  and  banana.  Add  a  few  sprinkles  of  cocoanut,  lemon  juice, 
French  dressing  and  enough  sugar  to  please.  Place  mixture  back  in 
orange  basket  and  set  on  salad  plates.  When  this  salad  is  served 
during  nasturtium  season,  the  plate  may  be  decorated  with  leaves 
and  blossoms. 

SNOW  SALAD. 


8  pineapple  rings 
1J4  cups  seeded  and  quartered 
white  grapes 
%  cup  chopped  pecans 


French  dressing 
1  tablespoon  sugar 

pint  cream,  whipped 
24  marshmallows 


Place  pineapple  rings  on  plates.  Mix  chopped  nuts,  grapes, 
French  dressing  and  sugar  together  and  place  in  heap  on  center  of 
pineapple  rings.  Cut  marshmallows  in  small  pieces  and  add  to  the 
V2  pint  of  cream  after  it  is  whipped  in  stiff  form.  Cover  the  nuts 
and  grapes  entirely  over  with  the  whipped  cream  and  marshmallow 
mixture.  ^  pleasing  addition  to  this  salad  is  the  placing  of  a  eircle 
of  halved  grapes  around  pineapple  ring  and  ^  of  a  marshmallow 
on  top  of  salad.  This  serves  eight  persons  generously.  From  the 
D/2  cups  grapes  enough  may  be  saved  out  to  place  around  in  eircle. 
Place  a  candied  cherry  on  top  of  salad  instead  of  marshmallow,  if 
a  little  color  is  wanted. 


CRANBERRY  SALAD. 

Cook  1  quart  of  cranberries  with  l1/^  cups  of  water  until  cran¬ 
berries  become  mushy,  which  ordinarily  requires  about  5  minutes.  Re¬ 
move  from  fire,  press  through  a  sieve  while  hot  and  combine  the  pulp 
and  the  1  2/3  cups  of  sugar.  Mix  well  and  pour  out  into  a  flat  enamel 
pan  or  platter  and  let  set  until  it  is  firm  and  jellied.  Do  not  cook  the 
mixture  after  sugar  and  cranberry  pulp  is  combined. 

This  is  the  foundation  for  the 'following  salads: 

CIRCLE  SALAD. 

Take  a  cutter  about  the  size  of  a  thimble  and  cut  small  molds  out 
of  the  jellied  cranberries  and  place  in  a  eircle  on  a  salad  plate,  about 
an  inch  and  a  half  from  outer  edge.  Place  another  layer  of  molds  on 
top  of  these  at  irregular  intervals  in  checkerboard  style.  Now  combine 
1  cup  of  chopped  tender  celery,  y2  cup  of  chopped  nut  meats,  iy2  cups 
of  firm  diced  pears  with  enough  salad  dressing  to  make  of  desired  con¬ 
sistency,  and  place  the  mixture  down  in  the  center  of  the  cranberry 
circle.  To  make  more  attractive  a  tiny  spray  of  parsley  may  be  placed 
at  regular  intervals  around  outer  edge  of  cranberry  molds. 

RAINBOW  SALAD. 

Take  a  small  square  cutter  or  cut  small  cubes  from  the  jellied  cran¬ 
berries,  figuring  8  cubes  to  the  dish.  Now  cut  large  fresh  marshmal- 

—  229  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


lows  in  4  squares,  which  should  compare  in  size  with  the  cranberry- 
cubes,  also  allowing  8  to  the  plate.  Mix  the  marshmallow  and  cran¬ 
berry  cubes  with  enough  cream  salad  dressing  to  make  the  desired  con¬ 
sistency  and  place  in  head  lettuce  leaves.  A  small  heap  of  whipped 
cream  should  be  placed  over  this  and  on  top  of  cream  a  nut  meat  or 
maraschino  cherry. 


QUEEN  SALAD. 


1  cup  seeded  and  halved  white 
grapes 

1  cup  diced  pineapple 
1  medium  sized  peeled  apple, 
chopped 


%  cup  nuts,  cut  in  large  pieces 
%  cup  cheese  cut  in  small 
square  pieces 

Mayonnaise  or  cooked  salad 
dressing 


Place  all  ingredients  in  bowl  and  mix  well  together.  This  salad 
may  be  served  on  tender,  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  or  it  may  be  placed  in  a 
heap  on  salad  plates.  Around  the  heap  place  four  tender  shoots  of 
celery.  Select  tender  shoots  of  uniform  size  and  do  not  remove  the 
white  leaves.  The  four  shoots  are  placed  in  pen  form  around  the 
salad  and  four  stuffed  olives  placed  at  each  cross  section  of  celery.  Do 
not  combine  ingredients  until  ready  to  serve. 


CODFISH  SALAD. 

1  cup  cooked  canned  codfish  1  celery  heart 

Ys  cup  diced  cold  boiled  po-  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

tatoes  2  hard  cooked  eggs,  diced 

1  small  sized  onion  1  cup  salad  dressing 

3  small  sweet  pickles 

Place  shredded  codfish  in  bowl  and  add  the  diced  potatoes  and 
finely  chopped  onion.  Slice  sweet  pickle  in  thin  slices  and  add. 
Next  add  fine  chopped  celery  and  lemon  juice.  Last  add  the  diced 
eggs  and  salad  dressing.  Serve  in  chilled  form  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

1  cup  cooked  lobster  3  hard  cooked  eggs 

1  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

Place  lobster  and  finely  chopped  celery  in  a  dish.  After  eggs 
have  been  simmered  slowly  for  20  minutes  and  chilled  in  cold  water, 
then  peel  and  separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites.  Cut  the  whites 
in  small  pieces  and  add  to  the  lobster  and  celery  mixture.  Marinate 
this  mixture  in  French  dressing,  allowing  it  to  set  in  cool  place  for 
an  hour.  Drain  the  French  dressing  off  and  add  enough  salad 
dressing  to  make  it  the  desired  consistency.  Place  a  spoonful  of 
salad  on  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf  and  over  each  dish  prepared  in  this 
manner  sprinkle  some  of  the  riced  egg  yolks.  Serve  cold. 

—  230  — 


SALADS 


SALMON  SALAD. 

1  can  pink  salmon  1  celery  heart 

3  large  cold  boiled  potatoes  1  cup  mayonnaise  dressing 

0  small  sweet  pickles 

Take  salmon  from  can,  drain,  remove  bones  and  skin.  Dice 
the  potatoes  and  add  to  salmon.  Slice  pickles  very  thin  and  add 
Chop  celery  as  fine  as  possible  and  mix  with  mayonnaise,  then  combine 
all  ingredients.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

COVE  OYSTER  SALAD. 

1  cup  cove  oysters  %  cup  catsup 

Vi  cup  tender  celery  Vs.  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  cup  cold  boiled  potatoes  V  teaspoon  white  pepper 

2  hard  cooked  eggs 

Drain  oysters  and  place  in  a  bowl.  Chop  celery  fine.  Dice 
potatoes.  Mix  the  oysters,  celery  and  potatoes  together.  Add  catsup, 
salt  and  pepper.  Place  on  tender  lettuce  leaves  and  chill.  Before 
serving  run  the  eggs  through  a  ricer  and  spread  over  the  top  of 
salad  mixture.  Eggs  may  be  diced  and  added  instead  of  ricing. 

TUNA  FISH  SALAD  NO.  1. 

1  can  white  tuna  fish  1  pimento 

Vs  cup  chopped  celery  hearts  Mayonnaise  or  cooked  salad 

6  small  sweet  pickles  (gherlc-  dressing 

ins) 

Shred  tuna  fish,  chop  celery  fine,  slice  the  sweet  pickles  thin, 
cut  pimento  in  small  pieces,  then  mix  all  together,  being  careful  not 
to  mash  the  mixture.  Add  enough  mayonnaise  dressing  to  make  it 
desired  consistency.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf.  A  French  dressing  may 
be  used  if  desired.  Will  serve  6  people. 

TUNA  FISH  SALAD  NO.  2. 

1  can  white  tuna  fish,  or  1  cup  M  cup  nut  meats 

6  tender  stalks  of  celery  Juice  of  Vs  lemon 

1  pimento  Salad  dressing 

1  hard  cooked  egg 

Remove  the  tuna  from  can  and  cut  in  small  sized  pieces,  always 
cutting  crosswise  of  the  grain.  With  a  knife  cut  the  celery  in  small 
pieces  and  shrgd  the  pimento.  Cut  the  hard-cooked  egg  in  pieces  to 
correspond  in  size  with  the  pieces  of  celery.  Cut  the  nuts  in  large 
sized  pieces,  either  using  pecans  or  English  walnuts.  Now  combine 
all  the  ingredients  and  add  as  much  mayonnaise  or  cooked  salad  dress¬ 
ing  as  is  desired  to  hold  it  to  thick  consistency.  Place  on  tender  head 
lettuce  leaves  and  serve  very  cold. 


—  231 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


SHRIMP  SALAD  NO.  1. 

1  can  shrimps  2  hard  cooked  eggs 

y2  cup  chopped  tender  celery  1  cup  salad  dressing 

12  ripe  or  green  olives  2  tablespoons  olive  or  salad  oil 

Seed  and  cut  into  pieces  the  olives.  Chop  celery  fine.  Have 
shrimps  whole  or  in  halves.  Mix  olives,  celery  and  shrimps  together, 
to  which  add  the  salad  dressing  and  oil.  Dice  the  hard-cooked  eggs 
and  add  last,  folding  them  in  carefully,  keeping  egg  yolks  from  becom¬ 
ing  mashed.  Chill  and  serve  on  tender  lettuce  leaves. 


SHRIMP  SALAD  NO.  2. 

1  cup  shrimps  1  onion  size  of  walnut 

4  hard  cooked  eggs  16  cup  tender  chopped  celery 

1  medium  sized  cold  boiled  1  cup  salad  dressing 

potato 

Allow  shrimps  to  remain  in  cold  water  a  short  time ;  then  drain. 
Have  eggs  simmered  slowly  for  20  minutes,  then  chilled  in  cold  water, 
peeled  and  diced.  Dice  potato  and  chop  onion  and  celery  fine.  Mix 
all  together  and  marinate  in  French  dressing  for  1  hour  in  cold  place. 
Arrange  tender  lettuce  leaves  on  salad  plates  and  place  a  spoonful  of 
mixture  on  leaves.  Over  this  place  one  spoonful  salad  dressing. 


CRAB  SALAD. 

Remove  crab  meat  from  the  can  and  cut  in  uniform  sized  pieces. 
Set  on  ice  to  get  perfectly  cold.  Take  from  ice  box,  place  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves.  Over  the  crab  meat  sprinkle  finely  chopped  tender 
celery  and  riced  hard-cooked  egg.  Place  a  generous  spoonful  of 
mayonnaise  dressing  over  each  prepared  mixture  on  dish.  Keep 
chilled  till  ready  to  serve.  Chopped  sour  pickle  may  be  added. 


SWEETBREAD  SALAD  NO.  1. 

2  sweetbreads  %  cup  canned  button  musn- 

1  cup  chopped  tender  celery  rooms 

16  cup  pecans  (coarsely  Mayonnaise  dressing 

chopped) 

Place  sweetbreads  in  boiling  water  and  allow  them  to  stand  5 
minutes.  Remove  and  dash  in  ice  water,  then  place  in  hot  salt  water 
and  boil  15  minutes,  having  only  enough  water  to  keep  breads  from 
burning.  Remove  from  water,  cool  and  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  the 
mushrooms  to  be  used.  Mix  the  sweetbreads,  chopped  celery,  chopped 
pecans,  mushrooms  and  mayonnaise  together  and  chill.  Serve  very 
cold  on  tender  lettuce  leaves.  If  mushrooms  are  the  large  buttons. 


—  232  — 


SALADS 


cut  in  2  or  4  parts  and  then  cut  sweetbreads  accordingly.  Will  serve 
8  or  10  people. 

SWEET  BREAD  SALAD  NO.  2. 

2  sweetbreads  1  pimento,  shredded 

x/s  cup  chopped  tender  celery  Mayonnaise  dressing 

3  small  sweet  or  sour  pickles, 
sliced 

Dash  the  sweet  breads,  after  they  have  been  thoroughly  washed,  in 
boiling  salted  water  and  simmer  slowly  for  20  minutes.  Remove  from 
fire,  take  breads  out  and  cool.  When  cool,  remove  tough  portions  and 
cut  the  breads  in  bite-sized  pieces.  Now  combine  the  sweet  bread 
meat  with  celery,  pickles,  pimento  and  dressing  (oil  dressing  pre¬ 
ferred)  and  chill.  When  cold,  serve  on  lettuce  leaf.  This  serves  6  or 
8  persons. 

IDEAL  CHICKEN  SALAD. 


2  cups  cold  diced  chicken 
Yz  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

2  hard  cooked  eggs 
1  pimento  (canned) 

3  small  sweet  pickles 


Ys  teaspoon  white  pepper 
3  tablespoons  olive  oil 
Yt  teaspoon  salt 
Yz  cup  mayonnaise  or  salad 
dressing 


Place  diced  chicken  in  bowl.  Add  chopped  celery,  diced  eggs 
and  chopped  pimento.  Slice  sweet  pickles  in  thin  slices  and  add. 
Last  add  pepper,  olive  oil,  salt  and  salad  dressing.  Serve  on  tender 
lettuce  leaf.  An  oil  dressing  is  better  for  this  salad,  but  any  kind 
may  be  used.  Eight  may  be  served  from  this  amount. 


MACARONI  SALAD. 

1  cup  cooked  macaroni  Oil  mayonnaise  dressing 

1  green  sweet  pepper  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  canned  pimento 

Combine  all  and  serve  on  head  lettuce  leaf. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

2  cups  cottage  cheese  1  teaspoon  salt 

M  cup  cream  J4  teaspoon  white  pepper 

12  stuffed  olives  French  dressing 

2  pimentos 

Mix  cheese  and  cream  together,  to  which  add  6  olives  chopped 
fine.  Next  add  the  pimentos  cut  in  pieces  and  the  salt  and  pepper 
Mix  all  together.  Place  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  in  heaps.  Place  1  olive 
in  center  of  each  heap  and  over  all  pour  French  dressing.  Chill  before 
serving. 


—  233  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


GREEN  PEPPER  AND  COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD  NO.  2. 


1  tablespoon  gelatine 
3  tablespoons  cold  water 

1  cup  hot  cream 

2  cups  cottage  cheese 


1  teaspoon  salt 

H  teaspoon  white  pepper 

2  medium  sized  green  peppers 
French  dressing 


Dissolve  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  and  let  stand  15  minutes.  Heat 
cream  to  boiling  point  and  add  to  gelatine.  Next  add  cheese,  salt,  white 
pepper  and  finely  chopped  green  peppers.  Mix  all  together  and  place 
in  individual  water-rinsed  molds.  Set  molds  on  ice  cake  to  chill  and 
set.  Remove  cheese  molds  and  place  on  tender  lettuce  leaves.  Pour 
French  or  mayonnaise  dressing  over  and  serve  cold. 


MARSHMALLOW  NUT  SALAD. 

24  marshmallows  Salad  dressing  (3  egg  yolk 

cup  nuts  salad  dressing  recipe) 

Quarter  the  marshmallows  and  cut  the  nuts  in  coarse  pieces.  Com¬ 
bine  marshmallows,  nuts  and  enough  salad  dressing  to  make  the  mix¬ 
ture  into  a  firm  yet  creamy  condition.  Place  a  generous  spoonful  on 
a  tender  lettuce  leaf  and  serve.  Have  dressing  ice  cold  before  com¬ 
bining  with  marshmallows.  A  cooked  dressing  is  better  for  this  than 
one  made  from  the  use  of  olive  oil.  For  a  more  delicious  salad,  place 
the  mixture  on  a  slice  of  pineapple  instead  of  lettuce  leaf. 


PRUNE  SALAD. 

Select  large,  choice  prunes  and  prepare  as  many  as  there  will  be 
persons  to  serve,  figuring  6  prunes  to  each  plate.  Soak  prunes  for  at 
least  2  hours,  then  drain  thoroughly  and  steam  or  cook  until  tender, 
and  yet  keep  them  in  whole  form.  After  they  are  tender,  remove  seeds 
and  prepare  chopped  apples,  celery  and  nuts  and  place  in  cavities. 
Place  on  tender  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  salad  or  French  dressing  Over 
and  serve.  Always  keep  in  cold  condition  until  ready  to  serve. 


TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD. 

2t&  cups  ripe  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  gelatine 

t  slice  of  onion  cup  cold  water 

teaspoon  salt  (or  more)  Russian  dressing 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

Simmer  the  tomato,  onion,  salt  and  pepper  until  onion  is  tender, 
then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water 
for  5  minutes,  then  add  to  the  hot  tomato  mixture.  Stir  well  and  pour 
into  oblong  shaped  mold  and  set  on  ice  till  set.  Cut  in  slices,  lay  on 

—  234  — 


SALADS 


lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  “Russian  Dressing/’  or  the  mixture  may 
be  poured  into  individual  moulds. 

CHEESE,  CABBAGE  AND  PINEAPPLE  SALAD. 

3  cups  finely  shredded  cabbage  Grated  tasty  cheese 

1  cup  diced  pineapple 

Mix  the  cabbage  and  pineapple  together  and  combine  with  it  the 
“White  Mayonnaise”  dressing  as  given  in  salad  dressings.  Place  a 
generous  heap  of  the  mixture  on  lettuce  leaf  and  over  the  top  of  this 
sprinkle  some  grated  or  finely  cut  cheese. 


CABBAGE  SLAW. 


%  medium  sized  cabbage  head 
1  small  sized  onion 
1  large  green  pepper  or  1 
canned  pimento 
J6  cup  vinegar 
cup  sugar 


1  teaspoon  salt 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
White  pepper  to  taste 
%  cup  thick  sour  cream 

2  tablespoons  fresh  bacon  drip¬ 
pings  melted 


Chop  cabbage  and  allow  it  to  remain  in  cold  water  until  crisp. 
Drain  and  mix  with  other  ingredients,  after  onion  and  pepper  have 
been  chopped  fine.  Serve  plain  in  dishes. 


WILTED  DANDELION— DUTCH  STYLE. 

3  packed- down  cups  of  chopped 
dandelion 

%  cup  diced  bacon 
1  ^  tablespoons  flour 
%  cup  vinegar 

Chop  tender  dandelion  after  it  has  been  thoroughly  washed.  Do 
not  chop  too  fine.  Place  the  bacon  in  skillet  and  fry  grease  out,  but 
do  not  allow  bacon  to  get  too  crisp.  Add  to  the  bacon  and  grease  the 
flour.  Stir  until  the  flour  is  very  delicately  browned,  then  add  to  it 
the  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.  When  thickened,  pour  it  over  the  dan¬ 
delion.  Last  add  the  eggs  in  finely  chopped  or  riced  form.  Stir  well 
and  serve  warm.  One  small  onion  may  be  chopped  and  added  if  de¬ 
sired.  A  small  amount  of  sugar  may  also  be  added. 

WILTED  ENDIVE— DUTCH  STYLE. 

Follow  recipe  for  dandelion  as  given  above,  only  use  endive  in¬ 
stead. 


%  teaspoon  salt 
White  pepper  to  taste 
Dash  of  cayeime  pepper 
'2  hard  cooked  eggs 


—  235  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


HOT  DUTCH  SLAW. 


2  cups  shredded  or  chopped 


2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  tablespoon  flour 
*4  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  white  pepper 
li  cup  diced  bacon 
14  cup  sweet  or  sour  cream 


cabbage 

1  cup  finely  chopped  celery 
1  medium  sized  onion,  chopped 


fine 
1  egg 


M  cup  vinegar 

Place  cabbage,  celery  and  onion  in  bowl.  Beat  egg  light  and  com¬ 
bine  with  the  vinegar.  Next  blend  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and 
add  to  egg  and  vinegar.  Fry  the  bacon  cubes  until  the  grease  is 
nearly  all  fried  out  but  yet  not  in  a  crisp  condition.  While  the  bacon 
and  grease  are  hot,  pour  it  over  into  egg  mixture  and  stir  well.  Last 
add  to  it  the  sweet  or  sour  cream  and  pour  over  the  cabbage  mixture. 
Place  all  the  mixture  on  the  stove  and  heat  to  piping  hot  before  serv¬ 
ing.  This  will  serve  six  persons. 


—  236  — 


CHAPTER  XXI 


Salad  Dressings 


IDEAL  OLIVE  OIL  MAYONNAISE. 

2  egg  yolks  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1 %  cups  olive  oil  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  white  vinegar  *4  teaspoon  ground  mustard 

Place  the  yolks  in  a  chilled  rounded  bottom  bowl  or  dish  and  set 
the  dish  or  bowl  in  a  pan  of  salted  cracked  ice.  With  a  silver  fork 
or  tablespoon  begin  to  whip,  adding  the  olive  oil  a  drop  or  two  at  a 
time,  continuing  to  beat  in  this  manner  until  about  2  tablespoons  of 
oil  have  been  added,  then  alternate  the  oil  and  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful 
at  a  time,  until  all  vinegar  and  lemon  juice  are  added.  Continue  to 
beat  and  add  remainder  of  olive  oil.  The  mixture  should  be  very  stiff 
at  this  time.  Set  it  away  in  the  coldest  part  of  refrigerator.  Keep 
cold  for  serving.  If  kept  any  length  of  time  it  sometimes  separates. 
Chill  and  give  it  a  few  brisk  whips  to  put  it  back  into  thickened  condi¬ 
tion  again.  Blend  salt  and  mustard  and  whip  in  at  the  last. 


WHITE  MAYONNAISE. 

4  tablespoons  lemon  juice  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  white  vinegar  1  egg  white,  stiffly  beaten 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  whipping  cream 

Combine  the  lemon  juice  and  vinegar,  to  which  add  the  sugar  and 
flour  in  well  blended  form.  Cook  in  double  boiler  form,  stirring  con¬ 
stantly.  When  thick  remove  from  fire,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white 
by  folding  process  and  chill.  When  thoroughly  chilled,  add  the  cream 
in  whipped  form  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 


CELERY  MAYONNAISE. 


3  egg  yolks 
H  cup  cold  vinegar 
^4  cup  cold  water 

teaspoon  dry  mustard 
2  teaspoons  flour 


34  teaspoon  salt 
3  tablespoons  sugar  (more  or 
less) 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  oil 


Beat  the  yolks  very  light,  to  which  add  the  vinegar  and  water. 
Blend  the  mustard,  flour,  salt  and  sugar  and  add  next.  Place  this  mix- 

—  237  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


ture  in  a  rounded  bottom  enamel  bowl  and  set  bowl  in  boiling  water. 
While  the  water  boils  rapidly  whip  the  egg  mixture  with  wire  egg 
beater.  The  harder  it  is  whipped  the  lighter  and  smoother  it  gets. 
When  thick  and  smooth  remove  from  fire  and  add  the  butter  or  oil, 
then  chill.  Have  ready  V2  CUP  tender  chopped  celery  and  mix  in  when 
cold.  A  little  additional  whipped  cream  added  makes  it  perfect. 


GREEN  SWEET  PEPPER  MAYONNAISE. 

Make  the  same  as  for  “ Celery  Mayonnaise,”  only  use  V2  cup  finely 
chopped  sweet  pepper. 

PIMENTO  MAYONNAISE. 

Make  the  same  as  for  “Celery  Mayonnaise,”  only  use  y2  cup  finely 
cut  canned  pimento. 


COOKED  CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 


2  tablespoons  flour 
1  y2  teaspoons  salt 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
teaspoon  white  pepper 


2  tablespoons  olive  oil,  butter 
or  oil 
2  eggs 

%  cup  vinegar 
1  cup  sweet  milk 


Mix  flour,  salt,  sugar,  mustard  and  pepper  together.  Add  olive 
oil  and  mix  until  smooth.  Add  eggs  and  with  wire  beater  beat  2  min¬ 
utes.  Next  add  vinegar  and  stir  well  before  adding  the  cup  of  milk. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  This  may  be 
thinned  with  more  vinegar  or  cream. 


VELVET  SALAD  DRESSING. 


11  egg  yolks 
%  cup  vinegar 
%  cup  water 
cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 


1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter 
24  marshmallows,  quartered  (if 
desired) 


Beat  egg  yolks  very  light,  to  which  add  the  vinegar  and  water. 
Mix  sugar,  mustard,  salt  and  flour  together  and  add.  Place  in  rounded 
bottom  bowl,  set  this  bowl  in  another  pan  of  water  to  keep  the  mixture 
from  coming  in  direct  contact  with  heat.  Whip  mixture  very  hard 
until  it  thickens,  using  wire  egg  beater.  Add  butter  after  it  is  removed 
from  fire.  When  marshmallows  are  added  allow  mixture  to  cool  thor¬ 
oughly  before  adding.  Olive  or  salad  oil  may  be  used  in  place  of 
butter. 


—  238  — 


SALAD  DRESSINGS 


FRENCH  DRESSING. 

3£  .  teaspoon  salt  6  tablespoons  olive  or  salad  oil 

34  teaspoon  paprika  5  tablespoons  vinegar 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Mix  the  salt,  paprika  and  cayenne  pepper,  then  add  the  oil  grad¬ 
ually,  beating  continually.  Last  add  the  vinegar. 


COOKED  OIL  SALAD  DRESSING. 


2  tablespoons  flour 
%  cup  cooking  oil 
Juice  of  2  lemons 
%  cup  water 
1  egg 

Mix  the  flour  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  oil  and  mix  it  perfectly 
smooth.  Add  to  this  the  juice  of  lemons  and  water.  Place  in  a  double 
boiler  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire 
and  combine  with  the  well-beaten  egg.  Evenly  blend  the  sugar,  salt, 
mustard  and  pepper  and  add,  together  with  the  remaining  oil.  Beat 
all  together.  This  is  excellent  on  salads  where  vegetables  are  the 
principal  ingredients. 


34  cup  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 
34  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


SOUR  CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 

1  tablespoon  flour  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1*4  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  sour  cream 

*4  teaspoon  dry  mustard  1  egg 

34  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

36  teaspoon  pepper 

Blend  flour,  sugar,  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  together  and  mix 
with  sour  cream.  Next  add  well  beaten  egg  and  vinegar.  Cook  all  in 
double  boiler  until  thick,  stirring  constantly  during  cooking  period. 
When  mixture  is  cooked  and  cooled,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  may  be 

added  if  richer  dressing  is  wanted,  or  it  may  be  made  thinner  by  add¬ 

ing  more  vinegar  or  milk. 

THREE  EGG  YOLK  SALAD  DRESSING. 

3  egg  yolks  2  teaspoons  flour 

*4  cup  vinegar  1  tablespoon  butter  or  oil 

34  cup  water  34  teaspoon  salt 

34  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

If  used  for  fruit  salad  use  %  cup  of  sugar.  If  used  for  fish  or 
meat  salad  use  1  tablespoonful  sugar.  If  used  for  vegetable  salad  use 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Beat  egg  yolk  light,  to  which  add  vinegar 

—  239  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


and  water.  Mix  mustard,  flour,  sugar  and  salt  together  and  add  to 
liquid  mixture.  Cook  in  rounded  bottom  bowl,  setting  bowl  in  pan 
with  enough  water  to  keep  mixture  from  coming  in  direct  contact  with 
the  heat.  With  wire  egg  beater  whip  hard  during  cooking  period.  If 
butter  is  to  be  used,  add  butter  when  mixture  comes  from  fire.  If  olive 
oil  is  to  be  used  alloAv  mixture  to  cool,  then  add  oil.  Chill  and  it  is 
ready  for  use. 

THOUSAND  AND  ONE  ISLAND  DRESSING 

1  tablespoon  flour  2  tablespoons  water 

2  or  3  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg 

teaspoon  dry  mustard  3  tablespoons  olive  oil  (more  or 

1  teaspoon  salt  less  may  be  used) 

4  teaspoons  vinegar 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  mustard  and  salt  together,  having  all  well 
blended.  To  this  add  the  vinegar,  water  and  well-beaten  egg.  Place 
in  bowl,  set  bowl  in  pan  with  enough  water  in  pan  to  keep  mixture 
from  coming  in  direct  contact  with  heat.  Stir  well  during  cooking 
period,  and  when  thick  remove  from  fire,  allow  to  cool,  then  add  olive 
oil.  This  mixture  should  be  stiff  and  smooth.  Prepare  other  in¬ 
gredients  as  follows : 

8  canned  button  mushrooms 
%  of  a  cooked  beet  the  size  of 
small  egg 

12  ripe  or  green  olives 
1  canned  pimento 

of  a  large  green  sweet 
pepper 

Chop  mushrooms,  beet,  olives,  pimento,  green  pepper  and  chives 
or  onion  as  fine  as  it  is  possible  to  chop.  Combine  the  chopped  mixture 
with  the  cooked  paste.  Run  the  egg  through  a  ricer  or  sieve  and  add 
next,  together  with  the  cayenne  pepper.  Set  directly  on  ice  cake  to 
chill  while  the  1  cup  of  cream  is  being  whipped.  When  cream  is  firm, 
but  not  too  stiff,  fold  it  into  the  chilled  mixture.  This  will  serve  10 
people. 


1  or  2  teaspoons  of  chives  or 
onion 

1  hard  cooked  egg 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
1  cup  whipping  cream 


IDEAL  SALAD  DRESSING. 


1  egg 

4  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  flour 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 

teaspoon  dry  mustard 
1  teaspoon  paprika 


2  tablespoons  butter 
green  pepper 
1  onion  (size  of  walnut) 

1  pimento  (canned) 

8  ripe  olives  (green  may  be 
substituted) 

*4  cup  thick  sweet  cream 


Beat  egg  light,  to  which  add  vinegar.  Mix  flour,  sugar,  salt, 
mustard  and  paprika  together  and  add.  Place  in  double  boiler  and 

—  240  — 


SALAD  DRESSINGS 


cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick,  remove  from  fire 
and  add  butter.  Allow  this  to  get  perfectly  cold,  then  add  the  green 
pepper,  onion,  pimento  and  olives  chopped  as  fine  as  possible  to  chop 
them.  Last  add  the  cream  and  serve.  For  additional  richness  and 
flavor,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  may  be  added.  The  cooked  mixture  gets 
very  stiff,  but  it  should  be  in  this  condition. 


THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING. 


1  cup  thick  salad  dressing 

1  canned  pimento 

1  onion  size  of  walnut  (chives 
are  better) 

%  medium  sized  green  pepper 

1  hard  cooked  egg 

2  tablespoons  catsup  or  chili 
sauce 

Either  use  a  cooked  salad  dressing  or  an  oil  mayonnaise,  or  some 
high  grade  store  variety.  Chop  the  pimento,  onion,  green  pepper  and 
hard  cooked  egg  as  fine  as  they  can  be  chopped.  Now  combine  all  in¬ 
gredients  as  given,  chill  and  serve. 


2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

tablespoons  sugar  (more  if 
desired) 

%  teaspoon  celery  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
$4  teaspoon  salt 
$4  teaspoon  paprika 


ROQUEFORT  CHEESE  DRESSING  NO.  1. 

14  teaspoon  salt  6  tablespoons  olive  or  salad  oil 

teaspoon  paprika  5  tablespoons  white  vinegar 

%  teaspoon  white  pepper  2  tablespoons  Roquefort  cheese 

Mix  salt,  paprika  and  pepper  together,  to  which  add  oil  a  little 
at  a  time,  beating  constantly  until  mixture  thickens,  then  alternately 
add  remaining  oil  and  vinegar.  When  mixture  is  well  blended  add 
Roquefort  cheese,  stirring  until  the  full  amount  of  cheese  is  added  and 
dressing  is  smooth. 


ROQUEFORT  CHEESE 

1  large  egg 

%  cup  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
}4  teaspoon  salt 


DRESSING  NO.  2. 

14  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  oil 
Dash  of  white  pepper 

2  tablespoons  Roquefort  cheese 


Beat  egg  until  light,  then  combine  with  the  vinegar.  Blend  the 
sugar,  salt  and  mustard  and  add.  Place  mixture  in  rounded  bottom 
granite  bowl  and  set  bowl  in  boiling  water.  Beat  hard  for  a  few  min¬ 
utes  till  mixture  boils  and  thickens  some,  then  remove  from  fire.  When 

—  241  — 


J .  ' 

'V  \#J  ■' 

"  ’%  ‘ 

NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 

cold,  add  the  melted  butter  or  oil,  pepper  and  Roquefort  cheese.  Mix 
well,  then  chill  before  serving. 

MEXICAN  DRESSING. 


1  cup  salad  dressing  (made  from 
8  egg  yolk  dressing) 

6  tablespoons  olive  oil 

2  tablespoons  vinegar 
34  cup  chili  sauce 

1  teaspoon  salt 


1  teaspoon  paprika 
34  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Generous  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 


Make  the  “3-Egg  Yolk  Salad  Dressing”  as  given  in  this  book, 
using  1  tablespoonful  sugar  in  the  mixing.  When  it  is  allowed  to  get 
perfectly  cold,  then  add  other  ingredients  as  given  in  order,  mixing  all 
ingredients  well  together,  chill  and  serve  on  head  lettuce,  or  on  any 
salad  where  a  dressing  of  this  kind  is  wanted. 


RUSSIAN  DRESSING. 


1  cup  thick  mayonnaise  dressing 
(The  oil  mayonnaise  or  any 
cooked  salad  dressing  made 
with  egg  yolks  may  be  used) 

34  cup  olive  oil  or  cooking  oil 
34  cup  catsup 
3  tablespoons  vinegar 
Generous  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper 

34  teaspoon  salt 

Combine  all  these  ingredients  in 
on  head  lettuce  or  any  chosen  salad. 


1  tablespoon  sugar  (more  if 
desired) 

34  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

36  teaspoon  ginger 

34  teaspoon  paprika 

1  tablespoon  finely  minced 
onion  or  chives 

2  hard  cooked  eggs,  finely 
chopped  or  riced 

the  order  given.  Chill  and  serve 


HOME  PREPARED 

1  tablespoon  sugar 
4  tablespoons  flour 
34  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


MUSTARD. 

1  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  dry  mustard 
6  tablespoons  vinegar 

2  teaspoons  olive  or  salad  oil 


Mix  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  together  and  add  to 
water.  Place  on  stove  in  double  boiler  and  cook  10  minutes.  Remove 
from  fire  and  cool.  Mix  mustard,  vinegar  and  oil  together  and  add 
when  mixture  is  cold.  Place  in  glass  jar  and  serve  on  cold  meats. 
Allow  this  dressing  to  stand  24  hours  before  using. 


—  242  — 


SALAD  DRESSINGS 


SPICED  VINEGAR. 


1  cup  vinegar 
Dash  of  celery  salt 
%  teaspoon  cinnamon 
%  teaspoon  cloves 


%  teaspoon  paprika 
3  tablespoons  sugar 
*4  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Boil  all  together  for  two  minutes  and  strain  through  a  double 
cloth.  Double  or  triple  this  recipe  and  keep  it  cold  in  bottle  for  use 
when  needed. 


—  243  — 


CHAPTER  XXII 


Sandwiches 


SUGGESTIONS  ON  SANDWICH  MAKING. 

If  sandwiches  are  to  be  made  some  time  in  advance  of  serving, 
wrap  each  sandwich  separately  in  oil  paper. 

In  summer,  in  order  to  have  a  perfectly  moist  sandwich,  wrap 
each  sandwich  in  oil  paper,  then  pack  in  box  and  lay  a  damp  cloth 
over  the  top  of  sandwiches  in  box.  They  will  keep  moist  as  long  as 
you  care  to  keep  them  in  this  manner. 

The  two  layers  of  bread,  with  fillings  between,  make  the  best 
sandwich  for  picnic  purposes,  but  very  dainty  sandwiches  may  be  made 
in  open  form  for  afternoon  teas  and  clubs.  Two  layers  of  bread  may 
be  used  in  same  manner,  but  in  order  to  have  a  more  tasty  sandwich, 
and  more  appetizing  in  looks,  a  mayonnaise  dressing  may  be  artistic¬ 
ally  placed  in  dots  on  top,  and  half  nuts  placed  in  center  of  dots  of 
mayonnaise.  The  mayonnaise  prepared  for  this  purpose  should  be 
made  thicker  so  that  it  does  not  run  from  the  top.  Unsweetened 
whipped  cream,  in  very  stiff  form,  placed  on  top  of  any  kind  of  chicken 
sandwiches,  or  delicately  flavored  sandwiches,  is  delicious. 

Sandwiches  properly  made  should  have  the  crust  removed.  Round 
loaves  of  bread,  which  have  been  baked  in  covered  pans,  make  dainty 
sandwiches,  especially  where  the  crust  has  not  been  baked  hard.  We 
must  not  forget  the  old-fashioned  bun  sandwiches.  There  is  no  sand¬ 
wich  which  pleases  the  child  more  than  this  kind.  Many  of  the  older 
class  prefer  such.  Buns  do  not  dry  out  like  sliced  bread,  hence  there 
is  still  a  demand  for  such  sandwiches. 

If  something  out  of  the  ordinary  is  desired  for  sandwiches,  bake 
to  order,  large  loaves  of  bread,  so  that  when  the  slices  are  cut  length¬ 
wise  of  the  loaf  there  is  space.  Slice  these  slices  from  the  loaf  in  just 
as  thin  form  as  is  possible  to  do  and  yet  retain  the  shape.  Spread 
slices  with  thin  coating  of  butter  and  then  sparingly  with  filling,  hav¬ 
ing  when  completed  two  fillings  and  three  slices  of  bread.  When  the 
three  slices  and  two  fillings  are  fitted  together,  lay  them  flat  on  the 
table  and  cut  out  with  any  desired  shaped  cutter,  a  small  biscuit  cutter 
being  as  good  as  anything.  After  this  is  done,  place  either  a  drop  of 

—  244  — 


SANDWICHES 


that.  After  practicing  on  these  sandwiches  one  can  make  them  pcr- 
stiff  salad  dressing  or  whipped  cream  on  top  with  a  half  nut  on  top  of 
feetly,  and  they  will  well  repay  you  in  looks  and  in  taste.  The  pink 
bread  recipe,  as  given  on  bread  pages  in  this  book,  makes  a  very  dainty 
looking  sandwich,  combined  with  a  white  chicken  filling  and  whipped 
cream  on  top,  or  tinted  with  green  lettuce  or  yellow  cheese  filling. 

Fresh  bread  should  not  be  used  in  sandwich  making.  It  should 
be  at  least  one  day  old. 

Much  time  may  be  saved,  as  well  as  butter,  by  first  creaming 
butter  before  spreading  on  bread. 

When  very  thin  slices  of  bread  are  to  be  used,  it  is  a  very  good 
plan  to  butter  the  end  of  loaf  each  time,  then  slice  with  a  saw  knife. 
Meat  run  through  a  grinder  makes  the  sandwich  easier  to  eat,  but  if 
plain  meat  is  to  be  placed  between  slices  of  bread  it  should  always 
be  cut  crosswise  of  the  grain. 


MINCED  SANDWICHES. 


1  cup  salmon 
1  cup  chopped  ham 
1  medium  sized  cucumber 

1  small  tomato 

2  hard  cooked  eggs 

1  onion,  size  of  walnut 


*4  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
Dash  of  black  pepper 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil  or 
melted  butter 


Have  all  ingredients  chopped  and  mixed  together.  Spread  on 
buttered  bread  with  lettuce  leaf  between.  The  mixture  is  rich.  A  very 
little  butter  is  needed  on  the  bread. 


SARDINE  SANDWICHES. 


1  small  sized  can  of  oil  sardines  2  hard  cooked  eggs 

Juice  of  1  lemon  M  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Place  sardines  in  bowl  with  all  the  oil  in  which  they  are  canned. 
Remove  all  hair  bones  possible.  Place  hard  cooked  eggs  in  bowl  with 
sardines  and  chop  all  together.  Add  mustard,  salt  and  lemon  juice, 
mix  and  spread  on  bread.  Use  lettuce  leaves  between  slices  of  bread 
also. 


DAINTY  SHRIMP  SANDWICHES. 

1  cup  shrimps  12  ripe  olives  (green  olives  may 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  he  used) 

%  cup  mayonnaise  dressing  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Wash  shrimps  in  cold  water  and  place  in  bowl  with  hard  cooked 
eggs.  With  a  fork  mash  until  eggs  and  shrimps  are  well  mixed.  Seed 

—  245  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


and  cut  in  fine  pieces  the  olives  and  add  to  mixture,  together  with  the 
salt  and  pepper.  Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  from  large  loaf.  With  a 
round  can  cut  out  the  center  of  the  slices.  Butter  the  slices  very 
sparingly,  then  place  a  thick  layer  of  shrimp  mixture  on  one  slice  and 
press  another  slice  down  on  this,  having  the  sandwiches  neat  in  ap¬ 
pearance.  Place  sandwiches  on  individual  plates  and  around  the  sand¬ 
wich  on  the  plate  lay  crisp,  fresh  watercress.  Lay  two  tiny  tender 
shoots  of  celery  on  top  of  each  sandwich  and  across  the  celery  lay 
two  narrow  strips  of  pimento. 

f  PIMENTO  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICH. 

cup  chopped  cream  cheese  Dash  of  red  pepper 

1  canned  pimento  %  teaspoon  salt 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  1  tablespoon  olive  oil,  salad  oil 

green  pepper  or  melted  butter 

Place  the  pimento  with  a  tablespoonful  of  the  liquor  in  which  it 
has  been  canned  in  a  chopping  bowl,  together  with  the  eggs,  cheese 
and  green  pepper.  Chop  all  these  together  until  fine,  then  add  the 
butter  or  oil,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  and  mash  thoroughly.  This 
is  ready  for  spreading.  When  oil  or  butter  is  used  in  a  mixture  of 
this  kind  very  little  butter  is  needed  on  bread. 


HASH  GREEN  SANDWICHES. 


3  hard  cooked  eggs 
1  onion,  size  of  walnut 
1  green  sweet  pepper 
6  large  lettuce  leaves 
%  teaspoon  dry  ground 
mustard 


M  teaspoon  paprika 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  tablespoon  oil  or  melted 
butter 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


Chop  eggs,  onion,  lettuce  and  sweet  pepper  together,  having  all  in 
minced  form.  Add  mustard,  paprika,  salt  and  oil  or  butter.  Mix  well 
and  spread  between  thin  buttered  slices  of  bread. 


TASTY  SANDWICHES. 


*4  cup  tasty  cheese 
1  onion,  size  of  walnut 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
34  teaspoon  salt 
M  teaspoon  paprika 


1  cucumber  (medium  size) 

2  hard  cooked  eggs 

1  tablespoon  melted  or  creamed 
butter 


Place  onion  and  cucumber  in  chopping  bowl  and  chop  fine.  Run 
eggs  through  ricer  or  sieve  and  add  to  the  chopped  mixture  together 
with  cheese,  pepper,  salt  and  paprika.  Add  the  butter  last  and  mix  all 

—  246  — 


SANDWICHES 


together  and  spread.  If  the  tasty  cheese  is  used,  which  comes  in  tin 
foil,  it  is  in  soft  form  and  creams  well  with  other  ingredients. 

CUCUMBER,  ONION  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 


1  pkg.  Neufchatel  cheese 
1  cucumber  (medium  size) 
1  onion,  size  of  walnut 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


*4  teaspoon  paprika 
2  tablespoons  mayonnaise 
dressing 

XA  teaspoon  salt 


Chop  cucumber  and  onion  together,  to  which  add  cheese  and  mix 
well  together.  Next  add  pepper,  paprika,  mayonnaise  and  salt. 
Spread  on  thin  slices  of  rye  or  white  buttered  bread. 


CUCUMBER  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 

2  medium  sized  cucumbers  2  hard  cooked  eggs 

1  carton  of  snappy  tinfoil  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

cheese 

Grind  the  cucumbers  and  eggs  together,  then  combine  with  the 
cheese,  mixing  until  well  creamed.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  mix  and 
spread  on  buttered  bread.  An  onion  may  be  ground  with  the  mixture 
if  desired,  or  a  very  few  celery  seed  may  be  added. 

BERMUDA  ONION  AND  PORK  SANDWICH. 

1  cup  finely  minced  cold  boiled  *4  teaspoon  white  pepper 

pork  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  finely  chopped  Bermuda  Lettuce  leaves 

onion 

Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  with  butter,  then  a  thick  layer  of  onion 
and  pork  mixture.  Lay  tender  lettuce  leaves  between  the  two  slices. 
Pork  and  onion  may  be  run  through  food  chopper  instead  of  chopped 
or  minced. 

DELIA’S  SANDWICH  FILLING. 

24  ripe  olives  2  hard  cooked  eggs 

2  canned  pimentos  Mayonnaise  dressing 

1  cup  nut  meats 

Seed  and  slice  olives  in  chopping  bowl.  Place  the  pimentos,  nut 
meats  and  hard  cooked  eggs  in  bowl  and  chop  all  as  fine  as  it  is  pos¬ 
sible  to  chop.  Add  enough  Mayonnaise  dressing  to  make  of  thick 
paste  consistency.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread.  In¬ 
gredients  may  be  ground  instead  of  chopped  if  found  more  convenient 

—  247  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


SARDINE  AND  EGG  SANDWICHES. 

1  small  can  oil  sardines  %  crisp  head  of  lettuce 

4  hard  cooked  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  horseradish  *4  teaspoon  white  pepper 

Remove  sardines  from  can  and  take  all  bones  from  fish.  Place 
sardines  and  oil,  in  which  they  are  canned,  in  bowl.  Place  hard  cooked 
eggs  in  bowl,  also  horseradish  and  lettuce.  Chop  all  together  until  fine 
enough  to  spread.  Add  salt  and  pepper  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of 
buttered  bread. 

MARSHMALLOW  PECAN  SANDWICHES. 

cup  pecans  20  marshmallows 

Chop  pecans  as  fine  as  possible.  Cut  marshmallows  and  place  in 
double  boiler  to  melt.  When  soft  add  nuts  and  spread  on  thin  slices . 
of  Boston  brown  bread,  which  is  better  baked  in  round  loaves. 

NIPPY  SANDWICHES. 

cup  grated  cream  cheese  Juice  of  1  lemon 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  Dash  of  salt 

2  tablespoons  grated  horse-  2  tablespoons  cream 

radish 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  spread  between  buttered  graham 
bread  slices. 


NIFTY  SANDWICHES. 

M  pound  cream  cheese  %  cup  nut  meats 

3  pimentos  Salt  and  pepper 

3  tender  stalks  of  celery  Mayonnaise  dressing 

Place  the  cheese,  pimentos,  celery  and  nut  meats  in  a  chopping 
bowl  and  chop  all  as  fine  as  they  can  be  chopped.  Add  the  salt  and 
pepper  to  suit  taste.  Last  place  in  enough  mayonnaise  dressing  to 
make  it  of  thick,  moist  consistency.  After  all  ingredients  are  com¬ 
bined,  stir  well  and  then  spread  on  thin  slices  of  rye  or  white  bread. 
A  lettuce  leaf  may  also  be  used  between  the  slices. 

RAISIN  NUT  SANDWICHES. 

1%  cups  raisins  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  nut  meats  2  tablespoons  thick  cream 

Run  raisins  and  nuts  through  food  chopper.  Mix  salt  and  cream 
with  mixture  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

—  248  — 


SANDWICHES 


FRUIT  AND  NUT  SANDWICHES. 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  1  egg 

1  cup  dates  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Vi  cup  pecans  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Run  raisins,  dates  and  pecans  through  food  chopper.  Beat  egg 
light  and  mix  well  with  this  chopped  mixture.  Next  add  sugar  and 
lemon  juice.  Spread  between  buttered  slices  of  bread. 


NUT,  CHEESE  AND  PICKLE  SANDWICHES. 

%  cup  almonds  6  sweet  pickles 

1  cup  cheese 

Blanch  almonds  and  chop.  Mix  cheese  and  almonds  and  rub  into 
a  paste.  Run  sweet  pickles  through  grinder,  or  chop  as  fine  as  possible, 
and  mix  with  almonds  and  cheese.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 


CANNED  CORNED  BEEF  SANDWICHES. 

1  can  corned  beef  %  cup  salad  dressing 

1  small  onion,  finely  minced 

Mix  all  together  and  spread  on  buttered  bread  with  layers  of 
lettuce. 


DELICIOUS  LIVER  SANDWICHES. 

1  cup  ground  cooked  calf’s  liver  teaspoon  white  pepper 

3  hard  cooked  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  finely  chopped  onion  %  cup  thick  salad  dressing 

Have  liver  boiled  and  run  through  a  chopper.  Either  run  onion 
through  chopper  or  cut  fine.  Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  spread 
on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread,  placing  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf  between 
each  two  slices. 


HAM  SANDWICHES. 


1  cup  ground  boiled  ham 

4  stalks  of  tender  heart  celery 

2  hard  cooked  eggs 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 


*4  teaspoon  salt 
M  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
2  tablespoons  cream 


Have  ham  ground  fine.  Chop  or  run  celery  through  grinder,  being 
careful  to  save  the  juice.  Run  eggs  through  grinder.  Mix  all  in¬ 
gredients  together  and  spread  between  buttered  bread.  Lettuce  may 
be  used  between  slices  also. 


—  249  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


IDEAL  SANDWICH. 


^  lb.  boiled  ham  (ground  fine) 
3  hard  cooked  eggs  (riced) 

14  cup  nut  meats  (chopped 
fine) 


4  tender  stalks  celery  (chopped 


fine) 

White  pepper  to  taste 
Salt  to  taste 

Enough  Mayonnaise  to  moisten 


Mix  all  together  and  spread  between  slices  of  bread.  Lettuce 
leaves  or  thin  slices  of  pickle  may  be  placed  between  slices,  too. 


CLUB  SANDWICH. 


Have  in  readiness  the  following  articles,  since  a  club  sandwich 
must  be  made  as  quickly  as  possible  in  order  to  have  the  toast  still 
warm  when  served. 


Medium  thin  slices  of  bread  with 
edges  trimmed 


Lettuce  leaves 
Riped  or  stuffed  olives 
Olive  oil  mayonnaise  dressing 
Thin  slices  of  bacon 


Slice  cold  chicken,  white  meat 
only 


Thin  slices  of  tomatoes  that  are 
not  too  ripe 

Toast  the  bread  to  a  light  brown.  Lay  one  slice  of  bread  down 
and  spread  a  leaf  of  lettuce  on  first,  then  lay  a  full  layer  of  chicken. 
Over  this  spread  a  little  mayonnaise,  2  thin  slices  of  tomato  and  2 
slices  of  bacon.  Place  another  piece  of  toast  over  this,  and  on  top  of 
second  piece  of  toast  place  lettuce,  chicken,  mayonnaise,  bacon  and 
tomato  as  on  first  layer.  Now  place  another  layer  of  toast  over  this. 
This  makes  2  fillings  and  3  layers  of  toast.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  the 
bread  from  corner  to  corner,  making  a  three-cornered  sandwich.  Place 
two  of  these  on  a  plate  and  stick  toothpicks  through  the  sandwiches  at 
both  ends,  fastening  an  olive  on  the  top  of  each  pick.  Two  tender 
shoots  of  celery  should  be  placed  on  the  plate  also. 

EGG  AND  CHEESE  TOAST  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  and  toast  only  lightly.  Butter  slices, 
then  lay  thin  slices  of  cheese  on  bread  and  set  back  in  oven  until  cheese 
melts.  Poach  eggs  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  cheese  has 
melted,  place  a  slice  of  toast  on  top  of  each  cheese  slice,  pressing  firmly 
together.  Place  sandwiches  on  plates  and  on  top  of  each  sandwich 
place  a  poached  egg.  Have  on  hand  some  hot  milk,  well  seasoned  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Over  each  egg  and  cheese  sandwich  pour  a 
little  of  this  hot  liquid. 


—  250  — 


SANDWICHES 


PEANUT  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 

Take  equal  parts  of  peanut  butter  and  soft  cheese  and  spread  be¬ 
tween  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread.  A  lettuce  leaf  between  layers 
adds  to  flavor. 


BANANA  SANDWICHES. 

Spread  crushed  bananas  mixed  with  pulverized  sugar  and  peanut 
butter  between  graham  slices  of  bread. 


—  251  — 


CHAPTER  XXIII 


Punch,  Drinks  and  Appetizers 


PUNCH  APPETIZER. 

1  cup  rich  cherry  juice  Sugar  to  taste 

3  cups  water  20  marshmallows 

Juice  of  2  lemons  3  large  bananas 

Combine  cherry  juice,  water  and  lemon  juice,  then  add  enough 
sugar  to  suit  taste.  Stir  until  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Next  cut 
marshmallows  in  4  or  6  pieces  each  and  dice  the  bananas  and  add. 
Serve  in  small  glasses,  preceding  the  dinner.  The  marshmallows  and 
bananas  rise  to  the  top  of  liquid.  A  straw  and  spoon  should  be  pro¬ 
vided  in  serving  this  appetizer. 

GRAPE  JUICE  PUNCH. 

1  pint  of  grape  juice  Juice  of  2  oranges 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  pineapple  juice 

Juice  of  3  lemons 

Pour  all  into  punch  bowl  and  add  1  cup  of  water  and  1  quart  of 
cracked  ice.  More  sugar  and  water  may  be  added. 


CHERRY  PUNCH. 

4  cups  strong  cherry  juice  2  cups  water 

4  cups  strong  tea  Sweeten  to  taste 


Pour  in  a  pitcher  or  punch  bowl  with  cracked  ice.  Slice  oranges 
to  float  on  top. 


PHOSPHATE  PUNCH. 


%  pint  lemon  juice 
pint  orange  juice 
*4  pint  strawberry  juice, 
strained 


1  tablespoon  acid  phosphate 
1  lemon,  sliced 
1  orange,  sliced 
1  cup  sugar 


Place  all  in  punch  bowl  with  1  quart  of  cracked  ice.  If  car¬ 
bonated  water  is  added  to  this,  punch  will  be  much  better.  A  small 
amount  may  be  purchased  from  druggist. 


252  — 


PUNCH,  DRINKS  AND  APPETIZERS 


PUNCH. 

Juice  of  3  lemons  1  cup  sugar 

Juice  of  1  orange  1  cup  water 

1  pint  grape  juice  1  cup  pineapple  juice 

Mix  all  together,  strain,  place  in  punch  bowl  with  large  piece  of 
ice  to  cool.  A  few  nasturtium  leaves  may  be  allowed  to  float  on  top 
if  leaves  are  thoroughly  washed  first. 

FRUIT  PUNCH. 

Juice  of  6  lemons  1  pint  of  rich  peach  syrup 

1  cup  pineapple  juice  1  cup  strawberry  preserves 

Juice  of  4  oranges  1  cup  sugar 

I  pint  of  tea  (as  for  ice  tea)  2  quarts  water 

Mix  all  together  and  set  on  ice  to  chill.  Before  serving  add 
cracked  ice. 

PINEAPPLE  LEMONADE. 

1  large  pineapple  1  pint  of  sugar 

4  lemons 

Peel  and  grate  pineapple,  to  which  add  the  juice  of  4  lemons. 
Pour  over  this  mixture  1  quart  of  water  and  allow  it  to  stand  *4  hour, 
after  which  strain  through  a  sieve,  pressing  all  juice  possible  through. 
Add  to  this  juice  the  sugar  and  enough  cracked  ice  and  water  to  make 
the  desired  flavor.  Thin  slices  of  lemon  may  be  added  to  the  liquid. 

APRICOT  AND  LEMONADE. 

1  cup  rich  apricot  juice  1  quart  of  water 

3  lemons  %  cup  sugar 

Cook  apricots  until  tender,  draining  the  juice  to  make  1  cup.  Add 
the  juice  to  one  quart  of  water,  together  with  the  juice  from  3  lemons. 
Use  Y2  cllP  of  sugar  if  apricots  are  cooked  with  sugar,  but  use  more 
or  to  suit  taste  if  not.  When  mixed  and  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  enough 
cracked  ice  to  chill  for  serving. 

ORANGEADE. 

Boil  2  cups  of  water  with  2  cups  of  sugar  and  the  rind  of  1  orange 
for  5  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  cool.  Remove  the  orange  rind 
and  add  %  cup  orange  juice  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Add  enough  water 
and  cracked  ice  to  suit  taste. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  COCKTAIL  IN  HALF  SHELL. 

Cut  grape  fruit  in  halves.  Remove  the  meat  and  fiber,  keeping  the 
meat  as  firm  as  possible.  To  fill  6  half  shells,  allow  one  orange  in 

—  253  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


peeled  and  diced  form,  1  large  firm  banana,  1  ring  of  pineapple  cut  in 
diced  pieces,  12  marshmallows  cut  in  quarters  and  the  diced  grape 
fruit  meat  taken  from  the  6  grape  fruit  halves.  Mix  all  this  together 
and  place  in  even  portions  in  the  6  shells.  Sprinkle  confectioners  ’ 
sugar  over  each  and  serve  cold. 

GINGER  QUENCH. 

cup  pineapple  juice  1  %  cups  water 

%  cup  orange  juice  *4  teaspoon  ground  ginger 

cup  lemon  juice  1  Vi  cups  sugar 

Boil  sugar  and  water  3  minutes,  then  cool  and  add  all  other  in¬ 
gredients.  Fill  glasses  half  full  with  cracked  ice,  then  fill  with  mixture 
and  drink. 

BLANCHED  ALMONDS. 

Place  shelled  almonds  in  cold  water  and  when  they  boil  2  minutes 
dash  them  into  cold  water.  Squeeze  each  kernel  through  the  fingers 
and  remove  tough  skins.  Dry  kernels  on  a  cloth  and  place  into  a  bowl 
where  a  few  drops  of  salad  oil  has  been  placed.  Shake  the  kernels 
around  in  bowl  until  they  seem  to  be  slightly  greased,  then  place  on  a 
sheet  and  brown  lightly.  Remove  from  oven,  and  while  yet  hot 
sprinkle  with  fine  salt.  Any  nuts  may  be  prepared  in  same  manner. 


254  — 


CHAPTER  XXIV 


Jellies  and  Preserves 


LEMON  JELLY. 

6  lemons  2J4  cups  sugar 

6  cups  cold  water 

Secure  thin-skinned,  juicy  lemons  so  this  recipe  will  prove  up 
perfectly.  Wash  lemons  and  slice  in  thin  slices.  Place  lemons  and 
cold  water  in  a  granite  kettle  and  boil  until  the  rinds  are  tender,  then 
squeeze  through  a  cloth.  When  squeezed  through  there  should  be  3 
cups  of  the  juice.  If  lacking,  add  enough  water  to  make  3  cups,  and 
if  more,  boil  down  to  3  cups.  Now  combine  the  juice  and  sugar,  and 
when  sugar  is  dissolved  strain  through  a  cloth  again,  and  either  cook 
it  in  one  cooking  or  divide  and  make  two  boilings.  The  smaller  the 
quantity  the  clearer  the  jelly.  Excellent  for  winter  meals.  Serve  with 
wild  game,  lamb  or  pork.  Save  all  small  fancy  jars  and  glasses  for 
lemon  jelly.  This  juice  jellies  quickly,  so  watch  it  carefully. 

ELDERBERRY  AND  GRAPE  JELLY. 

4  cups  ripe  grapes  2  cups  cold  water 

1  cup  ripe  elderberries 

Cook  all  together  until  mushy,  then  strain  through  a  cloth  to  drip. 
To  each  2  cups  of  juice  use  l1^  cups  sugar.  Boil  till  it  shows  signs  of 
setting,  boiling  a  small  quantity  at  a  time.  This  jelly  does  not  have 
crystallized  particles  in  it  and  is  delicious. 

LUCILLE’S  GOOSEBERRY  AND  PINEAPPLE  PRESERVES. 

2  quarts  diced  pineapple  3%  quarts  sugar 

2  quarts  gooseberries 

Boil  all  together  until  thick.  Seal  air-tight. 

—  255  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

4  cups  of  cranberries  2  cups  sugar 

1*4  cups  cold  water 

Cook  the  cranberries  and  water  for  about  5  minutes,  or  until  they 
become  mushy.  Remove  from  fire  while  hot  and  press  through  a  sieve. 
Combine  the  pulp  with  the  2  cups  of  sugar  and  stir  well.  Pour  out 
into  molding  cups  or  into  a  shallow  enamel  pan  or  platter  and  let  stand 
until  it  is  jellied  in  firm  form.  If  fancy  shapes  are  wanted,  cut  with 
any  fancy  cutter  and  serve  on  a  plate  or  side  dish.  Fancy  cut  shapes 
may  be  used  for  garnishing  meats  of  a  delicate  nature. 

PATTY’S  THREE-MINUTE  STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

3  lbs.  strawberries  3  lbs.  sugar 

Secure  red,  ripe,  firm  strawberries  and  allow  the  3  pounds  of 
berries  and  the  3  pounds  of  sugar  to  stand  until  a  juice  forms.  When 
this  has  taken  place,  boil  the  mixture  3  minutes  and  seal  in  air-tight 
glass  jars. 


RHUBARB  PRESERVES. 

3  cups  rhubarb  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1*4  cups  granulated  sugar 

Select  young,  tender,  pink  rhubarb,  wash  and  cut  in  inch  lengths, 
allowing  the  peeling  to  remain  on.  Place  the  rhubarb  in  a  granite 
saucepan  with  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice  and  allow  it  to  stand  until  a 
juice  has  formed,  which  requires  about  3  hours.  After  juice  is  formed, 
place  rhubarb  on  stove  over  an  asbestos  mat  to  simmer  and  cook.  Cook 
it  very  slowly  and  do  not  stir,  but  watch  carefully  until  it  thickens  to 
desired  consistency.  Now  remove  from  pan  and  can  in  in  pint  fruit 
jars.  This  makes  only  a  small  amount.  The  recipe  may  be  doubled. 
One-eighth  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  %  teaspoon  nutmeg  may  be 
added  if  desired. 


WATERMELON  PRESERVES. 

1  gallon  watermelon  rind  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  water  1%  teaspoons  ground  nutmeg 

8  cups  sugar  M  teaspoon  cloves 

1  whole  lemon  *4  teaspoon  ginger 

Peel  melon  rind  and  free  it  from  all  red  or  pink.  Cut  in  pieces 
about  iy2  inches  by  1  inch  in  size,  and  measure  after  it  is  peeled  and 
cut  to  see  that  you  have  1  gallon  good  measure.  Place  the  rind  in  a 
granite  kettle  with  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  enough  cold  water  to 

—  256  — 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES 


cover  and  allow  this  to  boil  until  rind  is  half  tender  enough  for  use. 
Make  test  by  piercing  with  toothpick.  When  this  stage  has  been 
reached,  place  rinds  in  colander  and  allow  to  drain  for  at  least  2 
hours.  When  drained  and  dry,  make  a  syrup  by  placing  the  8  cups  of 
sugar  and  1  cup  of  water  in  kettle  and  boil  until  sugar  is  well  dis¬ 
solved,  stirring  constantly  during  this  process.  When  well  dissolved 
and  in  thick  syrup  form,  add  the  lemon  in  thin  slices  (peeling  left  on), 
cinnamon,  nutmeg,  cloves  and  ginger.  Now  add  to  this  the  melon 
rinds  and  boil  all  together  until  rinds  are  tender  and  the  juice  heavy 
and  thick.  Seal  in  glass  jars.  This  makes  6  pints. 


ANNA’S  BEST  EVER  PRESERVES. 

2  cups  red  raspberries  2  cups  ripe  currants 

2  cups  gooseberries  6  cups  cane  sugar 

Place  all  ingredients  in  enamel  kettle  and  let  stand  an  hour  or 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  juice  has  formed.  Now  cook  the  mix¬ 
ture  slowly,  stirring  almost  constantly,  for  about  10  minutes,  the  time 
to  be  decided  by  the  condition  of  the  gooseberries.  The  gooseberries 
should  seem  tender.  When  done  seal  in  small  airtight  jars.  A  half 
cup  of  water  could  be  added  at  the  beginning  if  the  juice  seems  scant. 

CLARA’S  ONE-TWO-THREE  CONSERVE. 

1  cup  fresh  picked  cherries  2  cups  strawberries 

(seeded)  3  cups  granulated  sugar 

Cook  all  three  together  until  cherries  are  tender.  Make  in  small 
quantities  to  insure  beautiful  red  color. 


QUEEN  PRESERVES. 


1  gallon  watermelon  rind 
9  cups  sugar 
1  cup  water 

1  ring  candied  pineapple,  or  1 
ring  of  canned  pineapple 
24  candied  cherries  (or  mara¬ 
schino) 

1  whole  lemon 


Yt  cup  shredded  cocoanut 
Ys  cup  finely  chopped  citron 
Yt,  cup  small  seedless  raisins 
1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  Yt  teaspoons  nutmeg 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
Yk  teaspoon  cloves 


Peel  and  remove  all  red  or  pink  meat,  then  cut  rind  in  inch  square 
pieces  as  nearly  as  possible.  Place  rind  on  to  cook  in  enough  cold 
water  to  cover,  adding  1  teaspoon  of  salt  to  water.  Cook  until  rind 
can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  toothpick,  then  drain  in  colander  for  at 
least  2  hours.  When  drained,  prepare  a  syrup  by  taking  the  9  cups 


—  257 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES 


of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water  and  placing  in  granite  kettle  over  fire.  Stir 
this  until  sugar  is  all  dissolved,  then  add  the  ring  of  pineapple,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  cut  the  cherries  in  4  pieces  each,  the  lemon  unpeeled  and 
in  thin  slices,  the  shredded  cocoanut,  chopped  citron,  raisins,  ginger, 
nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Boil  all  together  for  10  minutes,  theh 
add  watermelon  rind  and  boil  until  the  mixture  is  cooked  down  to  a 
rich  consistency  and  stirs  heavy.  Careful  attention  should  be  given 
so  that  the  mixture  does  not  burn.  Seal  in  airtight  glass  jars.  A 
most  excellent  treat  for  midwinter.  Five  pints  is  the  amount  the  recipe 
makes  when  carefully  followed  and  mixture  cooked  down. 


PINEAPPLE,  CHERRY  AND  STRAWBERRY  CONSERVE. 

5  cups  sugar  2  cups  seeded  cherries 

34  cup  water  2  cups  strawberries 

2  cups  diced  fresh  or  canned  1  cup  halved  blanched  almonds 

pineapple 

Place  the  sugar  and  water  in  kettle  and  allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil, 
then  drop  the  pineapple  and  cherries  in  and  boil  slowly  for  10  min¬ 
utes,  stirring  to  see  that  it  does  not  burn.  Now  drop  the  strawberries 
in  and  boil  another  5  minutes  before  adding  the  nut  meats.  After  nut 
meats  are  added,  boil  another  5  minutes,  making  about  25  minutes’ 
cooking.  Seal  in  airtight  fruit  jars. 


SPANISH  PEACH  CONSERVE. 

3  quarts  sliced  peaches  Juice  of  2  lemons 

1  quart  sliced  apples  1  cup  maraschino  cherries  and 

1  cup  blanched  and  sliced  the  juice  in  which  they  were 

almonds  canned 

2  cups  seeded  raisins  4  lbs.  sugar 

Cook  all  slowly  until  it  thickens,  either  allowing  the  Maraschino 
cherries  to  remain  whole  or  halve  them.  Seal  airtight. 


DAMSON  PLUM  CONSERVE. 


4  cups  seeded  damson  plums 
%  of  a  whole  lemon,  chopped 
fine 

36  of  a  whole  orange,  chopped 
fine 

234  cups  cold  water 


36  cup  seeded  raisins  left  whole 
34  cup  thoroughly  cleaned 
currants 

3  cups  granulated  sugar 
34  cup  whole  pecan  nut  meats 


Cut  the  meat  from  the  plum  seeds  to  make  4  cups.  Place  the 
lemon,  orange  and  cold  water  in  a  kettle  and  boil  slowly  until  the 
orange  and  lemon  rind  seems  tender  and  the  water  is  nearly  boiled 
away.  Now  combine  the  boiled  mixture,  plums,  raisins,  currants  and 

—  258  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


sugar  and  place  over  the  fire  on  an  asbestos  mat  and  cook  slowly  untill 
mixture  thickens  and  plums  are  tender.  About  3  minutes  before  can¬ 
ning  in  airtight  jars  add  the  nut  meats.  If  conserve  seems  thick  addi¬ 
tional  water  may  be  added  to  suit. 

RHUBARB  CONSERVE. 

8  cups  rhubarb  cut  in  inch  1^4  cups  seedless  raisins 

lengths  1  large  orange 

5  cups  white  sugar  and  1  cup  1  lemon 

brown  sugar 

Place  the  rhubarb,  sugar  and  thoroughly  washed  raisins  in  a  pre¬ 
serving  kettle.  Grate  the  oranges  and  lemons,  grating  about  half  way 
through  to  the  juice,  then  squeeze  the  juice  into  the  kettle.  Let  all 
this  mixture  stand  in  the  kettle  for  about  an  hour,  then  cook  slowly 
until  proper  consistency  and  seal  airtight.  One  cup  nut  meats  may  be 
added  if  desired. 


ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Slice  3  large  oranges  and  3  small  lemons,  cutting  the  slices  in 
pieces.  Add  11  cups  of  cold  water  and  let  this  stand  over  night,  then 
boil  slowly  for  50  minutes.  Take  from  fire,  add  8  cups  of  sugar  and 
allow  this  to  stand  over  night  again,  then  boil  for  about  15  minutes, 
or  until  signs  are  for  thickening. 

TO  CAN  GRAPE  JUICE. 

Place  cleaned,  ripe  grapes  in  a  kettle  and  crush  with  potato 
masher.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  then  boil  5  minutes.  Cool  the  grapes 
and  strain  through  a  strong  sack,  allowing  only  the  juice  that  comes 
by  dripping  to  go  into  the  juice  kettle.  To  each  4  cups  of  the  juice 
add  1  cup  of  water  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Place  juice  on  stove  and  boil 
for  5  minutes,  then  seal  in  sterilized  bottles,  corked  with  sealing  wax 
poured  and  pressed  down  on  the  corks.  After  they  are  sealed  in  this 
manner  and  cold,  it  is  well  to  dip  each  cork  end  into  hot  parafine  wax, 
dipping  the  cork  end  in  to  a  depth  of  1  inch.  Corks  must  be  steri¬ 
lized  before  placing  into  bottles.  Place  them  in  a  receptacle  with  tight 
cover  and  boil  for  15  minutes.  Grape  juice  looks  nicer  in  bottles,  is 
easier  served  and  is  an  excellent  way  to  utilize  the  good  bottles  on 
hand.  When  serving,  this  may  be  diluted. 

GRAPE  AND  ELDERBERRY  JUICE. 

To  each  4  cups  of  grape  juice  add  1  cupful  of  pure  ripe  elderberry 
juice,  1  cup  of  water  and  1*4  cups  sugar.  Can  the  same  way. 


—  259  — 


CHAPTER  XXV 


Fried  Chicken  and  Roast  Turkey 


FRIED  CHICKEN  (AMERICAN  STYLE). 

To  make  all  kinds  of  frying  an  easier  task  it  is  a  suggestion, 
worthy  of  consideration,  that  each  housewife  secure  a  large  sized  deep 
iron  skillet.  The  new  iron  skillets  are  about  3  inches  in  depth,  thus- 
allowing  2  layers  of  chicken  to  be  fitted  in  without  coming  in  contact 
with  the  lid.  It  is  easier  to  regulate  the  heat  for  an  iron  or  heavy 
skillet,  and  there  is  much  less  danger  of  wasting  by  burning.  The 
price  paid  for  this  kind  of  a  frying  pan  will  be  saved  many  times  over 
from  this  standpoint  alone. 

Chickens  may  be  fried  at  different  ages  and  sizes,  but  the  1  lb. 
dressed  fowls  are  better  when  cooked  by  broiling.  The  fowl  weighing 
from  1%  to  2i/4  lbs.  is  an  excellent  size  for  the  popular  method  of 
skillet  frying. 

First  of  all  see  that  the  fowl  is  picked  and  free  from  pin  feathers. 
Singe  over  gas  flame  or  burning  paper  to  free  it  from  hairs.  If  the 
skin  of  the  fowl  seems  to  have  dirt  deeply  imbedded  in  the  pores  it 
is  advisable  to  wash  the  chicken  with  a  mild  white  soap.  A  generous 
amount  of  soda  may  be  spread  over  the  skin  and  washed  off  for  quick 
cleansing  results  also.  It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  scrape  the  skin 
with  a  semi-sharp  knife  to  remove  discoloration  and  dirt.  If  the  skin 
of  a  fowl  is  examined  closely  through  a  magnifying  glass,  one  is  thor¬ 
oughly  convinced  that  thorough  cleansing  is  a  necessity. 

After  the  fowl  is  thoroughly  cleaned,  draw  it  carefully,  saving  the 
heart,  liver  and  gizzard.  Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces  according  to  joints 
and  sized  pieces  desired.  When  cut,  wash  through  two  cold  waters, 
but  do  not  allow  it  to  stand  in  plain  or  salted  water  at  this  time. 
There  is  no  more  necessity  for  allowing  chicken  to  be  soaked  in  water 
than  it  is  necessary  to  soak  beef  steak  or  pork  chops.  Simply  chill 
the  chicken  after  washing. 

Chicken  is  better  when  fried  in  half  butter  and  half  lard,  or  lard 
substitute.  We  would  suggest  that  enough  fat  be  placed  in  the  skillet 
to  give  the  assurance  that  the  chicken  will  be  well  oiled  during  the 


—  260 


FRIED  CHICKEN  AND  ROAST  TURKEY 


frying  period.  Heat  the  fat  to  frying  heat,  but  far  below  smoking. 
Flour  the  pieces  generously  and  fit  them  carefully  in  the  skillet,  being 
sure  that  the  liver  is  tucked  away  in  the  back  to  prevent  the  “  pop¬ 
ping”  and  burns  that  many  persons  have  experienced.  When  all  pieces 
are  fitted  in  to  the  skillet,  cover  tightly  and  allow  it  to  fry  slowly 
until  the  pieces  are  browned  lightly,  then  salt  and  pepper  sparingly 
on  the  top  side  before  turning.  After  turning  salt  and  pepper  the 
other  side  sparingly  and  either  allow  the  chicken  to  continue  frying 
in  covered  form  until  done  or  allow  the  cover  to  remain  off  after  the 
first  turning,  the  former  method  being  the  better.  There  are  many 
different  ways  of  frying  a  chicken,  but  the  process  just  given  is  the 
popular  every-day  method. 

Chicken  may  be  fried  by  dipping  the  pieces  in  very  fine  cracker 
crumbs,  dropped  in  very  hot  fat,  browned  quickly  on  both  sides,  then 
covered  tightly  and  set  in  oven  to  simmer  slowly  until  tender. 

Another  method  is  to  have  a  kettle  half  full  of  piping  hot  fat  in 
readiness  and  drop  the  well  floured  pieces  in  and  allow  them  to  cook 
quickly  in  the  deep  fat. 

An  ancient  method  was  to  place  the  chicken  on  to  boil  in  a  small 
amount  of  unsalted  water.  The  chicken  was  allowed  to  cook  until 
half  tender  and  most  of  the  water  boiled  away.  The  chicken  was  then 
dipped  from  the  hot  kettle,  rolled  in  flour  and  placed  in  piping  hot 
butter  to  brown  over  quickly  on  both  sides.  When  browned,  the 
liquid  from  the  boiling  kettle  was  poured  into  the  skillet  and  the 
chicken  covered  and  set  back  on  the  stove  to  simmer.  This  finished 
dish  was  called  “Smothered  Chicken. ” 


ROASTING  A  YOUNG  TURKEY. 

(Without  Stuffing.) 

Use  the  same  method  for  the  dressing  and  cleaning  of  turkey  as 
given  for  chicken.  (See  American  Fried  Chicken.)  When  the  fowl 
is  cleaned  and  trussed,  lay  it  on  a  rack,  set  the  rack  under  the  broiler 
burner  and  allow  the  turkey  to  brown  well  over  the  entire  surface. 
It  is  advisable  to  place  a  drip  pan  under  the  turkey  at  this  time.  This 
searing  process  alone  usually  requires  from  30  to  40  minutes’  careful 
watching.  When  one  is  deprived  of  the  use  of  a  broiling  oven  for  this 
preliminary  work,  the  baking  oven  may  be  heated  very  hot  and  used. 
Place  the  turkey  on  a  rack,  with  a  drip  pan  under  it,  and  with  high 
pressure  heat  allow  the  fowl  to  remain  long  enough  to  brown  evenly 
over  the  surface.  This  means  the  frequent  turning  of  the  fowl. 

When  well  seared  and  browned  place  the  turkey  on  a  rack,  breast 
down,  in  baking  pan.  It  is  natural  for  the  juice  to  drain  through  the 
fowl  downward,  hence  the  reason  for  turning  the  breast  down.  The 

—  261  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


breast  being  the  chosen  part,  it  is  necessary  to  watch  this  point.  To 
keep  the  back  of  the  turkey  from  becoming  too  brown,  thin  slices  of 
soaked  salt  pork  may  be  placed  evenly  over  it,  or  a  thick  dough  batter 
may  be  spread  over  and  allowed  to  remain  for  the  greater  part  of  the 
baking  period.  If  any  liquid  oozed  out  of  the  fowl  during  the  searing, 
pour  it  into  the  roasting  pan  with  the  turkey  and  add  a  little  addi¬ 
tional  hot  water.  Salt  and  pepper  the  turkey,  sprinkle  a  little  flour 
all  over  the  surface,  cover  the  roaster  and  set  the  fowl  to  bake  on 
even  medium  heat.  At  regular  intervals  from  this  time  on,  till  done, 
baste  the  turkey  well,  and  at  one  other  basting  period  an  additional 
sprinkling  of  flour  may  be  given.  The  fat  or  dough  may  be  removed 
at  the  last  quarter  of  baking  period,  to  permit  a  final  browning  over 
the  top.  When  the  joints  of  the  fowl  seem  loose  it  is  a  sure  sign  of 
the  turkey  being  in  a  tender  condition.  About  3 ^  hours’  time  is 
required  for  a  10  or  12  lb.  turkey. 


—  262  — 


CHAPTER  XXVI 


Frozen  Desserts 


PINEAPPLE  PARFAIT. 

1  cup  grated  pineapple  2  egg  whites 

Vi  cup  water  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  whipping  cream 

Boil  the  pineapple,  water  and  sugar  5  minutes,  then  add  slowly 
to  well  beaten  egg  whites,  whipping  briskly  at  last.  Next  add  lemon 
juice  and  chill.  Whip  cream  stiff  and  combine  with  the  chilled  in¬ 
gredients.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  3  hours. 

ANGEL  PARFAIT. 

%  cup  sugar  2  cups  rich  cream 

rAt  cup  water  Few  grains  of  salt 

3  egg  whites 

3  teaspoons  of  vanilla  or  less  of 
other  flavoring 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads  (not  hairs).  When  it 
reaches  this  stage  set  it  aside  to  cool  while  the  egg  whites  are  being 
whipped  very  stiff.  Now  pour  the  syrup  slowly  into  the  eggs  and  whip 
briskly  until  smooth,  then  combine  with  the  cream,  add  the  salt  and 
pour  into  the  freezer.  Freeze  in  the  freezer  by  turning.  A  table¬ 
spoonful  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water,  then 
mixed  with  *4  cup  of  boiling  water  may  be  added  to  make  parfait  a 
little  firmer. 


SUNSHINE  PARFAIT. 

Make  the  same  as  Angel  Parfait,  only  add  the  well  beaten  egg 
yolks  to  the  egg  white  and  syrup  after  it  has  been  whipped  until 
smooth  and  creamy. 

ANGEL  PARFAIT  IN  MOLD. 

Follow  these  instructions  carefully  for  a  delicious  light  parfait  : 
Soak  2  teaspoons  of  gelatine  in  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water  for  5 

—  263  — 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 


minutes,  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  boiling  water  and  set  aside.  Boil 
14  cup  granulated  sugar  with  y2  cup  water  until  a  thread  forms  (not 
a  hair).  When  it  threads,  remove  it  from  fire  and  let  stand  while  2 
egg  whites  are  beaten  very  stiff,  then  pour  the  syrup  slowly  into  the 
eggs  and  whip  briskly  until  smooth.  Now  take  the  gelatine  and  strain 
through  a  cloth  into  the  egg  mixture  and  stir  until  well  mixed,  then 
set  in  cold  place  while  3  cups  of  whipping  cream  are  whipped  very  stiff. 
When  cream  is  stiff,  fold  the  egg  mixture  into  the  cream,  add  3  tea¬ 
spoons  of  vanilla  extract  and  it  is  ready  for  freezing.  This  may  be 
frozen  in  one  solid  mold  or  placed  in  individual  molds,  but  the  mold  or 
molds  must  be  equipped  with  tight  covers  to  prevent  any  of  salt  or  ice 
water  seeping  in  while  freezing.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  3 
or  4  hours  before  serving.  Twelve  or  14  servings  may  be  made  from 
this. 

CHOCOLATE  PARFAIT  WITH  NUTS. 

%  cup  sweet  milk  3  cups  whipping  cream 

%  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  *4  cup  chopped  pecans 

Heat  milk  in  double  boiler;  add  chocolate  and  stir  until  smooth, 
then  add  sugar.  When  mixture  is  smooth  and  sugar  dissolved,  remove 
from  fire  and  cool.  Whip  cream  stiff,  add  vanilla  and  nuts  and  fold  in 
chocolate  mixture.  Pour  into  a  mold  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  3 
hours.  If  4  parts  ice  and  1  part  salt  are  used  satisfactory  results  will 
follow. 


MAPLE  PARFAIT. 

1  cup  maple  syrup  1  pint  whipping  cream 

4  eggs 

Beat  egg  yolks  light,  to  which  add  the  maple  syrup.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick.  Cool  mixture,  then  add  the  well  whipped 
egg  whites  and  whipped  cream.  Stir  all  together,  pack  in  mold  and 
set  in  salt  and  ice  for  2  hours. 

ORANGE,  LEMON  AND  BANANA  ICE. 

3  cups  water  4  large  yellow  bananas 

1*4  cups  sugar  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  cup  strained  orange  juice  *4  tablespoon  gelatine 

Place  2  cups  of  water  in  a  saucepan  with  the  sugar  and  boil  5 
minutes.  Cool  the  syrup  and  add  to  it  the  strained  orange  juice.  Next 
run  the  bananas  through  a  sieve  or  colander  and  add  to  first  mixture 
together  with  the  lemon  juice.  Take  the  remaining  cup  of  water  and 
divide  in  2  parts.  Into  one-half  dissolve  the  gelatine  and  bring  the 
other  half  to  hot  point.  After  the  gelatine  has  soaked  5  minutes  in  the 

—  264— 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES 


cold  water,  then  add  the  hot  water  to  it  and  ponr  all  over  in  fruit 
mixture.  Either  pour  the  mixture  into  freezer  and  freeze  like  this  or 
take  a  few  minutes  more  and  run  it  all  through  a  coarse  cheese  cloth 
and  add  to  it  enough  yellow  cake  coloring  to  make  it  bright  in  color. 
If  last  suggestion  is  followed,  ice  will  be  beautiful  and  delicious. 

This  makes  1 y2  quarts  in  frozen  form. 


BLACKBERRY  OR  RASPBERRY  ICE. 

3  cups  water  1%  cups  rich  raspberry  juice 

lbs  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  gelatine 

Take  *4  cup  of  the  water  and  into  this  dissolve  the  gelatine.  Place 
the  remaining  water  and  sugar  on  to  boil  for  about:  10  or  15  minutes. 
When  boiled,  remove  from  fire  and  combine  with  the  raspberry  juice 
and  gelatine.  Freeze  hard  and  serve. 


QUICK  MACAROON  ICE  CREAM. 

1  quart  rich  cream  2  teapoons  vanilla  or 

1  cup  dry  macaroon  crumbs  1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

%  cup  sugar 

Combine  all  and  freeze. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM. 

%  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate  1  large  can  evaporated  milk 

1  cup  sugar  (1%  cups) 

2  cups  milk  Few  grains  of  salt 

Place  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler  and  melt.  When  it  becomes 
soft,  add  the  sugar  and  milk  alternately,  stirring  constantly  to  keep 
it  smooth.  When  it  boils  up  and  is  in  even  dark  color,  set  it  aside  to 
cool.  When  cool  add  evaporated  milk  and  salt,  then  freeze.  Two  tea¬ 
spoons  of  vanilla  may  also  be  added. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM. 

1 H  cups  sugar  3  eggs 

U  cup  boiling  water  1  quart  rich  cream 

2  cups  sweet  milk  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Melt  .1  cup  of  sugar  in  iron  skillet  and  let  it  brown  to  golden 
brown  color,  then  add  to  it  the  *4  cup  of  boiling  water.  Beat  the  3 
eggs  light  and  add  to  the  sweet  milk,  together  with  the  remaining  y2 
cup  of  sugar.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  then  remove 
from  fire,  add  to  first  mixture  and  cool.  Last  add  the  rich  cream  and 
vanilla.  Freeze. 

—  265  — 


( 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 


VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 

2  cups  thick  cream  1  *4  cups  granulated  sugar 

1  quart  rich  milk  2  tablespoons  vanilla 

4  well  beaten  eggs  Few  grains  of  salt 

Freeze  in  freezer  till  stiff. 


VANILLA  CUSTARD  ICE  CREAM. 

Beat  4  eggs  till  well  mixed  and  combine  with  1  quart  of  milk  and 
1 14  cups  of  sugar.  Cook  in  double  boiler  till  it  sets  and  thickens  some. 
Take  from  fire  and  add  1  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  3  table¬ 
spoons  of  cold  water.  Last  add  2  cups  thick  cream  and  2  tablespoons 
vanilla.  Freeze  in  freezer  till  stiff. 


ORANGE  ICE  CREAM. 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  single  cream 

1  cup  water  3  egg  yolks 

2  cups  strained  orange  juice  1  cup  whipping  cream 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  5  minutes,  then  cool  and  add  orange 
juice.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  light  and  add  to  the  single  cream  and  cook 
in  double  boiler  till  it  thickens,  then  remove  from  fire,  cool  and  add  to 
orange  juice  mixture.  Last  beat  the  whipping  cream  very  stiff  and 
add.  Either  freeze  in  freezer  or  pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  4 
hours. 

FROZEN  FIG  AND  DATE  PUDDING. 

2  cups  stewed  figs  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  2  cups  cream 

34  cup  sugar  cup  halved  dates 

Have  figs  stewed  until  tender.  Run  them  through  a  sieve,  and  add 
lemon  juice,  sugar,  nutmeg  and  cream.  Seed  dates  and  cut  in  halves, 
adding  them  whole  to  the  mixture.  Freeze  stiff  and  serve  with  stiff, 
unsweetened  whipped  cream,  or  it  may  be  served  plain. 


FROZEN  FRUIT  PUDDING. 


1  cup  sugar 
%  cup  water 
4  eggs 

1  quart  cream 


cup  candied  pineapple 
M  cup  candied  cherries 
cup  blanched  almonds 
M  cup  Sultana  raisins 


Boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  becomes  a  thick  syrup. 
Beat  yolks  and  whites  together  until  very  light.  Pour  the  boiling  thick 

—  266  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


syrup  into  the  eggs  and  when  it  is  well  mixed  place  in  a  double  boiler 
and  cook  till  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire  and 
cool.  When  cold,  add  the  cream,  chopped  pineapple,  cherries  and  al¬ 
monds.  Next  add  washed  and  dried  Sultana  or  yellow  raisins 
Freeze  until  very  stiff.  Serve  with  heavy  pineapple  syrup.  Other 
sauces  may  be  used  instead  of  pineapple  syrup. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

94  cup  sugar  Few  grains  of  salt 

M  cup  water  1  cup  shredded  pineapple 

2  egg  whites 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  till  it  threads.  If  thermometer  is  used 
to  236°  F.  When  boiled  pour  it  into  the  well  beaten  egg  whites.  Add 
the  salt  and  beat  till  creamy,  then  cool  and  add  the  pineapple.  Put 
mixture  in  a  mold  with  tight  cover  and  pack  in  salt  and  ice  to  set  for 
2  or  3  hours. 


Home  Made  Soap 

(Excellent.) 

11  cups  melted  and  strained  fat  cup  powdered  borax 

5  cups  cold  water  V*  cup  sugar 

1  can  high  grade  standard  lye  4  teaspoons  oil  of  sassafrass 

cup  ammonia 

Use  any  kind  of  old  melted  fat.  Strain  it  through  a  cloth  into 
a  stone  crock  or  enamel  pan.  Pour  the  5  cups  of  cold  water  into  an¬ 
other  granite  receptacle  or  stone  crock,  and  into  this  dissolve  the  lye 
by  pouring  it  in  from  the  can  and  stirring.  Add  to  the  lye  water  the 
ammonia,  powdered  borax  and  sugar,  stir  again  and  cool  to  a  luke¬ 
warm  point.  Now  combine  the  lye  mixture  with  the  strained  fat  by 
pouring  the  lye  mixture  slowly  into  the  fat,  stirring  constantly  with 
a  wooden  stick.  Add  the  sassafras  and  continue  to  stir  until  it  be¬ 
comes  creamy,  which  means  about  15  minutes’  stirring.  Set  it  away 
in  some  cool  place  and  let  it  stand  36  hours  before  cutting  or  sawing 
into  bars.  If  measurements  and  instructions  are  carefully  followed 
there  is  no  failure  in  following  this  recipe. 


—  267  — 


CHAPTER  XXVII 


Mincemeat,  Pickles 


and  Relish 


QUICK  MINCE  MEAT. 


8  cups  chopped  apples 
8  cups  finely  chopped  or  ground 
tender  neck  meat 
1  lb.  seeded  raisins 

1  lb.  currants 

2  glasses  of  tart  jelly 

Mix  all  together  and  use  soon 
length  of  time,  boil  2  minutes,  then 


4  cups  light  brown  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

after  making.  If  to  be  kept  any 
ieal  airtight. 


ECONOMY  MINCE  MEAT. 


1 lbs.  lean  beef,  cooked  and 
ground  fine 

%  lb.  uncooked  suet,  ground 
fine 

1  lb.  seeded  raisins 
1  lb.  thoroughly  cleaned  cur¬ 
rants 

H  lb.  citron,  ground  fine 
10  medium  sized  apples 

Mix  all  well  together  and  keep 
to  boiling  point  and  boil  5  minutes, 


M  cup  dark  molasses 
5  cups  brown  sugar 
cups  vinegar 

2  teaspoons  nutmeg 
1  teaspoon  cloves 

3  teaspoons  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  ginger 
1 M  teaspoons  salt 

in  cold  place  in  stone  jar  or  bring 
then  seal  airtight  in  fruit  jars. 


DILL  PICKLES. 


Dill  pickles  are  made  by  washing  5  to  6  inch  length  pickles,  then 
soaking  them  in  cold  water  for  4  or  5  hours.  Remove  the  pickles  from 
water  and  prepare  as  follows : 

Place  a  layer  of  grape  or  horseradish  leaves  in  a  stone  jar.  On 
top  of  leaves  place  pickles,  then  a  few  pieces  of  dill  and  a  generous 

—  268  — 


MINCEMEAT,  PICKLES  AND  RELISH 


sprinkle  of  salt.  Repeat  the  layers  in  same  way  until  jar  is  filled,  then 
on  top  of  all  place  a  layer  of  grape  leaves  and  weight  it  all  down  with 
a  plate  and  a  sterilized  rock. 

BETH’S  MUSTARD  PICKLES. 


12  cucumbers 
14  medium  sized  onions 
7  green  peppers 

1  large  cauliflower  head 

10  medium  sized  green  tomatoes 

2  bunches  celery 

1  gallon  cold  water 


2  cups  salt 

5  tablespoons  ground  mustard 
1  cup  flour 

1  tablespoon  turmeric 

3  cups  sugar 

6  %  cups  vinegar 


Slice  and  cut  into  pieces  all  the  vegetables  and  place  them  in  a 
granite  kettle  with  the  cold  water  and  salt  and  let  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  drain  off"  a  little  of  the  liquid  and  put  the  rest  of  the 
mixture  on  to  cook  till  it  comes  to  a  boil.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  mix 
the  mustard,  flour,  turmeric  and  sugar  together  and  add,  together  with 
the  vinegar.  Bring  it  all  to  a  boil  the  second  time,  then  seal  in  air¬ 
tight  glass  jars. 

MIXED  SWEET  PICKLES. 


1  small  head  cauliflower 
36  tender  carrots 

36  small  white  onions 
36  very  small  pickles 
3  cups  cider  vinegar 
1*4  cups  water 

2  cups  sugar 


2  teaspoons  nutmeg 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
20  whole  cloves 

3  teaspoons  mustard  seed 
J4  teaspoon  ginger 

1  tablespoon  salad  oil 


Cook  cauliflower,  carrots  and  onions  until  tender  and  yet  firm, 
having  the  cauliflower  separated.  When  tender,  cut  each  carrot  in 
about  5  slices.  Place  all  these  ingredients,  including  the  washed  un¬ 
cooked  pickles,  in  sterilized  fruit  jars.  Next  boil  all  remaining  in¬ 
gredients  together  5  minutes  and  pour  into  jars  and  seal  airtight. 


WATERMELON  PICKLES. 


1  gallon  watermelon  rind 
6  cups  vinegar 
5  cups  granulated  and  1  cup 
brown  sugar 
1  *4  teaspoons  nutmeg 


teaspoon  cloves 
U  teaspoon  allspice 
%  teaspoon  ginger 
2  sticks  of  cinnamon  or  2  tea¬ 
spoons  ground  cinnamon 


Peel  watermelon  rind  and  remove  all  red  or  pink  meat.  Cut  in  de¬ 
sired  sized  pieces  and  see  that  there  is  one  gallon  in  cut  form.  Place 
rind  in  kettle  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  and  add  1  teaspoon  salt. 
Boil  until  rind  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  toothpick,  then  drain  in 


—  269  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


colander  for  at  least  two  hours.  When  drained,  place  the  vinegar, 
sugar,  nutmeg,  cloves,  allspice,  ginger  and  cinnamon  in  granite  kettle 
and  boil  for  20  minutes  before  adding  the  rind.  Now  boil  all  together 
until  rind  looks  transparent  and  juice  has  thickened.  Seal  in  fruit 
jars  airtight.  One  lemon  may  be  washed,  sliced  and  added  if  desired. 

ELLA’S  EASY  METHOD  PICKLES. 

Select  fresh  crisp  pickles,  wash  and  wipe  dry  and  pack  in  ster¬ 
ilized  fruit  jars.  Take  plain  vinegar  and  bring  to  a  boil  and  pour 
over  the  pickles  in  jar.  To  each  jar  add  a  few  mustard  seed,  black 
pepper,  any  desired  spice  or  flavoring.  A  tiny  pinch  of  alum  may  be 
dropped  into  the  jar  before  sealing  airtight.  If  sweet  pickles  are 
wanted,  add  sugar  to  the  boiling  vinegar.  Pickles  prepared  in  this 
manner  and  sealed  airtight  keep  perfectly. 

GRACE’S  MUSTARD  PICKLES. 

Pack  clean  dry  medium  sized  pickles  cut  in  halves  in  fruit  jars. 
To  each  quart  jar  add  4  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  salt  and  2 
tablespoons  dry  ground  mustard.  Fill  jar  with  cold  vinegar  and  seal 
airtight.  If  properly  sealed  these  will  keep  indefinitely. 

OIL  PICKLES. 

50  pickles,  three  inches  long  2  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

10  medium  sized  white  onions  2  quarts  cider  vinegar 

1  small  head  of  cauliflower  cup  salt 

%  cup  any  kind  of  salad  oil, 
olive  oil  being  the  best 

Slice  pickles  and  onions.  Separate  cauliflower  in  small  branch 
pieces,  then  mix  all  together  with  the  salt.  Pour  into  jar,  weight 
down  with  plate  and  let  stand  about  4  hours.  Drain,  pack  pickles  in 
sterilized  jars.  Mix  oil,  mustard  seed  and  vinegar  together  and  pour 
into  jars  in  cold  condition.  Seal  airtight. 

PICKLED  PEACHES. 

2J4  cups  vinegar  3  sticks  cinnamon  or  1J4  tea- 

314  cups  sugar  spoons  ground  cinnamon 

11  teaspoon  ground  cloves  or  15  1  teaspoon  ginger  or  1  piece  of 

whole  cloves  ginger  root 

1*4  teaspoons  nutmeg 

Place  all  ingredients  in  an  enamel  kettle  and  boil  for  15  minutes. 
At  end  of  15  minutes  drop  in  enough  peeled  clingstone  peaches  to  take 
up  the  syrup.  Boil  until  the  peaches  are  easily  pierced  with  toothpick. 

—  270  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


Time  must  be  determined  by  the  ripeness  of  peaches.  Do  not  cook 
till  peaches  lose  their  shape.  Ordinarily  5  minutes’  boiling  is  ample 
time. 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEARS. 

1  peck  medium  sized  firm  pears  1  piece  of  ginger  root,  or 

2  lbs.  light  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger 

1  quart  cider  vinegar  About  2  tablespoons  whole  cloves 

5  medium  sticks  of  cinnamon 

Pare  and  halve  the  pears.  Place  the  sugar,  vinegar,  cinnamon, 
ginger  and  cloves  on  to  boil  for  5  minutes.  At  the  end  of  5  minutes 
drop  the  pears  in  and  cook  just  long  enough  for  them  to  become  about 
half  tender.  Place  the  pears  in  sterilized  jars  and  fill  with  the  boiling 
syrup.  Seal  airtight.  If  the  jars  lack  syrup  a  little  additional  water 
or  vinegar  may  be  boiled  and  added. 


WINTER  RELISH. 


3  large  dill  pickles 
6  medium  sized  sweet  pickles 
1  Bermuda  onion  size  of  orange 
1  cup  chopped  cabbage 
3  pimentos 
1  large  green  pepper 


.2  tablespoons  brown  sugar 
2  tablespoons  white  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 
*4  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
}4  cup  vinegar 


Chop  the  pickles,  onion,  cabbage,  pimentos  and  pepper  fine.  Com¬ 
bine  with  the  other  ingredients  and  boil  5  minutes;  keep  in  glass  jar 
and  serve  as  wanted. 


CORN  RELISH. 


15  large  ears  of  corn 
1  *4  cups  granulated  sugar 
6  cups  vinegar 

1  medium  sized  solid  head  of 
cabbage,  chopped  fine 
3  large  green  peppers,  chopped 
fine 

1  large  onion 


1  tablespoon  chopped  red  pepper 
or  36  small  red  peppers  taken 
from  bottled  pepper  sauce 

114  tablespoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  dry  mustard 

*4  teaspoon  turmeric 

1  teaspoon  mustard  seed 

14  teaspoon  celery  salt  or  14  tea¬ 
spoon  celery  seed 


Select  corn  of  the  small  tender  grain  variety  and  cut  from  cob, 
being  careful  not  to  cut  too  deep.  After  cutting  all  that  can  be  cut 
with  knife,  scrape  the  ears  to  secure  the  hearts,  which  usually  are 
deep-seated  in  cob.  Place  the  corn  and  vinegar  in  a  granite  kettle  and 
cook  for  10  minutes.  At  end  of  10  minutes’  cooking  period,  add  the 
cabbage,  peppers,  onion,  red  peppers,  salt,  mustard,  turmeric,  mustard 
seed  and  celery  salt.  Now  cook  again  all  together  for  20  minutes. 
Seal  in  glass  jars  while  hot.  This  makes  6  pints. 

—  271  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


COLD  TOMATO  RELISH. 


1  peck  ripe  tomatoes 
6  medium  sized  onions 
4  large  green  peppers 
Tender  stalks  from  2  bunches  of 

celery 

2  red  sweet  peppers 


%  cup  salt 
4  cups  cider  vinegar 
3  cups  sugar  (or  less) 

3  tablespoons  mustard  seed 
^  tablespoon  celery  seed 


Chop  the  tomatoes,  onions,  peppers  and  celery  quite  tine,  to  which 
add  the  y2  cup  of  salt  and  let  stand  several  hours,  or  over  night.  Drain 
off  the  liquid  and  add  the  vinegar,  sugar,  mustard  and  celery  seed  and 
seal  without  cooking. 


CUCUMBER  RELISH. 

25  large  cucumbers  2  cups  granulated  sugar 

10  large  white  onions  2  tablespoons  celery  seed 

1  large  red  sweet  pepper  2  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

4  cups  vinegar  1  tablespoon  turmeric 

Peel  cucumbers  and  either  slice  or  cut  in  large  diced  pieces.  Peel 
and  chop  onion  in  small  sized  pieces.  Chop  the  red  sweet  pepper  very 
tine.  Now  place  all  ingredients  in  granite  kettle  and  boil  for  20  min¬ 
utes.  Seal  airtight  and  put  away  for  winter.  This  makes  about  8 
pints. 

BEET  RELISH. 


8  cups  cooked  and  chopped 
beets 

6  cups  chopped  cabbage 
1  cup  horseradish  (bottle  pre¬ 
pared  or  fresh  grated) 


3  cups  sugar 
2  teaspoons  salt 

1  teaspoon  pepper 

2  teaspoons  mustard  seed 


Mix  all  together  and  pack  in  fruit  jars.  Pour  boiling  vinegar  in 
each  jar  and  see  that  all  spaces  are  tilled.  Now  pour  the  vinegar  off 
again  by  tipping  the  jar  and  draining.  Place  the  vinegar  on  and 
bring  to  boiling  point  again  and  pour  into  the  jars.  Now  seal  airtight 
and  it  will  keep  indefinitely. 


MAGENTA’S  RELISH. 


16  red  sweet  peppers 
16  green  sweet  peppers 
4  green  hot  peppers 
4  red  hot  peppers 
16  medium  sized  white  onions 


2  cups  sugar  (either  granu¬ 
lated  or  brown) 

4  tablespoons  salt 
4  cups  vinegar 


Wash  peppers  and  remove  seeds.  Grind  peppers  and  onions  in 
food  chopper,  then  place  mixture  in  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling 


—  272  — 


MINCEMEAT,  PICKLES  AND  RELISH 


water.  Cover  pan  and  let  stand  5  minutes.  After  it  stands  5  minutes, 
drain  and  then  add  to  it  the  sugar,  salt  and  vinegar.  Bring  to  boiling 
point  and  simmer  for  20  minutes.  Seal  in  airtight  jars. 


SWEET  PICKLE  RELISH. 


5  cups  green  tomatoes,  chopped 
and  drained 

5  cups  cabbage,  chopped 

3  large  sweet  peppers,  chopped 
2  large  red  sweet  peppers, 

chopped 

4  large  onions,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  mustard  seed 
1  teaspoon  celery  seed 

6  small  red  peppers,  chopped 


4  cups  vinegar 
1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  cup  white  sugar 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  nutmeg 

1  teaspoon  ginger 

2  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  ground  mustard 
1  tablespoon  whole  cloves 


Mix  all  together,  cook  until  tender,  then  seal  airtight  in  fruit 

jars. 


POLLY’S  PEANUT  RELISH. 


2  tablespoons  butter 
1  tablespoon  flour 
1  cup  water 

1  tablespoon  sweet  cream 
1  well  beaten  egg 
1  cup  sugar 
1  teaspoon  celery  seed 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  tablespoon  vinegar 
1  lb.  unsalted  peanuts,  ground 
fine 


Place  the  butter  in  a  skillet  and  melt.  Add  the  flour  and  stir  till 
brown  like  for  gravy.  Next  add  the  water,  sweet  cream  and  well 
beaten  egg  in  mixed  form.  Stir  till  smooth,  then  add  all  other  in¬ 
gredients  and  boil  together  2  minutes.  Serve  cold. 


DUTCH  RELISH. 


8  cups  green  tomatoes,  chopped 
4  cups  cabbage,  chopped 

9  onions,  chopped 

6  large  green  peppers,  chopped 
2  large  red  sweet  peppers, 
chopped 


cup  salt 

2  quarts  of  vinegar 

3  cups  white  or  brown  sugar 
1  cup  flour 

Yz  cup  dry  mustard 

4  tablespoons  turmeric 


Place  the  tomatoes,  cabbage,  onion,  green  and  red  pepper  and  salt 
on  to  cook  with  8  cups  of  cold  water.  Cook  till  tender,  then  drain  and 
set  aside.  Place  the  vinegar  in  a  large  enamel  bowl  and  add  to  it  the 
sugar,  flour,  mustard  and  turmeric  blended  together.  Boil  this  for  3 
minutes,  then  add  the  chopped  mixture,  boil  another  5  minutes  and  seal 
in  airtight  pint  jars. 


—  273  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


MENARD  RELISH. 


3  large  dill  or  sour  pickles 
6  mediiun  sized  sweet  pickles 
2  bermuda  onions,  size  of 
oranges 

2  large  red  sweet  peppers 

3  large  green  sweet  peppers 
3  cups  cabbage 

2  cups  vinegar 


2  teaspoons  salt 

teaspoon  white  ground 
pepper 

2  teaspoons  mustard  seed 
1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
14  teaspoon  celery  seed 
%  cup  brown  sugar 
1  tablespoon  flour 


Slice  pickles  in  thin  slices  and  place  in  enamel  bowl.  Chop  the 
onions,  red  and  green  peppers  very  fine  and  place  in  with  pickles. 
Shred  the  cabbage  and  add.  Next  ponr  in  the  vinegar  and  add  salt, 
pepper,  mustard,  mustard  seed  and  celery  seed.  Last  blend  the  sugar 
and  flour  and  add.  Stir  all  the  ingredients  and  boil  for  5  minutes. 
Seal  in  airtight  glass  jars. 


REBA’S  MUSTARD  RELISH 


2  qts.  sliced  medium  sized  cu¬ 
cumbers 

1  qt.  very  small  pickles 
1  qt.  small  white  onions 
1  qt.  small  green  tomatoes, 
sliced 


4  medium  sized  heads  of  cauli¬ 
flower 

6  green  hot  peppers,  cut  in 
pieces 


Make  a  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg.  Place  all  these 
ingredients  in  the  brine  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
simmer  all  in  the  same  brine  until  cauliflower  is  tender,  then  drain. 
Make  a  paste  with  the  following  ingredients : 

1  gal.  vinegar  mustard 

1  oz.  turmeric  3  cups  sugar 

Mt  lb.  high  grade  ground  2  cups  flour 

Place  the  vinegar  in  enamel  kettle.  Mix  all  other  ingredients 
together  and  add.  Cook  and  stir  ’til  thick,  then  add  the  vegetables, 
bring  to  a  boil  and  seal. 


GREEN  TOMATO  RELISH. 


1  peck  green  tomatoes 

1  cup  salt 

4  cups  water 
3  cups  chopped  raisins 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon 
*4  tablespoon  allspice 


1  tablespoon  ginger 
1  tablespoon  mustard 
1  tablespoon  celery  seed 

1  cup  green  peppers,  chopped 
5  cups  brown  sugar 

2  quarts  vinegar 


Chop  the  green  tomatoes  and  let  stand  over  night,  mixed  with 
the  1  cup  of  salt.  Next  morning  drain  well  and  place  in  granite  kettle 

—  274  — 


MINCEMEAT,  PICKLES  AND  RELISH 


with  the  4  cups  of  water  and  boil  20  minutes.  Drain  again  at  the  end 
of  20  minutes,  then  combine  with  all  the  other  ingredients  and  return 
to  fire  and  boil  10  minutes,  then  seal  airtight  for  winter  use. 


PICCALILLI. 


bushel  green  tomatoes 

1  peck  of  onions 

Tender  stalks  from  2  bunches  of 
celery 

2  green  peppers 

cup  salt 


1  medium  sized  head  of  cauli¬ 
flower 

4  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  ground  mustard 
6  dry  red  hot  peppers 


Slice  the  tomatoes,  onions,  celery  and  green  peppers  in  a  granite 
kettle  to  which  add  the  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
drain  and  add  the  cauliflower,  separated  in  small  branch  pieces,  the 
mustard  seed,  cloves,  cinnamon,  ground  mustard  and  red  peppers  finely 
chopped.  Add  to-  this  equal  parts  of  strong  vinegar  and  water,  bring¬ 
ing  the  liquid  almost  to  the  top  of  the  pickle.  Now  add  enough  light 
brown  sugar  to  suit  individual  taste  and  boil  until  the  vegetables  are 
easily  pierced  with  a  toothpick,  then  seal  in  airtight  jars.  This  makes 
nearly  2 y2  gallons. 


SPICED  TOMATO  CATSUP. 


30  large  red  tomatoes 
4  large  onions 
12  peach  tree  leaves 
M  cup  sugar 
1 14  teaspoons  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 


1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  teaspoon  ground  mustard 

2  teaspoons  celery  salt 

1  teaspoon  mustard  seed 

2  teaspoons  salt 

2  teaspoons  tabasco  sauce,  or 
}4  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 


Cook  unpeeled  tomatoes,  onions  and  peach-tree  leaves  together 
until  they  are  mushy,  then  run  through  a  sieve  into  a  granite  kettle. 
Add  the  sugar  to  tomato  mixture.  Tie  all  the  other  ingredients  up  in  a 
cheese  cloth  bag  and  cook  with  the  mixture  till  of  desired  consistency, 
then  bottle  and  seal  airtight. 


RED  TOMATO  CATSUP. 


30  large  red  tomatoes 

2  large  onions 

3  cups  vinegar 

cups  sugar 

14  teaspoon  white  pepper 


scant  teaspoon  cayenne 
pepper 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
M  teaspoon  ginger 
lt4  tablespoons  salt 


Select  large  red  ripe  tomatoes,  wash,  then  place  in  kettle  with 
the  onions  in  chopped  form.  Boil  until  tender  enough  to  run  through 

—  275  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


a  sieve.  Sieve  must  have  fine  enough  mesh  to  remove  all  seeds.  It 
takes  some  few  minutes  to  run  the  mixture  through  a  sieve,  but  if 
carefully  done  very  little  pulp  will  be  wasted.  Now  pour  this  tomato’ 
and  onion  mixture  in  a  granite  kettle  and  into  it  pour  the  vinegar, 
sugar,  white  pepper,  cayenne,  dry  mustard,  ginger  and  salt.  Cook  all 
together,  stirring  frequently.  Cook  and  stir  until  it  passes  the  watery 
stage  and  is  of  the  desired  thickness.  Best  results  will  follow  if  the 
mixture  is  not  allowed  to  boil  too  rapidly.  This  makes  a  real  red  cat¬ 
sup  and  should  be  canned  in  bottles,  corked,  sealed  with  sealing  wax, 
then  when  cold  the  cork  end  of  the  bottle  dipped  in  melted  paraffine 
wax. 


RIPE  MANGO  CHILI  SAUCE. 


20  large  red  tomatoes 
3  medium  sized  onions 
5  large  red  mango  peppers 
2  16  cups  vinegar 
1  cup  water 
1 cups  sugar 
1  16  tablespoons  salt 
14  teaspoon  white  pepper 


2  teaspoons  ground  cinnamon 
2  teaspoons  dry  mustard 
14  teaspoon  cloves 
14  teaspoon  allspice 
16  teaspoon  ginger 
14  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper  or 
24  small  peppers  taken  from 
pepper  sauce  bottle 


Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes  and  cut  out  hard  center  cores.  Chop 
the  onions  and  red  mangoes  as  fine  as  possible  with  chopper.  Cut  the 
tomatoes  in  small  pieces  with  knife.  Combine  tomatoes,  mangoes, 
onions  and  all  other  ingredients  and  cook  in  granite  kettle  until  the 
mixture  is  thick  or  does  not  seem  to  be  in  a  watery  stage.  A  slow 
heat,  constant  stirring  and  watching  is  necessary.  An  hour  to  an  hour 
and  a  half  slow  cooking  is  required. 

This  recipe  will  make  about  10  bottles.  If  a  sweeter  sauce  is  de¬ 
sired,  more  sugar  may  be  added.  Seal  in  airtight  glass  jars  or  bottles. 


CHILI  SAUCE. 


25  large  red  tomatoes 
6  medium  sized  onions 
3  cups  vinegar 
1  16  cups  sugar 
1  tablespoons  salt 
14  teaspoon  white  pepper 


14  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 
2  teaspoons  ground  cinnamon 
2  teaspoons  dry  mustard 
}4  teaspoon  ginger 
16  teaspoon  cloves 
16  teaspoon  allspice 


Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes  and  see  that  the  tough  center  core  is 
removed.  Chop  the  peeled  onions  as  fine  as  can  be  chopped  with 
chopper  and  add  to  tomatoes.  Next  add  all  other  ingredients  and  cut 
tomatoes  in  small  pieces  and  place  in  granite  kettle.  Cook  all  together, 
stirring  frequently,  until  the  sauce  is  thickened.  This  usually  requires 
an  hour  or  longer  of  slow  cooking  and  careful  watching.  In  a  finished 
product  the  chili  sauce  is  a  bright,  rich  red  and  quite  tasty.  If  one 


—  276 


MINCEMEAT,  PICKLES  AND  RELISH 


would  care  for  a  more  highly  seasoned  product,  a  little  more  of  each 
of  the  flavoring  ingredients  may  be  added. 

This  recipe  makes  10  good  sized  bottles  of  chili  sauce.  Seal  air¬ 
tight. 


IDEAL  MINCE  MEAT. 


3  lbs.  of  lean  beef,  cooked  and 
ground  fine 

1  lb.  of  suet,  uncooked  and 
ground 

1  lb.  seeded  raisins 

1  lb.  thoroughly  washed  cur¬ 
rants 

%  lb.  citron,  ground  very  fine 

12  medium  sized  apples,  peeled 
and  chopped 

1  lb.  cooked  apricots,  chopped 
cup  candied  lemon  peeling, 
ground  fine 


*4  cup  candied  orange  peeling, 
ground  fine 

2  cups  rich  preserves  of  any  va¬ 
riety 

1  cup  dark  molasses 

3  cups  brown  sugar 
5  cups  white  sugar 

3  cups  strong  vinegar 

3  cups  cider 

4  teaspoons  nutmeg 

2  teaspoons  cloves 

5  teaspoons  cinnamon 
2  teaspoons  ginger 

1  tablespoon  salt 


Cook  the  beef  until  it  is  so  tender  it  falls  into  pieces,  then  run 
it  through  the  chopper.  Combine  all  ingredients  and  place  on  stove 
and  cook  for  5  minutes;  seal  in  airtight  jars  for  winter  use.  If  the 
mince  meat  is  made  during  cold  weather  it  will  keep  in  a  stone  jar 
unsealed  if  kept  in  cold  place.  Where  it  is  not  possible  to  use  cider, 
all  vinegar  may  be  used  instead,  but  in  such  case  an  additional  cup  of 
sugar  must  be  added.  This  amount  will  make  7  quarts  of  mince  meat 
and  should  be  made  at  a  cost  not  to  exceed  $3.00. 


VEGETABLE  PASTE, 


40  large  ripe  tomatoes 
6  large  sized  carrots 
6  large  sized  onions 
6  large  green  peppers 
4  large  red  sweet  peppers 
1  cup  finely  chopped  parsley 
4  large  bunches  of  celery 


1  2-lb.  head  of  cabbage 
6  large  turnips 

2  cups  pearl  barley 
1  cup  rice 

3  tablespoons  salt 

1  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 


Wash  and  cut  the  tomatoes  in  pieces,  but  do  hot  peel.  Wash  and 
slice  the  carrots  in  unpeeled  form.  Peel  the  onion  and  slice.  Wash, 
seed  and  chop  the  peppers.  Chop  the  parsley  very  fine.  Wash  and 
chop  celery,  using  white  leaves  and  stalks.  Chop  the  cabbage,  then 
peel  and  slice  turnips.  Now  combine  all  these  ingredients,  including 
barley,  rice,  salt  and  cayenne,  and  boil  in  one  large  kettle  very  slowly 
for  two  hours,  stirring  frequently  so  that  the  mixture  does  not  stick. 
After  2  hours  of  slow  boiling,  remove  from  fire,  cool  and  run  through 
a  colander.  After  it  is  pressed  through  a  colander,  return  to  stove 

—  277  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


and  allow  mixture  to  simmer  slowly  and  cook  down  to  a  very  thick 
paste.  During  the  last  of  the  cooking  period  it  must  be  well  protected 
from  burning  and  the  paste  should  be  the  consistency  of  firm  apple 
butter.  Place  in  sterilized  small  sized  jars  and  seal.  Paste  may  be 
opened  during  winter  months  and  used  for  all  soups  and  flavoring.  It 
keeps  indefinitely  after  it  is  opened  during  winter  months. 


PEPPER  HASH. 

12  red  sweet  peppers  3  tablespoons  salt 

12  green  peppers  2  cups  white  or  dark  sugar 

12  white  onions  2  cups  vinegar 

3  red  hot  peppers 

Grind  peppers  and  onions  fine  and  place  in  kettle.  Pour  boiling 
water  over  this  and  drain  at  once.  Next  add  the  salt,  sugar  and  vine¬ 
gar  and  boil  for  15  minutes,  then  seal  airtight. 


GREEN  TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT. 


6  cups  green  tomatoes 
6  cups  apples 

1  cups  sorghum  molasses 

2  cups  brown  sugar 

2  cups  white  sugar 
1  lemon 

3  cups  cider 
1  lb.  suet 


2  lbs.  raisins 
1  lb.  currants 

1  piece  of  citron,  size  of  egg 
%  tablespoon  allspice 

tablespoon  cloves 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

3  tablespoons  nutmeg  or  mace 


Run  tomatos  through  chopper,  place  in  bag  with  a  sprinkle  of  salt. 
Drain  over  night.  Measure  6  cups  after  drained.  Run  raisins,  citron, 
suet  and  whole  lemon  through  grinder.  Place  all  ingredients  in  granite 
vessel  and  cook  until  perfectly  tender.  Can  in  fruit  jars.  Remove 
seeds  from  the  lemon  before  using. 


VINEGAR. 

A  good  vinegar  may  be  made  by  boiling  3  gallons  of  rain  water 
3  minutes,  then  add  3  lbs.  dark  brown  sugar  and  cool  to  lukewarm. 
Toast  3  slices  of  white  or  rye  bread  and  spread  a  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  on  each  slice.  Pour  the  sugar  water  into  jar  or  keg,  and  place 
the  toast  in  the  liquid,  yeast  side  down.  Tie  2  thicknesses  of  cheese 
cloth  over  top,  tie  down  securely  and  set  aside  for  6  weeks  in  warm 
place.  At  the  end  of  6  weeks,  strain  and  bottle.  Place  corks  in  bottle, 
but  do  not  seal.  This  is  good  at  end  of  year.  Better  the  longer  it 
stands.  Don’t  cover  too  tight;  the  mixture  needs  oxygen  during  fer¬ 
mentation  period. 


—  278  — 


Index 


A  pg_g0g 

Affinity  Pie . . .  149  TWfT.^0e 


Pages 


Alinda’s  Uncooked  Cold  Icing .  81 

All  Purpose  Dough .  28 

Alma’s  Ice  Box  Cake .  75 

Almond  Cake  “Ambrosia” .  76 

Almond  Sour  Cream  Drop  Cakes.  .  92 

Almond  Tea  Bars .  95 

Almond  Torte .  77 

American  Chili  Con  Carne . !.  176 

Angel’s  Delight .  105 

Angel  Pood  Loaf  Cake .  70 

Angel  Layer  Cake .  71 

Angel  Parfait  .  263 

Angel  Parfait  In  Mold .  263 

Anna’s  Best  Ever  Preserves .  257 

Apple  Cake .  100 

Apple  Crust .  102 

Apple  Custard  Pie .  143 

Apple  Fritters .  154 

Apple  Meringue  Cake .  57 

Apple  Roll .  101 

Apple  Sauce  Cake .  57 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding .  120 

Apple  Tarts .  100 

Apple  Salad .  227 

Apricot  and  Lemonade .  253 

Asparagus  Salad .  220 

B 

Baked  Apple  Dumplihgs .  102 

Baked  Apples,  Stuffed .  101 

Baked  Apples  Stuffed  With  Dates 

and  Figs  .  108 

Baked  Cauliflower .  196 

Baked  Corn  Croquettes .  183 

Baked  Ham  With  Riced  Eggs....  170 

Baked  Hash .  177 

Baked  Heart  Fricassee . ,.  ...  173 

Baked  Hen  Fricassee . .  ...  166 

Baked  One  Meal  Potato .  204 

Baked  Oysters .  187 

Baked  Potato  (Mountain  Style)...  204 

Baked  Squabs .  169 

Baked  Squash  In  the  Shell .  209 

Baked  or  Steamed  Brown  Bread.  .  33 

Baked  Tomatoes .  206 

Baked  Veal  Hearts  With  Stuffing.  173 
Baking  Powder  Parker  House 

Rolls  .  34 

Banana  Cake .  61 

Banana  Cream  Cake,  No.  1 .  61 

Banana  Cream  Cake,  No.  2 .  62 

Banana  Fritters .  154 

Banana  Nut  Cream  Pie .  138 

Banana  Pineapple  and  Nut  Salad.  228 

Banana  Salad .  227 

Banana  Sandwiches .  251 

Banana  Whipped  Cream  Pie .  141 

Batter  Cakes: 

Bread  Crumb .  47 

Buckwheat  Griddle .  46 

Canned  Corn  Batter .  45 

Corn  Meal .  46 

Cream  .  48 

German  Raw  Potato .  48 

Overnight  Yeast  .  48 

Raised  Buckwheat .  46 

Raw  Potato .  48 

Rice  Griddle .  47 

Rolled  Oats .  47 

Rye  .  47 

Sour  Milk .  46 

Sour  Milk  Bran .  49 

Sweet  Milk  .  48 

Sweet  Milk  Bran .  49 

Water .  45 

Whole  Wheat .  45 

Batter  For  Frying  Oysters .  179 

Bean  Loafi. .  197 

Beans,  Hollandaise  Baked .  196 

Beaten  Biscuit .  31 


Beef  Relish . "  272 

Beets,  Boiled.. . 207 

Bermuda  Onion  and  Pork  Sand¬ 
wich  .  247 

Beth’s  Mustard  Pickles .  269 

Biscuits: 

Beaten  .  31 

Egg  Tea . !  31 

Irish  .  ig 

Health  . .  ’  '  31 

Rolled  Oats .  31 

Sour  Milk .  30 

Sweet  Milk .  30 

Blackberry  or  Raspberry  Ice .  265 

Blackberry  or  Raspberry  Roll, 

Fresh  .  105 

Blackberry,  Raspberry  or  Red 

Raspberry  Cobbler .  106 

Black  and  White  Pudding .  Ill 

Black  Walnut  Kisses .  98 

Black  Walnut  Loaf  Cake .  76 

Blanched  Almonds .  254 

Blanc  Mange  With  Fruit  Sauce.  .  .  122 

Boiled  Beets .  207 

Boiled  Icing .  84 

Boiled  Rice,  First  Process .  198 

Boiled  Rice,  Second  Process .  198 

Boston  Baked  Beans .  197 

Bran  Bread .  20 

Bran  Cookies .  90 

Bran  Muffins  For  Luncheon .  42 

Bran  Nut  Loaf .  36 

Bread  Crumb  Batter  Cakes .  47 

Bread  Crumb  Muffins .  40 

Bread  Pudding  Made  With  Yeast..  118 
Breads: 

Baked  or  Steamed  Brown .  33 

Bran  .  20 

Choice,  Corn .  32 

Cocoa  .  25 

Corn  .  32 

Corn,  Spoon .  32 

Cream  .  21 

“Crackling,”  Corn .  32 

Dry  Yeast  Sponge .  14 

Eggless  Corn .  32 

Graham  No.  1 .  13 

Graham  No.  2 .  13 

Gluten  .  17 

Health  .  18 

Nut  .  33 

One  Graham  Loaf .  37 

Pink  .  12 

Quick  .  33 

Quick  Rye .  16 

Rolled  Oats .  15 

Sally  Lunn .  37 

Salt  Rising .  15 

Salt  Rising,  Quick  Method .  19 

School  .  18 

Spiced  .  24 

Sour  Milk  Thompson  Breakfast 

Cakes  .  35 

Sticks  .  14 

Whey  . 20 

White  .  9 

Whole  Wheat .  16 

Bread  Sticks .  14 

Breakfast  Cinnamon  Rolls .  34 

Breakfast  Pudding .  200 

Bride’s  Cake .  67 

Bride’s  Orange  Basket  Salad .  228 

Broiled  Steak .  161 

Broiled  Sweetbreads  With  Mush¬ 
rooms  . 171 

Brown  Sauce .  210 

Brown  Sugar  Cookies .  91 

Brown  Sugar  Hard  Sauce .  125 

Brussels  Sprouts .  201 

Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes .  46 


—  279  — 


MINCEMEAT,  PICKLES  AND  RELISH 


Pages 


Buffet  Salad .  219 

Buns,  Hot  Cross .  25 

Buns,  Raised  Graham .  25 

Buns,  Sandwich .  19 

Burnt  Sugar  Cake .  64 

Burnt  Sugar  Syrup .  126 

Butter  Macaroons .  96 

Butter  Scotch  Nut  Rolls .  22 

Butter  Scotch  Pie .  150 

Butter  Scotch  Syrup  For  Deserts 

and  Ice  Creams .  127 

C 

Cabbage,  Fried .  207 

Cabbage  Slaw .  235 

Cabbage,  Steamed,  in  White  Sauce  207 
Cake: 

Alma’s  Ice  Box .  75 

Almond  Cake  “Ambrosia” .  76 

Angel  Food,  Loaf .  70 

Angel,  Layer  .  71 

Apple  .  100 

Apple  Meringue  .  67 

Apple  Sauce  .  57 

Banana  .  61 

Banana,  Cream  No.  1 .  61 

Banana  Cream  No.  2 .  62 

Black  Walnut .  76 

Bride’s  .  67 

Burnt  Sugar  .  64 

Chooey  Cheese .  77 

Clayton  Quick  Coffee .  35 

Coffee  .  26 

Devil’s  Food .  59 

Eggless  Chocolate .  63 

Fudge  .  66 

Gold  .  56 

Hard  Time  .  66 

Honey  .  58 

Jam  .  61 

Jelly  .  74 

Lady  Baltimore .  68 

Lazy  .  68 

Lemon  .  60 

Lemon  Sunshine . , .  73 

Marble  .  65 

Mock  Angel .  71 

Molasses  .  64 

One  Egg  Cocoanut .  69 

Orange  ' .  56 

Pickaninny  .  73 

Pineapple  .  73 

Plain  Layer .  64 

Polly  Anna .  75 

Pork  .  65 

Pound  .  59 

Red  Chocolate .  62 

Ribbon  Angel  Food .  71 

Rich  Fruit .  67 

Rose’s  Spice .  76 

Six  Egg  White  Angel  Food .  70 

Sour  Cream  .  59 

Sour  Milk  Spice .  58 

Sour  Milk  Ginger .  58 

Sponge  No.  1 .  72 

Sponge  No.  2 .  72 

Sunshine  .  72 

Three  Day  Ginger .  74 

Three  Layer  Chocolate .  61 

Tutti  Frutti .  63 

Two  or  Three  Layer  Cocoanut.  .  69 

White  Fruit . 55 

White  Layer  .  63 

White  Loaf  .  55 

Zoo  Loo .  68 

Calves’  Brains  with  Eggs .  173 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes .  206 

Canned  Corn  Batter  Cakes .  45 

Canned  Corned  Beef  Sandwiches..  249 

Canoe  Salad .  221 

Caramel  Currant  Pie .  149 

Caramel  Fried  Cakes .  156 

Caramel  Ice  Cream .  265 

Caramel  Loaf  Cake .  6b 

Caramel  Sauce .  123 


Pages 


Catsup,  Red  Tomato .  275 

Catsup,  Spiced  Tomato .  275 

Cauliflower,  Baked .  196 

Cauliflower,  Creamed .  196 

Cauliflower  Salad .  222 

Celery  and  Tomato  Salad .  220 

Celery  Loaf .  201 

Celery  Mayonnaise  .  237 

Charlotte  Russe .  122 

Cheese  and  Tomato  Sandwich 

Salad  .  221 

Cheese  and  Tomato  Sauce .  213 

Cheese  Balls  .  194 

Cheese  Bars  .  193 

Cheese  Cabbage  and  Pineapple 

Salad  .  235 

Cheese  Covering  .  36 

Cheese  Crisps  .  194 

Cheese  Fondue  .  194 

Cheese  Pie  .  148 

Cheese  Sauce  For  Fish .  214 

Cheese  Souffle  .  194 

Cheese  Straws  .  43 

Cherry  Custard  Pie .  144 

Cherry  Pie  .  145 

Cherry  Punch  .  252 

Chicken  A-La-King  .  165 

Chicken  Croquettes  .  186 

Chicken  Omelet  .  167 

Chicken  Pie .  166 

Chicken  Potato  Puffs .  167 

Chicken  Raviola  .  179 

Chicken  Rice  In  Casserole .  166 

Chicken  Tamales  .  167 

Chiffon  Pudding .  108 

Children’s  Breakfast  Toasties.  .  .  .  199 

Children’s  Sweet  Egg  Noodles 

Soup  .  160 

Chili  Con  Carne,  American .  176 

Chili  Con  Carne,  Mexican .  177 

Chili  Con  Carne,  Rice .  176 

Chili  Sauce .  276 

Chili  Sauce,  Ripe  Mango .  276 

Chocolate  Cream  Pie .  139 

Chocolate  Custard  Pie .  139 

Chocolate  Eclairs  .  121 

Chocolate  Fried  Cakes .  156 

Chocolate  Fritters  .  155 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream .  265 

Chocolate  Icing  .  83 

Chocolate  Jiffy  Icing .  82 

Chocolate  Parfait  With  Nuts .  264 

Chocolate  Pie  .  145 

Choice  Corn  Bread .  32 

Chooey  Chese  Cake .  77 

Cider  Baked  Ham .  170 

Cinnamon  Apples .  119 

Citron  Cookies  .  89 

Citron  Macaroons  .  96 

Circle  Salad .  229 

Clam  Chowder .  190 

Clara’s  One-Two-Three  Conserve.  257 

Clayton  Quick  Coffee  Cake .  35 

Club  Sandwich .  250 

Cobbler,  Blackberry,  Raspberry  or 

Red  Raspberry .  106 

Cobbler,  Rich  Cherry .  105 

Cobbler,  Steamed  Apple .  101 

Cocoa  Bread  .  25 

Cocoa  Cup  Cakes .  94 

Cocoa  For  Breakfast  or  Luncheon  200 

Cocoa  Muffins  .  41 

Cocoa  Pudding  Sauce .  126 

Cocoanut  Cookies  .  86 

Cocoanut  Covered  Fried  Cakes...  156 

Cocoanut  Cream  Pie .  140 

Cocoanut  Custard  Pie .  142 

Codfish  Balls . 189 

Codfish,  Creamed .  189 

Codfish  Salad  .  230 

Coffee  Cake .  26 

Coffee  Cake,  Clayton . :. . .  .  35 

Coffee  Cake,  Quick  Cheese .  36 

Coffee  Cake,  Sponge .  27 

Cold  Icing  and  Filling .  80 


—  280  — 


INDEX 


Pages 

Cold  Tomato  Relish .  272 

Combination  Salad .  219 

Conserve,  Damson  Plum .  258 

Conserve,  Pineapple  Cherry  and 

Strawberry  .  258 

Conserve,  Rhubarb .  259 

Conserve,  Spanish  Peach .  258 

Cooked  Cabbage  Salad .  225 

Cooked  Cream  Salad  Dressing.  . .  .  238 

Cooked  Oil  Salad  Dressing .  239 

Cookies: 

Almond  Tea  Bars .  95 

Bran  .  90 

Brown  Sugar .  91 

Cheese  Bars .  193 

Citron  .  89 

Cocoanut  .  86 

Corn  Flake  .  88 

Corn  Flake  Rocks .  96 

Corn  Meal  .  43 

Crumb  .  87 

Economy  .  90 

Florence’s  Christmas .  91 

Frances’s  Almond .  91 

Ginger  Snaps .  98 

Graham  Wafers .  95 

Health  .  87 

Hermits  .  95 

Honey  .  86 

Ideal  Ginger  Snaps .  98 

Jumbles  .  94 

Lillie’s  Sliced .  90 

Marie’s  Butter .  91 

Nut  .  88 

Nut  Squares .  95 

Orange  Tea .  92 

Peanut  Butter .  87 

Pepper  Nuts .  99 

Prune  .  89 

Sour  Cream .  88 

Soft  Ginger .  89 

Sophia’s  Brownies .  99 

Sugar  .  89 

Tea  Cakes .  92 

Vanilla  Wafers .  94 

Coriander  and  Pepper  Ball  Loaf.  .  177 

Corn  Cob  Syrup .  50 

Corn  Flake  Cookies .  88 

Corn  Flake  Drops  and  Kisses....  98 

Corn  Flake  Rocks .  96 

Corn  Fritters  .  154 

Corn  Meal  Cakes .  46 

Corn  Meal  Wafers .  43 

Corn  Pudding  .  114 

Corn  Relish  .  271 

Corn  Starch  Pudding .  113 

Cottage  Cheese  No.  1 .  194 

Cottage  Cheese  No.  2 .  195 

Cottage  Cheese  Salad .  233 

Cottage  Pudding  No.  1 .  113 

Cottage  Pudding  No.  2 .  113 

Cove  Oyster  Salad .  231 

Crab  Salad  .  232 

“Crackling”  Corn  Bread .  32 

Cranberry  Jelly .  256 

Cranberry  Salad  .  229 

Cream  Batter  Cakes .  48 

Cream  Bread  .  21 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup .  159 

Cream  of  Carrot  Soup .  159 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup .  158 

Cream  of  Chicken  Soup .  157 

Cream  of  Corn  .  159 

Cream  of  Kidney  Bean  Soup .  158 

Cream  of  Mushroom  Soup .  160 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup .  157 

Cream  of  Potato  Soup .  157 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup .  159 

Cream  of  Vegetable  Soup .  158 

Cream  Parker  House  Rolls .  22 

Cream  Pie  .  140 

Cream  Puffs  .  106 

Cream  Sauce  .  12- 

Creamed  Cabbage  Salad .  223 

Creamed  Cauliflower  .  196 


Pages 


Creamed  Codfish  .  189 

Creamed  Dried  Beef  on  Toast 

With  Riced  Eggs .  174 

Creamed  Egg  Plant .  208 

Creamed  Oyster  Plant  (or  Salsify)  202 
Creamed  Shrimp  in  Pate  Shells.  .  188 

Creamed  Shrimps  With  Eggs .  189 

Creole  Sauce .  212 

Croquettes: 

Baked  Corn .  183 

Chicken  .  186 

Currant  Crumb  .  183 

Lobster  .  183 

Potato  .  184 

Rolled  Oats .  182 

Salmon  .  183 

Suggestions  .  182 

Crumb  Cookies .  87 

Crumb  Pudding  .  109 

Crumb  Puff  Pastry .  131 

Cucumber  and  Cheese  Sandwiches  247 

Cucumber  Dressing  .  214 

Cucumber,  Onion  and  Cheese  Sand¬ 
wiches  .  247 

Cucumber  Relish  .  272 

Cucumber  Salad  .  217 

Currant  Crumb  Croquettes .  183 

Currant  Fried  Cakes .  156 

Currant  Tarts  .  107 

Custard  Nut  Pie .  143 

Custard  Sauce  .  126 

D 

Dainty  Dumplings  .  185 

Dainty  Fruit  Pudding .  110 

Dainty  Fruit  Salad .  226 

Dainty  Shrimp  Sandwiches .  245 

Damson  Plum  Conserve .  258 

Danish  Pudding .  114 

Dark  Molasses  Cakes .  46 

Date  and  Marshmallow  Pudding.  .  115 

Date  Nut  Filling .  79 

Date  Pie  .  150 

Date  Pudding  .  Ill 

Dates,  Stuffed  and  Candied .  121 

Delicious  Liver  Sandwiches .  249 

Delmonico  Lunch .  193 

Deviled  Eggs .  192 

Devil’s  Food  Cake .  59 

Dill  Pickles .  268 

Divinity  Filling  .  80 

Divinity  Pie  No.  1 .  148 

Divinity  Pie  No.  2 .  148 

Dixie  Chocolate  Icing .  82 

Dixie  Pudding  .  117 

Doughnuts,  Raised .  24 

Drawn  Butter .  210 

Dressing  For  Fowl,  Oyster  and 

Celery  .  169 

Dried  Apricot  Pie .  151 

Dried  Peach  Pudding .  116 

Drop  Dumplings .  185 

Dry  Yeast  Sponge  Bread .  14 

Dumplings: 

Baked  Apple .  102 

Dainty  .  185 

Drop  .  185 

Fruit  .  103 

Meat  .  185 

Raw  Potato .  185 

Suggestions  .  182 

Dutch  Relish .  273 

E 

Economy  Cookies  .  90 

Economy  Mince  Meat .  268 

Economy  Pie  Crust . 130 

Egg  and  Cheese  Toast  Sandwiches  250 

Eggless  Corn  Bread .  32 

Eggless  Chocolate  Cake . 63 

Eggless  Chocolate  Pie .  144 

Eggless  Fruit  Muffins .  40 

Egg  Plant,  Creamed .  208 

Egg  Plant,  Fried .  208 


—  281  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


Pages 


Egg  Tea  Biscuit .  31 

Eggs  A-La-Golden  Rod .  191 

Elderberry  and  Apple  Pie .  135 

Elderberry  and  Grape  Jelly .  255 

Elizabeth’s  Ice  Cream  Pie .  141 

Elkhart  Drop  Cakes .  92 

Ella’s  Easy  Method  Pickles .  270 

English  Plum  Pudding .  118 

English  Toast  .  199 

F 

Fancy  Apple  Pie .  136 

Fats,  To  Clarify .  181 

Ferguson  Gems .  97 

Fig  Nut  Filling . .  .  79 

Filling  For  Cream  Puffs .  106 

Fish  Stuffing  . 178 

Flake  Pie  Crust .  130 

Florence’s  Christmas  Cookies .  91 

Fondant  For  Cakes  and  Candy.  .  .  84 

Frances’s  Almond  Cookies .  91 

French  Dressing .  239 

French  Fried  Potatoes .  204 

French  Toast .  199 

French  Waffles  .  50 

Fresh  Blackberry  or  Raspberry 

Roll  Sauce .  105 

Fresh  Blackberry  Pie .  133 

Fresh  Gooseberry  Pie .  134 

Fresh  Peach  Pie .  135 

Fresh  Raspberry  Pie .  133 

Fresh  Rhubarb  Pie .  137 

Fresh  Strawberry  Pie  No.  1 .  133 

Fresh  Strawberry  Pie  No.  2 .  133 

Fricassee,  Baked  Heart .  173 

Fricassee,  Baked  Hen .  166 

Fricassee,  Veal  .  172 

Fried  Apple  Pie .  136 

Fried  Cabbage  .  207 

Fried  Cakes: 

Suggestions  .  153 

Caramel  .  156 

Chocolate  .  156 

Cocoanut  Covered .  156 

Currant  . .  .  156 

Fried  Cakes .  155 

Potato  .  156 

Sour  Milk .  156- 

Fried  Chicken  (American  Style)..  260 

Fried  Egg  Plant .  208 

Fried  Oysters .  187 

Fried  Tomatoes  .  207 

Fritters: 

Suggestions  .  153 

Apple  .  154 

Banana  .  154 

Chocolate  .  155 

Corn  .  154 

Pineapple  .  155 

Rice  .  154 

Frozen  Fig  and  Date  Pudding.  .  .  .  266 

Frozen  Fruit  Pudding .  266 

Fruit  and  Nut  Sandwiches .  249 

Fruit  Dumplings .  103 

Fruit  Pudding  .  116 

Fruit  Punch  .  253 

Fruit  Salad  in  Mold .  226 

Fruit  Sauce  .  124 

Fudge  Cake .  66 

G 

Geraldine’s  Boston  Cream  Pie....  141 

German  Potato  Salad .  223 

German  Raw  Potato  Cakes .  48 

Ginger  Bread,  Hot  Water .  69 

Ginger  Cake,  Sour  Milk .  58 

Ginger  Cake,  Stuffed .  74 

Ginger  Cake,  Three  Day .  74 

Ginger  Snaps .  98 

Ginger  Quench .  254 

Gluten  Bread  . 17 

Gluten  Muffins  .  40 

Gold  Cake  .  56 

Gold  Cake  Filling .  79 


Pages 


Gold  Noodles  No.  3 .  184 

Gold  Nut  Icing .  83 

Gold  Sauce  .  125 

Goose,  How  To  Roast .  169 

Grace’s  Mustard  Pickles .  270 

Graham  Bread  No.  1 .  13 

Graham  Bread  No.  2 .  13 

Graham  Muffins  .  41 

Graham  Wafers .  95 

Grape  and  Elderberry  Juice .  259 

Grapefruit  .  200 

Grapefruit  Cucumber  and  Cheese 

Salad  .  217 

Grape  Fruit  Cocktail  In  The  Half 

Shell  .  253 

Grapefruit  Salad  .  217 

Grape  Juice  Punch .  252 

Grape  Juice,  To  Can .  259 

Green  Bean  and  Pimento  Salad..  223 

Green  Mountain  Salad .  222 

Green  Pepper  and  Cottage  Cheese 

Salad  .  234 

Guest  Salad .  227 

Green  Sweet  Pepper  Mayonnaise.  238 

Green  Tomato  Mince  Meat .  278 

Green  Tomato  Relish .  274 

H 

Ham  Au  Gratin . 170 

Hamburger  Pats .  174 

Ham  Sandwiches . 249 

Hash,  Baked  .  177 

Hash  Green  Sandwiches .  246 

Hard  Sauce  No.  1 .  124 

Hard  Sauce  No.  2 .  124 

Hard  Time  Cake .  56 

Health  Biscuits  .  31 

Health  Bread .  18 

Health  Cookies  .  87 

Health  Pudding .  117 

Hermits  .  95 

Hoe  Cake  .  35 

Hollandaise  Baked  Beans .  196 

Hollandaise  Sauce .  212 

Holubki  .  180 

Home  Prepared  Mustard .  242 

Home  Made  Soap .  267 

Honey  Cake  .  58 

Honey  Cookies .  86 

Horseradish  Cream  Sauce .  213 

Horseradish  Dressing .  213 

Horseradish,  Mock  .  213 

Hot  Cross  Buns .  25 

Hot  Dutch  Slaw .  236 

Hot  Water  Ginger  Bread .  69 

How  To  Make  a  Tough  Steak 

Tender  . 164 

How  To  Roast  a  Goose .  169 

Hungarian  Goulash .  175 

I 

Ice  Cream,  Caramel  .  265 

Ice  Cream,  Chocolate  .  265 

Ice  Cream,  Orange . 266 

Ice  Cream,  Quick  Macaroon .  265 

Ice  Cream,  Vanilla  .  266 

Ice  Cream,  Vanilla  Custard .  266 

Ice,  Orange,  Lemon  and  Banana.  .  264 

Ice  Water  Meringue .  162 

Icings  and  Fillings. 

Alinda’s  Uncooked .  81 

Boiled  .  84 

Chocolate  .  83 

Chocolate  Jiffy .  82 

Cold  .  80 

Divinity  .  80 

Dixie  Chocolate  .  82 

Fig  Nut  .  79 

Fondant  .  84 

Gold  Cake  .  79 

Gold  Nut .  83 

Ideal  Caramel .  82 

Jiffy  .  81 

Lady  Baltimore  .  81 


—  282  — 


INDEX 


Icings  and  Fillings — Continued:  Pages 


Lelia’s  Sandwich .  247 

Lemon  .  60 

Marhsmallow  Jiffy.... . .  81 

Marshmallow  Nut .  83 

Mock  Caramel  .  83 

Orange  .  84 

Pineapple  Cake  .  80 

Pineapple  Cream  Cake .  80 

Polly  Anna... .  81 

Soft  Chocolate .  83 

Suggestions  .  78 

Viola’s  Lemon  Cheese  Filling.  .  .  80 

Ideal  Caramel  Icing .  82 

Ideal  Chicken  Salad .  233 

Ideal  Corn  Bread .  32 

Ideal  Custard  Pie .  143 

Ideal  Ginger  Snaps .  98 

Ideal  Mince  Meat .  277 

Ideal  Olive  Oil  Mayonnaise .  237 

Ideal  Salad  Dressing .  240 

Ideal  Sandwiches  .  250 

Irish  Biscuit  .  16 

Indian  Pudding .  116 

Italian  Raviola  .  179 

Italian  Spaghetti  .  180 

J 

Jam  Cake .  61 

Jam  Cream  Pie .  140 

Jam  Pudding  .  120 

Jellied  Salmon  Loaf .  188 

Jellies. 

Cranberry  .  256 

Elderberry  and  Grape .  255 

Lemon  .  255 

Jelly  Cake .  74 

Jelly  Roll .  104 

Jiffy  Icing .  81 

Jumbles  .  94 

K 

Kidney  Bean  Soup  No.  2 .  158 

Kisses,  Black  Walnut .  98 

L 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake .  68 

Lady  Baltimore  Icing .  81 

Lady  Fingers .  97 

Lamb  A  La  King .  165 

Lazy  Cake .  68 

Leftover  Potatoes  With  Eggs .  202 

Lemon  Cake  .  60 

Lemon  Filling  .  60 

Lemon  Jelly .  255 

Lemon  Pie  No.  1 .  132 

Lemon  Pie  No.  2 .  132 

Lemon  Roll .  104 

Lemon  Sauce  .  124 

Lemon  Sauce  For  Fish .  214 

Lemon  Snow  Pudding .  109 

Lemon  Sponge  Cream  Pie .  142 

Lemon  Sunshine  Cake .  73 

Lelia’s  Sandwich  Filling .  247 

Lettuce  and  Onion  Salad .  220 

Lettuce  Salad  .  220 

Lillie’s  Sliced  Cookies .  90 

Lima  Bean  Salad .  223 

Liver  Loaf .  172 

Loaves: 

Bean  .  197 

Beef  .  171 

Bran  Nut .  36 

Celery  . 201 

Jellied  Salmon .  188 

Liver  .  172 

Mush  .  193 

Prune  Bran .  37 

Rice  Salmon .  188 

Sage  Pork .  171 

Salmon  .  187 

Veal  Crumb .  172 

Lobster  Croquettes  .  183 

Lobster  Cutlets  .  189 

Lobster  Salad .  230 


Pages 

Lucille’s  Gooseberry  and  Pineapple 


Preserves  .  255 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes .  203 

M 

Macaroni  Au  Gratin .  195 

Macaroni  Salad .  233 

Macaroons,  Butter. .  96 

Macaroons,  Citron .  96 

Macaroons,  Peanut .  96 

Macedoine  Salad .  226 

Magenta’s  Relish  .  272 

Maple  Parfait .  264 

Marble  Cake .  65 

Marguerites  .  97 

Marie’s  Butter  Cookies .  91 

Marshmallow  Cocoanut  Cream 

Pudding  .  114 

Marshmallow  Cream  Nut  Pie .  139 

Marshmallow  Jiffy  Icing .  81 

Marshmallow  Nut  Icing .  83 

Marshmallow  Nut  Salad .  234 

Marshmallow  Pecan  Sandwiches.  .  248 

Marshmallow  Pudding .  109 

Marshmallow  Sauce .  125 

Matilda’s  Schaum  Torte .  77 

Meat  Dishes: 

Baked  Ham  With  Riced  Eggs..  170 

Baked  Heart  Fricassee .  173 

Baked  Veal  Hearts,  With  Stuf¬ 
fing  .  173 

Calves’  Brains  With  Eggs .  173 

Chicken  A-La-King.  .  .  .' .  165 

Chicken  Pie  . .  .  166 

Chicken  Potato  Puffs .  167 

Chicken  Raviola  .  179 

Chicken  Rice  in  Casserole .  166 

Chicken  Tamales  . .  167 

Coriander  and  Pepper  Ball  Loaf  177 
Creamed  Dried  Beef  on  Toast 

With  Riced  Eggs .  174 

Ham  Au  Gratin .  170 

Hamburger  Pats .  174 

Hungarian  Goulash .  175 

Italian  Raviola .  179 

Lamb  A-La-King .  165 

Meat  Stuffed  Peppers .  176 

Pigs  in  Blankets .  178 

Rice  Stuffed  Peppers .  199 

Sweet  Bread  A-La-King .  165 

Veal  A-La-King  .  165 

Veal  Fricassee  .  172 

Meat  Dumplings  .  185 

Meats: 

Baked  Squabs .  169 

Broiled  Steak .  161 

Cider  Baked  Ham .  170 

Fried  Chicken  (American  Style)  260 

How  To  Roast  a  Goose .  169 

Mexican  Steak .  163 

One  Meal  Steak .  162 

Planked  Steak .  164 

Pressed  Chicken .  166 

Roasting  a  Young  Turkey .  261 

Skillet  Broiled  Steak .  163 

Smoked  Ham  Roast .  170 

Spanish  Steak .  161 

Steak  In  Casserole .  163 

Stuffed  Steak .  162 

Swiss  Steak .  162 

Meat  Stuffed  Peppers .  176 

Mexican  Chili  Con  Carne .  177 

Mexican  Dressing .  242 

Menard  Relish . 274 

Mexican  Salad .  218 

Mexican  Steak .  163 

Meringue,  Ice  Water .  152 

Meringue,  Two  Egg  White .  152 

Minced  Apple  Pie .  135 

Minced  Sandwiches .  245 

Mince  Meat,  Economy .  268 

Mince  Meat,  Green  Tomato .  278 

Mince  Meat,  Ideal  .  277 

Mince  Meat,  Quick .  268 

Mint  Sauce .  210 


—  283  — 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


3PcL§"0  s 

Mixed  Sweet  Pickles .  269 

Mock  Angel  Food  Cake .  71 

Mock  Caramel  Icing .  83 

Mock  Cherry  Pie .  134 

Mock  Horseradish .  213 

Mock  Whipped  Cream .  126 

Molasses  Cake .  64 

Molasses  Pie .  147 

Monday  Pudding.... .  117 

Muffins: 

Bread  Crumb .  40 

Bran,  For  Luncheon .  42 

Cocoa  .  41 

Eggless  Fruit .  40 

Gluten  .  40 

Graham  .  41 

Plain  .  39 

Plain  Bran .  42 

Potato  .  41 

Rice  .  39 

Rye  .  41 

Sour  Milk  Plain  Bran .  42 

Sultana  Rice  Raised .  27 

Wheat  and  Corn  Meal .  39 

Whole  Wheat .  40 

Mush  Loaf .  193 

Mushroom  Sauce .  212 

Mustard  Dressing .  214 

Mustard,  Home  Prepared .  242 

sr 

Nasturtium  Salad .  223 

Navy  Bean  Stew  With  Dumplings  175 

New  Peas  .  202 

New  Peas  and  Carrots .  201 

Nifty  Sandwiches .  248 

Nippy  Sandwiches .  248 

Nut  Bread  .  33 

Nut,  Cheese  and  Pickle  Sand¬ 
wiches  .  249 

Nut  Cookies  .  88 

Nutmeg  Sauce  .  125 

Nut  Squares .  95 

Noel  Cup  Cakes .  93 

Noodles : 

Children’s  Sweet  Egg .  160 

Gold  . 184 

Noodles  No.  1 .  184 

Noodles  No.  2 .  184 

Novelty  Lemon  Pie .  132 

o 

Oil  Pickles  .  270 

Omelet,  Chicken  .  167 

Omelet,  Plain .  191 

Omelet  Puff,  With  Cheese .  191 

One-Egg  Cocoanut  Cake .  69 

One  Graham  Loaf .  37 

One  Meal  Endive  Salad .  225 

One  Meal  Boston  Bake .  168 

One  Meal  Macaroni  Dish . 

One  Meal  Salad  .  221 

One  Meal  Steak .  162 

One  Meal  Stew .  175 

Onions  Stuffed,  Baked .  208 

Orangeade  .  253 

Orange  Cake .  56 

Orange  Frosting  .  84 

Orange  Ice  Cream .  266 

Orange,  Lemon  and  Banana  Ice.  .  264 

Orange  Marmalade  .  259 

Orange  Pie  .  137 

Orange  Pudding  .  115 

Orange  Salad .  217 

Orange  Sauce  .  125 

Orange  Tea  Cakes .  92 

Overnight  Yeast  Batter  Cakes...  48 
Oyster  and  Celery  Dressing  For 

Fowl  .  169 

Oyster  Cocktail .  187 

Oyster  Plant  (or  Salsify), 

Creamed  .  202 

Oysters,  Fried .  187 

Oysters,  Scalloped .  178 


jp  p^g,0g 

Parfait,  Angel .  263 

Parfait,  Angel,  In  Mold .  263 

Parfait,  Chocolate  With  Nuts....  164 

Parfait,  Maple .  264 

Parfait,  Pineapple .  263 

Parfait,  Sunshine .  263 

Parsnips  .  208 

Ps.stry  * 

Crumb  Puff  Pastry .  131 

Economy  .  130 

Flake  Pie  Crust .  130 

Plain  Pie  Crust  For  One  Shell..  131 

Puff  Paste .  131 

Suggestions  .  128 

Patty’s  Three-Minute  Strawberry 

Preserves  .  256 

Peach  Cream  Pie .  138 

Peach  Fluff .  122 

Peach  Short  Cake .  103 

Peanut  Butter  Cookies .  87 

Peanut  Butter  and  Cheese  Sand¬ 
wiches  .  251 

Peanut  Macaroons .  96 

Pear  Salad .  228 

Pea  Salad .  224 

Peas  and  Carrots. .  201 

Peas,  New .  202 

Pecan  Kisses .  99 

Pepper  and  Onion  Salad .  218 

Pepper  Hash .  278 

Pepper  Nuts .  99 

Phosphate  Punch .  252 

Piccalilli  .  275 

Pickaninny  Cake .  73 

Pickled  Peaches .  270 

Pickles: 

Beth’s  Mustard .  269 

Diel  .  268 

Ella’s  Easy  Method .  270 

Grace’s  Mustard .  270 

Mixed  Sweet . .  ...  269 

Oil  .  270 

Peaches  .  270 

Piccalilli  .  275 

Sweet  Pickled  Pears .  271 

Watermelon  .  269 

Pies: 

Affinity  .  149 

Apple  Custard .  143 

Banana  Nut  Cream .  138 

Banana  Whipped  Cream .  141 

Butter  Scotch .  150 

Caramel  Currant .  149 

Cherry  .  145 

Cherry  Custard .  144 

Cheese  .  148 

Chocolate  .  145 

Chocolate  Custard .  139 

Chocolate  Cream .  139 

Cocoanut  Cream  .  140 

Cocoanut  Custard  .  142 

Cream  .  140 

Custard  Nut .  143 

Date  .  160 

Divinity  No.  1 .  148 

Divinity  No.  2 .  148 

Dried  Apricot .  151 

Eggless  Chocolate .  144 

Elderberry  and  Apple .  135 

Elizabeth’s  Ice  Cream .  141 

Fancy  Apple .  136 

Fried  Apple .  136 

Fresh  Strawberry  No.  1 .  133 

Fresh  Strawberry  No.  2 .  133 

Fresh  Blackberry  .  133 

Fresh  Gooseberry  .  134 

Fresh  Peach  .  135 

Fresh  Raspberry  .  133 

Fresh  Rhubarb .  137 

Geraldine’s  Boston  Cream .  141 

Ideal  Custard .  143 

Jam  Cream .  140 

Lemon  No.  1 . .  ...  132 

Lemon  No.  2... .  132 

Lemon  Sponge  Cream .  142 


INDEX 


Pies — Continued:  Pages 

Marshmallow  Cream  Nut .  139 

Minced  Apple .  135 

Mock  Cherry .  134 

Molasses  .  147 

Novelty  Lemon .  132 

Orange  .  137 

Peach  Cream .  138 

Pineapple  Cream  .  141 

Pineapple  Raisin .  137 

Pineapple  Sponge  Cream .  142 

Plain  Currant  .  146 

Plain  Pineapple..... .  137 

Plain  Raisin  .  146 

Pumpkin  No.  1 .  147 

Pumpkin  No.  2 .  147 

Prune  .  151 

Raisin  Nut .  146 

Raspberry  Cream .  134 

Rhubarb  Custard .  134 

Sour  Cream .  139 

Squash  .  145 

Stewart  Pie .  151 

Sunny  Silver .  150 

Sweet  Potato .  149 

Thanksgiving  Squash .  145 

Two  Egg  Custard .  143 

Vinegar  .  146 

Pigs  in  Blanket .  178 

Pimento  and  Cheese  Sandwiches..  246 

Pimento  Mayonnaise  .  238 

Pineapple  and  Pimento  Salad....  228 

Pineapple  Cake .  73 

Pineapple  Cake  Filling .  80 

Pineapple,  Cherry  and  Strawberry 

Conserves  .  258 

Pineapple  Cream  Cake  Filling.  ...  80 

Pineapple  Cream  Pie .  141 

Pineapple  Fritters .  155 

Pineapple  Lemonade .  253 

Pineapple  Parfait  .  263 

Pineapple  Raisin  Pie .  137 

Pineapple  Sherbet  .  267 

Pineapple  Sponge  Cream  Pie .  142 

Pink  Bread  .  12 

Plain  Baked  Potatoes .  204 

Plain  Bread  Pudding .  110 

Plain  Bran  Muffins .  42 

Plain  Currant  Pie .  146 

Plain  Layer  Cake .  64 

Plain  Muffins .  39 

Plain  Omelet .  191 

Plain  Oyster  Stuffing.  .  178 

Plain  Parker  House  Rolls .  17 

Plain  Pie  Crust  For  One  Shell .  131 

Plain  Pineapple  Pie .  137 

Plain  Raisin  Pie .  146 

Plain  Rich  Cup  Cakes .  94 

Planked  Steak .  164 

Plum  or  Suet  Pudding  Sauce .  123 

Poached  Eggs .  192 

Poinsettia  Salad .  222 

Polly  Anna  Cake .  75 

Polly  Anna  Icing .  81 

Polly’s  Peanut  Relish .  273 

Pop  Overs  .  42 

Poppy  Seed  Buns .  26 

Poppy  Seed  Crescents .  27 

Potato  Balls .  203 

Potato  Croquettes .  184 

Potato  Fried  Cakes .  156 

Potato  Muffins .  41 

Potato,  Plain  Baked .  204 

Potato  Rosettes .  204 

Potato  Salad  No.  1 .  217 

Potato  Salad  No.  2 .  218 

Potatoes  Au  Gratin  No.  1 .  205 

Potatoes  Au  Gratin  No.  2 .  206 

Potatoes,  Baked  Mountain  Style.  .  204 

Potatoes,  French  Fried .  204 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise .  203 

Potatoes,  O’Brien  .  203 

Potatoes,  One  Meal  Baked .  204 

Potatoes,  Puffed  .  203 

Potatoes,  Scalloped  .  196 

Potatoes,  Shoestring  .  205 


—  285 


Pages 


Potatoes  With  Eggs,  Leftover...  202 

Pork  Cake  .  65 

Pot  Roast  of  Beef .  262 

Pound  Cake .  59 

Preserves: 

Anna’s  Best  Ever .  257 

Lucille’s  Gooseberry  and  Pine¬ 
apple  .  255 

Patty’s  Three  Minute  Straw¬ 
berry  .  256 

Queen  .  267 

Rhubarb  .  256 

Watermelon  .  256 

Pressed  Chicken .  166 

Prune  Bran  Loaf .  37 

Prune  Cookies .  89 

Prune  Cup  Cakes .  93 

Prune  Pudding  or  Whip .  115 

Prune  Pie .  151 

Prune  Salad .  234 

Prunes,  Spiced  .  108 

Prunes,  Stuffed  .  121 

Puddings : 

Apple  Tapioca .  120 

Black  and  White .  Ill 

Bread,  Made  With  Yeast .  118 

Breakfast  .  200 

Chiffon  .  108 

Corn  .  114 

Corn  Starch .  113 

Cottage  No.  1 .  113 

Cottage  No.  2 .  113 

Crumb  .  109 

Dainty  Fruit .  110 

Danish  .  114 

Date  and  Marshmallow .  115 

Date  .  Ill 

Dixie  .  117 

Dried  Peach .  116 

English  Plum .  118 

Fruit  .  116 

Frozen  Fig  and  Date .  266 

Frozen  Fruit  .  266 

Health  .  117 

Indian  .  116 

Jam  .  120 

Lemon  Snow .  109 

Marshmallow  .  109 

Marshmallow  Cocoanut  Cream..  114 

Monday  .  117 

Orange  .  115 

Plain  Bread .  110 

Prune,  Or  Whip .  115 

Rice  .  112 

Rice  With  Crushed  Fruits......  112 

Rich  Rice .  112 

Rolled  Oats .  110 

Steamed  Fruit  .  118 

Steamed  Suet  .  110 

Strawberry  .  119 

Ruth’s  Marsmhallow .  114 

Sweet  Potato .  119 

Tapioca  .  Ill 

Puff  Omelet  With  Cheese .  191 

Puff  Paste .  131 

Puffed  Potatoes .  203 

Pumpkin  Pie  No.  1 .  147 

Pumpkin  Pie  No.  2 .  147 

Punch  .  253 

Punch  Appetizer .  252 

Punch,  Cherry  .  252 

Punch,  Fruit .  253 

Punch,  Grape  Juice .  252 

Punch,  Phosphate .  252 

<1  Pages 

Quick  Bread  .  33 

Quick  Cheese  Coffee  Cake .  36 

Queen  Cup  Cakes .  93 

Quick  Honey  Rolls .  34 

Quick  Macaroni  Ice  Cream .  265 

Quick  Mince  Meat .  268 

Quick  Rye  Bread .  16 

Quick  Method  for  Salt  Rising 

Bread  . .  . .  .  .  19 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


Pages 


Quick  Raised  Cinnamon  Rolls.  .  .  23 

Quick  Salad  .  220 

Queen  Preserves  . ^  257 

Queen  Salad  . W  230 

Quenelles  .  173 


R 

Raised  Buckwheat  Cakes .  46 

Raised  Doughnuts  .  24 

Raised  Graham  Buns .  25 

Raisin  and  Chestnut  Stuffing.  .  ;  .  .  169 

Raisin  Nut  Pie .  146 

Raisin  Nut  Sandwiches . .  .  248 

Raspberry  Cream  Pie .  134 

Raw  Cranberry  Sauce .  108 

Raw  Potato  Cakes .  48 

Raw  Potato  Dumplings .  185 

Reba's  Mustard  Relish .  274 

Red  Chocolate  Cake .  62 

Red  Tomato  Catsup .  275 

Relishes: 

Beet  .  272 

Cold  Tomato  .  272 

Corn  .  271 

Cucumber  .  272 

Dutch  .  273 

Green  Tomato .  274 

Magenta's  Relish .  272 

Menard  .  274 

Polly’s  Peanut .  273 

Relish  or  Salad .  218 

Reba’s  Mustard .  274 

Sweet  Pickle .  273 

Winter  .  271 

Relish  or  Salad .  218 

Rhubarb  Conserve .  259 

Rhubarb  Custard  Pie .  144 

Rhubarb  Preserves  .  256 

Rhubarb  Sauce  .  108 

Ribbon  Angel  Food .  71 

Rice: 

Boiled  Rice,  First  Process .  198 

Boiled  Rice,  Second  Process....  198 
Two  Ways  of  Cooking  Rice....  197 

Rice  Balls .  120 

Rice  Chili  Con  Carne .  176 

Rice  Fritters .  154 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes .  47 

Rice  Muffins  .  39 

Rice  Pudding  . 4 .  112 

Rice  Pudding  with  Crushed  Fruit  112 

Rice  Salmon  Loaf .  188 

Rice  Stuffed  Peppers .  199 

Rich  Cherry  Cobbler .  105 

Rich  Chocolate  Syrup  For  Des¬ 
serts  or  Ice  Cream .  127 

Rich  Fruit  Cake .  67 

Rich  Rice  Pudding .  112 

Rich  Sauce .  123 

Ripe  Mango  Chili  Sauce .  276 

Roasting  a  Young  Turkey .  261 

Rolled  Oats  .  200 

Rolled  Oats  Biscuits .  31 

Rolled  Oats  Bread .  15 

Roleld  Oats  Cakes .  47 

Rolled  Oats  Croquettes .  182 

Rolled  Oats  Pudding .  110 

Rolls: 

Apple  .  101 

Baking  Powder,  Parker  House  34 

Breakfast  Cinnamon .  34 

Butter  Scotch  Nut .  22 

Cream  Parker  House .  22 

Fresh  Blackberry  or  Raspberry  105 

Jelly  .  104 

Lemon  .  104 

Plain  Parker  House .  17 

Poppy  Seed  .  26 

Poppy  Seed  Crescents .  27 

Quick  Honey  .  3.4 

Quick  Raised  Cinnamon .  23 

Water  .  20 

Whole  Wheat  Parker  House.  ...  17 

Roquefort  Cheese  Dressing  No.  1.  241 

Roquefort  Cheese  Dressing  No.  2.  241 


—  286 


Pages 

Roquefort  Cheese  and  Horserad¬ 


ish  Dressing .  213 

Rose’s  Spice  Cake .  76 

Russian  Dressing .  242 

Ruth’s  Marshmallow  Pudding.  .  .  .  114 

Rye  Batter  Cakes .  47 

Rye  Muffins  .  41 


S 

Sage  Pork  Loaf . /.  .  171 

Salads : 

Apple  .  227 

Asparagus  .  220 

Banana  .  227 

Banana,  Pineapple  and  Nut....  228 

Bride’s  Orange  Basket .  228 

Buffet  .  219 

Cauliflower  .  222 

Celery  and  Tomato .  220 

Cheese,  Cabbage  and  Pineapple  235 
Cheese  and  Tomato  Sandwich...  221 

Circle  .  229 

Codfish  .  230 

Combination  .  219 

Cooked  Cabbage .  225 

Cottage  Cheese .  233 

Cove  Oyster . 231 

Crab  .  232 

Cranberry  .  229 

Creamed  Cabbage .  223 

Cucumber  . 217 

Dainty  Fruit .  226 

Fruit,  In  Mold .  226 

Grapefruit  .  217 

Grapefruit,  Cucumber  and 

Cheese  .  217 

Green  Bean  and  Pimento .  223 

Green  Pepper  and  Cottage 

Cheese  . - .  234 

Green  Mountain .  22 

German,  Potato .  223 

Guest  .  227 

Hot  Dutch  Slaw .  236 

Ideal  Chicken .  233 

Lettuce  .  220 

Lettuce  and  Onion .  220 

Lima  Bean .  223 

Lobster  .  230 

Macaroni  .  233 

Miacedonie  .  226 

Marshmallow  Nut .  234 

Nasturtium  .  .  .  . .  223 

Mexican  .  218 

One  Meal .  221 

One  Meal  Endive .  225 

Orange  .  217 

Potato  No.  1 .  217 

Potato  No.  2 .  218 

Pea  .  224 

Pear  . 228 

Pepper  and  Onion . 218 

Pineapple  and  Pimento .  228 

Poinsettia  .  222 

Prune  .  234 

Quick  .  220 

Queen  .  230 

Rainbow  . 229 

Salmon  .  231 

Spinach  and  Egg .  219 

September  . 224 

Shrimp  No.  1 . ' _  232 

Shrimp  No.  2 .  232 

Slaw  .  235 

Snow  .  229 

Sweetbread  No.  1 .  232 

Sweetbread  No.  2 .  233 

Tomato  Jelly .  234 

Tuna  Fish  No.  1 .  231 

Tuna  Fish  No.  2 .  231 

Vegetable,  In  Mold .  225 

White  .  224 

Waldorf  .  228 

Wilted  Dandelion,  Dutch  Style.  235 
Wilted  Endive,  Dutch  Style.  .  .  .  235 

Suggestions  .  215 


INDEX 


Salad  Dressings:  Pages 

Celery  Mayonnaise .  237 

Cooked  Cream .  238 

Cooked  Oil  .  239 

Cucumber  .  214 

French  . 239 

Green  Sweet  Pepper  Mayonnaise  238 

Ideal  .  240 

Ideal  Olive  Oil  Mayonnaise .  237 

Mexican  . 242 

Pimento  Mayonnaise .  238 

Roquefort  Cheese  No.  1 .  241 

Roquefort  Cheese  No.  2 .  241 

Russian  .  242 

Suggestions  .  215 

Sour  Cream .  239 

Three  Egg  Yolk .  239 

Thousand  and  One  Island .  240 

Thousand  Island  .  241 

Velvet  .  238 

White  Mayonnaise .  237 

Sally  Lunn .  37 

Salmon  Croquettes .  183 

Salmon  Loaf .  187 

Salmon  Salad .  231 

Salt  Rising  Bread .  15 

Sandwich  Buns .  19 

Sandwiches : 

Banana  .  251 

Bermuda  Onion  and  Pork .  247 

Canned  Corned  Beef .  249 

Club  .  250 

Cucumber  and  Cheese .  247 

Cucumber,  Onion  and  Cheese...  247 

Dainty  Shrimp .  245 

Delicious  Liver .  249 

Egg  and  Cheese  Toast .  250 

Fruit  and  Nut .  249 

Ham  .  249 

Hash  Green .  248 

Ideal  .  250 

Marshmallow  Pecan .  248 

Minced  .  245 

Nifty  .  248 

Nippy  .  248 

Nut,  Cheese  and  Pickle .  249 

Peanut  Butter  and  Cheese .  251 

Pimento  and  Cheese .  246 

Raisin  Nut  .  248 

Sardine  .  245 

Sardine  and  Egg .  248 

Suggestions  .  244 

Tasty  .  246 

Saratoga  Chips .  205 

Sardine  and  Egg  Sandwiches .  248 

Sardine  Sandwiches  .  245 


Sauces : 

Brown  . 

Brown  Sugar,  Hard . 

Caramel  . 

Cheese  and  Tomato . 

Cheese,  For  Fish . 

Cranberry,  Raw . 

Cream  . 

Creole  . 

Cocoa  Pudding . 

Custard  «••«•••••••••••••••••• 

Fresh  Blackberry  or  Raspberry 

Roll  . 

Fruit . 

Gold  . . 

Hard  No.  1 . 

Hard  No.  2 . , . 

Hollandaise  . 

Horseradish  Cream . 

Lemon  . 

Lemon,  For  Fish . 

Marshmallow . 

Mint  . 

Mushroom  . 

Nutmeg  . 

Orange  . . . 

Plum  or  Suet  Pudding . 

Rhubarb  . 

Rich  . 

Sunshine  . 


210 

125 

123 

213 

214 
108 

124 
212 

126 
126 

105 

124 

125 
124 
124 
212 

213 

124 

214 

125 
210 
212 
125 

125 
123 
108 
123 

126 


Sauces — Continued:  Pages 

Tartar  No.  1... .  211 

Tartar  No.  2 .  211 

Tomato  .  210 

Victory  .  124 

Vinaigrette  .  212 

White  No.  1 .  211 

White  No.  2 .  211 

Save  All  Bread  Scraps .  21 

Save  Meat  Fryings  and  All  Fats.  .  181 

September  Salad .  224 

Scalloped  Apples .  102 

Scalloped  Eggs,  Macaroni  and 

Cheese  .  192 

Scalloped  Left-Overs  .  195 

Scalloped  Oysters  .  178 

Scalloped  Potatoes  .  196 

Scalloped  Tomatoes  .  195 

School  Bread .  18 

Scones  .  37 

Shams  .  33 

Sherbet,  Pineapple .  267 

Shoestring  Potatoes .  205 

Short  Cake,  Peach .  103 

Shrimp  Salad  No.  1 .  232 

Shrimp  Salad  No.  2 .  232 

Six-Egg  White  Angel  Food .  70 

Skillet  Broiled  Steak .  163 

Small  Cakes: 

Almond  Sour  Cream .  92 

Cocoa  Cup  Cakes .  94 

Elkhart  Drop  Cakes .  92 

Lady  Fingers . 97 

Marguerites  .  97 

Noel  Cup .  93 

Plain  Rich .  94 

Prune  Cup .  93 

Queen  cup .  93 

Soups: 

Cream  of  Asparagus  .  159 

Cream  of  Carrot  .  159 

Cream  of  Celery  .  158 

Cream  of  Chicken  .  157 

Cream  of  Corn  .  159 

Cream  of  Kidney  Bean .  158 

Cream  of  Mushroom  .  160 

Cream  of  Pea  .  157 

Cream  of  Potato  .  157 

Cream  of  Tomato  .  159 

Cream  of  Vegetable  .  158 

Kidney  Bean  158 

Vitality  .  160 

Soft  Chocolate  Icing .  83 

Soft  Ginger  Cookies .  89 

Sour  Milk  Bran  Batter  Cakes....  49 

Sophia’s  Brownies .  99 

Sour  Cream  Cake .  59 

Sour  Cream  Cookies .  88 

Sour  Cream  Pie .  139 

Sour  Cream  Salad  Dressing .  239 

Sour  Milk  Batter  Cakes .  46 

Sour  Milk  Biscuits .  30 

Sour  Milk  Fried  Cakes .  156 

Sour  Milk  Ginger  Cake .  58 

Sour  Milk  Spice  Cake .  58 

Sour  Milk  Thompson  Breakfast 

Cakes  .  35 

Sour  Milk  Waffles .  49 

Sour  Milk  Plain  Bran  Muffins.,..  42 

Spaghetti  Italian .  180 

Spanish  Peach  Conserve .  258 

Spanish  Puffs .  107 

Spanish  Rice  in  Casserole .  198 

Spanish  Steak .  161 

Spiced  Bread .  24 

Spiced  Prunes .  108 

Spiced  Tomato  Catsup .  275 

Spiced  Vinegar .  243 

Spinach  . 209 

Spinach  and  Egg  Salad .  219 

Sponge  Cake  No.  1 .  72 

Sponge  Cake  No.  2 .  72 

Sponge  Coffee  Cake.., .  27 

Spoon  Corn  Bread .  32 

Squash  Pie .  145 

Steak  En  Casserole .  163 


NINE  HUNDRED  SUCCESSFUL  RECIPES 


Pages 


Steamed  Cabbage  in  White  Sauce.  207 

Steamed  Apple  Cobbler .  101 

Strawberry  Shortcake .  103 

Steamed  Suet  Pudding .  110 

Steamed  Fruit  Pudding .  118 

Stewart  Pie .  151 

Stollen  .  28 

Strawberry  Pudding .  119 

Stuffed  Ginger  Cake .  74 

Stuffed  Baked  Apples .  101 

Stuffed  Prunes  .  121 

Stuffed  and  Candied  Dates .  121 

Stuffed  Steak .  162 

Stuffed  Celery . 201 

Stuffed  Baked  Onions .  208 

Stuffed  Eggs .  192 

Stuffing,  Fish .  178 

Stuffing  or  Dressing  For  Chicken.  168 

Stuffing,  Plain  Oyster .  178 

Stuffing,  Raisin  and  Chestnut .  169 

Snow  Salad .  229 

Smoked  Ham  Roast .  170 

Substitute  For  Whipped  Cream...  127 

Succotash  .  202 

Sugar  Cookies  .  89 

Sugar  Syrup  for  Batter  Cakes  and 

Waffles  .  49 

Sunshine  Cake .  72 

Sunshine  Parfait .  263 

Sultana  Raised  Rice  Muffins .  27 

Sunshine  Sauce .  126 

Sunny  Silver  Pie .  150 

Sweet  Bread  A  La  King .  165 

Sweetbread  Salad  No.  1 .  232 

Sweetbread  Salad  No.  2 .  233 

Swiss  Flakes .  42 

Sweet  Milk  Batter  Cakes .  48 

Sweet  Milk  Biscuits .  30 

Sweet  Milk  Bran  Batter  Cakes.  ...  49 

Sweet  Milk  Thompson  Breakfast 

Cakes  .  35 

Sweet  Milk  Waffles  for  Four .  50 

Sweet  Potato  Pie .  149 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding .  119 

Sweet  Potatoes  (Southern  Style).  206 

Sweet  Pickle  Relish .  273 

Sweet  Pickled  Pears .  271 

Swiss  Steak .  162 

Syrups: 

Corn  Cob .  50 

Burnt  Sugar .  126 

Butter  Scotch,  For  Desserts  and 

Ice  Creams .  127 

Rich  Chocolate,  For  Desserts  or 

Ice  Cream .  127 

Sugar  Syrup,  For  Batter  Cakes 

and  Waffles .  49 

T 

Tamales.  Chicken .  167 

Tamale  Noodle  Roll .  174 

Tapioca  Pudding .  Ill 

Tartar  Sauce  No.  1 .  211 

Tartar  Sauce  No.  2 .  211 

Tarts,  Apple .  100 

Tarts,  Currant .  107 

Tarts,  Vassar .  121 

Tasty  Sandwiches .  246 

Tea  Cakes .  92 

Thanksgiving  Squash  Pie .  145 

Three  Day  Ginger  Cake .  74 

Three  Egg  Yolk  Salad  Dressing.  .  239 

Three  Layer  Chocolate  Cake .  61 

Thousand  and  One  Island  Dress¬ 
ing  .  240 

Thousand  Island  Dressing .  241 

Timbale  Shells .  152 

Toast,  English .  199 

Toast,  French  .  199 


Pages 


Toast,  Tomato .  199 

To  Can  Grape  Juice .  259 

To  Clarify  Fat .  181 

Tomatoes,  Baked .  206 

Tomatoes,  Fried .  207 

Tomato  Jelly  Salad .  234 

Tomato  Sauce  .  210 

Tomatoes,  Scalloped .  195 

Tomato  Toast . 199 

Torte,  Almond .  77 

Torte,  Matilda’s  Schaum .  77 

Tough  Steak,  How  To  Make  Ten¬ 
der  .  164 

Tuna  Fish  Salad  No.  1 .  231 

Tuna  Fish  Salad  No.  2 .  231 

Turkey,  Roasting .  261 

Turnips  .  208 

Tutti  Frutti  Cake .  63 

Two  Egg  Custard  Pie .  143 

Two  Egg  White  Meringue .  152 

Two  or  Three  Layer  Cocoanut 

Cake  .  69 

Two  Ways  of  Cooking  Rice .  197 


V 

Vanilla  Custard  Ice  Cream .  266 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream .  266 

Vanilla  Wafers .  94 

Vassar  Tarts .  121 

Veal  a-la  King .  165 

Veal  Crumb  Loaf .  172 

Veal  Fricassee  .  172 

Vegetable  Paste .  277 

Vegetable  Salad,  in  Mold .  225 

Velvet  Salad  Dressing .  238 

Victory  Sauce .  124 

Vinaigrette  Sauce .  212 

Vinegar  .  278 

Vinegar  Pie .  146 

Viola’s  Lemon  Cheese  Filling.  ...  80 

Vitality  Soup .  160 


W 

Waffles: 

French  .  50 

Sour  Milk .  49 

Suggestions  .  44 

Sweet  Milk,  For  Four .  50 

Waldorf  Salad .  228 

Water  Batter  Cakes .  45 

Water  Rolls .  20 

Watermelon  Pickles  .  269 

Watermelon  Preserves  .  256 

Welsh  Rarebit .  209 

Wheat  and  Corn  Meal  Muffins.  ...  39 

White  Bread .  9 

White  Fruit  Cake .  55 

White  Layer  Cake .  63 

White  Loaf  Cake .  55 

White  Mayonnaise .  237 

White  Salad .  224 

White  Sauce  No.  1 .  211 

White  Sauce  No.  2 .  211 

Whipped  Cream,  Mock .  126 

Whipped  Cream,  Substitute .  127 

Whey  Bread .  20 

Whole  Wheat  Batter  Cakes .  45 

Whole  Wheat  Bread .  16 

Whole  Wheat  Muffins .  40 

Whole  Wheat  Parker  House  Rolls  17 
Wilted  Dandelion — Dutch  Style...  235 

Wilted  Endive — Dutch  Style .  235 

Winter  Relish .  271 


Z 

Zoo  Loo  Cake .  68 

Zwiebach .  21 


—  288 


I 


