ms^^^^^mwmmsm 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  07801  007  9 


mmm 


m 


fHilH 


iiiiii 


iiUfiiilrnlilini 


mm 


«-  $£P,  2 


AUG  31 
^  JAN  15 


\*\ 


VW 


THE  OFFICIAL   HANDBOOK   FOR   THE 

NATIONAL  TRAINING  SCHOOL 
FOR  COOKERY 


CONTAINING    THE 

■ 


LESSONS    ON    COOKERY 


WHICH   CONSTITUTE 


XLbc  ©rfcinars  Course  of  Jnstruction  in  tbe  Scbooi 

WITH   LISTS   OF   UTENSILS  NECESSARY,  AND 
LESSONS   ON  CLEANING  UTENSILS 


////      . 


M 


Compiled  by  R.  O.  C. 

FROM   THE  COURSE  OF   PRACTICE    IN   THE   NATIONAL 
TRAINING  SCHOOL 


A  NEW  AND   CHEAPEN  EDITION 
'  -   ^Twenty- Si  tth  Thousand;     1 


'  i  ■  •    ; 


LONDON :   CHAPMAN   &   HALL,  Ld. 


fHI 


«-r  Q-A. 


If  I)  0  C  •  $ 


1 


.4.  ' 


CONTENTS. 


PREFACE  .... 

LIST  OF  UTENSILS       . 
LIST  OF  CLEANING  MATERIALS 
LESSONS   ON   CLEANING       . 


PAGB 

3 

5 

12 

13 


LESSONS  ON  COOKERY 17 

APPENDIX .  445 

RULES  AND   REGULATIONS   OF  THE   SCHOOL           .          .          .  .455 

INDEX 467 


••   ••• •       • 

•  •  •    •  •       • 

•     •••••• 


•    •  •"• 


•  «  •    • 


•--•*   -••        «-•' 


PREFACE  TO  NEW  EDITION. 

I.  This  work  has  been  written  to  explain  in  an 
easy  and  altogether  new  way  the  first  principles 
of  good  Cookery,  and  being  in  the  form  of  lessons 
is  especially  addressed  to  those  who  wish  to  carry 
them  into  practice.  It  has  been  the  aim  of  the 
writer  to  leave  no  detail,  however  small,  vaguely 
stated.  It  is  taken  for  granted  that  the  learner  has 
no  knowledge  on  the  subject.  The  loose  expres- 
sions, such  as  "  a  pinch/'  a  "  little,"  found  in  most 
cookery  books,  are  therefore  avoided  as  much  as 
is  possible,  and  precise  quantities  are  given. 

II.  The  work  is  not  to  be  regarded  as  an  exhaus- 
tive cookery  book  with  very  numerous  recipes.  It 
aims  to  be  rather  a  grammar  than  a  dictionary. 

III.  The  lessons  give  a  sufficient  number  of 
examples  of  cookery,  illustrating  many  degrees  of 
cost:  thus  the  rich  may  have  a  dish  of  curried  rabbit 
for  y.  g\d.,  and  the  poor  may  have  a  dish  of  curried 
tripe  for  io|^. 

A  2 


4  Preface. 

IV.  The  work  is  based  upon  the  instruction  given 
by  the  cooks  in  the  School,  and  it  has  been  used 
and  tested  in  the  National  Training  School  for 
Cookery  since  1875.  The  instructors  now  em- 
ployed in  local  schools  throughout  the  country  have 
been  taught  and  practised  by  means  of  these  lessons. 

V.  It  has  been  found  that  it  is  most  convenient 
to  practise  the  lesson  with  the  instructions  in  sight 
close  at  hand.  An  edition  of  each  lesson  has  been 
printed  on  separate  sheets  of  thick  paper,  for  the 
use  of  students  and  teachers,  which  may  be  obtained 
at  the  National  Training  School  for  Cookery,  or  at 
the  Publishers. 

VI.  The  present  Edition  has  been  revised 
throughout;  some  changes  have  been  made,  and 
some  new  recipes  have  been  added  in  an  Appendix. 

VII.  Still  the  writer  continues  to  request  that 
the  notices  of  any  errors  and  omissions,  which  are 
inevitable  in  a  work  of  this  kind,  may  be  com- 
municated to  R.  O,  C.  to  the  care  of  the  Publishers. 

R.  O.  C. 


National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 


UTENSILS  REQUIRED  FOR  THE  LOCAL  CLASSES 
FOR  COOKERY,  IN  CONNECTION  WITH  THE 
NATIONAL   TRAINING   SCHOOL  FOR  COOKERY. 

As  supplied  to  the  Schools  by  Messrs.  B.  Perkins  and  Son. 
FOR  A  HIGH  CLASS  COOKERY  DEMONSTRATION  LESSOR. 

LIST  OF  UTENSILS  AND  THEIR  AVERAGE  COST. 

£  s.   d. 

2  large  sanitary  seamless  saucepans o    7  10 

1  small  ditto      .         .        .        .         • 017 

1  oval  pot 050 

2  sanitary  seamless  stewpans o     5     3 

I  copper  stewpan 090 

1  deep  stewpan  for  frying 046 

I  frying  basket 039 

1  frying  pan 013 

1  omelet  pan 010 

1  colander ..016 

1  Yorkshire-pudding  tin 009 

2  baking  sheets 044 

1  set  of  scales  and  weights  (4  lbs.  and  down)         .        .        .     o  15     6 

2  cake  tins  .        .         • 014 

2  souffle't  moulds 02S 

3  measures  (1  gill,  §  pint,  and  1  pint) 020 

1  pudding  mould 013 

2  jelly  moulds 060 

1  aspic  jelly  mould .        . 026 

6  patty  pans 004 

2  cook's  knives 036 

6  wooden  spoons 012 

2  forks 016 

4  iron  spoons 012 

2  tea  spoons    .        .        .         , 005 

1  grater !  o    o    7 

I  flour  dredger 4        .        .        .  o    o  10 

1  pepper  dredger 010 

1  pail 012 

1  can 043 

2  galvanized  washing-up  tubs °     5     9 

1  egg  whisk 009 

2  strainers       ,         .         .         .         ,        .         .         .         .         .029 

Carry  forward  .        .        .        •     ^5  1     n 


6         National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

£  s.  d. 

Brought  forward  .        .         .5111 

1  hair  sieve 010 

I  wire  sieve ,        .        .029 

1  paste  board °    3    9 

1  rolling  pin 006 

1  box  of  paste  cutters  . 030 

1  pastry  brush 010 

2  French  vegetable  cutters  . 010 

1  fish  kettle 063 

£6     1     2 

UTENSILS    ALSO    REQUIRED. 

£  s.   d 
6  plates 016 

2  soup  plates       .        .        . 006 

4  dishes .046 

3  pie  dishes 009 

3  large  basins °     3     9 

4  small  basins 014 

2  jugs 010 

6  tea-cloths,  about  yd.  yard 046 

2  pudding-cloths,  about  $d.  yard 005 

2  dish-cloths,  about  \d.  yard 000 


£0  18 


STOVE    REQUIRED. 
Gas  stoves,  price  from  about  £4.  4s.  od.  to  £7  ys.  od. 

N.B.  If  utensils  be  required  for  a  practice  class,  to  accommodate 
ten  pupils,  the  above  list  of  utensils  must  be  doubled  in  number,  and 
in  addition  10  knives  17^.  6d,  a  flour  box  3^.,  and  seasoning  box  5^. 
will  be  required. 


National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


UTENSILS  REQUIRED  FOR  THE  LOCAL  CLASSES 
FOR  COOKERY,  IN  CONNECTION  WITH  THE 
NATIONAL   TRAINING   SCHOOL  FOR  COOKERY. 

FOR   A   PLAIN    COOKERY    DEMONSTRATION    LESSON. 
LIST  OF   UTENSILS  AND  THEIR  AVERAGE  COST. 

i  oval  iron  boiler .050 

2  large  saucepans °    7     5 

2  medium  ditto      .         .         •        • 041 

1  frying  pan       .         . ..016 

1  omelet  pan •        .        .        .010 

r  colander 016 

1  Yorkshire-pudding  tin 009 

2  baking  sheets .        .        . 044 

1  weighing  machine  and  weights o  15     6 

2  cake  tins         .        .         .         .         .        .  .        ..014 

1  bread  tin 010 

3  tin  measures  (1  gill,  ^  pint  and  1  pint) 020 

6  patty  pans .004 

2  cook's  knives 036 

2  forks    .         . 014 

4  iron  spoons 012 

4  wooden  spoons .        .011 

2  tea-spoons       .         .         .        • 005 

1  bread  and  nutmeg  grater    . 007 

1  flour  dredger  .         .         .         .        •        .        .        .         .     .     o    o  10 

1  pepper  dredger «        .        .        .010 

1  pail 012 

1  can •        •         .043 

2  galvanized  washing-up  tubs 059 

1  gravy  strainer 013 

1  paste  board °39 

1  rolling  pin 006 

£3  12     4 


8         National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

UTENSILS     ALSO     REQUIRED. 

£    *    d. 
6  plates o    i    6 

2  soup  plates o    o    6 

4  dishes 046 

3  pie  dishes 009 

3  large  basins         . o    3     9 

4  small  basins  .         ..         ..        .        .        .        ..014 

2  jugs     .        ..........    o     i     o 

6  tea-cloths,  about  gd.  yard 046 

2  pudding-cloths,  about  $d.  yard 005 

2  dish-cloths,  about  4d.  yard 006 


^018 


STOVE     REQUIRED. 
Gas  stoves,  price  from  about  ^4  4^.  od.  to  £7  7s.  od. 

N.B.  If  utensils  be  required  for  a  practice  class,  to  accommodate  ten 
pupils,  the  above  lists  of.  utensils  must  be  doubled  in  number,  and  in 
addition  10  knives  17.?.  6d.,  a  flour  box  3.?.,  and  seasoning  box  5^.,  will 
be  required. 


National  Training  School  for  Cookery.         9 

A  COMPLETE   AND   ECONOMICAL   ESTIMATE  LIST 
OF   UTENSILS   REQUIRED   IN   A   KITCHEN, 

AND  THEIR  AVERAGE  COST. 

£  s.    a. 

4  saucepans  (sizes  from  i\  pint  to  5  quarts)  .         .        .        .098 

1  potato  steamer 026 

I  enamelled  saucepan  (size  1  quart) 023 

I  copper  preserving  pan ,        ..0176 

1  soup  digester  (size  4  quarts)        .        ,         .        .        .         .039 
1  oval  boiling  pot  (4J  gallons)  .        .        ,        .        .         ..086 

1  fish  kettle  " 069 

2  frying  pans o     2  10 

1  French  stewpan .        .        .023 

1  frying  basket 029 

1  brass  bottle-jack o  10    6 

1  meat  screen  and  dripping  pan 0156 

1  basting  ladle         .         .         .         .  .         .         .         .014 

1  gridiron 016 

1  baking  sheet  with  turned  ends 016 

1  Yorkshire-pudding  tin 009 

1  wrought-iron  teakettle 040 

1  coffee  pot  (French,  to  hold  3  pints)  .        .        ..036 

1  soufiie't  tin  (size  1^  pint) 014 

1  mould  for  apple  Charlotte ..013 

1  jelly  mould  (size  1^  pint) 026 

1  aspic  jelly  mould     .         .         .        .        ,        .        .        ..026 

1  tin  colander .         .016 

2  cake  tins  (1  round,  gd.,  and  1  oblong,  is.)      .        .        .     .     o     j     9 
6  patty  pans,  6d. ;  2  open  tart  tins,  is.  4d.  .        .        .0110 

1  strainer 013 

1  wrought-iron  salamander 056 

1  pair  of  steak  tongs  .         .         .        .        ,        .        .        ..019 

1  paste  board 039 

1  rolling  pin 006 

1  paste  brush,  is. ;  1  paste  jagger,  is 020 

I  box  of  paste  cutters         .         .        .        .        .        .        ..030 

I  chopping  board .020 

1  marble  mortar 083 

1  lignum- vitas  pestle 029 

1  flour  dredger ,        .        .        .     .    o    o  10 

1  sugar  dredger .        .        .012 

1  slice,  is. ;  1  egg  slice,  10^/. o     1   10 

1  egg  whisk 009 

r  wire  sieve 029 

Carry  forward   .         .        .        .^784 


io       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

£ 

Brought  forward      ...  7 

I  hair  sieve o 

I  whitebait  sieve o 

1  tammy  cloth o 

1  patent  felt  jelly  bag o 

1  flour  tub o 

1  Japanned  spice  box       .        . o 

1  canister  for  tea o 

1  canister  for  coffee o 

1  coffee  mill o 

1  box  of  vegetable  cutters         . o 

1  meat  cleaver      .        .        .        ...        .        .        .0 

1  meat  saw o 

1  mincing  knife o 

1  carving  knife  and  fork o 

1  dozen  table  knives  and  forks,  10s.  6d.  dozen      .        .        .0 

2  cook's  knives  (French) o 

1  vegetable  knife  .........  o 

1  dishing-up  fork o 

1  kitchen  steel o 

3  iron  spoons o 

6  wooden  spoons o 

1  larding  needle o 

1  trussing  needle o 

1  set  of  steel  skewers .  o 

1  bread  grater .  o 

2  tin  funnels .  o 

1  seasoning  box .        .0 

4  tin  measures  (from  J  pint  to  1  quart)            .        .        .     .  o 
i  corkscrew o 

1  improved  weighing  machine  and  weights      .        .        .    .  o  ; 

J  dozen  quenelle  shells o 

1  set  of  3  pot  triangles „        „     .  o 

1  toasting  fork o 

1  salt  box o 

1  salt  cellar o 

1  meringue  bag  with  funnel o 

1  mustard  pot,  is.  6d. ;  1  pepper  box,  6d.  .        .        .0 

1  Japanned  tea-tray o 

1  kitchen  fender o 

I  set  of  fire  irons o 

1  coal  scuttle         . o 

1  hand  shovel  ,     .  o 

1  cinder  sifter,  is.  gd. ;  coal  hammer,  u.  6d.        .        .        .0 


s. 

d. 

8 

4 

1 

0 

2 

3 

2 

6 

3 

0 

3 

0 

2 

9 

1 

0 

1 

0 

3 

6 

3 

3 

2 

10 

2 

6 

1 

6 

4 

0 

5 

3 

4 

0 

I 

3 

I 

9 

I 

6 

O 

1  of 

O 

11 

O 

7 

O 

6 

I 

0 

O 

8 

O 

7 

5 

0 

2 

11 

0 

8 

7 

6 

1 

3 

2 

3 

1 

0 

2 

3 

0 

9 

1 

3 

2 

0 

4 

2 

3 

6 

5 

6 

3 

6 

1 

0 

3 

3 

£13  4    o^ 


Kitchen  Requisites.  1 1 


KITCHEN    STOVES. 

£  s.  d. 

The  "Mistress"*  cooking  range  in  all  sizes  ;  prices  varying 

from  about ^6  to  10    o  o 

Or  the  "  Kensington  Range  "  from  about        .       ^13  ioj\  to  16  10  o 

Or  the  "  Kensington  Kitchener "  from  about         .      ^nto  16    o  o 


*Frymometer  (for  testing  the  heat  of  fat  for  frying)      .        .    o  10    6 

*  Thermometer  for  testing  the  heat  of  the  oven  for  baking    .     o  10    6 

Fitting  thermometer  in  the  oven  door 050 

N.B.   This  thermometer  is  fixed   in   the  oven   door,  and   cannot, 
therefore,  register  the  proper  heat  inside  the  oven. 

Black  Boards  for  lectures,  varying  in  size  from  30  inches  by  24  inches 
to  61  inches  by  48  inches ;  prices  from  4-f.  6d.  to  13J.  6d. 

*  This  stove  and  these  instruments  are  used  in  the  National  Training  School  for 
Cookery. 


12       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


LIST   OF   CLEANING    UTENSILS   AND   MATERIALS 
REQUIRED, 

AND    THEIR    AVERAGE    COST. 

£  s.   d. 

*i  tin  water-can 043 

■*i  dustpan,  is.,  and  brush,  is.  6d. 026 

*i  handbowl .         .         .         . 023 

*i  galvanized  pail 016 

*2  galvanized  tubs  for  sink o     5     9 

*2  scrubbing  brushes 026 

*3  black-lead  brushes o    3     3 

*i  sweep's  brush 009 

*i  flue  brush 016 

*i  hair  broom 029 

*i  bass  broom 019 

*i  knife  board .        ..019 

*i  wooden  soap  box 006 

*i  sink  brush 006 

*i  sieve  brush        .        .        .        .  .        .  .012 

*i  pot  brush 009 

*i  pair  of  washleather  gloves o    o  10 

*i  chamois  leather 010 

1  hearthstone .        .006 

1  box  of  blacklead 006 

Whitening 001 

Rottenstone 001 

Bath  brickdust 001 

J  quire  of  emery  cloth 009 

6  lbs.  of  soda 007 

1  bar  of  scrubbing  soap    .        . 0011 

Sand 006 

Salt 004 

White  chalk 002 

1  yard  of  house  flannel 006 

£2    o    3 


National  Training  School  for  Cookery.        13 


LESSONS    ON   CLEANING    STOVES,    GRATES,    AND 
KITCHEN    UTENSILS. 

TO  CLEAN   AN   OPEN   KITCHEN   RANGE. 

1.  We  should  rake  out  all  the  cinders,  and  sift  them  into 
a  scuttle  for  use. 

N.B.— All  the  dust  should  be  thrown  away. 

2.  We  take  a  sweep's  brush,  and  sweep  down  all  the  soot 
from  the  flues  and  oven. 

3.  We  should  remove  the  soot  door  at  the  back,  and  the 
rings  on  the  top  of  the  oven,  force  the  flue  brush  upwards 
and  downwards  ;  then  sweep  the  soot  from  the  top  of  the 
oven,  down  the  flue  at  the  side  of  the  oven,  the  farthest 
from  the  fire,  and  remove  the  small  flush  door  on  the  top 
over  this  side,  and  sweep  all  the  soot  off  the  sides  to  the 
bottom. 

4.  We  must  then  remove  a  small  door  under  the  bottom 
of  the  oven,  and  carefully  draw  out  the  soot  from  the  right 
hand,  and  also  the  left  hand,  with  the  raker,  and  then  re- 
place the  doors  and  dampers. 

5.  We  must  now  clean  the  boiler  flue.  We  remove  the 
soot  door  at  the  back,  and  force  the  flue  brush  in  the 
opening  upwards  and  downwards  :  then  take  the  raker, 
and  carefully  rake  away  all  the  clinkers  and  soot  from 
under  the  boiler,  and  now  replace  the  soot  door. 

N.B. — The  water  is  heated  from  the  heat  that  passes  under  the  boiler,  and 
not  the  surface  heat  in  front,  therefore  if  the  flue  under  the  boiler  is  not 
clear  of  clinkers,  no  hot  water  can  be  obtained. 

6.  We  mix  some  pounded  black  lead  in  a  gallipot,  with 
enough  water  to  make  it  into  a  smooth  thick  liquid.  We 
dip  the  black-lead  brush  in  the  mixture,  and  black-lead 
the  whole  of  the  range,  beginning  from  the  top  of  the  stove 
by  the  dampers,  and  then  downwards. 


1 4       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

7.  When  the  black  lead  is  dry,  we  brush  it  all  over  with 
a  dry  brush. 

8.  We  then  take  another  brush,  and  polish  the  range  all 
over,  so  as  to  make  it  quite  bright. 

N.B. — The  bars  of  the  stove  should  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

9.  We  take  the  sweep's  brush,  and  sweep  the  remaining 
soot  and  dust  from  the  stove,  and  the  hearth. 

10.  We  polish  the  steel  handles  and  bolts  of  the  oven,  by 
rubbing  them  with  emery  paper. 

11.  The  brass  handles  and  bolts  we  should  polish,  with 
bath  brickdust  and  a  leather. 

IS.  We  get  a  flannel  and  a  pail  of  hot  water,  put  in  it 
some  soda,  and  wash  the  hearth  all  over. 

N.B. — We  must  not  wet  it  too  much. 

13.  We  take  a  hearthstone,  and  rub  it  all  over  the  hearth. 

14.  We  then  wring  the  flannel  out  in  the  hot  water, 
and  smooth  the  hearth  over,  rubbing  it  lightly  all  in  one 
direction. 

15.  We  must  black-lead  and  polish  the  inside  of  the 
fender,  in  the  same  way  as  we  did  the  range,  and  brighten 
the  rim  of  it  by  rubbing  it  with  emery  paper. 


TO   LAY   A   FIRE. 

1.  We  should  place  a  few  sifted  cinders  at  the  bottom 
of  the  grate. 

2.  We  then  put  in  a  piece  of  crumpled  paper,  and 
arrange  the  sticks  over  it,  laying  them  across  each  other. 

3.  We  now  put  a  few  pieces  of  coal  on  the  top,  rather  to 
the  front,  so  as  to  leave  a  good  draught  at  the  back  to 
draw  the  fire. 

4.  When  the  fire  has  lighted,  and  has  burned  up  a  little, 
we  can  add  more  sifted  cinders  mixed  with  the  coal. 

5.  We  should  only  put  small  quantities  of  coal  and 
cinders  on  the  fire  at  a  time. 


Lessons  on  Cleaning  Stoves.  15 


TO   CLEAN   A   CLOSE   KITCHEN   RANGE. 

1.  We  proceed  in  the  same  way,  as  for  an  open  range 
(from  note  1  to  note  6). 

2.  We  should  pull  out  the  drawer  just  below  the  oven,  in 
which  we  shall  find  the  soot  has  fallen. 

3.  We  empty  all  the  soot  away,  and  sweep  out  the 
drawer  clean. 

4.  We  now  take  the  sweep's  brush,  and  sweep  down  the 
range. 

5.  We  black-lead,  polish  the  range,  and  clean  the  hearth 
and  fender,  as  described  for  an  open  range  (from  note  3  to 
end). 

6.  We  take  down  the  iron  plate-rack  across  the  top  of 
the  range,  and  rub  the  bars  with  emery  cloth. 

7.  We  should  dust  the  fire-irons,  and  if  they  are  rusty, 
they  should  be  rubbed  with  emery  cloth  or  oil  and  leather. 


TO   CLEAN   A  GAS   STOVE. 

1.  We  require  the  same  materials  as  for  a  kitchen  range. 

2.  We  lift  out  the  bars  at  the  top,  and  rub  them  with 
emery  cloth  until  they  are  quite  clean  and  bright. 

3.  We  wash  the  top  of  the  stove  with  a  flannel  dipped  in 
hot  water  and  soda,  so  as  to  remove  all  grease  and  dirt ; 
we  then  wring  out  the  flannel,  and  partially  dry  the  top  of 
the  stove. 

4.  We  now  black-lead  and  polish  it,  in  the  same  way  as 
for  the  kitchen  range. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  stop  up  the  gas  holes  with  black  lead. 

5.  We  place  the  bars  back  over  the  stove. 

6.  We  polish  the  brass  handles  of  the  gas  burners,  with 
bath  brickdust  and  a  leather. 

7.  We  wash  the  tiles  round  the  stove,  with  the  flannel, 
hot  water,  and  soda. 

8.  We  dry  them  with  a  cloth. 


1 6  Lessons  on  Cleaning. 

TO    CLEAN    AN    IRON    SAUCEPAN. 

1.  We  should  wash  the  saucepan  well,  in  hot  water  and 
soda. 

N.B.— All  the  black  should  be  removed,  from  the  outside  and  bottom. 

2.  We  must  soap  the  palm  of  one  hand,  and  rub  the 
inside  of  the  saucepan. 

N.B. — In  washing  any  greasy  utensil,  it  is  best  if  possible,  to  use  the  hand 
instead  of  a  flannel,  as  the  latter  retains  the  grease  and  so  keeps  putting 
the  grease  on  again,  instead  of  rubbing  it  off. 

3.  We  mix  some  sand  and  powdered  soda  together,  and 
then  dip  the  soap  into  it,  and  rub  the  inside  of  the  sauce- 
pan until  it  is  quite  clean  and  bright. 

4.  We  now  rinse  it  in  water,  and  dry  it  with  a  cloth. 

5.  We  should  clean  the  lid  in  the  same  way. 

N.B. — A  white  enamelled  stewpan  is  cleansed  in  the  same  way,  great  care 
should  be  taken  to  remove  all  the  stains  off  the  white  enamel  inside.  - 

N.B. — Salt  might  be  mixed  with  the  sand,  and  used  to  remove  the  stains  from 
the  enamel. 


TO   CLEAN   A   COPPER   STEWPAN. 

1.  We  mix  some  sand  and  salt  together  on  a  plate,  half 
the  quantity  of  salt  to  that  of  sand. 

2.  We  wash  the  stewpan  well  in  hot  water  and  soda. 

3.  We  soap  the  hand,  dip  it  in  the  salt  and  sand,  and 
rub  the  inside  of  the  pan,  until  all  stains  are  removed,  and 
it  has  become  clean  and  bright. 

4.  We  rinse  it  out  well  in  the  water,  dry  the  inside 
quickly,  and  then  turn  over  the  pan,  and  clean  the  copper 
outside. 

5.  We  should  rub  it  in  the  same  way  with  a  soaped 
hand,  dipped  in  sand  and  salt. 

N.B. — If  there  are  many  stains  on  it,  an  old  half  lemon,  or  vinegar,  might 

be  used  to  remove  them. 
N.B. — Only  the  copper  part  should  be  cleaned  with  lemon  or  vinegar. 

6.  We  now  rinse  it  again  thoroughly,  and  dry  it  quickly 
with  a  cloth. 


LESSONS  ON   COOKERY. 


ROASTING. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  roast  meat  at  an  open 
range,  but  first  we  must  see  that  the  fire  is  clear  and 
bright. 

1.  We  must  take  the  shovel  and  put  it  in  at  the  back  of 
the  fire  and  push  all  the  red  hot  coals  to  the  front. 

2.  We  put  fresh  coal  at  the  back,  packing  it  together 
rather  closely,  but  taking  care  that  we  leave  a  draught  at 
the  back,  to  draw  the  fire  and  make  it  burn  clear  and 
bright. 

3.  We  must  fill  in  all  the  spaces  in  the  front  of  the  fire: 
with  small  lumps  of  coal  or  coke. 

N.B. — If  it  be  a  close  range  with  which  we  are  dealing,  we  should  pull  out 
the  centre  damper  only,  which  will  create  a  draught  at  the  back,  and 
help  to  draw  the  fire  up  quickly. 

4.  We  now  take  our  joint,  say  a  leg  of 'mutton. 

5.  We  must  see  that  it  is  quite  clean,  and,  if  necessary, 
we  must  scrape  it  with  a  knife  and  wipe  it  over  with  a 
clean  cloth. 

N.B. — Meat  should  not,  as  a  rule,  be  'washed  in  water,  as  it  takes  some  of 
the  goodness  out.  If  meat  has  been  kept  some  time  and  is  not  quite 
fresh,  then  you  might  wash  it  with  a  little  vinegar  and  water,  but  it  must 
be  well  wiped  afterwards. 

6.  We  take  the  leg  of  mutton  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut 
off  the  knuckle  bone. 

N.B. — The  knuckle  bone  we  put  aside  ;  it  can  be  used  with  beef  for  beef  tea, 
or  be  put  in  the  stockpot,  or  the  trimmings  and  one  pint  of  water  will 
make  gravy  for  the  joint  when  done,  allowing  it  to  simmer  while  the 
joint  is  roasting. 


1 8        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

7.  We  trim  off  the  piece  of  flank  and  remove  the  thick 
piece  of  skin  from  the  part  where  the  leg  joins  the  loin. 
(These  trimmings  must  be  put  aside,  as  they  can  be  used 
for  other  purposes.) 

8.  We  must  now  weigh  the  leg  of  mutton,  so  as  to  find 
out  how  long  it  will  take  to  roast  it,  as  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  is  allowed  for  each  pound  of  weight,  and  one  quarter  of 
an  hour  besides. 

N.B. — When  we  have  a  joint  without  bone,  such  as  rolled  ribs  of  beef  or 
topside  of  beef,  we  must  allow  twenty  minutes  to  each  pound  of  weight, 
as  it  is  all  solid  meat. 

9.  We  take  the  leg  of  mutton,  which  weighs  say  seven 
pounds,  it  will  therefore  take  two  hours  to  roast. 

10.  We  put  the  roasting  screen  in  front  of  the  fire  to 
keep  off  the  draught  and  keep  in  all  the  heat. 

11.  We  put  the  dripping  pan  down  on  a  stand  within  the 
screen,  close  to  the  fire,  with  the  dripping  ladle. 

12.  We  hang  the  roasting  jack  up  from  the  mantelpiece 
over  the  dripping  pan. 

N.B. — Some  roasting  screens  contain  the  dripping  pan  and  the  jack,  which 
are  of  course  more  convenient. 

13.  We  take  the  hook  of  the  roasting  jack  and  pass  it 
through  the  knuckle-end  of  the  leg. 

14.  We  must  wind  up  the  jack  with  the  key,  before  we 
put  the  joint  on,  so  as  to  make  it  twist  the  meat  round. 

15.  We  must  put  the  joint  close  to  the  fire  for  the  first 
five  minutes. 

16.  After  that  time  we  can  draw  the  joint  a  little  further 
back,  or  it  will  cook  too  quickly  and  become  burnt  and  dried. 

N.B.— Meat  that  is  frozen  must  be  placed  some  way  from  the  fire  at  first, 
and  then  drawn  gradually  towards  it,  as  it  must  thaw  slowly  or  it  may 
become  tough. 

17.  We  must  baste  the  joint  every  five  minutes  with  the 
drippings  that  run  from  it  into  the  pan,  using  the  dripping 
ladle. 

18.  We  let  the  joint  roast  for  two  hours}  as  its  weight  is 
seven  pounds. 

19.  After  that  time,   and   just  before  we  dish   up  the 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Roasting.  19 

joint,  we  must  sprinkle  about  a  saltspoonftil  of  salt  over  it, 
and  then  baste  it  well. 

20.  We  must  take  a  large  dish  and  warm  it  well. 

21.  Now  we  can  take  the  hook  of  the  jack,  and  place  the 
joint  on  to  the  hot  dish,  and  draw  out  the  hook. 

22.  We  take  about  a  gill  of  hot  stock  and  pour  it  into  the 
dish.  [This  makes  the  gravy,  and  when  the  joint  is  cut, 
the  juices  from  the  meat  will  add  to  it.] 

23.  We  must  take  a  piece  of  demy  paper  and  cut  it  like 
a  fringe.     This  we  put  round  the  end  of  the  knuckle  bone. 

N.B. — The  dripping  in  the  pan  should  be  poured  into  a  basin,  and  when  it  is 
cold  there  will  be  under  the  cruet  °f  dripping  a  good  gravy.  When  the 
dripping  is  required  for  use  it  must  be  carefully  removed  from  the  top 
of  the  gravy,  and  clarified.  (See  Lesson  on  "Frying.")  Nearly  all 
joints  can  be  roasted  in  this  way.  Attention  should  be  paid  to  the  rules 
explained  above  concerning  joints  of  meat  without  bone. 


2o        National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 
BOILING. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  boil  meat. 

1.  We  must  give  attention  to  the  fire,  and  build  it  up 
gradually  with  small  pieces  of  coal,  so  as  to  make  it  burn 
clear  and  bright. 

2.  We  must  not  have  a  smoky  fire  for  boiling,  or  the 
meat  will  get  smoked,  we  should  start  with  a  good  fire, 
and  keep  it  up  by  adding  occasionally  small  coal,  and  so 
prevent  smoke  as  much  as  possible. 

N.B. — We  do  not  require  such  a  clear  bright  fire  as  for  roasting. 

3.  We  now  take  a  saucepan  sufficiently  large  to  hold 
the  joint  to  be  cooked. 

4.  We  fill  the  saucepan  almost  full  of  cold  water,  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  to  warm. 

N.B.— Salt  should  always  be  added  to  the  water  in  the  saucepan  to  make 
the  water  taste,  unless  the  meat  to  be  cooked  is  already  salted,  in  which 
case  it  should  be  omitted. 

5.  We  now  take  the  joint,  say,  for  example,  a  piece  of 
the  silver  side  of  beef  salted. 

6.  WTe  must  see  that  it  is  quite  clean,  and  if  necessary 
we  must  scrape  it  with  a  knife,  and  wipe  it  over  with  a 
clean  cloth. 

N.B. — Meat  should  not  as  a  rule  be  washed  in  water,  as  it  takes  some  of  the 
goodness  out.  Meat  that  has  been  kept  some  time,  and  is  not  quite 
fresh,  might  be  washed  with  vinegar  and  water,  but  it  must  be  well 
wiped  afterwards. 

N.B. — Salt  meat  must  not  be  washed  with  vinegar  and  water,  but  only  with 
salt  and  water. 

7.  We  must  now  weigh  the  piece  of  salt  beef,  so  as  to 
find  out  how  long  it  will  take  to  boil,  as  ten  minutes  are 
allowed  for  each  lb.  of  meat. 

N.B. — This  rule  refers  to  the  boiling  of  all  meat  except  pork,  which  requires 
fifteen  minutes  to  each  lb.  of  meat. 

A. — In  boiling  vieat  to  be  eaten  the  joint  should  be  first  plunged  into  boiling 
water,  in  order  that  the  albumen  on  the  outside  of  the  joint  may  become 
hardened,  and  so  prevent  the  escape  of  the  juices  of  the  meat. 

B. — The  temperature  of  the  water  should  then  be  lowered  gradually  (by 
adding  a  small  quantity  of  cold  water  and  drawing  the  saucepan  to  the 
side  oi  the  fire),  and  the  meat  allowed  to  simmer  gently,  or  it  will  become 
tough. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Boiling.  21 

C — In  boiling  meat  for  the  purpose  of  making  soup,  the  meat  should  be  put 
into  cold  water,  in  order  to  extract  all  the  goodness  from  the  meat. 

D.—  The  water  should  be  brought  gradually  to  boiling  point,  then  moved  to 
the  side  of  the  fire,  and  left  to  simmer  gen^y  for  some  length  of  time. 

N.B. — Salt  meat  must  be  put  into  warm  water,  so  as  to  extract  a  little  of 
the  salt  before  the  pores  of  the  skin  are  closed  up  ;  if  the  meat  were  put 
into  boiling  water  the  pores  of  the  skin  would  be  closed,  and  the  meat 
would  be  hardened  by  the  salt  not  being  allowed  to  escape. 

8.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  warm,  we  take  the 
beefy  which  weighs,  say,  eight  pounds  (it  will  therefore  take 
about  one  hour  and  twenty  minutes),  and  put  it  in  the  sauce- 
pan; there  should  be  only  just  enough  water  to  cover  the 
joint. 

9.  We  let  the  water  just  boil  up,  and  then  we  should 
move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  the  remainder  of  the  time. 

10.  As  soon  as  the  water  comes  to  the  boil  we  must 
take  a  large  spoon  and  skim  the  water  carefully. 

N.B. — The  sctim  should  be  skimmed  off  directly  it  rises,  or  it  will  boil  down 
again  in  the  meat  and  spoil  it.  Scum  is  the  impurity  which  rises  from 
the  meat. 

N.B. — We  must  be  very  careful  not  to  let  the  meat  toil,  or  it  will  be 
hardened  and  tough. 

11.  When  the  meat  is  sufficiently  cooked,  we  take  it 
carefully  out  of  the  saucepan  and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish  for 
serving.  We  pour  about  a  gill  of  the  liquor  (in  which  it  was 
boiled)  round  the  joint  (this  makes  the  gravy,  and  when 
the  joint  is  cut  the  juices  from  the  meat  will  add  to  it). 

N.B. — The  liquor  from  boiled  meat  can  always  be  used  for  different  pur- 
poses, and  should  therefore  never  be  thrown  away,  but  poured  into  a 
clean  basin  and  put  aside  to  cool,  the  fat  should  be  carefully  removed 
from  the  top  of  the  liqtcor,  while  it  is  cold,  before  being  used.  Salt 
liquor  is  often  used  for  making  pea  soup. 


22        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

BAKING. 

Meat,   Bread,   Pastry,   &c. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  bake  meat. 

1.  We  must  have  a  good  fire,  and  keep  it  up,  adding  by- 
degrees  small  pieces  of  coal,  as  the  oven  is  required  to  be 
very  hot. 

N.B. — If  it  be  a  close  range  with  which  we  are  dealing,  we  should  pull  out 
the  damper  placed  over  the  oven  in  order  to  draw  all  the  heat  of  the  fire 
towards  the  oven.     The  ventilator  of  the  oven  should  be  closed. 

N.B. — In  kitchen  stoves  there  is  usually  either  a  handle  at  the  top  of  the 
oven,  to  be  pulled  out  for  opening  the  ventilator,  or  a  slide  ventilator 
at  the  bottom. 

2.  We  should  test  the  heat  of  the  oven  by  the  thermometer 
which  is  fixed  in  the  door  of  the  oven,  the  heat  should  rise 
to  2400  Fahrenheit. 

3.  We  take  the  joint,  see  that  it  is  clean,  as  directed  in 
"  Lesson  on  Roasting,"  Note  5,  and  weigh  it,  so  as  to  find 
out  how  long  it  will  take  to  bake,  as  ten  minutes  are  allowed 
for  each  pound  of  weight. 

N.B. — When  we  have  a  joint  without  bone  we  must  allow  about  fifteen 
minutes  to  each  pound  of  weight,  as  it  is  solid  meat. 

4.  We  take  the  hot  water  tin,  on  which  the  stand  for  the 
meat  is  placed,  lift  up  the  upper  tin  or  tray  and  fill  the 
wider  tin  half  full  of  warm  water,  we  then  fit  on  the 
upper  tin. 

N.B. — In  one  corner  of  the  upper  tin  is  a  small  hole  or  escape  for  the  steam. 
The  water  below  must  only  just  reach  this  hole,  and  not  come  into  it. 

N.B. — The  water  is  placed  in  the  tin  to  prevent  the  tin  and  the  meat  from 
getting  burnt,  and  so  causing  a  disagreeable  smell. 

5.  We  place  the  stand  on  the  hot  water  tin  to  raise  the 
joint  and  prevent  it  from  standing  in  its  own  dripping, 
which  would  sodden  and  spoil  the  meat. 

6.  We  now  take  the  joint,  which  weighs  say  seven  pounds 
(it  will  therefore  take  one  hour  and  ten  minutes  to  bake), 
and  put  it  on  the  stand.     We  should  dredge  four  over  it. 

7.  We  put  the  tin  with  the  meat  in  the  oven.  The  oven 
should  be  kept  very  hot  for  the  first  five  minutes,  in  order  to 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Baking.  25 

form  a  brown  crust  on  the  outside  of  the  joint,  to  keep  in 
the  juices  of  the  meat.  After  that  time  the  ventilator  of 
the  oven  should  be  opened,  so  as  to  allow  the  steam  to 
escape,  or  the  meat  would  get  sodden. 

N.B. — Meat  that  is  frozen  must  be  gradually  warmed,  to  thaw  it  before 
shutting  it  up  in  the  hot  oven,  or  it  would  be  tough. 

8.  We  must  baste  the  joint  every  fifteen  minutes  with  the 
drippings  that  run  from  the  meat  into  the  pan,  using  the 
dripping  ladle. 

N.B. — Joints  that  are  not  very  fat  must  be  even  more  frequently  basted,  or 
they  would  burn  :  if  there  is  not  sufficient  dripping  from  the  meat,  a 
little  extra  dripping  should  be  put  into  the  pan. 

N.B. — Joints  that  have  no  fat  should  be  covered  with  a  piece  oiivhitey  brown 
paper  which  has  been  spread  with  butter  or  dripping — it  will  prevent  the 
meat  catching  too  quickly. 

9.  We  should  turn  the  joint  over  occasionally,  as  the 
upper  side  will  get  browned  quicker  than  the  lower. 

N.B. — Potatoes,  washed  and  peeled,  or  a  small  suet  or  dripping  and  flour 
pudding  (see  "  Puddings,"  Lesson  No.  28),  or  a  Yorkshire  pudding  (see 
"  Puddings,"  Lesson  No.  29),  might  be  baked  under  the  meat,  but  they 
should  only  be  put  in  half  an  hour  before  the  meat  is  finished. 

10.  Just  before  we  dish  up  the  joint,  we  should  sprinkle 
about  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  over  it,  and  then  baste  it  well. 

11.  We  serve  the  joint  on  a  hot  dish  (as  described  in 
"Lesson  on  Roasting,"  Note  22,  and  act  with  regard  to 
the  dripping  according  to  the  "  N.B."  after  Note  23.) 

N.B. — Pastry  ox  bread,  &c,  should  not  be  baked  in  the  oven  at  the  same 
time  as  the  meat,  as  the  steam  would  prevent  their  baking  properly, 
For  baking  small  patties  and  tartlets  made  of  Puff  Paste,  the  ther- 
mometer fixed  in  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  3000  Fahrenheit.  For 
meat  pies,  tarts,  &c,  the  thermometer  should  rise  to  2800.  For  bread 
the  thermometer  should  rise  to  2800,  and  must  be  reduced  after  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  to  2200. 


24       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


FRYING. 

And  Lessons  on  Clarifying  Butter,   Fat,  and  Dripping. 


The  principles  of  frying. 
•     1.  We  must  have  a  clear  bright  fire. 

N.B.  We  must  be  very  careful  it  is  not  smoky. 

2.  We  should  be  careful  that  the  utensil  used  is  very 
rlean,  for  if  there  is  anything  sticking  at  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  it  will  quickly  catch  or  burn,  and  so  spoil  the  contents. 

3.  We  should  clarify  all  fat  {not  lard),  dripping,  and 
butter y  before  using  them,  to  remove  the  impurities  from 
the  former,  and  the  butter-milk,  and  other  watery  sub- 
stance, from  the  latter. 

N.B. — Fat  need  not  be  clarified  more  than  once.  After  using  it  we  should 
always  pour  it  off  carefully  in  a  basin,  and  when  it  is  cold  we  should 
remove  the  sediment  from  the  bottom  of  the  cake  of  fat.  Btitter  must 
be  clarified  each  time  it  is  used,  to  remove  all  watery  substances. 

4.  We  must  have  the  fat  very  hot ;  good  frying  depends 
on  the  fat  being  properly  heated. 

5.  We  should  test  the  heat  of  the  fat  by  a  frimometer, 
if  possible  ;  the  heat  should  rise  to  345  degrees  Fahrenheit 
for  ordinary  frying,  and  400  degrees  for  whitebait. 

N.  B. — If  there  be  no  frimometer,  the  heat  of  the  fat  may  be  tested  by  the 
look — as  fat  gets  quite  still  and  begins  to  smoke  when  it  is  very  hot — or 
by  throwing  in  a  small  piece  of  crumb  of  bread,  and  if  it  fries  directly  a 
light  brown,  the  fat  is  ready  for  use. 

6.  We  should  use  a  deep  pan  with  plenty  of  fat,  so  that 
anything  put  in  may  be  entirely  covered. 

7.  We  can  fry  bacon  in  its  own  fat,  it  only  requires 
watching  and  turning  till  it  is  done  (see  Lesson  on  "  Liver 
and  Bacon,"  from  Note  1  to  Note  5). 

8.  We  can  fry  chops  or  steaks,  or  slices  of  meat,  in  either 
an  oz.  of  clarified  dripping  or  butter. 

9.  We  should  melt  the  fat  first,  but  it  does  not  require 
to  be  heated. 

10.  We  must  be  watchful,  when  the  meat  is  frying,  not 
to  allow  it  to  burn ;  we  should  turn  it  over  occasionally. 

N.B. — If  there  be  a  gridiron  it  is  much  better  to  grill  chops  and  steaks,  as  it 
prevents  their  being  greasy  (see  Lesson  on  a  "Grilled  Steak").  For 
frying  Fish,  see  "  Fish,"  Lessons  Nos.  3,  6,  7,  and  13.  For  frying  Meat, 
Rissoles,  Potatoes,  &c,  see  "Cooked  Meat,"  Lessons  Nos.  2  and  6; 
"  Australian  Meat,"  Lesson  No.  4;  "Entrees,"  Lessons  Nos.  4  and  11  ; 
fend  *'  Vegetables,"  Lessons  Nos.  3  and  4. 


.essons 


on  Frying  and  Clarifying  Fat.       25 


To  render  down  or  clarify  fat. 

1.  We  take  any  scraps  of  cooked  or  uncooked  fat,  and  cut 
them  up  in  small  pieces. 

2.  We 'put  the  pieces  in  an  old  but  clean  saucepan,  and 
pour  in  just  enough  cold  zvater  to  cover  them. 

3.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  keep  it  boiling ; 
it  will  take  about  an  hour,  the  lid  should  be  off  the  saucepan. 

4.  We  must  stir  the  fat  occasionally,  to  prevent  it  from 
burning  or  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan. 

5.  When  the  water  has  evaporated,  and  the  pieces  of  fat 
are  cooked,  we  should  pour  the  melted  fat  through  an  old 
sieve  into  a  basin,  and  when  cold  it  can  be  used  for  all 
frying  purposes  instead  of  lard. 

To  clarify  dripping. 

1.  We  should  put  the  dripping  in  a  saucepan,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  When  it  boils  we  pour  it  into  a  basin  in  which  there 
should  be  half  a  pint  of  cold  zvater. 

3.  When  the  dripping  is  cold,  we  take  a  knife  and  cut 
round  the  edge,  so  as  to  take  out  the  cake  of  dripping. 

4.  We  should  scrape  off  all  the  sediment  that  will  be 
found  on  the  bottom  of  the  cake,  and  wipe  it  dry  with  a  cloth. 

To  clarify  butter. 

1.  We  put  the  quantity  of  butter  required  for  present  use 
in  a  small  saucepan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boil. 

2.  When  the  butter  has  boiled,  we  must  take  a  spoon 
and  remove  the  white  scum  from  the  top. 

3.  We  should  then  pour  the  clear  butter  carefully  into 
the  pan  for  use,  as  below  the  butter  will  be  a  little  more 
watery  substance. 


26        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

COOKED    MEAT. 

Lesson  No.   i. 

HASHED   MEAT. 

Average  cost  of  "  Hashed  Meat" 


INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  lb.  of  scraps  of  cold  meat  and  bone    6 

2  small  onions i 

i  carrot \ 

i  bunch  of  herbs  (consisting  of  i  bay  leaf,  a  j 

sprig  of  marjoram,  thyme,  parsley,)   . . . .   >  \ 

About  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ) 

i  dessertspoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup   i 

Sippets  of  bread j 

Salt  and  pepper ^  i| 

i  oz.  of  butter )  

io 


Time  required,  about  two  hours;  or  if  the  stock  for  the  gravy  is  already 
made,  tlien  only  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Hash  Cold  Meat. 

1.  We  take  any  remains  of  cold  meat,  cut  off  all  the  meat 
from  the  bone,  and  cut  it  into  thin  slices. 

2.  We  chop  the  bone  in  pieces,  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan. 

3.  We  take  one  onion,  peel  it  and  cut  it  in  quarters. 

4.  We  take  one  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it,  and  cut  it  in 
quarters. 

5.  We  take  a  sprig  of  parsley,  wash  it,  and  dry  it  in  a  cloth. 

6.  We  take  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  of  marjoram  and 
thyme,  and  the  parsley,  and  tie  them  tightly  together  with 
a  piece  of  string. 

7.  We  put  the  herbs  and  the  vegetables  into  the  saucepan 
with  the  bones,  and  pour  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
them. 


Lessons  on  Re-Cooking  Meat.— Hashed  Meat.   27 

8.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  we 
should  add  pepper  and  salt,  according  to  taste. 

9.  We  now  put  the  lid  on,  and  move  the  saucepan  to 
the  side  of  the  fire  to  stew  gently  for  one  hour,  or  one  hour 
and  a  half ;  we  should  watch  it  and  skim  it  occasionally. 

10.  We  take  a  small  onion,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

11.  We  put  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan. 

12.  We  put  the  pan  on  the  fire,  and  when  the  butter  is 
melted  we  add  the  sliced  onion,  and  let  it  fry  a  nice  brown. 

13.  We  must  shake  the  pan  occasionally  to  prevent  the 
slices  of  onion  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and 
burning. 

14.  When  the  onion  is  sufficiently  browned,  we  strain  off 
the  butter,  and  put  the  onion  on  to  a  plate. 

15.  When  the  bones  have  stewed  long  enough,  we  should 
strain  off  the  liquor  into  a  basin. 

16.  We  wash  out  the  saucepan,  and  pour  back  the  liquor. 

17.  We  put  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  a  small  basin. 

18.  We  add  a  tablespoonful  of  the  liquor  to  the  flour,  and 
stir  it  into  a  smooth  paste. 

19.  We  stir  this  paste  gradually  into  the  liquor  in  the 
saucepan. 

20.  We  also  add  the  browned  onion,  and  a  dessertspoonful 
of  mushroom  ketchup. 

21.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  the  sauce 
until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

22.  We  let  it  boil  for  two  or  three  minutes,  until  the  flour 
is  cooked. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  to  stir  the  sauce  smoothly  while  it  boils,  or  it 
will  be  lumpy. 

23.  We  then  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire, 
and  when  it  is  off  the  boil,  we  lay  in  the  pieces  of  meat  to 
warm  through. 

N.B. — We  must  not  let  the  sauce  boil  while  the  meat  is  in  it,  or  the  meat 
will  get  hard  and  tough. 

24.  We  cut  a  thin  slice  of  bread,  and  cut  it  into  square 
pieces. 


28       National  Training  School  for   Cookery. 

25.  We  cut  these  square  pieces  in  half,  cornerwise,  mak- 
ing the  pieces  into  triangles. 

26.  We  put  one  ounce  of  clarified  dripping  (see  Lesson  on 
"  Frying  ")  in  a  frying  pan  to  melt. 

27.  When  the  dripping  is  quite  hot  we  put  in  the  sippets 
of  bread,  and  let  them  fry  a  light  brown. 

28.  We  should  turn  them,  so  that  they  get  browned  on 
each  side. 

29.  We  put  a  piece  of  kitchen  paper  on  a  plate,  and 
when  the  sippets  are  fried,  we  turn  them  on  to  the  paper  to 
drain  off  the  grease. 

N.B. — If  liked,  the  bread  could  be  toasted  before  the  fire  instead  of  fried  ; 
in  which  case  the  bread  should  be  cut  into  sippets  after  it  is  toasted. 

30.  For  serving  we  put  the  slices  of  meat  on  a  hot  dish, 
in  the  centre,  strain  the  sauce  over  them  and  put  the  sippets 
of  bread  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 


Lessons  on  Re-Cooking  Meat. — Meat  Fritters.   29 

COOKED    MEAT. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

MEAT    FRITTERS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Meat  Fritters. 
INGREDIENTS 

d. 

Slices  of  cold  meat     6 

4  oz.  of  flour    4 

i  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil ) 

Salt   / 

2  eggs    2 

Dripping  for  frying    

9i 

Time  required,  about  half  an  hour  {and  one  hour  for  the  batter  to  rise). 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Meat  Fritters,  i.e. 
frying  meat  in  batter. 

1.  We  put  four  ounces  of  flour  and  half  a  saltspoo?iful  of 
salt  into  a  basin. 

2.  We  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil  and  mix  the  flout 
into  a  smooth  paste. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  the  oil  is  quite  sweet.  If  the  oil  is  objected 
to,  one  ounce  of  melted  butter  can  be  used  instead. 

3.  We  now  stir  in  smoothly  by  degrees,  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  tepid  water ;  we  must  be  careful  that  there  are  no  lumps. 

4.  We  break  two  eggs,  put  the  whites  on  a  plate  (the 
yolks  we  should  put  in  a  cup,  as  they  will  not  be  required 
for  present  use). 

5.  We  sprinkle  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  over  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  whip  them  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  knife. 

6.  We  stir  the  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs  lightly  into  the 
batter. 

N.B.— In  winter,  clean  snow  might  be  used  in  the  batter  instead  of  the  whites 
of  eggs. 

N.B. — This  batter  might  be  made  without  the  whites  of  eggs,  in  which  case 
it  should  be  mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  beer,  instead  uf  the  water,  but  the 
batter  made  with  beer  will  not  rise  as  much  as  when  eggs  are  used. 

N.B. — The  beer  will  not  taste  after  the  batter  is  fried. 


30        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

7.  We  stand  the  batter  aside  for  one  hour  to  rise,  or 
until  required  for  frying,  but  it  should  not  stand  longer 
than  one  hour. 

8.  We  put  half  a  pound  of  clarified  dripping  (see  Lesson 
on  "  Frying  ")  into  a  saucepan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to 
heat. 

9.  We  take  some  cold  meat,  and  cut  it  up  into  thin  slices. 

N.B. — Cold  boiled,  or  roast  pork,  or  boiled  bacon  is  very  nice  fried  in 
batter. 

10.  When  the  batter  has  risen  and  the  fritters  are  re- 
quired for  use,  we  stir  the  batter  lightly  with  a  spoon,  so  as 
to  be  sure  that  there  are  no  lumps  settled  at  the  bottom. 

11.  When  the  dripping  is  quite  hot  and  smoking,  we  take 
the  slices  of  meat,  dip  them  in  the  batter  so  that  they  are 
quite  covered,  and  then  drop  them  into  the  hot  fat. 

N.B. —We  must  not  put  in  too  many  slices  at  a  time,  as  they  should  not 
touch  each  other. 

12.  We  must  turn  them  over  so  that  they  are  fried  a 
nice  brown  on  both  sides. 

13.  We  put  a  piece  of  kitchen  paper  on  a  plate. 

14.  As  the  fritters  are  fried,  we  take  them  carefully  out 
of  the  fat  with  a  perforated  spoon,  and  put  them  on  the 
paper  to  drain  off  the  grease. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  to  skim  the  fat  from  time  to  time,  or  the  little 
loose  pieces  of  batter  will  burn  and  spoil  the  fat. 

N.B. — Slices  of  apple  or  orange  can  be  fried  in  this  batter  in  the  same  way, 
only  that  the  batter  should  be  sweetened,  and  sugar  sprinkled  over  the 
fritters  when  they  are  fried. 

N.B. — Fish  can  be  fried  in  batter  the  same  way,  only  that  the  batter  in 
usually  made  with  beer  instead  of  white  of  egg. 

15.  For  serving,  we  turn  the  fritters  on  to  a  hot  dish. 


Lessons  on  Re-Cooking  Meat,— Goblet  Pie      31 

COOKED    MEAT. 
Lesson  No.  3. 

GOBLET    PIE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Goblet  Pie*1 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Any  scraps  of  cold  meat    3 

■z  tablespoonsful  of  chopped  suet    \\ 

2            do.             of  moist  sugar \ 

2            do.             of  currants     \ 

2            do.             of  plums     \ 

2            do.            of  chopped  apples     \ 

\  lb.  of  flour )  a 

5  of  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder \  4 

i  oz.  of  dripping \ 

7\ 

Time  required,  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  "  Goblet  Pie." 

N.B. — This  pie  is  made  with  equal  quantities  of  ingredients. 

1.  We  take  any  scraps  of  cold  meat  (the  smallest  scraps 
would  do  that  would  not  do  for  anything  else),  put  them 
on  a  board,  and  chop  them  up  as  finely  as  possible  (there 
should  be  about  two  tablespoonsful  of  chopped  meat). 

2.  We  take  about  two  ounces  of  suet,  put  it  on  a  board, 
cut  away  the  skin,  and  chop  it  up  very  finely  (there  should 
be  about  two  tablespoonsful). 

3.  We  take  two  small  apples,  peel  them,  cut  out  the  core, 
and  chop  them  up  finely  (there  should  be  about  two  table- 
spoonsful). 

4.  We  take  two  tablespoonsful  of  plums,  stone  them,  and 
chop  them  up  in  small  pieces. 

5.  We  take  two  tablespoonsful  of  currants,  wash  them, 
dry  them  in  a  cloth,  and  pick  them  over. 

6.  We  put  all  these  ingredients  into  a  basin  with  tzvo 
tablespoonsful  of  moist  sugar,  and  mix  them  all  well 
together  with  a  spoon. 

7.  We  then  turn  the  mixture  into  a  small  pie  dish, 


32        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

8.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin,  and 
mix  into  it  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder. 

9.  We  take  one  ounce  of  clarified  dripping  and  rub  it  well 
and  lightly  into  the  flour  with  our  hands,  until  it  resembles 
sifted  bread  crumbs. 

10.  We  now  add  to  it  sufficient  water  to  mix  it  into  a 

stiff  paste. 

11.  We  flour  a  board  and  turn  the  paste  out  on  it. 

12.  We  take  a  rolling-pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the  paste 
to  the  shape  of  the  pie  dish,  only  a  little  larger,  and  to 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 

13.  We  wet  the  edge  of  the  pie  dish  with  water. 

14.  We  take  a  knife,  dip  it  in  flour,  and  cut  a  strip  of  the 
paste,  the  width  of  the  edge  of  the  pie  dish,  and  place  it 

round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

15.  We  should  cut  this  strip  of  paste  from  round  the  edge 
of  the  paste,  leaving  the  centre  piece  rather  larger  than  the 
top  of  the  pie  dish. 

16.  We  wet  the  edge  of  the  paste  with  water. 

17.  We  take  the  remaining  piece  of  paste,  and  place  it 
over  the  pie  dish,  pressing  the  edges  together  with  our 
thumb. 

N.B.— We  must  be  very  careful  not  to  break  the  paste. 

18.  We  take  a  knife,  dip  it  in  flour,  and  trim  off  all  the 
rough  edges  of  the  paste,  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

19.  We  take  a  knife,  and  with  the  back  of  the  blade  we 
make  little  notches  in  the  edge  of  the  paste,  pressing  the 
paste  firmly  with  our  thumb,  to  keep  it  in  its  proper  place. 

20.  We  make  a  little  hole  with  the  knife,  in  the  centre  of 
the  pie  to  let  the  steam  out  while  the  pie  is  baking. 

21.  We  put  the  pie  into  the  oven  (the  heat  should  rise  to 
220°),  to  bake  for  half  an  hour.    It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Re-Cooking  Meat. — Curry.         $i 

COOKED    MEAT. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

CURRY. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Curry ' '  (made  with  cold  meat). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Scraps  of  cold  meat  6 

2  oz.  of  clarified  dripping I 

(or  butter  2d. ) 

1  apple % 

1  onion | 

1  dessertspoonful  of  curry  powder \ 

1  dessertspoonful  of  flour •      1 

Salt   \ 

9 

Time  required,  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Curry. 

1.  We  put  two  ounces  of  clarified  dripping,  or  butter  into 
a  saucepan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  heat. 

2.  We  take  one  onion,  peel  it,  put  it  on  a  board,  and  chop 
it  up  as  finely  as  possible. 

3.  When  the  dripping  is  quite  hot,  we  put  in  the  cJwpped 
onion  to  brown  ;  we  must  be  careful  it  does  not  burn. 

4.  We  should  shake  the  saucepan  occasionally  to  prevent 
the  onion  from  sticking  to  the  bottom. 

5.  We  take  the  cold  meat  and  cut  it  up  into  small  pieces. 

6.  We  take  one  small  apple,  peel  it,  take  out  the  core,  and 
chop  it  up  very  finely  on  a  board. 

7.  When  the  onion  is  sufficiently  brown,  we  should  strain 
it  off,  and  pour  the  dripping  back  into  the  saucepan. 

N.B.  We  should  put  the  browned  onion  on  a  plate. 

8.  We  now  put  the  pieces  of  cold  meat  into  the  saucepan, 
and  let  them  brown  on  both  sides. 

9.  We  add  one  dessertspoonful  of  curry  pozvder,  07ie  dessert- 
spoonful of  flour,  the  chopped  apple,  and  a  little  salt,  accord- 
ing to  taste. 


34        National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 


10.  We  now  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  put 
back  the  browned  onion. 

N.B. — If  the  onion  had  been  left  in  while  the  meat  was  browning,  it  would 
have  got  burnt. 

11.  We  should  stir  smoothly  and  carefully  until  it  boils, 
and  then  move  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  for  half 
an  hour. 

12.  The  lid  should  be  off  the  saucepan  as  the  sauce  is  to 
reduce. 

13.  For  serving  we  take  the  meat  out  of  the  saucepan 
and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

N,b.     Boiled  rice  should  be  served  with  the  curry  (see  Lesson  on  "  Rice '■'). 


Lessons  on  Re-Cooking  Meat. — Shepherd's  Pie.  35 

COOKED    MEAT. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

SHEPHERD'S    PIE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Shepherd's  Pie!1 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Scraps  of  cold  meat    .  6 

i  small  onion  I  i 

Pepper  and  salt /  3 

ig  lb.  of  potatoes    i h 

t  oz.  of  butter i 

e  tablespoonful  of  milk | 

Time  required,  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Shepherds  Pie. 

1.  We  take  one  and  a  half  pound  of  potatoes,  wash  them, 
and  boil  them  as  described  (see  "  Vegetables/'  Lesson 
No.  I). 

N.R. — This  quantity  of  potato  will  cover  a  quart  pie  dish. 
N.B. — Any  remains  of  cold  potatoes  should  be  used,  instead  of  boiling  fresh 
ones. 

2.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
milky  into  a  saucepan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

3.  We  put  the  boiled  potatoes  into  another  saucepan,  and 
mash  them  up  with  a  fork  or  spoon. 

4.  When  the  milk  boils  we  pour  it  into  the  mashed 
potatoes,  and  stir  them  into  a  smooth  paste. 

5.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  let  the  potatoes 
just  boil  ;  we  must  be  careful  they  do  not  burn. 

6.  We  take  any  scraps  of  cold  meat,  cut  them  in  small 
pieces,  and  put  them  in  a  pie  dish  in  layers. 

7.  If  there  is  not  much  fat  with  the  meat,  we  should  mix 
a  few  slices  of  pork  fat  with  the  meat. 

8.  We  take  one  small  onion,  peel  it,  and  chop  it  up  as 
finely  as  possible  on  a  board. 


C   2 


36        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  We  sprinkle  each  layer  of  meat  with  plenty  of  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  little  of  the  chopped  onion. 

10.  We  fill  the  dish  half  full  of  cold  water. 

N.B. — If  there  be  any  cold  gravy  it  would,  of  course,  be  better  than  the 

water. 
N.B. — The  pie  dish  should  be  quite  full  of  meat,  and  rather  heaped  in  the 

centre,  so  as  to  raise  the  crust  of  potato. 

11.  We  take  the  mashed  potato  and  put  it  over  the  top  of 
the  meat,  smoothing  it  over  neatly  with  a  knife. 

12.  We  take  a  fork,  and  mark  all  over  the  top  of  the 

Potato. 

N.B. — If  liked,  the  mashed  potato  might  be  mixed  with  half  its  weight  of 
flour  into  a  dough,  to  make  a  more  substantial  crust ;  it  must  be  then 
rolled  out  with  a  rolling-pin  like  pastry. 

13.  We  put  the  pie  dish  into  the  oven,  or  into  a  Dutch 
oven  in  front  of  the  fire,  for  half  an  hour,  to  brown  the  crust 
of  potato  and  warm  the  meat  through,  it  is  then  ready  for 
serving-. 


Lessons  on  Re-Cooking  Meat. — Fried  Rissoles.     37 

COOKED    MEAT. 

Lesson  No.  6. 

FRIED  RISSOLES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Fried  Rissoles  "  made  of  cold  meat. 
(This  quantity  makes  about  8). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  scraps  of  cold  meat i 

2  tablespoonsful  of  chopped  suet    \\ 

2  do.  of  bread  crumbs    h 

1  do.  of  chopped  parsley \ 

\  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  herbs,  marjoram  )        ^ 

and  thyme   I        3 

1  egg     I 

Crumb  of  bread ) 

Salt  and  pepper / 

1  gill  of  stock )        •{ 

\  oz.  of  flour  j        4 

Use  of  dripping  for  frying 

~l\ 
Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Rissoles  with  cold 
meat. 

1.  We  put  about  half  a  pound  of  clarified  dripping  into 
a  saucepan  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  heat. 

2.  We  take  the  scraps  of  cold  meat,  and  chop  them  up  as 
finely  as  possible  on  a  board,  when  chopped,  there  should 
be  about  two  tablespoonsfid. 

3.  We  take  tzuo  ounces  of  suet,  put  it  on  a  board,  cut 
away  the  skin  and  chop  it  up  as  finely  as  possible.  There 
should  be  two  tablespoonsfid. 

4.  We  take  a  grater  and  grate  some  crumbs  of  bread  on 
to  a  piece  of  paper. 

N.B. — More  than  two  tablespoonsful  of  bread  crumbs  will  be  required,  as  the 
rissoles  should  be  dipped  in  bread  crumbs  before  they  are  fried. 

5.  We  take  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  wash  it,  and  dry  it  in  a 
cloth. 

6.  We  put  the  parsley  on  a  boa  rd,  and  chop  it  up  finely ; 
there  should  be  one  tablespoonful. 

7.  We  take  a  sprig  of  marjoram  and  a  sprig  of  thyme, 


38       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


take  away  the  stalks,  and  rub  the  leaves  through  a  strainer, 
or  chop  them  up  finely  on  a  board. 

N.B. — The  stalks  of  the  herbs  are  bitter  to  taste,  and  can  therefore  only  be 
used  for  flavouring,  and  not  for  eating. 

8.  We  put  the  meat,  suet,  and  two  tablespoons  fid  of  bread 
crumbs  into  a  basin,  and  mix  them  together. 

9.  We  now  add  the  herbs,  half  an  ounce  of  flour,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt. 

N.  B. — If  liked,  a  little  chopped  onion  or  chopped  lemon  peel  might  be  added. 

10.  We  add  one  gill  of  stock  to  the  basin,  and  mix  all 
together  lightly. 

11.  We  take  a  board,  flour  it,  and  turn  the  mixture  on 
to  it. 

12.  We  also  flour  our  hands,  to  prevent  the  mixture  from 
sticking. 

13.  We  form  the  mixture  into  little  balls,  and  we  should 
sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them. 

14.  We  break  an  egg  on  to  a  plate,  and  beat  it  very 
slightly  with  a  knife. 

15.  We  put  the  balls  into  the  egg,  and  egg  them  well  all 
over. 

16.  We  now  put  them  into  the  bread  crumbs  and  cover 
them  well,  but  not  too  thickly. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  to  finger  them  as  little  as  possible. 

17.  We  put  the  rissoles  into  a  frying  basket,  a  few  at  a 
time,  as  they  must  not  touch  each  other. 

18.  When  the  fat  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  hot  and 
smoking,  we  put  in  the  frying  basket,  and  let  the  rissoles 
fry  a  pale  brown. 

19.  If  there  is  not  sufficient  fat  to  cover  the  rissoles,  we 
must  shake  the  basket  occasionally,  that  they  may  get  fried 
on  all  sides  alike. 

N.B. — If  there  be  no  frying-basket,  we  should  carefully  put  the  rissoles  into 
the  fat  with  a  spoon,  and  then  we  must  turn  them  over,  so  as  to  get 
them  equally  browned. 

20.  We  put  a  piece  of  kitchen  paper  on  a  plate. 

21.  When  the  rissoles  are  fried,  we  turn  them  carefully 
on  to  the  paper  to  drain  off  the  g?'ease. 

22.  For  serving,  we  put  them  on  a  hot  dish. 


Lessons  on  Re-Cooking  Meat. — Minced  Meat.    30 


COOKED    MEAT. 

Lesson  No.  7. 

MINCED    MEAT. 

Average  cost  of  "  Minced  Meat "  with  rice  or  potatoes. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Scraps  of  cold  meat  3 

1  tablespoon ful  of  mushroom  ketchup ( 

Pepper  and  salt I 

\  lb.  of  Patna  rice  or  1  lb.  of  potatoes i\ 

\  oz.  of  flour   I  3 

1  gill  of  stock I  4 

IL 

Time  required  to  cook  the  potatoes,  half  an  hour  ;  to  cook  the  mince,  five  minutes. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Mince  of  cold 
meat. 

1.  If  the  mince  is  served  with  rice  (see  Lesson  on  "Rice  "), 
or  if  with  mashed  potatoes  (see  "Vegetables,"  Lesson  No.  2. 

2.  We  put  any  scraps  of  cold  meat  on  a  board,  and  mince 
them  up  with  a  sharp  knife. 

3.  We  put  the  minced  meat,  and  half  an  ounce  of  flonr 
into  a  saucepan,  with  one  gill  of  stock,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  mushroom  ketchup,  and  season  it  with  pepper,  and  salt  to 
taste. 

4.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  to  let  the  mince  just 
warm  through. 

5.  We  should  stir  it  occasionally,  to  prevent  the  meat 
from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan. 

6.  For  serving,  we  turn  the  mince  on  to  a  hot  dish,  with 
a  border  of  boiled  rice  or  mashed  potato. 


40        National  Traintjzg  School  for  Cookery. 

AUSTRALIAN    MEAT. 
Lesson  No.  i. 

MULLIGATAWNY. 

Average  cost  of  "  Mulligatawny  Soup  "  (3  quarts)  made 
from  "  Atistralian  Meat." 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

2  lb.  tin  of  Australian  calf's  head i  o 

2  lbs.  of  Australian  mutton    i  2 

2  apples o  1 

2  leeks o  1 

2  carrots,  1  turnip o  1  ^ 

2  good-sized  onions o  1 

2  tablespoonsful  of  flour \ 

1  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder     >  o  1 

Salt  and  sugar   ) 

A  bouquet  garni  (of  parsley,  thyme,  mar-  \  1 


joram  and  2  bay  leaves)  j  2 

2    8 

Time  required,  three  hotirs. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Mulligatawny  Soup. 

1.  We  take  a  tin  of  Australian  mutton  and  open  it  care- 
fully. 

2.  We  take  a  spoon  and  carefully  remove  all  the  fat 
from  the  top  of  the  meat. 

N.B. — The  fat  should  only  be  removed  from  that  part  of  the  meat  which  is 

required  for  immediate  use. 
N.B. — The  fat  should  be  clarified,  by  putting  it  into  boiling  water,  and 

when  cold  can  then  be  used  as  dripping. 

3.  We  take  two  pounds  of  the  mutton  out  of  the  tin,  put 
it  in  a  basin  with  two  quarts  of  warm  water. 

4.  We  take  two  apples,  peel  them,  and  put  them  on  a  plate. 

5.  We  cut  the  apples  in  quarters,  cut  out  the  core,  and 
then  cut  the  quarters  into  slices,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  two  ounces  of  the  clarified  fat. 

6.  We  take  one  turnip  and  two  good-sized  onions,  peel 
them,  cut  them  in  pieces,  and  put  them  in  the  saucepan. 

7.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  give  one  stir  to 
the  vegetables  with  a  wooden  spoon. 


Lessons  071  Attstralian  Meat. — Mulligatawny.  41 

8.  We  take  two  leekst  wash  them  well  in  cold  water,  and 
cut  off  the  green  tops  of  the  leaves. 

9.  We  cut  up  the  leeks  and  put  them  in  the  saucepan. 

10.  We  take  two  carrots,  wash  them,  scrape  them  with  a 
knife,  cut  them  in  pieces,  and  put  them  in  the  saucepan. 

11.  We  give  one  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  mix  the 
vegetables  together,  and  let  them  fry  for  ten  minutes. 

12.  We  also  add  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a 
sprig  of  marjoram  and  two  bay-leaves,  tied  tightly  together 
with  a  piece  of  string. 

13.  When  the  vegetables  have  fried  for  ten  minutes  wc 
take  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  (in  which  the  meat  is  soaking), 
pour  it  into  the  saucepan,  and  let  it  boil  and  reduce  to  a 
quarter  of  a  pint. 

14.  We  should  stir  the  vegetables  occasionally. 

15.  We  put  two  tablespooiisfid  of  flour  and  one  tablespoon- 
fid  of  enrry  powder  into  a  basin,  and  mix  them  into  a 
smooth  paste  with  one  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint)  of  the  liquor. 

16.  We   stir  this    mixture    into   the  saucepan  with  the 

vegetables. 

17.  We  now  put  the  meat  and  the  remaining  liquor  into 
the  saucepan,  put  the  lid  on  and  let  it  come  to  the  boil. 

18.  When  it  boils  we  should  put  one  saltspoonfid  of  salt 
and  half  a  saltspoonfid  of  moist  sugar  into  the  saucepan. 

19.  We  now  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire 
and  let  it  simmer  for  two  hours  and  a  half. 

20.  We  should  watch  it,  and  skim  it  occasionally  with  a 
spoon. 

21.  After  that  time  we  strain  the  soup  through  a  strainer 
into  a  basin. 

22.  We  pour  the  soup  back  into  the  saucepan. 

23.  We  open  the  two  pound  tin  of  calf's  head,  remove 
all  the  fat  from  the  top,  and  stir  the  contents  of  the  tin 
into  the  soup  in  the  saucepan. 

24.  For  serving  we  pour  the  soup  into  a  hot  soup -tureen. 


42        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

AUSTRALIAN    MEAT. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

SAUSAGE    ROLLS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Sausage  Rolls  "  (about  two  dozen)  made 
from  "  Australian  Mince  Meat!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  mince  meat    37 

I  lb.  of  flour    , x\ 

£  lb.  of  dripping 4 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 1 

Seasoning >  | 

4  sage  leaves    f 

1  egg 1 

Time  required,  half  an  ho2ir. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Sausage  Rolls. 

1.  We  take  a  tin  of  Australian  mince  meat  and  open  it 
carefully. 

2.  We  take  a  spoon  and  carefully  remove  the  fat  from 
the  top  of  the  meat. 

N.B. — The  fat  should  be  clarified  by  putting  it  into  a  basin  of  boiling  water, 
and  when  cold  can  then  be  used  as  dripping. 

3.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  the  mince  meat  out  of  the  tin, 
put  it  in  a  basin,  and  season  it  well  with  pepper  and  salt. 

4.  We  take  four  sage  leaves,  put  them  on  a  board,  and 
chop  them  up  as  finely  as  possible  with  a  knife. 

5.  We  mix  the  chopped  sage  well  into  the  mince  meat  with 
a  spoon. 

6.  Weputthreeqttartersofapou7idoffourmtod.noth.erb3.sin. 

7.  We  add  to  it  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  salt  (as 
much  as  would  cover  a  threepenny  piece,  and  half  a  pound  of 
clarified  dripping. 

8.  We  rub  the  dripping 'well  into  thenar  with  our  hands. 

N.B. — We  must  mix  it  thoroughly,  and  be  careful  not  to  leave  any  lumps. 


Lessons  on  Australian  Meat. — Sausage  Rolls.  43 


9.  We  add  enough  water  to  the  flour  to  make  it  into  a 
stiff  paste. 

10.  We  flour  the  paste  board. 

11.  We  turn  the  paste  out  on  the  board. 

N.B. — We  should  divide  the  paste  in  two,  so  as  not  to  handle  it  too  much. 

12.  We  take  a  rolling  pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  each 
portion  into  a  thin  sheet,  about  one- eighth  of  an  inch  in 
thickness. 

13.  We  cut  the  paste  into  pieces  about  six  inches  square. 

14.  We  should  collect  all  the  scraps  of  paste  (so  that 
none  is  wasted),  fold  them  together,  and  roil  them  out  and 
cut  them  into  squares. 

N.B. — There  should  be  about  two  dozen  squares  of  paste. 

15.  We  should  put  about  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mince 
meat  into  the  centre  of  each  square  of  paste. 

16.  We  fold  the  paste  round  the  meat,  joining  it  smoothly 
down  the  centre,  and  pressing  the  ends  of  the  paste  together 
with  our  finger  and  thumb. 

17.  We  take  a  baking  tin,  grease  it  well,  and  place  the 
sausage  rolts  on  it. 

18.  We  break  one  egg  on  to  a  plate,  and  beat  it  slightly 
with  a  knife. 

19.  We  take  a  paste  brush,  dip  it  in  the  egg,  and  paint 
over  the  tops  of  the  rolls. 

20.  We  place  the  tin  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  15 
minutes. 

N.B. — We  should  look  at  them  once  or  twice,  and  turn  them  if  necessary,  so 
that  they  shall  be  equally  baked. 

21.  For  serving  we  take  the  rolls  off  the  tin  and  place 
them  on  a  hot  dish. 


44       National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

AUSTRALIAN   MEAT. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

MEAT    PIE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "Meat  Pie"  (a  quart  dish)  made  from 
Australian  mutton  or  beef 'and  kidneys. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

i|  lb.  of  Australian  mutton  or  beef o  10 \ 

\  lb.  do.         kidneys     o     37 

f  lb.  of  flour o     1^ 

i  lb.  of  dripping   )  " 

Pepper  and  salt    J 

Time  required,  ahout  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Meat  Pie. 

1.  We  take  a  tin  of  Australian  mutton  or  beef,  and  open 
it  carefully. 

2.  We  take  a  spoon,  and  carefully  remove  the  fat  from 
the  part  of  the  meat  which  is  required  for  use. 

N.B. — All  the  fat  should  not  be  removed,  as  the  meat  not  required  for 
immediate  use  will  keep  better  with  the  fat  on  the  top ;  but  a  tin  of 
Australian  meat  will  not  keep  more  than  two  or  three  days  after  it  has 
once  been  opened. 

3.  We  take  a  tin  of  kidneys,  open  it  carefully,  and  remove 
the  fat  from  the  part  of  the  meat  which  is  required  for  use. 

N.B. — The  fat  should  be  clarified,  by  putting  it  into  boiling  water,  and 
when  cold  can  then  be  used  as  dripping. 

4.  We  take  one  and  a  half  pound  of  the  meat  {mutton  or 
beef)  out  of  the  tin,  and  cut  it  neatly  into  nice  sized  pieces, 
and  season  the  pieces  with  pepper  and  salt. 

5.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  the  kidneys,  and  cut  them  up 
in  pieces. 

6.  We  put  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin, 
with  salt  (to  cover  thinly  a  threepenny  piece) . 

7.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  clarified  dripping  and 
rub  it  well  into  the  flour  with  our  hands. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  not  to  leave  any  lumps. 


Lessons  on  Australian  Meat. — Meat  Pie.       45 

8.  We  add  sufficient  water  to  make  it  into  a  stiff  paste; 
it  will  take  rather  less  than  one  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint). 

9.  We  take  a  board,  flour  it,  and  put  the  paste  on  it. 

10.  We  take  a  quart  pie-dish  and  fill  it  with  the  pieces 
of  meat  and  kidney. 

11.  We  take  a  little  of  the  jelly  out  of  the  tin  and  put  it 
in  the  dish  with  the  meat,  to  make  the  gravy. 

12.  We  take  a  rolling  pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the  paste 
to  the  shape  of  the  top  of  the  pie-dish,  only  rather  larger. 

N.B. — We  should  keep  our  hands  floured,  to  prevent  the  paste  sticking. 

13.  We  take  a  knife,  dip  it  in  the  flour,  and  cut  off  a 
strip  of  the  paste  about  one  inch  wide. 

N.B. — This  strip  should  be  cut  off  from  round  the  edge  of  the  paste,  leaving 
the  centre  piece  the  size  of  the  top  of  the  pie-dish. 

14.  We  wet  the  edge  of  the  pie-dish  with  water,  and 
place  the  strip  of  paste  round  the  edge. 

15.  We  now  wet  the  strip  of paste  on  the  pie-dish. 

16.  We  take  the  piece  of  paste,  lay  it  over  the  top  of  the 
pie-dish,  pressing  the  edges  together  with  our  thumb. 

17.  We  take  a  knife,  flour  it,  and  trim  off  the  rough 
edges  of  the  paste. 

18.  We  take  the  knife,  and  with  the  back  of  the  blade, 
we  make  little  notches  in  the  edge  of  the  paste,  pressing  it 
with  our  thumb,  to  keep  it  in  its  proper  place. 

19.  We  should  make  a  small  hole  in  the  centre  of  the 
paste,  to  let  out  the  steam,  whilst  it  is  baking. 

20.  We  can  ornament  the  top  of  the  pie  with  the  remains 
of  the  paste,  according  to  taste,  and  biush  over  the  top  of 
the  pie  with  some  white  of  egg. 

21.  We  put  the  pie  into  a  quick  oven  to  bake  for  half  an 
hour. 

22.  We  must  look  at  it  occasionally,  to  see  that  it  does 
not  burn.     After  that  time  it  is  ready  for  serving. 


46        National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 


AUSTRALIAN     MEAT. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

RISSOLES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Rissoles,"  made  from  Australian  meat 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

h,  lb.  of  Australian  meat     , . .  ^k 

\  lb.  of  flour 1 

3  oz.  of  dripping i^ 

Salt  and  pepper )  x 

A  few  sprigs  of  dried  herbs   , j  * 

1  egg 1 

2  oz.  of  vermicelli  or  some  bread  crumbs  ....  I  i 
Clarified  dripping  (for  frying) J  2 

7* 

Time  required,  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Rissoles  of 
Australian  meat. 

1.  We  put  one  pound  of  clarified  dripping  into  a  saucepan 
and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  heat. 

N.  B. — We  must  watch  it  and  be  careful  it  does  not  burn. 

2.  We  put  half  a  p07ind  of  flour  into  a  basin  with  salt  (to 
cover  thinly  a  threepenny  piece),  and  three  ounces  of  clarified 
dripping. 

3.  We  rub  the  dripping  well  into  the flour  with  our  hands, 
until  it  is  quite  a  powder. 

4.  We  then  add  a  little  cold  water  and  mix  it  into  a  stiff 
paste. 

5.  We  flour  a  board  and  turn  the  paste  out  on  to  it. 

6.  We  take  a  tin  of  Australian  meat,  open  it  carefully, 
and  with  a  spoon  remove  all  the  fat  off  the  part  of  the 
meat  required  for  immediate  use. 

N.B.—  The /at  should  be  clarified  by  putting  it  into  boiling   water ;   and 
when  cold  can  then  be  used  for  dripping. 

7.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  meat  out  of  the  tin  and  scrape 
off  as  much  of  the  jelly  as  possible. 


Lessons  on  Australian  Meat. — Rissoles.        47 

8.  We  put  the  meat  on  a  board  and  chop  it  up  as  finely 
as  possible. 

N.B. — Minced  meat  might  be  used,  which  would    not   of  course  require 
chopping  up. 

9.  We  take  a  small  bunch  of  dried  herbs  and  rub  the 
leaves  into  a  powder. 

N.B. — The  stalks  of  the  herbs  need  not  be  thrown  away,  as  they  can  be  used 
in  soups  for  flavouring. 

10.  We  sprinkle  the  herbs  over  the  meat,  also  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  flour. 

11.  We  take  a  rolling  pin  and  roll  out  the  paste  as  thin  as 
possible. 

12.  We  cut  the  paste  into  rounds  with  a  cutter  (which 
should  be  dipped  in  flour)  ;  the  rounds  should  be  rather 
larger  than  the  top  of  a  tea-cup. 

13.  We  put  some  meat  into  the  centre  of  each  round  of 
paste. 

14.  We  break  an  egg  on  to  a  plate  and  beat  it  up 
slightly  with  a  knife. 

15.  We  take  a  paste-brush,  dip  it  in  the  egg,  and  just  wet 
the  edges  of  the  paste  with  the  egg. 

16.  We  fold  the  paste  carefully  over  the  meat,  pressing 
the  edges  together  with  our  thumbs. 

17.  We  take  two  ounces  of  vermicelli  and  rub  it  between 
our  hands,  crushing  it  up  as  finely  as  possible. 

18.  We  put  this  crushed  vermicelli  on  to  a  piece  of 
paper. 

19.  We  put  the  rissoles  into  the  plate  of  egg,  and  egg 
them  well  all  over  with  the  brush. 

20.  We  then  turn  them  into  the  crushed  vermicelli,  and 
cover  them  well  with  it  but  not  too  thickly. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  to  finger  them  as  little  as  possible,  so  as  not  to 
rub  off  any  of  the  egg  or  vermicelli,  or  the  rissoles  will  burst  while  frying. 

N.B. — Bread  crumbs  might  be  used  instead  of  vermicelli. 

21.  We  take  a  frying  basket  and  put  in  the  rissoles ;  we 
must  be  careful  that  they  do  not  touch  each  other. 

22.  When   the  fat   in  the   saucepan  is  quite  hot  and 


48        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

smoking,  we  put  in  the  frying-basket  and  let  the  rissoles  fry 
for  a  minute  or  two  until  they  have  become  a  pale  brown. 

23.  We  take  a  piece  of  kitchen  paper  and  put  it  on  a 
plate. 

24.  As  the  rissoles  are  fried  we  turn  them  from  the  fry- 
ing-basket on  to  the  piece  of  paper  to  drain  off  the  grease. 

25.  We  then  put  them  on  a  hot  dish  and  they  are  ready 
for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Australian  Meat. — Savoury  Hash.  49 

AUSTRALIAN    MEAT. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

SAVOURY    HASH. 

Average  cost  of  a  "Savoury  Hash"   made  from   Aus- 
tralian Mutton. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 
\\  lb.  of  Australian  mutton    o  \o\ 

1  oz.  of  butter  o     I 

2  oz.  of  flour J 

2  an  onion -  o    o\ 

1  sprig  of  thyme  and  marjoram     ) 

2  sprigs  of  parsley    i  x 

Pepper  and  salt    j  °    °4 

1  dessertspoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup. ...  o    o| 

1    of 

Time  required,  about  ten  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Savoury  Hash. 

1.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  melt. 

2.  We  take  half  an  onion,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

3.  We  put  the  onion  into  the  butter. 

4.  We  also  stir  in  half  an  ounce  of  flour,  and  let  all  fry 
for  a  minute  or  two  to  brown. 

5.  We  take  a  tin  of  Australian  mutton,  open  it  carefully, 
and  remove  the  fat  from  the  part  of  the  meat  required  for 
immediate  use. 

N.B. — We  should  clarify  the  fat  by  putting  it  into  boiling  water,  and  when  it 
is  cold  it  can  be  used  as  dripping. 

6.  We  take  one  and  a  half  pound  of  the  mutton  out  of  the  tin. 

7.  If  all  the  meat  is  required  for  present  use,  we  should 
turn  it  all  out  of  the  tin,  and  we  should  then  rinse  out  the 
tin  with  half  a  pint  of  warm  water  to  make  the  gravy  for 
the  hash. 

N.B. — If  all  the  meat  has  not  been  taicen  out  of  the  tin,  we  should  take  some 
of  the  jelly  out  of  the  tin,  and  melt  it  in  half  a  pint  of  warm  water  to 
make  the  gravy. 

D 


50       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

8.  We  pour  this  gravy  into  the  saucepan,  with  the  flour 
and  butter,  and  stir  well  until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

9.  We  now  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to 
keep  warm. 

10.  We  take  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley  (wash  it  and  dry  it 
in  a  cloth),  and  a  sprig  of  marjoram  and  thyme,  take  away 
the  stalks,  and  chop  up  the  leaves  finely  on  a  board. 
(There  should  be  about  a  dessertspoonful.) 

11.  We  cut  up  the  meat  into  neat  pieces,  and  sprinkle 
over  each  piece  some  of  the  chopped  herbs,  and  a  little  pepper 
and  salt. 

12.  We  put  the  meat  into  the  saucepan  of  sazice,  and  let 
it  just  warm  through  for  about  five  minutes. 

13.  We  now  pour  into  the  sauce  a  dessertspoonful  of 
mushroom  ketchup. 

14.  For  serving  we  put  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  and  strain 
the  sauce  over  it. 


Lessons  on  Australian  Meat. — Mince.         51 


AUSTRALIAN    MEAT. 

Lesson  No.  6. 

MINCE. 

Average  cost  of  "Mince"  served  with  "  Mashed  Potatoes'* 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  lb.  of  Australian  mince  meat    . . . , 7 

i\  lb.  of  potatoes    13 

i"oz.  of  butter , 1 

1  tablespoonful  of  milk o\ 

I  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup ) 

Salt  and  pepper , j 


lO'i 


Time  required,  about  forty  minutes. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  2.  Mince,  served  with 
Mashed  Potatoes. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  and  a  half  of  potatoes,  wash  them  well 
in  cold  water,  and  scrub  them  clean  with  a  scrubbing  brush. 

2.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  peel  them,  and  carefully  cut 
out  the  eyes  and  any  black  specks  about  the  potato. 

3.  We  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  enough 
to  cover  them,  and  sprinkle  over  them  one  teaspoonfid  of 
salt. 

4.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil  the  potatoes 
for,  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 

5.  We  should  take  a  fork  and  put  it  into  the  potatoes ',  to 
feel  if  the  centre  is  quite  tender. 

6.  When  they  are  sufficiently  boiled,  we  drain  off  all  the 
water,  and  stand  the  saucepan  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  with 

t  the  lid  half  on,  to  ste  am  the  potatoes. 

7.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  07ie  tablespoonful  of 
milk  into  a  small  saucepan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

8.  When  the  potatoes  have  become  quite  dry,  we  should 
t  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire  and  stand  it  on  a  piece  of 

paper  on  the  table. 


52         National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  We  should  mash  them  up  smoothly  with  a  spoon  or 
fork. 

N.B. — The  best  way  to  mash  potatoes  is  to  rub  them  through  a  wire  sieve  , 
we  can  then  be  sure  there  are  no  lumps  left. 

10.  When  the  milk  boils  we  should  pour  it  into  the 
mashed  potatoes,  and  stir  it  till  it  is  quite  smooth. 

11.  We  add  pepper  and  salt  according  to  taste. 

12.  We  stand  the  saucepan  of  mashed  potatoes  by  the  side 
of  the  fire  to  keep  warm  until  required  for  use. 

13.  We  take  a  tin  of  A  ustralian  mince  meat,  open  it  care- 
fully, and  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  part  of  the  meat 
required  for  immediate  use. 

N.B. — This  fat  should  be  clarified  by  putting  it  into  boiling  water,  and  when 
cold  it  can  be  used  as  dripping. 

14.  We  take  one potmd  of  the  mince  out  of  the  tin,  put  it 
in  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup, 
and  stir  it  into  a  paste. 

15.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  let  the  mince 
just  warm  through. 

N.B. — We  should  be  very  careful  that  it  does  not  boil,  or  the  meat  will  get 
hardened. 

16.  For  serving  we  make  a  wall  of  the  mashed  potatoes 
round  the  edge  of  a  hot  dish,  and  we  pour  the  mince  in  the 
centre ;  we  should  stand  the  dish  in  front  of  the  fire  to 
colour  the  potato  a  pale  brown. 


Cooking  Meat. — {Entrees). — Indian  Cttrry.      53 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  i. 

CURRY. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Curry  (Indian)  of  Rabbit"  &c. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  rabbit,  is.  gd.,  or  chicken,  etc 2     g 

Half  an  ounce  of  coriander  seed 

2  cloves  of  garlic     

1  dessertspoonful  of  turmerick     

8  berries  of  red  pepper 

2  inches  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon    

6  cardamums  

A  small  piece  of  green  ginger,  about  the 

size  of  a  nut 

5  small  onions I 

Salt    j  °  2 

3  ounces  of  fresh  butter , o  5! 

Half  a  pint  of  cream 1  o 

The  juice  of  half  a  lemon o  of 

4  "* 

Time  required,  about  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Ctirry. 

1.  We  take  a  rabbit  [which  has  been  skinned  and  pro- 
perly prepared  for  cooking]  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  cut  it  up  in  the  same  way  as  for  carving,  taking 
care  that  the  pieces  are  nearly  all  of  one  size. 

N.B. — Chicken,  veal,  and  other  meats  would  serve  the  purpose  for  curry  as 
well  as  rabbit. 

3.  We  take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  coriander  seed,  put  it 
into  the  mortar,  and  pound  it  very  fine  with  a  pestle. 

4.  We  take  the  pounded  seed  out  of  the  mortar,  and  put 
it  on  a  piece  of  paper  ;  we  must  scrape  out  the  mortar 
cleanly  so  that  none  be  lost. 

5.  We  take  two  cloves  of  garlic,  peel  them  with  a  sharp 
knife  and  place  them  in  the  mortar. 

6.  We  also  put  into  the  mortar  a  dessertspoonful  of  tur- 
merick. % 


54        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

7.  We  add  eight  berries  of  red  pepper  and  one  inch  of  the 
stick  of  cinnamon. 

8.  We  put  in  four  cardamums. 

9.  We  take  a  piece  of  green  ginger  about  the  size  of  a 
nut  and  slice  it  very  thinly. 

10.  We  take  three  small  onions  and  peel  off  the  two  outer 
skins. 

11.  We  divide  the  onions  into  quarters  and  place  them 
and  the  sliced  ginger  in  the  mortar. 

12.  We  must  now  pound  up  all  these  spices  and  the 
onions  as  finely  as  possible  with  the  pestle. 

13.  We  now  add  to  them  the  pounded  coriaiider  seed  and 
mix  them  all  up  together. 

14.  We  turn  all  this  pounded  mixture  out  of  the  mortar 
into  a  half-pint  basin. 

15.  We  take  a  teacupfnl  of  cold  water  and  rinse  out  the 
mortar,  and  then  pour  the  water  on  to  the  pounded  mixture 
in  the  basin. 

16.  We  take  the  pieces  of  rabbit  and  wash  them  in  cold 
water. 

17.  We  take  the  pieces  of  rabbit  out  of  the  cold  water 
and  place  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain. 

18.  We  take  a  stew-pan  and  put  in  it  three  ounces  of  fresh 

hitter. 

19.  We  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  melt  the  butter. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  it  does  not  burn. 

20.  We  take  two  small  onions  and  peel  off  the  two  outer 
skins. 

21.  We  divide  the  onions  in  half  down  the  centre,  and 
cut  them  up  so  that  the  slices  are  in  half  circles. 

22.  We  put  these  sliced  onions  into  the  melted  butter, 
we  also  add  two  cardamums,  and  let  them  fry  a  pale 
brown. 

23.  We  then  take  the  onions  carefully  out  of  the  stew- 
pan  with  a  slice,  and  place  them  on  a  piece  of  whitey-brown 
paper  to  drain  off  the  grease. 


Cooking  Meat. — {Entries) — Indian  Curry.     55 

24.  We  now  take  the  basin  of  spices,  and  add  as  much 
cold  water  as  will  make  the  basin  three  parts  full. 

25.  We  add  to  the  basin  of  spices  a  small  dessertspoon- 
ful of  salt. 

26.  We  now  pour  all  the  contents  of  the  basin  into  the 
melted  butter  in  the  stew-pan,  to  cook  for  about  twenty 
minutes,  stirring  well  all  the  time  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

N.B. — To  test  when  the  spices  are  sufficiently  cooked,  you  should  smell 
them,  and  if  they  are  quite  done,  no  particular  spice  should  predo- 
minate. 

27.  We  now  place  the  pieces  of  rabbit  in  the  stew-pan 
to  brown. 

28.  We  must  turn  the  pieces  of  rabbit  occasionally  so 
that  they  get  brown  on  all  sides. 

29.  We  now  pour  into  the  stew-pan  a  teacupful  of  cold 
water  to  make  the  meat  tender. 

30.  We  put  the  lid  on  the  stew-pan,  and  let  it  all  cook 
steadily  for  about  an  hour. 

31.  We  must  watch  it  carefully,  and  stir  it  perpetually. 

N.B. — A  good  deal  of  stirring  is  required. 

32.  We  must  add  by  degrees  a  teacupful  of  cold  water, 
to  wash  down  the  bits  of  spice  which  will  stick  to  the  sides 
of  the  stew-pan. 

33.  We  must  also  add  by  degrees,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  or 
good  milk  \water  might  even  be  used  instead]  and  mix  it 
well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  no  pieces  of  meat  or  spices*  stick  to  the 
bottom  of  the  pan. 

34.  We  now  take  half  the  fried  onions,  chop  them  up 
finely,  and  add  them  to  the  curry. 

35.  We  then  put  into  the  mortar  five  coriander  seeds,  and 
one  inch  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  pound  them  well 
together  with  a  pestle. 

36.  When  the  rabbit  is  quite  done,  we  take  the  pieces 
out  with  a  fork,  arrange  them  nicely  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
pour  the  gravy  round. 

37.  We  then  sprinkle  over  the  rabbit  the  remainder  of 


56       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

the  fried  onions,    the   pounded   cimiamon,    and   coriander 
seed. 

38.  We  take  a  fresh  lemon,  cut  it  in  half,  and  squeeze 
all  the  juice  of  it  through  a  strainer  over  the  rabbit,  and  it 
is  ready  for  serving. 

N.B  — Boiled  Patna  rice  should  be  served  with  the  above  curry. 


Cooking  Meat. — [Entries!)   Quenelles  of   Veal.    57 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

QUENELLES    OF   VEAL. 

Average  cost  of  "  Quenelles  of  Veal  [about  1 2)  and  the 
Sauce!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  lb.  of  the  fillet  of  veal   i  3 

2  oz.  of  butter   o  2 

2|  oz.  of  flour    o  o\ 

f  pint  of  2nd  white  stock    o  3! 

2  eggs o  2 

1  dozen  button  mushrooms    o    6 

1  gill  of  cream   o    6 

1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice )  1 

Salt J  2 

2     nf 
7Yw£  required,  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Quenelles  of  Veal. 

1.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  and  two  oimces  of  flour  into 
a  stew-pan  and  mix  them  well  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

2.  We  add  one  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint)  of  second  white 
stock. 

3.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  stir  well  until  it 
boils  and  thickens,  and  leaves  the  sides  of  the  stewpan. 

4.  We  now  pour  this  mixture  or  panada  (as  it  is  called) 
on  to  a  plate. 

5.  We  stand  the  plate  aside  to  cool. 

6.  We  take  one  pound  of  the  fillet  of  veal  and  put  it  on 
a  board. 

7.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  cut  away  all  the  skin  and  fat, 
and  cut  up  the  meat  into  small  pieces. 

8.  We  put  these  pieces  of  veal  into  a  mortar,  and  pound 
them  well  with  the  pestle. 

9.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  over  the  plate  ;  we  take  this 


58       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

pounded  meat  and  pass  it  through  the  sieve,  rubbing  it  with 
a  wooden  spoon. 

10.  When  the  panada  on  the  plate  is  cold,  we  put  half  of 
it,  and  one  egg  in  the  mortar,  and  pound  it  to  a  cream. 

11.  We  then  add  half  the  meat,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  pound  all  well  together  with  the  pestle. 

12.  We  put  into  the  mortar  the  remainder  of  the  panada, 
break  in  another  egg,  and  add  the  rest  of  the  meat. 

13.  We  pound  these  well  together  again  with  the  pestle. 

14.  We  turn  the  mixture  from  the  mortar  into  a  basin. 

15.  We  take  a  saute-pan  and  butter  it  inside. 

16.  We  take  a  dessertspoon,  and  fill  it  with  the  mixture, 
shaping  it  to  the  form  of  an  oval  with  a  knife,  which  we 
must  dip  occasionally  into  hot  water  to  prevent  the  mixture 
from  sticking. 

17.  We  take  another  dessertspoon,  and  dip  it  into  boiling 
water. 

18.  We  scoop  the  quenelle  from  the  first  spoon  into  the 
second  spoon,  and  put  it  into  the  saute-pan,  and  continue 
doing  this  till  we  have  used  up  all  the  mixture. 

19.  We  must  now  make  the  sauce,  to  be  served  with  the 

quenelles. 

20.  We  take  a  stewpan,  and  put  in  one  ounce  of  butter, 
and  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  flour. 

21.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  mix  them 
together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

22.  We  take  one  dozen  of  button  mushrooms,  cut  off  the 
end  of  the  stalks,  and  wash  them  well  in  cold  water. 

23.  We  take  them  out  of  the  water,  put  them  upon  a 
board,  and  peel  them  carefully  with  a  sharp  knife. 

24.  We  pour  half  a  pint  of  second  white  stock  to  the 
mixture  in  the  stewpan,  and  add  the  mushroom  peelings  for 
flavouring. 

25.  We  must  stir  well  until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

26.  We  stand  the  stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  with  the 
lid  half  on,  and  let  it  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 


Cooking  Meat. — (Entrdes.)   Quenelles  of  Veal.    59 

27.  We  then  take  a  spoon,  and  skim  off  all  the  butter 
from  the  top  of  the  sauce. 

28.  We  now  stir  into  the  saiice  one  gill  of  cream,  and 
stand  the  stewpan  aside  to  keep  warm,  until  required  for 
use. 

29.  We  take  the  peeled  mushrooms  and  put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  nut. 

30.  We  squeeze  over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice 
and  pour  in  one  tablespoonfid  of  cold  water, 

31.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  just  bring  them 
to  the  boil. 

32.  We  now  pour  boiling  water  carefully  into  the  saute* 
pan,  enough  to  cover  the  quenelles. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  to  pour  the  water  very  gently  into  the  saut^-pan 
or  the  quenelles  will  be  spoiled. 

33.  We  put  the  saute-pan  on  the  fire  to  poach  the  quenelles 
for  ten  minutes. 

N.B. — We  must  watch  them  and  occasionally  turn  them  carefully  with  a  spoon. 

34.  When  the  quenelles  are  done,  we  lift  them  carefully 
out  of  the  water,  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain  off  the 
water. 

35.  We  must  arrange  them  tastily  in  a  circle  on  a  hot 
dtsh. 

36.  We  fill  in  the  centre  of  the  dish  with  the  boiled  mush- 
rooms. 

N.B. — Peas  (see  "Vegetables,"  Lesson  No.  9)  or  spinach  (see  "Vegetables," 
Lesson  No.  8)  may  be  served  with  them  instead,  according  to  taste. 

37.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  pour  the  sauce' 
through  a  strainer  over  the  quenelles.  They  are  now  ready 
for  serving. 


60       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

BRAISED    FILLETS    OF    BEEF. 

Average  cost  of  "Braised  Fillets  of  Beef  !y 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  lb.  of  fillet  of  beef i  4 

\  lb.  of  the  fat  of  bacon o  3 

A  bouquet  garni  of  parsley,    thvme,  and  )  x 

bay  leaf J  °  0:i 

2  young  carrots   o  1 

1  onion,  and  a  f  of  a  stick  of  celery   o  1 

A  pint  of  good  stock o  j\ 

2    45 

Time  required  (the  stock  should  be  maae  the  day  before),  about  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  lard  and  braise  Fillets  of  Beef. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  fillet  of  beef  (cut  from  the  under- 
cut of  the  sirloin),  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  and  cut  the  beef  into  small 
round  fillets,  to  about  the  size  of  the  top  of  a  breakfast  cup, 
and  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  trim 
them  neatly. 

3.  We  take  a  strip  of  the  fat  of  bacon  (nearest  the  rind 
is  best,  as  it  is  harder),  about  one  inch  wide. 

4.  We  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  up  this  piece  of  bacon 
into  little  strips,  an  inch  long,  and  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in 
width  and  thickness. 

5.  We  take  each  fillet  and  hold  it  in  a  clean  cloth. 

6.  We  take  a  larding  needle  with  a  little  strip  of  bacon 
in  it,  and  lard  each  fillet  neatly  in  regular  rows  ;  until  one 
side  of  the  fillet  is  entirely  covered  with  strips  of  bacon. 

7.  When  we  have  larded  all  the  fillets,  we  lay  them  care- 
fully in  a  clean  saute-pan. 

8.  We  add  a  bouquet  garni,  consisting  of  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  thyme,  and  a  bay  leaf,  all  tied  neatly  and  tightly 
together. 


Cooking  Meat. — (En  fades. )  Braised  Fillets  of  Beef.  6 1 

9.  We  take  two  young  carrots,  scrape  them  clean  with 
a  knife,  and  cut  them  in  halves. 

10.  We  take  an  onion  and  peel  it  carefully. 

11.  We  add  these  vegetables  and  a  quarter  of  a  stick  of 
celery  to  the  fillets  in  the  saute-pan. 

12.  We  now  pour  in  a  pint  of  good  stock,  put  the  saute- 
pan  on  the  fire,  and  baste  the  fillets  continually. 

N.B. — The  stock  must  not  cover  the  meat. 

13.  We  take  a  piece  of  kitchen  paper,  and  cut  a  round 
to  the  size  of  the  saute-pan  and  butter  it. 

14.  As  soon  as  the  stock  boils,  we  lay  this  round  of  paper 
on  the  fillets  in  the  saute-pan. 

N.B. — This  paper  is  to  prevent  the  meat  browning  too  quickly. 

15.  We  must  lift  the  paper  every  now  and  then,  when 
we  require  to  baste  the  fillets. 

16.  We  should  put  the  saute-pan  into  a  very  hot  oven, 
to  brown  the  fillets. 

17.  We  let  the  pint  of  stock  reduce  to  a  half  glaze,  which 
will  take  about  half  an  hour. 

18.  We  must  watch  it,  frequently  raise  the  paper,  and 
baste  the  fillets  with  the  stock. 

N.B. — If  the  fillets  are  not  brown  enough,  we  take  a  salamander  and  heat  it 
in  the  fire. 

19.  We  hold  the  salamander  over  the  fillets,  to  brown 
them  a  nice  colour. 

20.  We  take  the  fillets  carefully  out  of  the  saute-pan,  and 
arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish  in  a  circle,  on  a  border  of 
masked  potatoes.     (See  "  Vegetables,"  Lesson  No.  2.) 

N.  B. — We  must  stand  this  dish  on  the  hot  plate,  or  near  the  fire,  to  keep 
warm  until  the  sauce  is  ready. 

N.B. — The  centre  of  the  dish  may  be  filled  in  with  mixed  vegetables,  i.e., 
peas  and  beans,  which  should  be  cut  in  the  shape  of  dice,  carrots  and 
turnips  cut  with  a  cutter,  to  the  size  of  the  peas. 

21.  We  put  the  saute-pan  on  the  fire,  and  let  the  sauce 
reduce  to  a  half  glaze. 

22.  We  then  strain  the  glaze  round  the  meat  and  it  is 
ready  for  serving. 


62        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

MUTTON    CUTLETS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Mutton  Cutlets!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s,  d. 

3  lbs.  of  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton . .  30 

Bread  crumbs    . o  1 

*egg 0 o  1 

Salt  and  pepper    o  oj 

3  ounces  of  clarified  butter o  3 


3    54 
Time  required,  about  three- quarters  of  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  fry  Mutton  Cutlets. 

1.  We  take  three  pounds  of  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of 
mutton  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  take  a  saw  and  saw  off  the  end  of  the  rib  bone, 
leaving  the  cutlet  bone  three  inches  in  length. 

3.  We  saw  off  the  chine  bone,  which  lies  at  the  back  of 
the  cutlets. 

4.  We  joint  each  cutlet  with  the  chopper. 

5.  We  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  off  each  cutlet  close  to 
the  bone. 

6.  We  take  a  cutlet-bat,  wet  it,  and  beat  each  cutlet  to 
about  half  an  inch  in  thickness. 

7.  We  trim  the  cutlet  round,  leaving  about  half  an  inch 
of  the  rib  bone  bare. 

8.  We  form  the  cutlets  to  a  good  shape. 

N.B. — The  trimmings  of  the  cutlets  should  be  put  aside,  as  the  fat  may  be 
clarified  and  used  as  dripping. 

9.  We  take  a  wire  sieve  and  stand  it  over  a  piece  of 
paper. 

10.  We  take  some  crumb  of  bread  and  rub  it  through  the 
sieve. 


Cooking  Meat.— (Entries.)  Mutton  Cutlets.    63 

11.  We  take  one  egg  and  beat  it  on  a  plate  with  a  knife. 

12.  We  season  the  cutlets  on  both  sides  with,  pepper  and 
salt. 

13.  We  lay  them  in  the  egg,  and  egg  them  well  all  over 
with  a  brush. 

14.  We  then  put  them  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  cover 
them  well. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  to  finger  them  as  little  as  possible,  and  lift 
them  by  the  bare  bone. 

15.  We  take  a  saute-pan,  and  pour  in  it  three  ounces  of 
melted  clarified  butter,  lard,  or  clarified  dripping  (see 
Lesson  "  Frying  "). 

16.  We  now  lay  in  the  cutlets,  with  the  bones  to  the 
centre  of  the  saute-pan. 

17.  We  must  now  put  the  saute-pan  on  a  very  quick  fire 
for  about  seven  minutes. 

18.  We  must  watch  and  turn  the  cutlets  when  they  have 
become  a  light  brown,  so  as  to  fry  them  the  same  colour  on 
both  sides. 

19.  We  place  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  on  a  plate. 

20.  When  the  cutlets  are  done,  we  take  them  carefully 
out  with  a  fork,  and  lay  them  on  the  paper  to  drain  off  the 
grease. 

N.B.  — We  should  be  careful  not  to  stick  the  fork  into  the  meat  (or  the  gravy 
will  run  out),  but  into  the  fat. 

21.  For  serving,  we  arrange  them  nicely  on  a  dish,  in  a 
circle,  one  leaning  over  the  other  ;  the  centre  may  be  filled 
with  any  vegetable  according  to  taste. 


64        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

CHAUD    FROID    OF    CHICKEN. 

Average  cost  of  "  Chaud  Froid  of  Chicken!' 
INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  chicken    2  9 

\  a  pint  of  white  sauce o  8^ 

1  gill  of  cream o  6~ 

2  tablespoonsful  of  aspic  jelly    ) 

Chopped  pieces  of  aspic  jelly    J  *  5 

Mixed  vegetables o  9 

1  gill  of  mayonnaise  sauce o  55 

6    6| 

Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  three-quarters. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Chaud  froid  of 
Chicken. 

1.  We  put  half  a  pint  of  white  sauce  (see  "  Sauces," 
Lesson  No.  i),  in  a  stewpan. 

2.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil,  and  stir  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon  till  the  sauce  is  reduced  to  one  gill  (or 
quarter  of  a  pint) 

3.  We  then  add  one  gill  (or  quarter  of  a  pint)  of  cream> 
and  stir  again  until  it  just  boils. 

4.  We  take  a  tammy  sieve  and  stand  it  over  a  basin. 

5.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  and  pass  the  contents 
through  the  sieve  into  the  basin. 

6.  When  it  is  all  passed  through  into  the  basin,  we  stir 
in  two  tables poonsf id  of  aspic  jelly  (see  "Jelly,"  Lesson  No.  2). 

N.B. — This  aspic  jelly  should  be  made  with  chicken  as  well  as  veal. 

7.  We  take  a  cold  roast  chicken  (see  "Trussing  a  Fowl  for 
Roasting  "),  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

N.B. — The  chicken  must  be  young,  as  the  flesh  should  be  as  white  as 
possible. 

8.  We  cut  it  up  in  the  same  way  as  for  carving,  taking 


Cooking  Meat. — (Entries)  Chaud  Froid  of  Chicken.  6$ 

care  that  the  pieces  are  all  of  one  size.     We  must  remove 
the  skin  and  neatly  trim  each  piece. 

9.  We  take  these  pieces  of  chicken  and  dip  them  in  the 
sauce,  covering  them  well  over. 

10.  We  stand  a  drainer  over  a  dish. 

11.  We  place  the  pieces  of  chicken  on  the  drainer,  and  let 
them  remain  until  the  sauce  is  set  over  each  piece. 

12.  For  serving-  we  arrange  the  pieces  of  chicken  on 
chopped  aspic  jelly  (see  "Jelly,"  Lesson  No.  2,)  in  a  circle  on 
a  dish. 

13.  The  centre  should  be  filled  in  with  mixed  vegetables, 
i.e.,  cooked  potato,  carrot,  and  beet-root,  stamped  out  with  a 
vegetable  cutter,  cooked  French  beans,  cut  to  the  shape  of 
dice,  and  green  peas,  all  mixed  together,  with  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  mayonnaise  sauce.    (See  "  Sauces,"  Lesson  No.  3.) 


66        National  Training  School  for  Cookery^ 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  6. 

VEAL   CUTLETS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Grilled  or  Fried  Veal  Cutlets. 

INGREDIENTS, 

s.     d. 
3  lbs.  of  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  veal ....     3    o 

Savory  thyme \ 

A  very  little  lemon  rind >     o    of 

1  bunch  of  parsley ) 

1  ounce  of  butter . .  „ o    1 

1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice    o    o| 

1  egg o     1 

Pepper  and  salt 

Bread  crumbs  ....*.., 


} 


c     I 


3  4 

£  lb.  of  bacon  for  rolls  o  6 

3  10 

Time  required,  half  an  hour. 


IN  ow  we  will  show  you  how  to  grill  Veal  Cutlets. 

1.  We  take  three  pounds  of  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of 
veal,  or  veal  cutlet,  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  take  a  saw  and  saw  off  the  end  of  the  rib  bone, 
leaving  the  cutlet  bone  three  inches  in  length. 

3.  We  saw  off  the  chine  bone,  which  lies  at  the  back  of 

the  cutlets. 

4.  We  joint  each  cutlet  with  the  chopper. 

5.  We  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  off  each  cutlet  close  to 
the  bone,  so  as  to  get  an  extra  cutlet  between  each.  bone. 

6.  We  take  a  cutlet  bat  and  beat  each  cutlet  to  about 
half  an  inch  in  thickness. 

7.  We  trim  the  cutlet  round,  leaving  about  half  an  inch 
of  the  rib  bone  bare. 

8.  We  form  the  cutlets  to  a  good  shape. 

N.B. — The  trimmings  of  the  cutlets  should  be  put  aside,  as  the  fat  may  bfc 
clarified,  and  used  for  dripping. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — (Entries.)  Veal  Cutlets.  6  J 

9.  We  take  a  little  savoury  thyme,  put  it  on  a  board,  and 
chop  it  up  very  finely  (the  thyme,  when  chopped,  should  fill 
a  saltspoon). 

10.  We  take  a  small  bunch  of  parsley,  wash  it  in  cold 
water,  and  dry  it  in  a  cloth. 

11.  We  chop  this  parsley  up  very  finely,  on  a  board. 

12.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  on  a  kitchen  plate,  and 
put  it  in  the  oven  to  melt. 

13.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  we  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  and  the  chopped  thyme,  and  parsley. 

14.  We  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  with  a  cloth. 

15.  We  take  a  grater,  and  just  give  one  grate  of  the 
lemon  rind,  over  the  other  ingredients. 

16.  We  add  one  egg  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  beat 
all  up  together  with  a  knife. 

17.  We  take  a  wire  sieve  and  stand  it  over  a  piece  of 
paper. 

18.  We  take  some  crumb  of  bread  and  rub  it  through  the 
sieve. 

19.  We  dip  each  cutlet  into  the  plate,  and  cover  them 
all  over  with  the  mixture. 

20.  We  then  put  them  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  covet 
them  well. 

N.B.— We  should  finger  them  as  little  as  possible. 

21.  We  take  a  gridiron  and  hold  it  to  the  fire  to  warm. 

22.  We  arrange  the  cutlets  on  the  gridiron. 

23.  We  place  the  gridiron  in  front  of  a  bright  fire,  but 
not  too  near,  or  the  bread  crumbs  will  burn  before  the 
cutlets  are  sufficiently  cooked. 

24.  We  should  then  let  them  grill  for  about  ten  minutes, 
and  when  they  have  become  a  pale  brown  on  one  side,  we 
should  turn  the  gridiron  so  as  to  brown  them  on  both  sides 
alike. 

25.  For  serving,  we  arrange  the  cutlets  on  a  wall  of 
mashed  potatoes,  (see  "  Vegetables,"  Lesson  No.  2)  in  a 
circle  on  a  hot  dish,  one  leaning  over  the  other  \  the  centre 


68        National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

may  be  filled  in  with  rolls  of  bacon,  (see  below)  and  with  a 
thick  brown  sauce  (see  "  Sauces,"  Lesson  No.  2). 


For  Rolls  of  Bacon. 

1.  We  cut  some  thin  slices  of  bacon,  about  two  incites 
wide,  and  about  four  inches  in  length. 

2.  We  roll  up  these  strips  of  bacon. 

3.  We  take  a  skewer  and  run  it  through  the  centre  of 
each  roll  of  bacon. 

4.  We  place  this  skewer,  with  the  bacon,  on  a  tin  and 
put  it  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes. 

5.  For  serving,  we  take  the  rolls  of  bacon  off  the  skewer, 
and  arrange  them  in  the  centre  of  the  cutlets \  as  described 
above. 


Cooking  Meat. — (Entrdes.)  Fricassee  of  Chicken.  69 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  7. 

FRICASSEE    OF   CHICKEN. 


Average  cost  of  a  "  Fricassee 
of  Chicken!' 


INGREDIENTS. 


1  young  chicken     2 

i  small  carrot 

*  an  onion 

1  stick  of  celery 

2  or  3  sprigs  of  parsley 

t  sprig  of  thyme 

1  bay  leaf 

2  cloves    

6  peppercorns 

1  blade  of  mace 

1  \  pint  of  second  white  stock  . .     o 

1  oz.  of  butter o 

i|  oz.  of  flour  , , o 

2  dozen  of  button  mushrooms  ) 

Fried  bread )     x 

1  gill  of  cream    o 


4  "£ 


Time  required,  about  o?ie  hour  and  a  half. 


Average  cost  of  a  "  Fricassee 
of  Cold  Chicken!' 


INGREDIENTS. 


\  a  carrot     . . . 

\  of  an  onion I 

2  a  stick  of  celery \     o 

A  bouquet  garni,  of  parsley,  j 

thyme,  and  bay-leaf J 

1  gill  of  cream    o 

1  clove j 

3  peppercorns ;     o 

I  a  blade  of  mace ) 

1  pint  of  good  white  stock  ....     o 

I  an  oz.  of  butter ) 

1  oz.  of  flour /     ° 

1  dozen  button  mushrooms ....    o 
Fried  bread     ) 


Salt 


Time  required,  about  forty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show   you  how  to    make  a  Fricassee  of 
Chicken. 

1.  We  take  a  young  chicken,  clean  it,  draw  it  (see  "Trussing 
a  Fowl  for  Roasting,"  from  Note  i  to  Note  12),  and  skin  it. 

2.  We  cut  the  chicken  into  joints,  and  put  them  in  a 
basin  of  cold  water  for  about  ten  minutes. 

3.  After  that  time  we  take  the  pieces  of  chicken  out  of 
the  water  and  dry  them  in  a  clean  cloth. 

4.  We  take  one  small  carrot,  wash  and  scrape  it  clean, 
and  cut  it  into  slices. 

5.  We  take  half  an  onion  and  peel  it. 

6.  We  take  one  stick  of  celery  and  two  or  three  sprigs  of 
parsley,  and  wash  them  in  cold  water. 


70        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

7.  We  put  these  vegetables  into  a  stewpan.     , 

8.  We  add  to  them  one  sprig  of  thyme \  one  bay  leaf,  two 

cloves,  six  peppercorns,  and  one  blade  of  mace. 

9.  We  now  put  in  the  pieces  of  chicken,  and  add  one 
pint  and  a  half  of  second  white  stock. 

10.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil  gently  for 
about  half  an  hour. 

11.  When  the  pieces  of  chicken  are  quite  done,  we  take 
them  out  of  the  stewpan,  wash  them  in  a  basin  of  cold 
water,  and  dry  them  in  a  cloth. 

12.  We  strain  the  stock  from  the  stewpan  into  the  basin. 

13.  We  take  two  dozen  of  button  mushrooms,  cut  off  the 
ends  of  the  stalks,  wash  them  in  cold  water,  and  peel 
them. 

14.  We  take  the  peeled  mushrooms,  and  put  them  into 
the  stewpan  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  nut. 

15.  We  squeeze  over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
and  pour  in  a  tablespoojtfid  of  cold  water. 

16.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  just  bring  them 
to  the  boil. 

17.  We  then  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  and  turn  them 
on  to  a  plate. 

18.  We  wash  out  the  stewpan,  and  then  put  in  it  one 

ounce  of  butter. 

19.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  melt  the  butter. 

20.  We  then  add  one  and  a  half  ounce  of  flour  to  the 
butter,  stirring  it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

21.  We  now  remove  all  the  grease  from  the  chicken  stock, 
and  add  it  and  the  trimmings  of  the  mushrooms  to  the 
stewpan,  and  stir  well  until  it  boils. 

22.  We  must  now  move  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the 
fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  twenty  minutes.  The  cover 
of  the  stewpan  should  be  half  on. 

23.  After  that  time  we  take  a  spoon  and  carefully  skim 
off  all  the  butter  that  will  have  risen  to  the  top  of  the  sauce. 

24.  We  now  put  the  stewpan  over  the  fire  to  boil,  and 


Cooking  Meat.— {Entries.)  Fricassee  of  Chicken.  71 

let  the  sauce  reduce  to  about  one  pint,  and  then  add  one  gill 
of  cream. 

25.  We  take  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  put  them  in 
another  stewpan,  with  the  two  dozen  of  button  mushrooms. 

26.  When  the  sauce  is  sufficiently  reduced,  we  strain  it 
over  the  chicken. 

27.  We  then  stand  the  stewpan  in  a  saucepan  of  hot 
water  over  the  fire  until  the  chicken  is  quite  hot. 

28.  For  serving,  we  arrange  the  fricassee  of  chicken  on  a 
hot  dish,  with  fried  bread  (as  described  in  "Vegetables," 
Lesson  No.  8,  Note  13  to  Note  17). 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Fricassee  of  Cold 
Chicken. 

1.  We  take  some  cold  roast  or  boiled  chicken. 

2.  We  cut  the  chicken  up  into  neat  pieces,  and  take  away 
the  skin. 

3.  We  put  one  pint  of  good  white  stock  (see  "  Lesson  on 
Stock  "),  and  the  chicken  bones  into  a  stewpan. 

4.  We  take  half  a  carrot,  wash  and  scrape  it  clean,  and 
cut  it  into  slices. 

5.  We  take  a  quarter  of  an  onion  and  peel  it. 

6.  We  take  half  a  stick  of  celery  and  wash  it  in  cold 
water. 

7.  We  put  these  vegetables  into  the  stewpan. 

8.  We  add  to  them  a  bouquet  garni  (consisting  of  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  one  sprig  of  thyme,  and  one  bay  leaf  tied 
tightly  together),  one  clove,  three  peppercorns,  and  half  a 
blade  of  mace. 

9.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  for 
twenty  minutes. 

10.  After  that  time  we  strain  the  stock  into  a  basin. 


72       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

11.  We  take  one  dozen  of  button  mushrooms,  cut  off  the 
end  of  the  stalks,  wash  them  in  cold  water,  and  peel  them. 

12.  We  take  the  peeled  mushrooms  and  put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  nut. 

13.  We  squeeze  over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
and  pour  in  a  tablespoonfid  of  cold  water. 

14.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  just  bring  them 
to  the  boil. 

15.  We  then  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  and  turn  them 
on  to  a  plate. 

16.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stewpan. 

17.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire.  When  the  butter  is 
melted  we  put  in  one  ounce  of  flour,  stirring  it  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon. 

18.  We  now  add  the  chicken  stock,  and  the  mushroom 
peelings,  and  stir  the  sauce  well  until  it  boils. 

19.  We  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes  to  cook  the  flour. 

20.  After  that  time  we  add  one  gill  of  cream,  and  salt  to 
taste. 

21.  We  put  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  the  button  mush- 
rooms into  another  stewpan. 

22.  We  strain  the  sauce  over  the  chicken,  and  then  stand 
the  stewpan,  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water,  over  the  fire  until 
the  chicken  is  quite  hot. 

23.  For  serving,  we  arrange  the  fricassee  of  chicken  on  a 
hot  dish,  with  some  fried  bread  (as  described  in  "Vegetables," 
Lesson  No.  8,  Note  13  to  Note  17),  put  round  the  edge. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. —{Entries.) — Beef  Olives.  73 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  8. 

BEEF    OLIVES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Beef  Olives." 

INGREDIENTS. 

5.    d. 
\\  lb.  of  beef  or  rump  steak,  or  the  fillet  ) 

ofbeef )     2    ° 

2  oz.  of  beef  suet o     x\ 

3  oz.  of  bread  crumbs o    d\ 

1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley o    o| 

\  of  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  thyme  and  I  x 

marjoram j  °* 

A  little  grated  lemon  rind  and  nutmeg    . .  )  A 

Salt  and  pepper    J  °    °4 

1  egg o     1 

1  pint  of  brown  sauce  or  stock i     2 


3     6 
Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Beef  Olives. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  and  a  half 'of  beef  ox  rump  steak,  or 
the  filet  of  beef  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  cut  the  beef  in  slices  about  half  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness and  four  inches  in  length,  and  beat  them  out  with  a 
wet  cutlet  bat. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  that  all  the  slices  ara  of  the  same  size. 

3.  We  take  the  trimmings  that  remain,  chop  them  up 
very  finely,  and  put  them  in  a  basin. 

4.  We  take  two  ounces  of  beef  suet,  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

5.  We  take  a  knife  and  cut  away  all  the  skin,  and  chop 
the  suet  up  very  finely. 

6.  We  stand  a  wire  sieve  over  a  piece  of  paper. 

7.  We  take  some  crumb  of  bread  and  rub  it  through  the 
sieve.     (There  should  be  three  ounces  of  bread  crumbs) 

8.  We  take  a  little  parsley  and  chop  it  up  finely.  (There 
should  be  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley) 


74        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  We  take  a  little  thyme  and  marjoram  and  chop  them 
up  finely.  (There  should  be  about  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  thyme  and  marjoram}} 

10.  We  add  all  these  things  (i.e.,  suet,  bread  crumbs, 
parsley,  thyme,  and  marjoram)  to  the  chopped  beef  in  the 
basin. 

11.  We  also  grate  about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  rind, 
and  nutmeg  (as  much  as  would  cover  a  ^d.  piece)  into  the 
basin. 

12.  We  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  according  to  taste, 
and  add  one  egg,  and  mix  all  well  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

13.  We  take  this  mixture  out  of  the  basin,  and  form  it 
into  pieces  the  shape  and  size  of  a  cork. 

14.  We  roll  up  each  slice  of  beef,  placing  a  piece  of 
stuffing  in  the  centre. 

15.  We  should  tie  each  roll  round  with  a  piece  of  twine 
to  fasten  it  securely  together. 

16.  We  place  these  rolls  in  a  stewpan,  with  about  one 
pint  of  brown  sauce  (see  "  Sauces,"  Lesson  No.  2),  ox  good 
stock  (see  Lesson  on  "  Stock"). 

17.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  let  them  stew 
gently  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

18.  For  serving,  we  should  take  off  the  twine  from  round  | 
the  beef  olives,  and  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish  in  a  circle,  ; 
pouring  the  sauce  round  the  edge  ;  the  centre  may  be  filled 
in  with  dressed  spinach  (see  "  Vegetables,"  Lesson  No.  8), 
or  with  mashed  potatoes  (see  "  Vegetables,"  Lesson  No.  2), 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat.— {Entries.} — Irish  Stew.  75 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  9. 

IRISH    STEW. 

Average  cost  of  an  "  Irish  Stew!' 
INGREDIENTS. 


3  lbs.  of  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton 
or  the  scrag  end   


s.    d. 

3    o 


1  teaspoonful  of  salt .1  1 

1  saltspoonful  of  pepper J 

1  doz.  of  button  onions  or  two  moderate  ones  o     1 

6  large  potatoes  o    2 

3     3| 

Time  required,  about  two  hours. 

Now    we    will    show    you     how     to     make    an     Irish 

Stew. 

1.  We  take  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton  and  cut 
and  trim  the  cutlets  in  the  same  way  as  for  "haricot 
mutton"  (see  "Entrees,"  Lesson  No.  10,  from  Note  I  to 
Note  8). 

2.  We  place  the  cutlets  in  a  stewpan. 

3.  We  sprinkle  over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
saltspoonful  of  pepper y  and  pour  in  one  and  a  half  pint  of  cold 
water. 

4.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  come 
to  the  boil  we  should  skim  it. 

5.  We  now  draw  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and 
let  it  simmer  gently  for  one  hour. 

6.  We  must  watch  it  and  skim  it  occasionally  and  re- 
move dX\  fat. 

7.  We  take  half  a  dozen  of  potatoes y  wash,  scrub  them, 
and  peel  them. 

8.  We  cut  these  potatoes  in  halves. 

9.  We  take  one  dozen  of  button  onions,  or  two  moderate- 
sized  ones,  and  peel  them  carefully. 


7  6    *    National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

10.  We  add  the  onions  and  potatoes  to  the  stew,  and  let 
it  simmer  for  one  hour. 

11.  After  that  time  we  should  take  a  fork  and  feel  if  the 
vegetables  are  quite  tender. 

12.  For  serving  we  arrange  the  cutlets  in  a  circle  on  a 
hot  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  round,  and  the  vegetables  in  the 
centre. 

N.B. — The  scrag  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton  might  be  used  instead  of  the 
best  end,  but  care  should  be  taken  in  cleansing  it  before  use. 


Cooking  Meat. — {Entries.) — Haricot  Miction,   jj 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  io. 

HARICOT    MUTTON. 

Average  cost  of  "  Haricot  Mutton." 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

3  lbs.  of  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton  3  o 

1  onion  o  o\ 

Pepper  and  salt    )  . 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour  .  * . . .  „ / 

1  pint  of  second  stock o  3! 

1  carrot o  oh 

x  turnip o  o£ 

1  dozen  button  onions    o  1 

3     61 
Time  required,  about  o?ie  hour  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Haricot  Mutton. 

1.  We  take  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton  and  put  it 
on  a  board. 

2.  We  take  a  saw  and  saw  off  the  end  of  the  rib  bone, 
leaving  the  cutlet  bone  three  inches  in  length. 

3.  We  saw  off  the  chine  bone  which  lies  at  the  back  of 
the  cutlets. 

4.  We  joint  each  cutlet  with  a  chopper. 

5.  We  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  off  each  cutlet. 

6.  We  take  a  cutlet-bat  and  beat  each  cutlet  to  about 
rather  more  than  half  an  inch  in  thickness. 

7.  We  trim  the  cutlet  round,  leaving  about  half  an  inch 
of  the  rib  bone  bare. 

8.  We  form  the  cutlets  to  a  good  shape. 

N.B. — The  trimmings  of  the  cutlets  should  be  put  aside,  as  the  fat  may  be 
clarified  and  used  for  dripping  (see  Lesson  on  "  Frying  "). 

9.  We  take  one  onion,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

10.  We  put  the  onion  and  the  cutlets  in  a  stewpan,  with 
i  two  ounces  of  butter. 


J 8         National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


11.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  a  quick  fire  to  fry  the  cutlets 
a  nice  brown. 

12.  We  must  watch  and  turn  the  cutlets  when  they  have 
become  a  light  brown,  so  as  to  fry  them  the  same  colour 
on  both  sides  : — We  then  remove  the  cictlets  from  the  stew- 
pan. 

13.  We  should  pour  off  the  grease  from  the  stewpan  (and 
leave  the  onion),  and  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  pour  in  by  degrees  one  pint  of  second  stock,  and  stir  well 
until  it  boils. 

14.  We  strain  this  sauce,  and  return  the  cutlets  with  the 
sauce  into  the  stewpan. 

15.  We  take  one  carrot,  wash  it,  and  scrape  it  clean  with 
a  knife,  and  cut  it  in  the  shape  of  young  carrots,  or  into 
fancy  shapes  with  a  cutter. 

16.  We  take  one  turnip,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  very  small 
dice. 

17.  We  take  one  dozen  button  onions  and  peel  them  very 
carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  them  in  pieces. 

18.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  let  the  meat 
stew  gently  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  the  prepared  vege- 
tables, and  let  all  simmer  for  half  an  hour. 

19.  After  that  time  we  should  take  a  fork  and  feel  if  the 
vegetables  are  quite  tender. 

.  20.  For  serving  we  arrange  the  cutlets  in  a  circle  on  a 
hot  dish  with  the  vegetables  in  the  centre  ;  we  remove  all 
grease  from  the  sauce  and  pour  it  round. 

N.B. — The  scrag  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton  might  be  used  instead  of  the 
best  end,  but  care  should  be  taken  in  cleansing  it  before  use. 


Cooking  Meat. — {Entries!) — Croquettes  of  Chicken.  79 


ENTREES. 
Lesson  No.  ii. 

CROQUETTES    OR    RISSOLES    OF 
CHICKEN. 

Average  cost  of  "  Croquettes  or  Rissoles  of  Chicken  ' 
(about  15). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

\  a  cold  chicken i  4.7 

2  oz.  of  lean  ham  or  bacon o  x\ 

6  mushrooms o  3 

\  oz.  of  flour    )      Q  zi 

1  oz.  of  butter J  4 

2  tablespoonsful  of  cream o  3 

1  gill  of  stock o  1 

Seasoning     o  oj 

1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice    o  o\ 

1  egg o  1 

£  lb.  of  bread  crumbs    o  2 

2  6\ 
If  for  rissoles  with  paste — 

4  oz.  of  flour  and  3  oz.  of  butter o  3^ 

2  9! 
Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Croquettes  or  Ris- 
soles of  Chicken. 

1.  We  take  the  half  chicke7i  (either  roasted  or  boiled),  cut 
away  all  the  flesh  from  the  bones,  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  cut  away  the  skin,  and  mince  the  meat  up  very 
finely. 

3.  We  take  the  mushrooms,  wash  them,  peel  them,  and 
mince  them  and  the  ham  up  finely  on  the  board,  mixing 

'  them  with  the  minced  chicken. 

4.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  put  it  on 
the  fire. 

5.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  we  stir  in  half  an  ounce  of 
flour,  and  mix  it  to  a  smooth  paste. 


80       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

6.  We  now  add  the  stock,  and  stir  again  smoothly,  until 
it  boils  and  thickens. 

7.  We  move  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  stir 
in  two  tablespoonsful  of  cream. 

8.  We  add  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  to  the  sauce. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  let  any  pips  fall  in. 

9.  We  season  the  sauce  with  pepper,  and  salt  according  to 
taste,  and,  if  liked,  we  might  grate  about  half  a  saltspoonful 
of  nutmeg  into  it. 

10.  We  now  stir  in  the  minced  chicken,  ham,  and  mush- 
rooms until  all  are  well  mixed  together. 

11.  We  take  a  plate,  and  turn  the  contents  of  the  stew- 
pan  on  to  it. 

12.  We  take  a  piece  of  kitchen  paper,  cut  it  to  the  size  of 
the  plate,  butter  it,  and  lay  it  on  the  top  of  the  mixture,  and 
stand  the  plate  aside  to  cool. 

13.  When  the  mixture  is  cold,  we  put  one  pound  and  a  half 
of  lard,  or  clarified  dripping  in  a  deep  stewpan,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  heat. 

14.  We  take  some  crumb  of  bread,  and  rub  it  through  a 
wire  sieve  on  to  a  piece  of  paper. 

15.  If rissoles  are  required,  we  put  four  ounces  of  flour  on 
a  board,  and  rub  into  it  three  ounces  of  butter,  until  both  are 
thoroughly  mixed,  and  there  are  no  lumps  remaining. 

16.  We  mix  the  flour  and  butter  into  a  stiff  smooth  paste 
with  cold  water. 

17.  We  take  a  rolling-pin,  flour  it,  sprinkle  some  flour 
over  the  board,  and  roll  the  paste  out  into  as  thin  a  sheet  as 
possible. 

18.  We  flour  our  hands,  dip  a  knife  in  flour  (to  prevent 
any  sticking),  and  form  the  chicken  mixture  into  any  fancy 
shapes  for  croquettes,  either  in  balls  or  long  rolls,  &c.,  or  we 
can  roll  it  in  the  paste  for  rissoles. 

19.  We  break  an  egg  on  to  a  plate,  and  beat  it  up  slightly 
with  a  knife. 


Cooking  Meat. — (Entries.) — Croquettes  of  Chicken.  8  ] 

20.  We  dip  the  croquettes  or  rissoles  into  the  egg,  and 
egg  them  well  all  over  with  a  paste  brush. 

21.  We  now  roll  them  in  the  bread  crumbs,  covering 
them  well  all  over. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  to  cover  them  smoothly  and  not  too  thickly. 

22.  We  take  a  frying  basket  and  arrange  the  croquettes 
or  rissoles  in  it,  but  we  must  finger  them  as  little  as  possible, 
and  not  allow  them  to  touch  each  other. 

23.  When  the  fat  on  the  fire  is  quite  hot  and  smoking, 
we  put  in  the  frying  basket  for  two  minutes  or  so,  to  fry 
them  a  pale  yellow. 

24.  We  put  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  on  a  plate, 
and  as  the  rissoles  are  fried  we  turn  them  on  to  the  paper 
to  drain  off  the  grease. 

25.  For  serving  we  arrange  them  tastily  on  a  hot  dish, 
with  fried  parsley  in  the  centre. 

N.B. — Cold  veal  or  pheasant,  &c,  might  be  used  ror  the  rissoles  ^nd  cro- 
quettes instead  of  chicken,  if  preferred. 


82         National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

ENTREES. 

Lesson  No.  12. 

CURRIED    RABBIT. 

Average  cost  of  "  Curried  Rabbit  or  Veal? 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  rabbit  or  i  J  lb.  of  veal  cutlet i  9 

5  lb.  of  butter o  4 

2  onions    \  , 

1  apple /     °  x* 

2  tablespoonsful  of  curry  powder    o  4 

1  pint  of  good  stock o  j\ 

1  gill  (j  pint)  of  cream O  6 

1  lemon    »  a 

I  a  teaspoonful  of  salt j     °  x2 

3  9k 

Time  required,  about  two  hottrs  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Curry  of  rabbit 
or  veal. 

1.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  stewpan 
and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  melt. 

2.  We  take  two  onions,  peel  them,  put  them  on  a  board, 
and  chop  them  up  as  finely  as  possible. 

3.  We  put  the  chopped  onions  into  the  melted  butter,  and 
let  them  fry  a  light  brown. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  they  do  not  burn. 

4.  We  take  a  rabbit  (which  has  been  skinned  and  pro- 
perly prepared  for  cooking),  wash  it  well,  and  dry  it  in  a 
cloth. 

5.  We  put  the  rabbit  on  a  board  and  cut  it  up  in  pieces 
of  equal  size. 

6.  If  veal  is  used  we  should  put  it  on  a  board  and  cut  it 
into  equal  sized  pieces. 

N.B. — If  preferred  chicken  can  be  used  instead  of  rabbit  or  veal. 

7.  When  the  onions  are  fried  we  strain  them  from  the 
butter* 


Cooking  Meat. — [Ent7"des) — Ctirried  Rabbit.     $$ 


8.  We  put  the  butter  back  into  the  stewpan. 

9.  We  now  put  in  the  pieces  of  meat,  put  the  stewpan 
over  a  quick  fire,  and  let  it  fry  for  ten  minutes. 

10.  We  must  watch  it  and  turn  the  pieces  of  meat  occa- 
sionally, so  that  they  are  fried  on  both  sides  alike. 

11.  We  take  an  apple,  peel  it,  cut  out  the  core,  and  chop 
it  up  as  finely  as  possible  on  a  board. 

12.  When  the  meat  is  fried  we  add  to  it  two  tablespoons- 
fid  of  curry  powder,  and  half  a  teaspoonfid  of  salt,  and  stir 
well  over  the  fire  for  five  mimctes. 

13.  We  then  put  in  the  fried  onions,  the  chopped  apple, 
and  one  pint  of  good  stock. 

14.  We  move  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let 
it  simmer  gently  for  two  hours. 

15.  After  that  time  we  stir  in  one  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint) 
of  cream.  "  :  ■'  V. 

16.  We  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  with  a  cloth,  and  peel 
it  as  thinly  as  possible  with  a  sharp  knife  (the  peel  we 
should  put  aside  as  it  is  not  required  for  present  use). 

17.  We  cut  the  lemon  in  half,  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  it 
through  a  strainer  into  the  stewpan. 

18.  For  serving  we  take  the  pieces  of  meat  out  of  the 
stewpan  and  arrange  them  nicely  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour 
the  sat  ice  over  the  meat. 

N.B. — Boiled  rice  (see  Lesson  on  "  Rice")  should  be  ferved  with  the  curry. 


84        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

RICE. 

Average  cost  of  "Boiled  Rice"  to  be  served   with 
Curry,  &c. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  Patna  rice )        • 

I  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt « J        2 

Time  required,  about  half  an.  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  boil  Rice  to  be  served 
with  curry,  &c. 

1.  We  take  a  large  stewpan  and  pour  in  it  four  quart*  oj 
water. 

2.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil  the  water. 

3.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  Patna   rice,   put   it   in   a 
basin  of  cold  water,  and  wash  it  well. 

4.  We  drain  off  the  water  and  rub  the  rice  with   our 
hands. 

5.  We  must  carefully  pick  out  all  the  yellow  grains  and 
bits  of  black. 

6.  We  must  wash  the  rice  in  this  manner  four  times. 

7.  Just  before  putting  the  rice  on  to  boil  we  must  pour 
some  fresh  cold  water  over  it. 

8.  When  the  water  in  the  stewpan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
throw  the  rice  into  it,  stirring  it  round  with  a  spoon. 

9.  We    must  add  one  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
which  will  make  the  scum  rise. 

10.  We  must  take  a  spoon  and  skim  it  occasionally. 

11.  The  rice  should  boil  fast  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

N.B. — To  test  if  the  rice  is  sufficiently  boiled,  we  should  take  out  a  grain  or 
two,  and  press  it  between  the  thumb  and  finger,  and  if  quite  done, 
it  will  mash. 

12.  We  now  pour  the  rice  out  of  the  saucepan   into  a 
colander  to  drain  off  the  water. 


Lessons  on  Cooking. — Boiled  Rice.  85 

13.  We  take  the  colander  which  contains  the  rice,  and 
hold  it  under  the  tap. 

14.  We  turn  the  tap  and  let  the  cold  water  run  on  to 
the  rice  for  one  or  two  seconds.  (This  is  to  separate  the 
grains  of  rice.) 

15.  We  take  a  clean  dry  stewpan  and  put  it  at  the  side 
of  the  fire. 

16.  When  the  water  is  quite  drained  from  the  rice,  we 
turn  it  from  the  colander  into  the  dry  stewpan  at  the  side 
of  the  fire. 

17.  We  put  the  lid  half  on  the  stewpan. 

18.  We  watch  it,  and  stir  it  occasionally,  to  prevent  the 
grains  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan. 

19.  When  the  rice  is  quite  dry,  we  take  it  out  carefully 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  place  it  lightly  on  to  a  hot  dish, 
it  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


86         National  Training  School  for  Cookery 

STEWS. 

Lesson  No.  i. 

A-LA-MODE    BEEF. 

Average  cost  of  "  A-la-Mode  Beep 

INGREDIENTS- 

s.  d. 

r  cow-heel o  6 

An  ox-cheek 2  o 

3  oz.  of  dripping o  ii 

3  carrots •• o  ih 

6  onions o  2 

j.  bunch  of  herbs  (marjoram,  thvrae,  parsley,  )  1 

and  bayleaf ) .' j      °  °T 


o    o 


2  tablespoon sful  of  flour. 

Pepper  and  salt    j 

2     nf 

Time  required,  three  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  A -la-mode  Beef. 

1.  We  take  a  dressed  cow-heel  and  wash  it  thoroughly  in 
water. 

2.  We  put  the  cow-heel  on  a  board,  and  cut  off  all  the 
flesh  ;  we  cut  the  flesh  into  neat  pieces. 

3.  We  take  an  ox-cheek  and  wash  it  well  in  cold  water. 

N.B. — We  must  be  sure  it  is  quite  clean  and  free  from  all  impurities. 

4.  We  put  the  ox-cheek  on  a  board,  and  rub  it  well  with 
salt. 

5.  We  then  rub  it  quite  dry  in  a  clean  cloth. 

6.  We  put  three  ounces  of  clarified  dripping  into  a  large 
saucepan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  melt. 

7.  We  cut  the  ox-cheek  up  into  neat  pieces. 

N.B. — We  should  weigh  the  flesh  of  the  ox-check  and  cow-heel,  so  as  to  know 
how  much  water  should  be  added,  as  1  pint  is  allowed  to  each  lb.  of  meat. 

8.  We  flour  each  piece. 

9.  When  the  dripping  is  melted,  we  put  in  the  floured 
pieces  of  ox-cheek,  And  let  them  fry  a  nice  brown. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — A -la- Mode  Beef.   S7 

10.  We  must  stir  the  pieces  occasionally,  and  not  let 
them  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan. 

11.  We  take  three  carrots,  wash  them,  scrape  them  clean, 
and  cut  them  in  slices  with  a  sharp  knife. 

12.  We  take  six  onions,  peel  them,  and  cut  them  in 
slices. 

13.  We  take  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  wash  it,  and  dry  it 
in  a  cloth. 

14.  We  take  one  sprig  of  marjoram,  thyme,  one  bay-leaf 
and  the  parsley,  and  tie  them  tightly  together  with  a  piece 
of  string. 

15.  We  put  these  vegetables  and  the  bunch  of  herbs  into 
the  saucepan. 

16.  Wre  also  pour  in  the  proper  quantity  of  water, 
namely,  one  pint  of  tvater  to  each  pon nd  of  meat. 

17.  We  put  two  tablespoonsfnl  of 'flour  into  a  basin,  and 
mix  it  into  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  water. 

18.  We  now  put  the  pieces  of  cow-heel  into  the  saucepan, 
and  plenty  of  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

19.  We  stir  the  paste  smoothly  into  the  saucepan. 

20.  We  put  the  lid  on  the  saucepan,  and  when  it  boils 
we  should  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let 
it  stew  gently  for  three  hours. 

21.  We  must  watch  it  and  skim  it  very  often. 

N.B. — We  must  be  always  careful  to  skim  anything  that  is  cooking  directly 
the  scum  rises,  or  it  will  boil  down  again  into  the  meat  and  will  spoil  it— 
sctim  is  the  impurity  which  rises  from  the  meat  or  vegetables. 

22.  When  the  stew  is  finished,  we  pour  it  into  a  large 
dish  or  a  soup  tureen  ;  it  is  then  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — The  bones  of  the  cozvheel  should  be  put  into  the  stockpot- 


88        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


STEWS. 
Lesson  No.  2. 

BRAZILIAN    STEW. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Brazilian  Stezv." 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

4  lbs.  of  shin  or  sticking  of  beef  at  gd.  per  lb.  3  o 

2  carrots o  l 

2  turnips     ,  0  l 

4  onions o  ri 

A  bunch  of  herbs,  i.  e.,  marjoram,  thyme,  ) 

and  parsley    \  0  0i 

Pepper  and  salt    j 

1  gill  of  vinegar    o  o\ 

3    4* 
Time  required,  about  three  hours  and  ten  minutes. 


Now    we   will    show    you    how   to   make   a   Brazilian 
Stew. 

1.  We  take  four  pounds  of  the  shin  or  sticking  of  beef,  put 
it  on  a  board,  and  cut  all  the  meat  off  the  bone. 

2.  We  cut  the  meat  up  into  neat  pieces. 

3.  We  put  some  vinegar  into  a  basin  ;  we  dip  each  piece 
of  meat  into  the  vinegar. 

N.B. — Putting  meat  into  vinegar  will  make  it  tender,  therefore  any  tough 
pieces  of  meat  may  be  used  for  this  stew.  The  vinegar  will  not  be 
tasted  when  the  meat  is  cooked. 

4.  We  take  two  carrots,  wash  them,  scrape  them  clean, 
and  cut  them  into  slices  with  a  sharp  knife. 

5.  We  take  two  turnips  and  four  onions,  peel  them,  and 
cut  them  up  into  slices. 

6.  We  put  the  pieces  of  meat  into  a  saucepan,  arranging 
them  closely  together. 

7.  We  should    sprinkle  some  pepper  and  salt  over  the 
meat. 

8.  We  now  put  in  all  the  vegetables,  and  we  also  add  a 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Brazilian  Stew.    89 


small  bunch  of  herbs,  namely,  a  sprig  of  marjoram,  tiiyme, 
and  parsley,  tied  tightly  together. 

N.B. — We  put  no  water  in  this  stew ;  the  vinegar  draws  out  the  juices  of  the 
meat,  and  makes  plenty  of  gravy. 

9.  We  shut  down  the  lid  tight,  put  the  saucepan  by  the 
side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  at  least  three 
hours. 

10.  For  serving  we  turn  the  stew  on  to  a  hot  dish,  or  in 
a  soup  tureen. 


90       National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

STEWS. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

IRISH    STEW. 

Average  cost  of  an  "  Irish  Stew." 


INGREDIENTS. 


d. 


2  lbs.  of  potatoes 2 

1  lb.  of  the  scrag  end  of  mutton    8 

1  lb.  of  onions   I 

Pepper  and  salt    .........  j  * 

11 

Time  required,  about  three  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  an  " Irish  Stew" 

1.  We  take  two  pounds  of  potatoes,  wash  them  well  in 
cold  water. 

2.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  peel  them,  carefully  cut  out 
the  eyes  or  any  black  specks  about  the  potatoes,  and  cut 
them  in  slices. 

3.  We  take  one  pound  of  onions,  peel  them,  and  cut  them 
in  slices. 

4.  We  take  one  pound  of  the  scrag  end  of  the  neck  of 
mutton,  wash  it  in  cold  water,  scrape  it  clean  with  a  knife,  i 
and  cut  off  the  fat. 

5.  We  put  the  meat  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  up  in  small 
pieces. 

6.  We  take  a  large  saucepan,  put  in  a  layer  of  meat,  then 
a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  onions. 

7.  We  should  sprinkle  a  little  pepper,  and  salt  over  each 
layei  for  seasoning. 

8.  We  continue  to  fill  the  saucepan  in  this  way,  till  there 
is  no  meat  or  vegetables  left. 

9.  We  now  pour  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  saucepan  (about  half  a  pint). 

10.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  has 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Irish  Stew.        91 

:ome  to  the  boil,  we  must  skim  it,  draw  it  to  the  side 
of  the  fire,  and  let  it  stew  gently  for,  from  one  hour  and  a 
half,  to  two  hours. 

11.  We  must  watch  it,  skim  it  well  while  it  is  cooking, 
and  stir  it  occasionally  to  prevent  its  catching. 

12.  For  serving  we  turn  the  stew  out  on  a  hot  dish. 

N.B. — If  a  larger  quantity  of  potato  be  required  in  the  stew,  the  extra  quantity 
of  potato  should  be  parboiled  (see  note  below),  and  then  cut  in  slices,  and 
added  to  the  stew  h,  an  hour  before  it  is  rpady  for  serving-.  If  all  the 
potatoes  were  put  in  with  the  meat  at  first,  so  much  water  would  be 
required  that  the  stew  would  be  spoiled. 

N.B. — For  parboiling  (or  half  boiling)  potatoes  we  wash  them,  and  peel  them, 
put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  put  the 
saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  let  the  potatoes  boil  for  about  a  \  of  an  hour. 


92        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

STEWS. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

STEWED    BRISKET    OF    BEEF  (cold). 

Average  cost  of  "  Stewed  Brisket  of  Beef? 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

7  lbs.  of  brisket  of  beef  at  gd.  per  lb 5  3 

2  carrots    o  1 

1  turnip o  o\ 

2  onions o  1 

1  head  of  celery    o  4 

1  leek o  1 

Bouquet  garni  {i.e.,  sprig- of  thyme,  mar-] 

joram,  and  bay  leaf)    

6  cloves  \ 

T2  peppercorns    ( 

6  allspice    

1  tablespoonful  of  salt J 

6    o| 
For  \  an  ounce  of  glaze o    2 

6     2! 

Time  required,  about  four  hours. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  stew  Brisket  of  Beef, 
to  be  served  cold. 

1.  We  take  seven  pounds  of  brisket  of  beef  (not  very  fat), 
see  that  it  is  quite  clean,  and,  if  necessary,  scrape  it  with 
a  knife  and  wipe  it  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  then  put  it  into 
a  large  saucepan. 

2.  We  take  two  carrots,  wash  and  scrape  them  clean  and 
cut  them  in  halves. 

3.  We  take  one  turnip  and  two  onions,  wash  them  and 
peel  them,  and  cut  the  turnip  in  quarters. 

4.  We  take  one  leek  and  one  head  of  celery,  wash  them 
well  in  water,  cut  the  long  green  leaves  off  the  leek,  and  the 
green  tops  from  the  celery. 

5.  We  add  all  these  vegetables  to  the  meat  in  the 
saucepan. 

6.  We  also  add  a  bouquet  garni,  of  thyme,  marjoram, 
and  a  bay  leaf  tied  tightly  together,  six  cloves,  twelve  pepper- 


L  essons  on  L  oo  king  Meat. —  Stewed  Brisket  of  Beef .     9 ; 


corns,  six  allspice,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  three  quarts 
of  cold  water. 

7.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  comes 
to  the  boil  we  should  skim  it  well. 

8.  We  then  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire, 
and  let  the  contents  simmer  gently  for  three  hours,  we  must 
watch  it  and  skim  it  occasionally. 

9.  After  that  time  we  take  the  meat  out  of  the  saucepan 
and  put  it  on  a  dish. 

10.  We  take  a  knife  and  carefully  remove  the  flat  bones 
at  the  side  of  the  beef, 

11.  We  place  the  beef  between  two  dishes  and  some 
heavy  weight  on  the  top  to  press  the  beef 

12.  We  pour  the  stock  through  a  strainer  into  a  basin, 
and  when  it  is  cold  we  should  remove  every  particle  of  fat, 

N.B. — Instead  of  reducing  the  stock  for  glaze,  glaze  can  be  bought  at  the 
grocer's  ;  about  half  an  ounce  would  be  required,  and  it  should  be  put  in 
a  gaily  pot  with  about  a  tablespoonful  of  water ;  the  gaily  pot  must  be 
placed  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  over  the  fire ;  when  the  glaze  is 
melted,  it  should  be  stirred  with  the  brush,  before  brushing  over  the 
meat,  as  directed  in  paragraph  14.     The  stock  can  be  used  for  soup. 

13.  We  then  put  the  stock  in  a  stewpan,  and  put  it  on 
the  fire  to  boil,  without  the  lid,  so  as  to  reduce  the  stock  to 
a  glaze,  about  a  gill  (a  quarter  of  a  pint). 

14.  We  now  take  the  beef,  and  with  a  paste  brush  cover 
the  joint  with  the  glaze,  brushing  it  over  several  times  until 
all  the  glaze  is  used  up ;  as  soon  as  the  glaze  is  cold  and  set 
on  the  beef  it  is  ready  for  serving. 


94       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


STEWS. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

STEWED    RABBIT. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Stewed  Rabbit." 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

1  rabbit i     9 

£  lb.  of  bacon o    3 

1  carrot  \ 

1  onion f  ■ 

1  shalot I 

1  oz.  of  flour J 

2  4 

1  pint  of  second  stock  3f<^.,  or  water. 
Time  required,  about  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Stew  a  Rabbit. 

1.  We  take  a  rabbit  (which  has  been  skinned  and  pro- 
perly prepared  for  cooking),  put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut  it 
up  into  neat  pieces,  with  a  sharp  knife. 

2.  We  must  wash  the  pieces  of  rabbit,  and  dry  them  in 
a  clean  cloth. 

3.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  and  cut  it  up 
in  inch  lengths ;  we  put  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  to  fry 
for  about  six  minutes ;  we  then  take  it  out,  and  put  it  on  a 
plate. 

4.  We  now  put  the  pieces  of  rabbit  in  the  saucepan,  and 
let  them  fry  brown,  in  the  bacon  fat.  We  must  watch  it, 
and  turn  the  pieces  occasionally. 

5.  We  take  a  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean  with  a 
knife,  and  cut  it  in  half. 

6.  We  take  an  onion,  and  a  shalot,  and  peel  them. 

7.  We  now  put  the  fried  bacon,  and  the  vegetables  into 
the  saucepan,  with  the  rabbit. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Stewed  Rabbit.     95 

8.  We  also  add  one  ounce  of  flour,  pepper,  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  pour  in  one  pint  of  second  stock  or  water. 

9.  We  put  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  well  till  it 
boils,  then  skim  it  well,  and  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side 
of  the  fire,  to  simmer  gently,  for  about  one  hour  and  a 
quarter,  or  perhaps  a  little  longer  if  the  rabbit  is  old. 

10.  For  serving,  we  arrange  the  rabbit,  and  bacon  on  a 
hot  dish,  and  strain  the  sauce  over  it. 


9&        National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

STEWS. 

Lesson  No.  6. 

STEWED    OX    CHEEK. 

Average  cost  of  "  Stezved  Ox  Cheek"  and  about  4  quarts  of 

Soup. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

Ox  cheek,  about  6  lbs.,  at  4//.  per  lb 2    o 

2  carrots o     r 

1  turnip o    o| 

\  head  of  celery    o    2 

4  onions o    o\ 

Bouquet  garni  [i.e.  sprig  of  thyme,  mar- 
joram, parsley,  and  a  bayleaf) 

12  cloves    

1  blade  of  mace    

20  peppercorns 

Salt 

1  oz.  of  butter  I 

r  oz.  of  flour ] 

1  teaspoonful  of  Harvey  Sauce ) 

1  teaspoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup  ....  j 


o    i4 


7% 


Time  required,  about  four  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Stew  Ox  Cheek. 

1.  We  take  the  ox  cheek,  and  wash  it  well  in  warm  water, 
put  it  on  a  board,  and  carefully  cut  all  the  flesh  off  the 
bone,  with  a  sharp  knife. 

2.  We  roll  ihs  flesh  up,  and  tie  it  round  with  a  piece  of 
string,  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  one  ounce  of  clarified 
dripping,  and  put  it  over  the  fire  to  fry  brown. 

3.  We  take  two  carrots,  wash  them,  scrape  them  clean 
with  a  knife,  and  cut  them  in  halves. 

4.  We  take  a  turnip,  wash  it,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  half. 

5.  We  take  half  a  head  of  celery,  wash  it  well,  and  cut 
off  the  green  tops  of  the  leaves. 

6.  We  take  four  onions,  peel  them,  and  stick  tzvelve  clovts 
into  one  of  them. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Stew  3d  Ox  Cheek.      9  7 

7.  We  put  the  rolled  ox  cheek,  the  bones,  and  all  these 
vegetables  into  a  saucepan,  we  also  add  a  blade  of  mace, 
twenty  peppercorns,  a  tablespoonfid  of  salt,  and  a  bouquet  garni, 
consisting  of  a  sprig  of  thyme,  marjoram,  parsley,  and  a  bay 
leaf,  tied  tightly  together. 

8.  We  pour  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  it  all,  about 
six  quarts  ;  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  bring  it  to  the  boil, 
then  skim  it  well,  and  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the 
fire  to  simmer  gently  for  four  hours. 

9.  When  the  ox  cheek  is  nearly  done,  we  should  make  the 
sauce. 

10.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  small  stewpan,  and 
put  it  over  the  fire  to  melt. 

11.  We  now  stir  in  smoothly  one  ounce  of  flour. 

12.  We  take  one  pint  of  ox  cJieek  stock,  from  the  saucepan, 
and  pour  it  into  the  stewpan,  stirring  well  until  the  sauce 
boils,  and  thickens,  we  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  mushroom 
ketchup,  and  a  teaspoonfid  of  Harvey  sauce,  and  stand  the 
stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep  warm. 

13.  For  serving,  we  take  the  rolled  ox  cheek  out  of  the 
saucepan,  carefully  remove  the  string,  place  it  in  the  centre 
of  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

N.  B. — The  stock  should  be  poured  through  a  strainer  into  a  basin,  and  put 
aside  to  cool,  so  that  the  fat  can  be  removed ;  the  stock  can  then  be  used 
for  Ox  Cheek  Soup,  and  it  should  be  thickened  with  two  otinces  of  flour ; 
the  flour  must  be  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  of  the  stock,  then 
added  to  the  remainder  of  the  stock,  and  stirred  over  the  fire  till  it  boils 
and  thickens.  The  remains  of  the  Ox  Cheek,  after  serving,  should  be 
cut  up  in  small  pieces,  and  added  to  the  soup. 


9S       National  Training  School  for   Cookery. 

STEWS. 

Lesson  No.  7. 

STEWED    BREAST  or   NEOK    OF    LAMB, 
WITH    PEAS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Stewed  Breast  of  Lamb" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 
1  breast  of  Lamb,  or  2  lbs.  of  the  neck  ....     2    o 

1  pint  of  green  peas     o     3 

1  onion   o     o\ 

Dessertspoonful  of  mint J 

1  oz.  of  flour >     o    o\ 

Salt  and  pepper    ) 

2    4 
Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Stew  Breast  or  Neck  of 
Lamb. 

1.  We  take  the  lamb,  put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  up 
in  small  pieces,  then  wash  it  well  in  cold  water,  and  put 
it  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of  cold  water. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  comes 
to  the  boil  we  must  skim  it  well,  and  add  about  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  skim  again  ;  then  move  the  saucepan  to  the 
side  of  the  fire,  to  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour, 

3.  We  must  now  skim  it  well,  and  put  in  the  pint  of  peas, 
and  let  all  simmer  half  an  hour  longer. 

4.  We  take  the  onion,  peel  it,  and  chop  it,  and  the  mint, 
up  finely  on  a  board,  we  add  these  to  the  stewed  lamb,  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

5.  We  mix  one  ounce  of  flour  very  smoothly  in  a  cup, 
tvith  a  tablespoonful  of  water,  and  stir  it  into  the  saucepan 
to  thicken  the  gravy. 

6.  We  let  it  all  simmer  again  for  ten  minutes. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat.  Stewed  Breast  of  Lamb.    99 

7.  For  serving,  we  must  carefully  remove  all  grease 
(either  with  a  spoon  or  by  putting  a  piece  of  clean  blotting- 
paper  or  whitey-brown  paper  on  the  top  of  the  stew,  which 
will  absorb  the  grease),  and  turn  the  stew  on  to  a  hot  dish  ; 
the  meat  should  be  arranged  in  the  centre,  and  the  peas  and 
gravy  round. 


iod     National 


Training- 


School  for  Cookery. 


STEWS. 

Lesson  No.  8. 

STEWED    KNUCKLE    OF    VEAL. 

Average  cost  of  "  Stewed  Knuckle  of  Veal" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

4  lbs.  of  knuckle  of  veal 2     o 

\  lb.  of  rice   , o     of 

1  onion  o     o \ 

\  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt    1 

5  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper >  o     1 

1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  ......  ) 

2      2.\ 

If  served  with  "  Melted  Butter  sauce,"  z%d.  ; 

Or  with  "  Sharp  Sauce" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  pint  of  veal  stock    

1  onion    o\ 

1  shalot    Oj 

1  carrot    o\ 

1  oz.  butter \ 

1  oz.  flour    o.j 

1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  ) 

1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar    >      of 

Pepper  and  salt ) 

n 

Time  required,  about  two  hours, 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  stew  knuckle  of  veal 

1.  We  take  the  four  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal,  wash  it 
well  in  cold  water,  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  four  pints 
of  cold  water  ;  put  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  when  it 
boils  we  should  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  skim  it  well, 
and  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  to  simmer 
for  two  hours. 

N.B. — If  the  veal  is  to  be  served  with   "sharp  sauce  "  we  omit  the  rice  and 
onion.     For  sharp  sauce  see  below,  No.  7. 

2.  We  take  one  onion,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

3.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  and  wash  it  well 
in  two  waters. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat.  Steived  Knuckle  of  VeaL  i  o  i 

4.  We  take  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  wash  it,  dry  it, 
and  chop  it  up  finely  on  a  board  ;  there  should  be  a  table- 
spoonfid. 

5.  When  the  veal  has  simmered  for  one  Jwitr,  we  add  the 
sliced  onion,  the  rice,  and  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  it  simmer 
for  one  Jwur  more. 

6.  We  now  add  the  chopped  parsley.  For  serving-,  we 
place  the  veal  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  a?id  vege- 
tables round. 

N.B. — If  liked,  melted  butter  (see  Sauces,  Lesson  No.  7),  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley  in  it,  could  be  poured  in  addition  over  the  veal. 

7.  For  "  sharp  sauce,"  we  take  an  onion  and  a  shalot, 
peel  them,  and  chop  them  up  very  finely  on  a  board. 

8.  We  take  a  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean  with  a  knife, 
and  chop  it  up  finely. 

9.  We  take  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  wash  it,  dry  it,  and 
chop  it  up  finely. 

10.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  put  it 
over  the  fire  :  we  add  the  onion,  shalot,  and  carrot,  and  let 
them  fry  in  the  butter  for  about  five  minutes — they  must 
not  burn  ;  we  then  add  one  ounce  of  flour,  and  half  a  pint 
of  veal  stock,  and  stir  well  till  it  boils  and  thickens. 

11.  Just  before  serving,  we  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar  and  the  chopped  parsley.  For  serving  knuckle  of 
veal  with  sharp  sauce,  we  place  the  veal  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

N.B. — The  remainder  of  the  stock,  which  is  then  not  required,  should  be 
strained  into  a  basin,  and  can  then  be  used  for  soup. 


102     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

TRIPE. 
Lesson  No.  i. 

CURRIED  TRIPE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Curried  Tripe? 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  lb.  of  tripe    8 

\  lb.  of  Patna  rice of 

i  onion o| 

Flour,  sugar,  and  curry  powder i| 

Time  required,  about  three  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Curry  of  Tripe. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  tripe,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  of 
cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  up.  Immediately  it  boils  take 
it  out  of  the  water. 

N.B. — This  is  called  blanching. 

2.  We  cut  the  tripe  up  into  small  pieces. 

3.  We  take  a  saucepan  and  lay  the  pieces  of  tripe  in  it 
and  pour  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  the  tripe. 

4.  We  take  a  small  onion  and  peel  it,  and  cut  it  partially 
through. 

5.  We  put  the  onion  into  the  saucepan  of  tripe. 

6.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils 
we  must  remove  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer 
for  not  less  than  two  hours  and  a  half. 

7.  After  that  time  we  try  the  tripe  with  a  fork,  and  if  it 
is  sufficiently  cooked,  it  will  be  very  tender. 

8.  We  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire,  and  stand  it  on  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

9.  We  take  the  pieces  of  tripe  out  with  a  fork,  and  put 
them  on  a  dish. 

10.  We  take  a  small  saucepan  and  put  in  it  one  ounce  of  j 
flour,  one  dessertspoonful  of  curry  poivder,  and  half  an  ounce 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Curried  Tripe,    icr 


of  drippings  and  mix  them  all  well  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

11.  We  add  cold  water ;  sufficient  to  make  the  above  into 
a  stiff  paste. 

12.  We  now  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor,  in  which 
the  tripe  was  boiled. 

13.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  the  mixture 
well  until  it  boils  and  thickens.  We  must  not  let  it  get 
lumpy. 

14.  We  stir  in  a  qicarter  of  a  teaspoonfid  of  brown  sugar 
and  salt  according  to  taste.  We  must  now  stand  the 
saucepan  aside  to  get  cool. 

15.  We  take  the  onion  which  was  boiled  with  the  tripe, 
and  cut  it  in  shreds  and  add  it  to  the  sauce. 

16.  When  the  sauce  is  a  little  cool,  we  put  in  the  pieces 
of  tripe  and  just  let  them  warm  through. 

17.  We  take  a  dish  and  warm  it,  and  pour  the  tripe  and 
sauce  on  it,  keeping  it  as  much  in  the  centre  of  the  dish  as 
possible. 

18.  We  take  a  teacupfid  of  Patna  rice,  wash  it  well  in 
two  or  three  waters,  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  full  of  boiling 
water.  We  must  be  sure  the  water  is  boiling.  (N.B. — Rice 
should  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water.)  We  add  to  it  a 
saltspoonftd  of  salt. 

19.  We  must  let  it  boil  from  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to 
twenty  minutes,  after  that  time,  we  must  feel  the  rice  to  see 
if  it  is  soft. 

20.  When  the  rice  is  sufficiently  cooked,  we  strain  it  off, 
and  pour  cold  water  over  it. 

21.  We  then  put  the  rice  back  into  the  empty  saucepan, 
and  stand  the  saucepan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  dry  the 
rice.     The  lid  should  be  only  half  on  the  saucepan. 

22.  When  the  rice  is  quite  dry  we  take  it  out  of  the 
saucepan  and  arrange  it  round  the  tripe.  It  is  now  ready 
for  serving. 


io4     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

TRIPE. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

TRIPE    IN   MILK. 

Average  cost  of  "  Tripe  in  Milk" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  lb.  of  tripe o  8 

3  or  4  good-sized  onions    o  2 

i  pint  of  milk    o  z\ 

Seasoning  and  flour    o  oj 


Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Tripe  in  Milk. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  tripe,  put  it  into  a  saucepan 
of  cold  water  to  boil  up  and  blanch.  When  it  boils  wc 
take  it  off  the  fire. 

2.  We  put  the  tripe  on  a  board  and  cut  it  in  small  pieces. 

3.  We  take  tJiree  or  four  good-sized  onions y  peel  them 
and  cut  them  partially  through. 

4.  We  put  the  tripe  and  onions  into  a  saucepan,  with  one 
pint  of  milk. 

5.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil 

6.  When  it  boils,  we  should  move  the  saucepan  to  the 
side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  for  not  less  than  two 
hours. 

7.  After  that  time,  we  should  feel  the  tripe  with  a  fork, 
and  if  it  is  sufficiently  cooked  it  will  be  very  tender. 

8.  We  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire  and  stand  it  on  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

9.  We  take  the  onions  out  of  the  saucepan  and  put 
them  on  a  board  and  chop  them  up  finely. 

10.  We  take  the  tripe  out  of  the  saucepan  and  arrange  it 
on  a  warm  dish. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat.  —  Tripe  in  Milk.   105 

11.  We  stand  the  dish  near  the  fire  to  keep  warm. 

12.  We  take  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour,  and  mix  it  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  cold  milk. 

13.  We  stir,  by  degrees,  the  paste  into  the  hot  milky  and 
iet  it  boil  and  thicken. 

14.  We  now  stir  the  onion  into  the  milk,  and  let  it  warm 
through. 

15.  We  season  the  onion  sauce,  according  to  taste,  and 
pour  it  over  the  tripe.      It  is  now  ready  for  serving. 


io6      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


TRIPE. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

TRIPE    A    LA    COUTANCE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Tripe  a  la  Coutance" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  lb.  of  thin  tripe o  8 

|  lb.  of  bacon    o  6 

i  small  carrot    o  o\ 

4  mushrooms o  i| 

\  a.  large  onion  or  6  small  green  onions  . .  ) 

Bouquet  garni  >  o  2f 

2  shalots  and  parsley  ) 

2  oz.  of  butter   o  2 

i  tablespoonful  of  Harvey  sauce   | 

i  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup . . . .  /  °  2 

i  oz.  of  flour o  o\ 

I  pint  of  stock  o  j\ 

The  juice  of  half  a  lemon    o  i 

Salt  and  pepper    o  o\ 


2     7* 


Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Tripe  a  la  Cou- 
tance. 

1.  We  wash  the  tripe  well  in  cold  water. 

2.  We  put  the  tripe  in  a  stewpan  with  cold  water  enough 
to  cover  it. 

3.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  bring  it  to  the 
boil. 

N.B.— This  is  to  blanch  the  tripe. 

4.  We  then  take  the  tripe  out  of  the  stewpan  and  dry  it 
in  a  clean  cloth. 

5.  We  put  the  tripe  on  a  board,  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
cut  it  into  strips  about  two  inches  wide  and  four  inches  in 
length. 

N.B.— Only  the  thin  part  of  the  tripe  can  be  used  for  "tripe  a  la  Coutance;" 
if  there  are  any  thick  pieces  they  can  be  cooked  with  milk  and  oniom 
(see  "Tripe,"  Lesson  No.  2). 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Tripe  a  la  Coutance.  107 

6.  We  take  the  half  pound  of  bacon  and  cut  it  in  very 
thin  slices,  the  same  size  as  the  strips  of  tripe. 

7.  We  take  one  shalot,  peel  it,  and  two  or  three  sprigs  of 
parsley,  and  chop  them  up  finely  on  a  board. 

8.  We  lay  one  slice  of  bacon  on  each  strip  of  tripe, 
sprinkle  a  little  chopped  shalot  and  parsley  over  each  slice  of 
bacon,  roll  them  up  together,  and  tie  them  firmly  round 
with  a  piece  of  string. 

9.  We  take  the  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean  with  a 
knife,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

10.  We  take  the  half  onion  and  the  other  shalot,  peel 
them,  and  cut  them  in  slices. 

11.  We  take  a  sprig  of  marjoram,  thyme,  and  a  bay -leaf, 
and  tie  them  tightly  together  with  a  piece  of  string. 

12.  We  take  the  mushrooms,  wash  them,  and  cut  off  the 
end  of  the  stalks. 

13.  We  arrange  the  rolls  of  tripe  and  bacon  in  a  stewpan. 

14.  We  also  add  all  the  vegetables  and  the  herbs. 

15.  We  pour  in  a  pint  of  stock,  and  put  the  stewpan  on 
the  fire. 

16.  When  it  just  boils  we  remove  the  stewpan  to  the 
side  of  the  fire,  and  let  the  contents  simmer  gently  for  two 
hours. 

17.  After  that  time  we  take  out  the  rolls  of  tripe  and  put 
them  on  a  plate. 

18.  We  take  a  strainer,  hold  it  over  a  basin,  and  strain 
the  stock. 

19.  We  put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  another  stewpan, 
and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  melt. 

20.  When  the  butter  is  melted  we  add  to  it  one  ounce  of 
flour,  and  mix  them  smoothly  together. 

21.  We  now  add  the  stock,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  until 
it  boils  and  thickens. 

22.  We  take  half  a  lemon  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  it  into 
the  sauce. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  let  any  pips  fall  in. 


io8      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


23.  We  also  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  Harvey  sauce,  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  and  season  the  sauce 
with  pepper  and  salt. 

24.  We  now  place  in  the  rolls  of  tripe,  and  let  them 
warm  through. 

25.  For  serving  we  arrange  the  rolls  of  tripe  in  a  circle 
on  a  hot  dish,  with  some  puree  of  carrot,  or  spinach  (see 
"Vegetables,"  Lessons  Nos.  6  and  8),  or  with  a  mixture  of 
vegetables  (according  to  taste),  in  the  centre,  and  pour  the 
sauce  round  the  edge. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Braised  Fillet  of  Veal  109 

BRAISED    FILLET    OF    VEAL. 

Average  cost  of  il  A  Braised  Fillet  of  Veal!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

3!  lbs.  of  the  fillet  of  veal 3  6 

\  lb.  of  the  fat  of  bacon    o  6 

A   bouquet  garni  of  parsley,   thvme,   and  1  l 

bayleaf )  °  Ci 

1  onion o  o  V 

3  pints  of  good  stock 1  c;i 

2  young  carrots o  1 

Celery  and  turnip  {  . 

Salt    J  °  °* 

6    o 

Time  required  {the  stock  should  be  made  the  day  before) ,  about  one  hour  and  a  half 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Braise  a  Fillet  of  Veal. 

1.  We  take  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  the  fillet  of  veal, 
put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut  off  all  the  skin  with  a  sharp  knife. 

2.  We  lard  this  fillet  in  the  same  way  as  for  fillets  of 
beef  (see  "  Entree,"  Lesson  No.  3,  from  Note  3  to  Note  7). 

3.  We  place  the  fillet  carefully  in  a  braising  pan. 

4.  We  add  a  bouquet  garni,  consisting  of  a  sprig  6f  parsley, 
thyme,  and  a  bay-leaf  all  tied  neatly  and  tightly  together. 

5.  We  take  two  young  carrots,  wash  them,  scrape  them 
clean  with  a  knife  and  cut  them  in  halves. 

6.  We  take  an  onion  and  a  quarter  of  a  turnip,  and  peel 
them  carefully. 

7.  WTe  add  these  vegetables,  and  half  a  stick  of  celery,  to 
the  fillet  in  the  braising  pan. 

8.  We  now  pour  in  about  three  pints  of  good  stock  (the 
stock  must  not  cover  the  meat),  put  the  braising  pan  on  the 
fire,  and  baste  the  fillet  continually. 

9.  We  take  a  piece  of  kitchen  paper,  cut  a  round  to  the 
size  of  the  braising  pan  and  butter  it. 

10.  As  soon  as  the  stock  boils,  we  lay  this  round  of  paper 
on  the  fillet  in  the  stewpan. 

N.B. — This  paper  is  to  prevent  the  meat  from  browning  too  quickly. 


no      National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

11.  We  keep  the  lid  of  the  braising  pan  on,  and  place  it 
in  a  hot  oven,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  for  07ie  hour  and  a 
quarter. 

12.  We  must  watch  it,  frequently  raise  the  paper,  and 
baste  the  veal  with  the  stock. 

13.  We  take  the  veal  out  of  the  braising  pan,  and  place 
it  on  a  hot  dish. 

N.B. — We  must  stand  this  dish  on  the  hot  plate,  or  near  the  fire,  to  keep 
warm  until  the  sauce  is  ready. 

14.  We  put  the  braising  pan  on  the  fire  and  let  the  sauce 
reduce  to  a  half  glaze. 

15.  We  then  strain  the  glaze  round  the  meat. 

16.  We  serve  it  with  dressed  spinach  (see  "  Vegetables/' 
Lesson  No.  8),  or  with  dressed  carrots  and  turnips  (see 
"  Vegetables,"  Lesson  No.  6). 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Roast  Btcllock's  Heart-.  1 1 1 


ROAST    BULLOCK'S    OR    CALF'S    HEART. 

EITHER  IN  FRONT  OF  THE  FIRE  OR  IN  A  STEWPAN. 

Average  cost  of  a  " Buttock's  or  Calfs  Heart  stuffed"  and 
'''Brown  Sauce!' 

INGREDIENTS. 


"Bullock's  or  Calfs  Heart" 

s.  d. 
i  bullock's  heart  (or  calfs)  zs.  or  2    6 

2  oz.  of  suet    o     15 

\  lb.  of  biead  crumbs    o     1 

1  gill  (|  pint  of  milk)     o    of 

1  egg     o     1 

Salt  and  pepper \ 

1  tablespoonful   of    chopped 

parsley I 

I  dessertspoonful  of  chopped  )    o     i| 
mixed     herbs  :       thyme, 
lemon  thyme,  and  marjo- 
ram     - 

\  lb.  dripping o     2 


"Sauce." 

s.     d. 
1  small  onion  and  half  a  carrot    o    o| 

Salt  and  pepper )  , 

J  oz.  of  flow    )     °    °* 

1  oz.  of  butter o     1 

t  dessertspoonful  of  mushroom 

ketchup    o    ok 


Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  stuff  a  Bullock's  Heart  and 
roast  it. 

1.  We  must  first  prepare  the  fire  for  roasting  as  described 
in  "Roasting,"  Lesson  No.  1. 

2.  We  take  a  bullock's  heart,  and  wash  it  thoroughly  in 
salt  and  water,  carefully  cleansing  all  the  cavities  of  the 
heart,  and  removing  all  the  blood. 

3.  We  take  it  out  of  the  salt  and  water,  and  put  it  into  a 
basin  of  clean  water,  wash  it  again,  until  it  is  quite  clean, 
and  wipe  it  thoroughly  dry  with  a  cloth. 

N.B. — If  the  heart  is  not  quite  dry,  it  will  not  roast  properly. 

4.  We  put  the  heart  on  a  board,  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
cut  off  fat  flaps,  or  deaf  ears  (as  they  are  called). 

5.  We  put  two  ounces  of  suet  on  a  board,  cut  away  all  the 


i 1 2     National   Training  School  for  Cookery. 

skin,  and  chop  it  up  as  finely  as  possible  ;  we  should  sprinkle 
a  little  flour  over  the  suet,  to  prevent  it  from  sticking  to  the 
board  or  knife. 

6.  We  grate  some  bread  crumbs  with  a  grater  on  to  the 
board. 

7.  We  wash  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley  in  cold  water, 
dry  them  in  a  cloth,  and  chop  the  parsley  up  as  finely  as 
possible  on  a  board  ;  when  chopped  there  should  be  about 
one  tablespoonful. 

8.  We  take  a  sprig  of  thyme,  lemon  thyme  and  marjoram, 
rub  them  through  a  strainer,  or  chop  them  up  finely  on  a 
board  ;  there  should  be  about  one  dessertspoonful  of  the 
mixed  herbs. 

9.  We  now  mix  the  chopped  suet,  and  bread  crumbs  well 
together,  and  then  add  the  parsley,  the  herbs,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  mix  them  thoroughly 

together. 

10.  We  now  mix  it  with  one  gill  (a  quarter  of  a  pint)  of 
milk,  and  one  egg. 

11.  We  take  the  heart  and  fill  all  the  cavities  with  the. 
stuffing,  pressing  it  in  as  firmly  as  possible. 

N.B. — If  there  be  any  stuffing  over,  it  can  be  put  aside  for  the  sauce. 

12.  We  grease  a  piece  of  kitchen  paper  well  with  a  piece 
of  butter  or  dripping ;  and  then  place  over  the  top  of  the 
heart  where  the  cavities  are,  and  tie  it  on  tightly  with  string. 

13.  We  put  the  roasting  screen  in  front  of  the  fire,  to 
keep  off  the  draught,  and  to  keep  in  all  the  heat. 

N.B. — The  Bullock's  or  Calf's  heart  can  be  roasted  in  a  stewpan  instead  of 
in  front  of  the  fire. 

N.B. — For  roasting  in  a  stewpan. 

A.  We  take  the  heart  already  stuffed  and  prepared  as  above  and  put  it  in 
a  stewpan,  with  2  oz.  of  clarified  dripping,  and  put  the  stewpan  over  a 
slow  fire. 

B.  We  must  baste  it  well  with  the  dripping,  and  turn  it  occasionally.  The 
Bullock's  heart  will  take  two  hours  to  roast,  the  Calf's  heart  only  one 
hour. 

N.B. — A  Bullock's  heart  is  better  roasted  in  front  of  the  fire  on  account  ol  its 
size. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — -Roast Bullock's  Heart.  1 1 3 

21.  We  put  the  dripping-pan,  or  a  large  dish,  down  on  a 
stand  within  the  screen  close  to  the  fire,  with  the  dripping 
ladle  or  a  large  spoon  in  it. 

22.  We  hang  the  roasting-jack  up  from  the  mantlepiece 
]  over  the  dripping-pan. 

N.B. — If  there  be  no  roasting-jack,  we  can  manage  with  a  strong  piece  of 
worsted  tied  to  a  poor  man's  jack. 

23.  We  must  wind  up  the  jack  with  its  key,  before  we 
put  the  meat  on. 

24.  We  take  the  hook  of  the  roasting-jack  and  pass 
it  through  the  heart,  and  hang  it  on  the  jack  or  the 
worsted. 

N.B. — If  the  heart  is  hanging  from  a  piece  of  worsted,  we  must  twist  the 
worsted  occasionally  to  make  it  go  round. 

25.  We  put  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  clarified 
dripping  into  the  dripping-pan,  and  baste  the  Jieart  occa- 
sionally. 

26.  It  will  take  about  tzvo  hours  to  roast. 

27.  We  take  one  small  onion,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in 
slices. 

28.  We  put  the  onion  in  a  saucepan,  with  one  ounce  of 
butter,  or  clarified  dripping. 

29.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  let  the  onion 
fry  a  nice  brown. 

30.  We  now  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  mix  them 
smoothly  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

.  31.  We  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  season  it  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  stir  smoothly  until  it  boils  and 
thickens. 

32.  We  then  stand  the  saucepan  by  the  side  of  the  fire 
1  until  required  for  use. 

33.  When  the  heart  is  roasted,  we  take  it  down,  place 
t  the  heart  on  a  hot  dish  and  draw  out  the  hook. 

34.  We  cut  the  string  and  take  off  the  greased  paper. 


1 1 4     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

35.  If  there  be  any  stuffing  over,  we  now  stir  it  into 
the  sauce ;  we  also  add  one  dessertspoonful  of  mushroom 
ketchup. 

N.  B. — If  the  flavouring  of  mushroom  ketchup  be  disliked,  it  may  be  omitted. 

36.  We  pour  the  sauce  round  the  heart  on  the  dish,  and 
it  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Cornish  Pasties,    i  1 5 
CORNISH    PASTIES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Cornish  Pasties  "  (about  12). 
INGREDIENTS. 

a. 

£  lb.  of  buttock  steak  or  beef  skirt . . . .  t . . .  5 

i  lb.  of  potatoes o\ 

1  onion oh 

1  lb.  of  flour    2 

6  oz.  of  dripping    3 

Salt  and  pepper )  0i 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder J  * 

Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  we  make  Cornish  Pasties. 

1.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  buttock  steak  or  beef  skirt,  put 
it  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  up  into  small  pieces. 

2.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  potatoes,  wash  and  peel  them 
put  them  on  a  board,  and  cut  them  up  into  small  pieces. 

3.  We  take  one  small  onion,  peel  it,  put  it  on  a  board, 
and  chop  it  up  as  finely  as  possible. 

4.  We  put  one  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin  with  a  little 
salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

5.  We  put  in  six  ounces  of  dripping,  and  rub  it  well  into 
\hz  flour  with  our  hands. 

6.  We  now  add  enough  cold  water   to  mix  it  into   a 

stiff  paste. 

7.  We  flour  a  board  and  turn  the  paste  on  to  it. 

8.  We  take  a  rolling-pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  the  paste  out 
into  a  thin  sheet,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 

9.  We  cut  the  paste  into  pieces  about  six  or  seven  inches 
square. 

10.  We  place  a  little  of  the  meat  and  potato  in  the  centre 
of  each  square,  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and 
a  very  little  of  the  chopped  onion. 

11.  We  fold  the  paste  over  the  meat,  joining  it  by  pressing 
the  ed^es  together  with  our  thumb  and  finger. 


i  1 6      National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 


12.  We  grease  a  baking  tin  and  put  the  pasties  on  it. 

N.B.—  If  there  be  no  baking  tin  we  should  grease  the  shelf  in  the  oven  to 
prevent  the  pasties  from  sticking. 

13.  We  put  the  tin  into  the  oven  to  bake  from  half  am 
hour  to  tJiree  quai'ters  of  an  hour. 

14.  For  serving,  we  put  the  pasties  on  a  dish. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Sausage  Rolls.      117 


SAUSAGE    ROLLS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Sausage  Rolls  "  (about  one  dozen)  made 
with  cooked  or  uncooked  meat. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  lb.  of  cooked  or  uncooked  meat 5 

1  lb.  flour 2 

£  lb.  dripping 4 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder  \ 

Seasoning ^ 

I  a  shalot \        1 

1  small  onion h 


4  sage  leaves 
*egg 


1     1 

Time  reguired  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Sausage  Rolls, 

1.  We  take  J talf  a  pound  of  meat  {cooked  or  uncooked),  put 
it  on  a  board,  take  away  all  the  fat,  and  mince  the.  meat  up 
as  finely  as  possible. 

2.  We  take  the  mince  meat,  put  it  in  a  basin,  and  season 
it  well  with  pepper  and  salt. 

3.  We  take  four  sage  leaves,  put  them  on  a  board,  and 
chop  them  up  as  finely  as  possible  with  a  knife. 

4.  We  take  half  a  shalot  and  one  small  onion,  peel  them, 
and  chop  them  up  upon  the  board. 

5.  We  mix  the  chopped  sage,  shalot,  and  onion  well  into 
the  mince  meat  with  a  spoon. 

6.  We  put  one  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin. 

7.  We  add  to  it  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a 
quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  pound  of 
clarified  dripping. 

8.  We  rub  the  dripping  well  into  the  flour  with  our 
hands. 

N.B. — We  must  mix  it  thoroughly  and  be  careful  not  to  leave  any  lump*. 

9.  We  add  enough  water  to  the  flour  to  make  it  into  a 
stiff  paste. 


1 1 8     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

10.  We  flour  the  paste  board. 

11.  We  turn  the  paste  out  on  the  board. 

N.B. — We  should  divide  the  paste  in  two,  so  as  not  to  handle  it  too  much. 

12.  We  take  a  rolling  pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  each 
portion  into  a  thin  sheet,  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in 
thickness. 

13.  We  cut  the  paste  into  pieces  about  six  inches  square. 

14.  We  should  collect  all  the  scraps  of  paste  (so  that 
none  is  wasted),  fold  them  together,  and  roll  them  out  and 
cut  them  into  squares. 

N.B. — There  should  be  about  one  dozen  squares  of  paste. 

15.  We  should  put  about  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mince 
meat  and  herbs  into  the  centre  of  each  square  of  paste. 

16.  We  fold  the  paste  round  the  meat,  joining  it  smoothly 
down  the  centre,  and  pressing  the  ends  of  the  paste  together  . 
with  our  finger  and  thumb. 

17.  We  take  a  baking  tin,  grease  it  well,  and  place  the 
sausage  rolls  on  it. 

18.  We  break  one  egg  on  to  a  plate,  and  beat  it  slightly 
with  a  knife. 

19.  We  take  a  paste  brush,  dip  it  in  the  egg,  and  paint 
over  the  tops  of  the  rolls. 

20.  We  place  the  tin  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes  if  the  meat  is  already  cooked,  but  if  raw  meat  is 
used,  then  half  an  hour  is  required. 

N.B. — We  should  look  at  them  once  or  twice,  and  turn  them  if  necessary,  so 
that  they  shall  be  equally  baked. 

21.  For  serving  we  take  the  rolls  ofif  the  tin  and  place 
them  on  a  hot  dish. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. —  Veal  and  Ham  Pie.    1 1 9 


VEAL   AND    HAM    PIE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Veal  and  Ham  Pie"  {about  a  quart 
pie-dish). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

x\  lb.  of  fillet  of  veal  (lean)    1  6 

\  lb.  of  bacon   o  3 

2  eggs    o  2 

1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley ) 

Salt  and  pepper    /  o  2V 

I  lb.  of  flour ) 

3  oz.  of  butter o  3 

3  oz.  of  lard o  2 

2    6\ 

Time  required,  about  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Veal  and  Ham 
Pie. 

1.  We  put  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  three  ounces 
of  butter,  and  two  ounces  of  lard,  on  a  board. 

2.  We  take  a  knife  and  chop  up  the  butter  and  lard  into 
the  flour,  sprinkle  over  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
heap  it  on  the  board,  and  make  a  well  in  the  centre. 

3.  We  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  water,  and  beat  it  up 
slightly  with  a  knife. 

4.  We  now,  slowly  and  lightly,  mix  it  all  with  our 
fingers,  adding  more  water  if  necessary,  until  it  be  formed 
into  a  stiff  paste. 

5.  We  must  keep  our  hands,  and  the  board  well  floured, 
that  the  paste  may  not  stick. 

6.  We  take  a  rolling-pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the  paste, 
and  fold  it  in  half,  turn  it  round  with  the  rough  edges 
towards  us,  roll  it  again,  and  fold  it  as  before  three  times 
more  ;  the  last  time  we  should  roll  it  out  to  the  size  of  the 
pie-dish  to  be  used,  only  a  little  larger,  and  to  the  thickness 
of  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch. 

7.  We  put  a  small  saucepan  of  water  on  the  fire  to  boil  ; 
when  the  water  boils,  we  should  put  in  two  eggs,  and  let 
them  boil  for  tot  minuUs. 


120      National  T7'aining  School  for  Cookery. 


8.  We  take  one  pound  and  a  half  of  fillet  of  veal,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  and  cut  them  up  in  small  pieces 
with  a  sharp  knife. 

9.  When  the  eggs  are  sufficiently  boiled,  we  take  them 
out  of  the  saucepan,  tap  them  all  round  on  a  cup,  take  the 
shell  off,  and  put  them  in  a  little  cold  water. 

10.  We  take  them  out  of  the  water,  and  carefully  cut 
them  in  quarters. 

11.  We  put  the  veal,  bacon,  and  hard-boiled  eggs  into  the 
pie-dish,  we  also  sprinkle  over  the  meat  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  salt  mixed, 
and  pour  in  two  tablespoonsful  of  cold  water,  or  stock. 

12.  We  now  take  a  knife,  flour  it,  and  cut  a  strip  of  the 
paste  the  width  of  the  edge  of  the  pie  dish.  We  wet  the  edge 
of  the  pie-dish  with  cold  water,  or  white  of  egg,  and  place 
the  paste  round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  joining  it  smoothly 
together. 

13.  We  now  wet  the  edge  of  the  paste,  take  the  remaining 
piece  of  paste  and  lay  it  carefully  over  the  top  of  the  pie, 
pressing  it  down  with  our  thumb  all  round  the  edge. 

14.  We  take  a  knife,  flour  it,  and  trim  off  all  the  rough 
edges  of  the  paste  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

15.  We  should  make  little  notches   in  the  edge  of  the 
paste  with  the  back  of  the  knife,  pressing  the  paste  firmly  I 
with  our  thumb  to  keep  it  in  its  proper  place. 

16.  We  should  make  a  small  hole  in  the  centre  of  the 
paste,  to  let  out  the  steam,  while  it  is  baking. 

17.  We  can  ornament  the  top  of  the  pie  with  any  remains 
of  paste  according  to  taste,  and  if  there  be  any  white  of  egg, 
we  should  brush  over  the  top  of  the  pie. 

18.  We  put  the  pie  into  a  hot  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400  Fahrenheit),  for  one  hour 
and  a  half ;  we  must  watch  it  occasionally  and  turn  it,  to 
prevent  it  burning:  it  should  become  a  pale  brown.  It  is 
then  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Cooking-  Meat. — Rabbit  Pie.        i  2 1 
RABBIT    PIE. 

Average  cost  of  "Rabbit  Pie"  (in  about  a  quart  pie-dish). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  Rabbit i  9 

\  lb.  of  bacon  or  salt  pork o  6 

I  lb.  of  beefsteak o  6 

Salt  and  pepper    i 

1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley     >  o  a\ 

4  lb.  of  flour ) 

6  oz.  of  clarified  dripping o  3 

3    2> 
Time  required,   about  two  hours  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Rabbit  Pie. 

1.  We  must  first  make  the  paste,  in  the  same  way  as  for 
zeal  and  ham  pie,  from  note  I  to  note  8. 

N.B. — Clarified  dripping  may  be  used,  instead  of  the  butter  and  lard,  foi 
economy's  sake. 

2.  We  take  a  rabbit  (which  has  been  skinned  and  properly 
prepared  for  cooking),  wash  it  well  in  cold  water,  wipe  it 
dry,  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

3.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  and  cut  it  up  in  neat  pieces, 
about  equal  sizes. 

4.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  bacon,  or  salt  pork,  put  it  on  a 
board,  and  cut  it  slices. 

5.  We  put  half  a  pound  of  beef-steak  on  a  board,  and  cut 
Ij'ft  in  small  pieces. 

6.  We  arrange  the  rabbit,  bacon,  and  beef  in  a  pie-dish, 
and  sprinkle  over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  salt  mixed,  and  pour  in  about  a 
tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  or  stock. 

7.  We  finish  the  pie  in  the  same  way,  as  (or  veal  and  ham 
t>ie,from  note  13  to  note  19. 


122       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

8.  We  place  the  pie  in  a  hot  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400  Fahrenheit)  to  bake  slowly 
for  one  hour  and  a  half,  to  two  hoars,  according  to  the  age 
of  the  rabbit,  as  an  old  rabbit  takes  longer  to  cook.  We 
must  watch  it  occasionally,  and  turn  it,  to  prevent  it  burn- 
ing :  it  should  become  a  pale  brown.  It  is  then  ready  for 
serving. 


Lesson  on  Cooking  Meat. — Beef  Steak  Pie.   123 
MEAT   PIE  (BEEF  STEAK). 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Meat  Pie  "  (in  a  quart  dish). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  \  lb.  buttock  steak 1  6 

\  lb.  bullock's  kidney o  8 

Seasoning  (flour,  salt,  and  pepper) o  oh 

fib.  of  flour o  ij 

I  lb.  clarified  dripping    o  4 

2     8 
Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Meat  Pie. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  and  a  half  of  buttock  steak,  put  it 
on  a  board,  and  cut  it  in  thin  slices. 

2.  We  should  cut  away  all  the  skin. 

3.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  bullock's  kidney,  put  it  on  a 
plate,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

4.  We  put  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonfid  of 
salt,  and  a  teaspoonfid  of  pepper  on  to  a  plate,  and  mix 
them  well  together. 

5.  We  dip  each  slice  of  meat,  and  kidney  into  the  season- 
ing, and  roll  them  up  into  little  rolls. 

6.  We  arrange  these  rolls  of  meat,  and  kidney  in  a  quart 
pie  dish,  and  fill  up  the  dish  tzvo-thirds  with  water. 

7.  We  put  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin. 

8.  We  add  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  to  the  flour,  and 
mix  them  well  together. 

9.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  clarified  dripping,  cut  it  in 
small  pieces,  and  rub  it  well  into  the.  flour  with  our  hands. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  that  there  are  no  lumps  of  dripping  in  the  flour. 

10.  We  then  add  by  degrees,  enough  cold  water,  to  make 
it  into  a  stiff  paste. 

11.  We  take  a  rolling-pin  and.  flour  it.  We  also  sprinkle 
flour  on  the  board,  and  flour  our  hands  to  prevent  the  paste 
from  sticking. 


I:>4      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

12.  We  take  the  paste  out  of  the  basin  and  put  it  on  a 
board. 

13.  We  roll  out  the  paste  once  to  the  shape  of  the  pie  dish, 
only  rather  larger,  and  to  the  thickness  of  about  one-third 
of  an  inch. 

14.  We  wet  the  edge  of  the  dish  with  water. 

15.  We  take  a  knife,  dip  it  in  flour ",  and  cut  a  strip  of  the 
paste  the  width  of  the  edge  of  the  pie  dish,  and  place  it 
round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

N.B. — We  should  cut  this  strip  of  paste  from  round  the  edge  of  the  paste, 
leaving  the  centre  piece  the  size  and  shape  of  the  top  of  the  pie  dish. 

16.  We  wet  the  edge  of  the  paste  with  zvater. 

17.  We  take  the  remaining  paste  and  place  it  over  the 
pie  dish,  pressing  it  down  with  our  thumb  all  round  the 
edge. 

N.B. — We  must  be  very  careful  not  to  break  the  paste. 

18.  We  take  a  knife,  dip  it  in  flour,  and  trim  off  all  the 
rough  edges  of  the  paste  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

19.  We  take  a  knife,  and  with  the  back  of  the  blade  we 
make  little  notches  in  the  edge  of  the  paste,  pressing  the 
paste  firmly  with  our  thumb  to  keep  it  in  its  proper  place. 

N.B. — We  can  ornament  the  top  of  the  pie  with  any  remaining  paste  to  our 
fancy. 

20.  We  make  a  hole  with  the  knife  in  the  centre  of  the 
pie  to  let  out  the  steam  while  the  pie  is  baking. 

N.B. — If  there  were  not  an  escape  for  the  steam  it  would  sodden  the  inside  of 
the  crust,  and  so  prevent  it  from  baking  properly. 

21.  We  put  the  pie  into  the  oven  to  bake  gently  for  two 
hours.  We  must  watch  it  occasionally,  and  turn  it  to 
prevent  its  burning.  It  should  become  a  pale  brown.  It 
is  then  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — Meat  pies  should  be  put  in  the  hottest  part  of  the  oven  first,  which,  in 
most  ovens,  is  the  top,  to  make  the  crust  light,  and  then  put  in  a  cooler 
part  to  cook  the  meat  thoroughly. 

N.B. —This  pie  could  be  made  with  veal  or  mutton  instead  of  steak. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat.— Beef  Steak  Pudding.   125 
MEAT    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Meat  Pudding  "  (a  quart  basin.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

6  oz.  of  suet   o  3^ 

1  lb.  of  flour o  2 

1  teaspoon ful  of  baking  powder    o  o\ 

Seasoning o  o\ 

i\  lb.  of  buttock  steak,  io^.  per  lb 1  3 

I  lb.  bullock's  kidney o  8 

2  5* 
Time  required  about  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Meat  Pudding. 

1.  We  take  a  large  saucepan  full  of  cold  water,  and  put 
it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  take  six  ounces  of  suet  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

3.  We  take  a  knife  and  cut  away  all  the  skin,  and  chop 
up  the  suet  as  finely  as  possible,  and  sprinkle  a  little  flour 
over  the  suet  to  prevent  its  sticking. 

4.  We  put  one  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin,  and  add  to  it 
&  teaspoonful of 'baking  powder  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt 
and  mix  all  well  together. 

5.  We  now  add  the  chopped  suet  and  rub  it  well  into  the 
flour  with  our  hands. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  not  to  leave  any  lumps  of  suet. 

6.  We  then  add  by  degrees  about  half  a  pint  of  cold  water 
co  make  it  into  a  paste ;  we  should  mix  it  well. 

7.  We  put  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
;  pepper  on  a  plate,  and  mix  them  together. 

8.  We  take  one  poitnd  and  a  half  of  buttock  steak,  put  it 

1   on  a  board,  and  cut  it  in  slices  about  three  inches  long  and 
I  tzuo  indies  broad. 

N.B. — We  should  cut  away  all  the  skin. 

9.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  hillock's  Sidney,  put  it  oa  a 
I  board,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 


[26      National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

10.  We  dip  each  slice  of  meat  and  kidney  into  the  plate 
of  seasoning. 

11.  We  take  a  quart  basin  and  grease  it  well  inside  with 
dripping. 

12.  We  take  a  rolling  pin  and  flour  it ;  we  also  sprinkle  a 
very  little  flour  on  the  board  to  prevent  the  paste  sticking. 

N.B. — In  making  paste  we  should  always  keep  our  hands  well  floured  to 
prevent  its  sticking  to  them. 

13.  We  take  the  paste  out  of  the  basin  and  put  it  on  the 
board. 

14.  We  cut  off  about  one-third  of  the  paste  and  lay  it 
aside  for  the  cover  or  top  of  the  pudding. 

15.  We  roll  out  the  remainder  of  the  paste  to  a  round 
twice  the  size  of  the  top  of  the  basin  ;  it  should  be  about 
one-third  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 

16.  We  line  the  basin  inside  smoothly  with  the  paste. 

17.  We  place  the  slices  of  meat  and  kidney  in  the  basin, 
fitting  them  neatly  in. 

18.  We  pour  in  about  one  gill  and  a  half  of  water y  so  as 
to  fill  the  basin  to  within  half  an  inch  of  the  top. 

19.  We  roll  the  remaining  pieces  of  paste  to  a  round,  the 
size  of  the  top  of  the  basin,  to  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in 
thickness. 

20.  We  wet  the  edge  of  the  paste  in  the  basin  with  cold 
water,  and  cover  over  the  top  of  the  basin  with  the  round 
of  paste. 

21.  We  must  join  the  paste  together  at  the  edge  of  the 
basin,  pressing  the  edges  together  with  our  thumb. 

22.  We  take  a  knife,  flour  it,  and  trim  the  edges  of  the 
paste  neatly  round. 

23.  We  take  a  small  pudding  cloth,  wring  it  out  in  warm 
water,  and  flour  it. 

24.  We  put  this  cloth  over  the  top  of  the  basin,  tying  it 
on  tightly  with  a  piece  of  string  under  the  rim  of  the  basin. 

25.  We  tie  the  four  corners  of  the  cloth  together  over 
the  top  of  the  pudding. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Beef  Steak  P tedding.   127 

26.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  pudding  and  let  it  boil  for  two  hours. 

N.B. — The  lid  should  be  on  the  saucepan. 

N.B. — We  should  keep  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  fill  up  the  saucepan,  as 
the  water  in  it  boils  away. 

27.  After  that  time  we  take  the  pudding  out  of  the  sauce- 
pan and  take  off  the  cloth. 

28.  We  place  a  hot  dish  on  the  top  of  the  pudding,  turn 
the  basin  and  dish  quite  over,  and  carefully  raising  the 
basin,  we  should  leave  the  pudding  in  the  middle  of  the  dish 
unbroken.     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 

N.  B. — This  pudding  might  be  made  of  beef  skirt  or  Australian  beef. 


28      National  Training  School  for  Cookerv. 


PIG'S    FRY. 

Average  cost  of  this  dish,  i.e.,  "Poor  Mans  Goose'*  (i  quart 

dish)— 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  lb.  of  pig's  fry 6 

2,\  lbs.  of  potatoes o.\ 

i  onion o k 

Sage  and  seasoning    o| 

9i 
Time  required  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 


I 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Pigs  Fry — M  Poor 
Mans  Goose!' 

1.  We  take  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  potatoes,  and  put 
them  in  a  basin  of  cold  water. 

2.  We  take  a  scrubbing  brush  and  scrub  and  wash  the 
potatoes  well. 

3.  We  put  the  potatoes  into  a  saucepan  of  cold  water. 

4.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

5.  As  soon  as  it  boils  we  take  the  potatoes  out  of  the 
water  (N.B. — This  is  called  par-boiling  potatoes),  we  peel 
them,  and  cut  them  in  slices  with  a  sharp  knife. 

6.  We  take  one  onion  and  peel  it. 

7.  We  take  two  or  three  sage-leaves  and  put  them  on  a 
board. 

8.  We  chop  up  the  onion  and  sage  together  on  the  board 
with  a  sharp  knife. 

9.  We  take  one  pound  of  pig's  fry  and  cut  it  in  small 
pieces. 

10.  We  take  a  quart  pie-dish  and  grease  the  dish  with 
dripping  or  fat. 

11.  We  put  a  layer  of  sliced  potatoes  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pie-dish. 

12.  We  sprinkle  a  little  of  the  chopped  sage  and  onion% 
pepper  and  salt,  over  the  potatoes. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Pigs  Fry.        129 


13.  We  now  put  a  layer  of  the  pig' 's  fry. 

14.  We  sprinkle  a  little  of  the  chopped  sage  and  o?iion, 
pepper  and  salt,  over  the  pig's  fry. 

15.  Now  we  add  another  layer  of  sliced  potatoes,  and 
sprinkle  them  with  a  little  of  the  chopped  sage  and  onion, 
pepper  and  salt. 

16.  We  put  in  another  layer  of  pig's  fry,  and  sprinkle 
the  remainder  of  the  chopped  sage  and  onion,  and  a  little 
pepper  and  salt  on  the  top. 

17.  We  cover  these  layers  with  the  rest  of  the  sliced 
potatoes. 

18.  We  now  fill  up  the  pie-dish  with  water  for  gravy. 

19.  We  take  the  skin  usually  sent  with  the  pig's  fry  and 
put  it  over  the  top  of  the  pie-dish. 

20.  If  the  skin  be  not  sent  we  must  take  a  piece  of  whitey- 
brown  paper  and  grease  it  with  some  dripping  or  fat,  and 
put  that  over  the  pie-dish  instead. 

21.  We  put  the  pie-dish  into  a  moderate  oven  to  bake 
for  from  three  quarters  of  an  hour  to  one  hour.  After  that 
time  it  is  ready  for  serving. 


130      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 
PORK    PIE. 

Average  cost  of  "Pork  Pie'  (1  lb.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

\  lb.  lard    o  3 

1  lb.  pork  (either  loin  or  leg) o  10 

Seasoning o  o\ 

1  lb.  of  flour , o  2 

1  egg o  1 

,'    4* 
Time  required  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Pork  Pie. 

1.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  cold  water  into  rather  a  large  saucepan. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

N.B. — We  must  watch  it,  as  if  it  boils  over  it  will  catch  fire. 

3.  We  take  one  pound  of  lean  pork  (cut  either  from  the  loin 
or  from  the  leg),  put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  up  in  pieces 
of  about  one  inch  square. 

4.  We  put  one  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin. 

5.  When  the  lard  and  water  are  quite  boiling,  we  pour 
them  into  the  middle  of  the  flour  and  mix  them  well  with 
a  spoon. 

6.  When  the  paste  is  cool  enough  we  should  knead  it  well 
with  our  hands. 

N.B. — More  water  must  not  be  added,  as  the  paste  is  required   to  be 
rather  stiff. 

7.  We  take  the  paste  out  of  the  basin,  and  put  it  on  a 
floured  board. 

8.  We  cut  off  a  quarter  of  the  paste,  and  the  remainder 
we  mould  into  the  shape  of  a  basin,  pressing  it  inside  with 
one  hand  and  supporting  it  outside  with  the  other. 

9.  We  should  shape  it  as  evenly  as  possible,  and  it  should 
be  about  one-third  of  an  inch  in  thickness  all  round. 

10.  We  should  take  a  knife,  flour  it,  and  cut  the  top  of 
the  shape  level  all  round. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Pork  Pie.       131 

11.  We  dip  the  pieces  of  pork  into  cold  water,  then  season 
them  well  with  pepper  and  salt. 

12.  We  should  put  these  pieces  inside  the  mould  of  paste 
as  close  together  as  possible. 

N.B. — The  pie  can  be  flavoured,  if  liked,  with  chopped  sage,  about  a  tea- 
spoonful  sprinkled  well  amongst  the  pieces  of  pork. 

13.  We  take  the  remainder  of  the  paste  and  roll  it  out 
(with  a  floured  rolling  pin),  and  cut  it  to  the  size  of  the  top 
of  the  mould  and  to  about  the  thickness  of  one-third  of  an 
inch. 

14.  We  take  an  egg  and  break  it  into  two  cups,  dividing 
the  yolk  from  the  white. 

15.  We  take  a  paste  brush,  dip  it  into  the  white  of  egg, 
and  egg  the  edge  of  the  mould  of  paste. 

16.  We  take  the  piece  of  paste  and  put  it  over  the  top  of 
the  pie,  pressing  the  edges  together  with  our  thumb. 

17.  We  cut  little  leaves  out  of  the  remaining  paste,  dip 
them  in  the  white  of  the  egg,  and  stick  them  on  the  top  of 
the  pie. 

18.  We  wet  the/zV  all  over  with  the  yolk  of  egg. 

19.  We  put  the  pie  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  two 
hours.     After  that  time  it  is  ready  for  serving. 


1 5  2      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


SEA   PIE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Sea  Pie  "  (about  two  quarts). 

INGREDIENTS 

s.  d. 

2  lbs.  of  buttock  steak  at  rod i  8 

2  onions o  i 

i  small  carrot    )  , 

Pepper  and  salt     )      °  °2 

fib.  of  flour o  \\ 

\  lb.  of  suet    )  ± 

i  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder    j      °  2- 


2       I 


Time  ?-equired  about  two  hours. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Sea  Pie. 

1.  We  put  two  pounds  of  buttock  steak  on  a  board,  and 
cut  it  in  slices  with  a  sharp  knife. 

2.  We  take  two  onions,  peel  them,  and  slice  them  as 
thinly  as  possible. 

3.  We  take  a  small  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean  with 
a  knife,  and  cut  it  in  thin  slices. 

4.  We  season  the  slices  of  meat  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste. 

5.  We  put  the  slices  of  meat  in  layers  in  a  two  quart 
saucepan,  sprinkling  a  little  of  the  sliced  vegetables  on  each 
layer  of  the  meat. 

6.  We  pour  in  enough  cold  water  just  to  cover  the  meat. 

7.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  just  bring  it  to  the 
boil,  and  then  move  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer. 

N.B. — During  this  time  we  make  the  crust. 

8.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet,  put  it  on  a  board, 
cut  away  all  the  skin,  and  chop  it  up  as  finely  as  possible. 

9.  We  should  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  suet,  to 
prevent  it  sticking  to  the  board  or  knife. 

10.  We  put  three  qicarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  hAo  a  basin, 


Lessons  on   Cooking  Meat. — Sea   Pie.        133 


and  mix  into  it  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoonfnl 
of  baking  powder. 

11.  We  now  put  in  the  chopped  suet  and  rub  it  well  into 
the  flour  with  our  hands. 

12.  We  add  sufficient  cold  water  to  mix  it  into  a  stiff 
paste. 

13.  We  flour  a  bocrd  and  turn  the  paste  out  on  it. 

14.  We  take  a  rolling-pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the  paste 
to  the  size  of  the  saucepan. 

15.  This  quantity  of  paste  will  roll  out  to  the  size  of  a 
two  quart  saucepan,  so  that  if  a  smaller  saucepan  is  used 
less  paste  will  be  required. 

16.  We  put  this  paste  over  the  meat  in  the  saucepan,  and 
let  it  simmer  gently  for  one  hour  and  a  half. 

N.B. — The  lid  should  be  on  the  saucepan. 

17.  We  must  watch  it,  and  be  careful  to  pass  a  knife 
round  the  sides  of  the  saucepan,  or  the  paste  will  stick. 

N.B. — Sailors  add  sliced  potatoes  to  the  pie  when  they  can  get  them. 

18.  For  serving,  we  carefully  remove  the  crust,  turn  the 
meat,  vegetables,  and  gravy  on  to  a  hot  dish,  and  place  the 
crust  over  it. 


r34     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


BOILED    PIG'S    HEAD    (salted)    WITH 
ONION    SAUCE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Pig's  Head"  $d.  or  6d. per  lb. 


NGREDIENTS. 


For  "  Brawn." 

s.   d. 

\  a  pig's  head    i     3 

40  peppercorns \ 

2  blades  of  mace r 

4  cloves I     °     1 

12  allspice ) 

A  bunch  of  herbs ) 

2  large  onions    J      °    I 


For  "  Onion  Sauce." 

d. 

3  onions 1^ 

3  gills  of  milk    \\ 

1  oz.  of  flour o\ 

\  oz.  of  butter  )  , 

Pepper  and  salt    j  °* 


3* 


Time  required  [after  salting)  for  boiling  pig 's  head  about  two  hours  ;  for  making 
into  brawn,  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  boil  Pig^s  Head. 

1.  We  take  %.pig*s  head,  wash  it  thoroughly  in  plenty  of 
tepid  water. 

2.  We  take  out  the  brains  and  throw  them  away. 

3.  We  cut  out  the  little  veins  and  all  the  splinters  of  bone. 

4.  We  wash  the  head  in  all  parts  with  plenty  of  salt, 
thoroughly  cleansing  it  from  blood. 

5.  We  lay  the  head  in  pickle  (see  Pickle  for  Meat)  for 
three  days. 

6.  When  the  head  is  salted,  we  put  it  into  a  saucepan 
with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it. 

7.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

8.  When  it  boils  we  draw  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the 
fire,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  from  one  hour  and  a  half 
to  two  hours,  according  to  the  size  and  age  of  the  pig. 

N.B. — Boiled  pig's  head  is  eaten  with  boiled  rabbit,  or  with  veal,  or  with 
onion  sauce. 

N.B. — If  preferred  the  pig's  head  can  be  made  into  brawn  (see  below). 

For  making  Onion  Sauce, 

9.  We  take  three  or  four  onions,  peel  them,  and  cut  then* 
in  quarters. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Pig's  Head.      135 

10.  We  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  water  enough  to 
cover  them. 

11.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil  until  the 
onions  are  quite  tender. 

12.  We  then  strain  them  off,  throw  the  water  away,  put 
the  onions  on  a  board,  and  chop  them  up  small. 

13.  We  throw  the  onions  into  a  saucepan  with  three  gills 
(one  gill  is  a  quarter  of  a  pint)  of  milk,  put  it  on  the  fire, 
and  let  it  come  to  the  boil. 

14.  We  put  one  ounce  of  flour  into  a  basin  and  mix  it 
with  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  paste  with  a  knife. 

15.  We  stir  this  paste  smoothly  into  the  boiling  milk  and 
onions,  and  continue  to  stir  it  until  it  boils. 

16.  We  season  the  sauce  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  then  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep 
warm  till  required  for  use. 

17.  We  take  a  grater  and  grate  some  bread  crumbs  on  to 
a  plate. 

18.  We  put  the  plate  in  the  oven  or  in  a  Dutch  oven  to 
brown  the  bread  crumbs. 

19.  When  the  pig  s  head  is  sufficiently  boiled  we  take  it 
out  of  the  saucepan  and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish. 

20.  We  take  out  the  tongue,  skin  it,  and  put  it  back  on 
the  dish  with  the  head. 

21.  We  sprinkle  the  browned  bread  crumbs  over  the  pig's 
head,  and  pour  the  onion  sauce  round  it,  or,  if  preferred,  it 
may  be  served  separately  in  a  sauce  boat. 


For  making  the  pig's  head  into  Brawn. 

1.  We  salt  and  boil  the  pig's  head  in  the  same  way  as 
above  from  Note  1  to  Note  8. 

2.  When  the  pigs  head  is  sufficiently  boiled  we  take  it 
out  of  the  saucepan  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

3.  We  cut  all  the  meat  off  the  bones,  and  cut  it  into 
small  pieces  the  shape  of  dice  ;  we  also  cut  up  the  ear  and 
the  tongue  (the  tongue  should  be  previously  skinned). 


6      National  Training  School  for  Cookery 


4.  We  put  the  bones  back  into  the  saucepan  with  a  quart 
of  the  liquor  (in  which  the  head  was  boiled) ,  forty  pepper- 
corns, two  blades  of  mace,  four  cloves,  and  twelve  allspice. 

5.  We  also  add  a  bunch  of  herbs,  namely,  a  sprig  oj 
marjoram,  thyme,  and  two  bay  leaves  tied  tightly  together. 

6.  We  take  tivo  onions,  peel  them,  cut  them  in  quarters, 
and  put  them  into  the  saucepan. 

7.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  let  it  come  to 
the  boil,  we  should  remove  the  lid  and  let  the  liquor  reduce 
for  about  half  an  hour. 

8.  After  that  time  we  strain  the  liquor  into  a  basin. 

9.  We  pour  one  pint  and  a  half  of  the  strained  liquor  back 
into  the  saucepan  and  put  it  on  the  fire. 

10.  We  now  put  the  pieces  of  meat  into  the  liquor,  season 
it  with  pepper  (and  salt  if  necessary)  to  taste,  and  let  it  come 
to  the  boil. 

11.  We  take  a  basin  or  tin  mould,  rinse  it  in  cold  water. 

12.  We  then  pour  the  meat  and  the  liquor  together  into 
the  wet  basin  or  tin,  and  stand  it  aside  to  get  cold  and  set. 

13.  For  serving  we  turn  the  brawn  out  of  the  basin  on 
to  a  dish. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Sheep's  Head.    137 


SHEEP'S   HEAD. 

Average  cost  of  "  S  keeps  Head}'  consisting  of  I  quart  of 
broth  and  I  dish  of  boiled  sheep s  head,  with  vegetables 
or  Browned  sheep's  head. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d 

1  sheep's  head   i  o 

Salt ) 

1  oz.  of  rice     >      o  o\ 

4  peppercorns    ) 

2  turnips o  i 

1  carrot o  o^ 

1  onion    o  o| 

\  small  head  of  celery o  2 

1  sprig  of  thyme    )  , 

2  sprigs  of  parsley     J 

Toasted  crusts  of  bread o  o\ 

£  oz.  of  flour o  o^ 

z  oz.  clarified  dripping  or  \  oz.  butter o  o\ 

Time  required  [after  the  sheep's  head  has  been  soaked  for  2  hours),  one  and  a  half  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Sheep s  Head. 

1.  We  take  a  sheep s  head  (which  has  been  previously 
chopped  half  way  through  by  the  butcher)  and  put  it  in  a 
basin  of  warm  water,  with  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt. 

2.  We  should  wash  the  head  thoroughly,  carefully  re- 
moving the  brains  (which  should  be  put  aside)  and  all  the 
splinters  of  the  bones. 

N.B. — If  this  be  not  thoroughly  done,  the  sheep's  head  will  be  spoiled. 

3.  We  now  put  the  sheep s  head  in  a  basin  of  salt  and 
water,  to  soak  for  two  hours. 

4.  After  the  head  has  been  soaked,  we  take  it  out  of  the 
water,  and  carefully  cut  the  tongue  out  with  a  knife. 

5.  We  tie  the  head  together  with  a  piece  of  string,  to 
keep  it  in  shape. 

6.  We  put  the  head  and  the  tongue  in  a  large  saucepan. 

7.  We  pour  in  sufficient  lukewarm  water  to  cover  the 
head. 


138     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

8.  We  add  a  good  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  ^.peppercorns. 

N.B. — If  liked,  one  ounce  of  pearl  barley,  previously  washed,  may  be  now 
added. 

9.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  very 
gently  for  1  hour. 

10.  We  must  watch  it  and  skim  it  occasionally  with  a 
spoon,  removing  as  much  of  the  fat  as  possible. 

11.  We  take  two  turnips,  wash  them  in  cold  water,  peel 
them,  and  cut  them  in  quarters  with  a  sharp  knife. 

12.  We  take  a  carrot,  scrape  it  clean  with  a  knife,  and 
cut  it  in  pieces. 

13.  We  take  a  good-sized  onion,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in 

quarters. 

14.  We  take  half  a  small  head  of  celery,  and  two  sprigs  of 
parsley,  and  wash  them  in  cold  water. 

15.  When  the  sheep's  head  has  boiled  for  an  houri  we 
should  add  all  these  vegetables. 

16.  We  take  one  ounce  of  rice,  wash  it  well  in  cold  water, 
and  add  it  to  the  saucepan. 

17.  We  also  add  one  sprig  of  thyme. 

18.  We  now  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  one  hour  and  a  half 

N.B. —The  lid  should  be  on  the  saucepan. 

19.  Half  an  hour  before  the  sheep's  head  is  finished,  we 
wash  the  brains  well  in  cold  water  (removing  all  the  skin). 

20.  We  tie  the  brains  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin  and  put 
them  in  the  saucepan  with  the  head,  to  boil  for  ten  minutes. 

21.  We  put  one  ounce  of  clarified  dripping,  or  half  an  ounce 
of  butter,  into  a  small  saucepan. 

22.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  melt  the  drip- 
ping, and  then  add  half  an  ounce  of  flour  and  mix  them  well 
together  with  a  spoon. 

23.  We  take  one  gill  (a  quarter  of  a  pint)  of  broth  from  the 
saucepan  in  which  the  head  is  boiling,  and  add  it  by  degrees 
to  the  sauce,  stirring  it  as  smoothly  as  possible  until  it  boils 
and  thickens. 

24.  We  now  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat, — Sheep's  Head.   139 

25.  When  the  brains  have  boiled  for  ten  minutes  we  take 
them  out  of  the  saucepan,  take  them  out  of  the  muslin,  and 
chop  them  up  in  small  pieces  with  a  knife. 

26.  We  add  the  brains  to  the  sauce. 

27.  When  the  sheep's  head  is  sufficiently  cooked  we  take 
it  out  of  the  saucepan,  cut  away  the  string,  and  place  it  on 
a  warm  dish. 

28.  We  take  the  tongue,  skin  it  carefully,  and  place  it  on 
the  same  dish. 

29.  We  take  out  the  turnips,  put  them  in  a  basin,  and 
mash  them  with  a  fork. 

30.  We  take  out  the  carrot  and  arrange  it  alternately 
with  the  mashed  turnips  round  the  sheep's  head. 

31.  We  take  the  brain  sauce  and  pour  it  over  the  sheep's 
head. 

32.  We  should  pour  the  broth  carefully  into  a  basin, 
without  the  bread  or  vegetables. 

N.B. — Bread  or  vegetables  should  never  be  kept  in  broth,  as  they  would  turn 
it  sour. 

33.  We  put  the  basin  of  broth  away  until  required  for 
use. 

N.B. — All  the  fat  should  be  removed  from  the  broth  before  it  is  used. 

N.B. — When  the  broth  is  required  for  use,  a  few  toasted  crusts  of  bread 
might  be  added,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

N.B. — The  fat  from  the  broth  should  be  melted  down  into  dripping. 


N.B. — If  the  sheep's  head  be  preferred  browned. 

1.  We  proceed  as  above  (see  from  Note  1  to  Note  17). 

2.  We  then  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  one  hour, 

N.B. — The  lid  should  be  on  the  saucepan. 

3.  We  take  a  piece  of  stale  bread  and  grate  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  bread  crumbs  with  a  grater. 

4.  We  mix  with  these  crumbs  a  teaspoonful  of  parsley, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  herbs,  chopped  up  finely. 

6.  When  the  head  has  simmered  for  one  hour,  we  take  it 
out  of  the  saucepan. 


140     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

6.  We  cut  away  the  string  round  it,  and  lay  it  on  a  dish. 

7.  We  sprinkle  the  bread  crumbs  and  herbs  over  the 
head,  and  put  a  few  tiny  pieces  of  dripping  on  it. 

8.  We  put  the  dish  in  the  oven,  or  in  front  of  the  fire,  for 
ten  to  fifteen  minutes  ;  it  will  be  then  ready  for  serving. 

9.  We  take  the  brains  and  wash  them  well  in  cold 
water  (removing  all  the  skin). 

10.  We  tie  the  brains  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin  and  put 
them  in  the  saucepan  of  broth  (in  which  the  sheep's  head  was 
boiled)  to  boil  for  ten  minutes. 

N.B. — For  serving,  the  tongue  should  be  skinned  as  above,  and  served 
separately  with  the  brain  sauce  (see  above  from  Note  21  to  Note  27). 

11.  We  proceed  with  the  broth  the  same  as  above,  from 
Note  32. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Grilled  SteaR.     141 


A    GRILLED    STEAK. 

Average  cost  of  — "  Grilled  Steak." 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb  rump  steak » 8 

Lemon,  salt,  and  parsley    1 

Rutter  and  salad  oil 1 

10 

Time  required,  about  ten  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Grill  a  Steak  (either  beef 
or  rump  steak  will  do,  but  the  latter  is  more  tender). 

1.  We  take  a  small  bunch  of  parsley,  wash  it.  dry  it  well 
in  a  cloth,  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  must  chop  the  parsley  up  very  fine  with  a  knife. 

3.  We  take  a  qitarter  of  an  ounce  of  butter  and  mix  it 
well  with  the  chopped  parsley. 

4.  We  sprinkle  over  it  pepper  and  salt  (according  to 
taste),  and  six  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

5.  We  make  it  all  up  into  a  small  pat. 

6.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  rump  steak ,  half  an  inch  in 
thickness. 

7.  We  pour  about  a  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil  on  to  a  plate. 

8.  We  dip  both  sides  of  the  steak  into  the  oil. 

9.  We  take  a  gridiron  and  warm  it  well  by  the  fire. 

10.  We  place  the  oiled  steak  on  the  gridiron,  and  hang  it 
on  the  bars  of  the  stove  close  to  the  fire  to  cook  quickly. 

N.B. — If  the  meat  is  at  all  frozen  it  must  be  warmed  gradually  through, 
before  putting  it  quite  near  the  fire,  or  it  will  be  tough. 

11.  WTe  must  turn  the  gridiron  with  the  steak  occa- 
sionally ;  it  will  take  from  ten  to  twelve  minutes,  according 
to  the  brightness  and  heat  of  the  fire. 

12.  When  the  steak  is  sufficiently  cooked,  we  must  place 
it  on  a  hot  dish  ;  and  we  should  be  careful  not   to  stick 


*42     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

the  fork  into  the  meat  (or  the  gravy  will  run  out,  but  into 
the  fat). 

13.  We  take  the  pat  of  green  butter  and  put  it  on  the 
steak,  spreading  it  all  over  with  a  knife.  It  is  now  ready 
for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Stewed  Steak.      143 
STEWED    STEAK. 

Average  cost  for  "  Stewing  a  Steak!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  lb.  of  rump  steak 1  4 

1  carrot o  o\ 

1  turnip o  o^ 

2  onions o  1 

\  oz.  of  butter  o  ok 

%  oz.  of  flour I  , 

Pepper  and  salt     j  * 

1  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup     ....     o  ok 


1     7\ 
Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Stew  a  Steak  (either  beef 
or  rump  steak  will  do,  the  latter  is  more  tender). 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  rump  steak,  one  and  a  half  inch 
in  thickness,  and  put  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  cut  off  all  the  skin,  and  fat  from  the  steak. 

3.  We  take  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  and  wash  them  well  in 
cold  water. 

4.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  scrape  the  carrot  clean,  and 
cut  it  up  to  the  shape  of  dice. 

5.  We  take  the  turnip,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  up  to  the  shape 
of  dice. 

6.  We  take  two  small  onions,  peel  them,  and  cut  them 
in  quarters. 

7.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  put  it  on 
the  fire,  and  when  the  butter  is  melted,  we  put  the  steak  in 
it  to  fry  brown  on  both  sides. 

8.  We  put  the  onion,  the  carrot,  and  turnip,  into  the 
stewpan  with  the  steak. 

9.  We  take  a  basin  and  put  in  it  half  an  ounce  of  flour, 
half  a  teaspoonfid  of  salt,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and 
mix  them  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

10.  We  stir  in  gradually  half  a  pint  of  water. 


1 44      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

11.  We  pour  this  sauce  into  the  stewpan,  with  the  steak 
and  vegetables,  and  stir  all  together  until  it  boils  and 
thickens. 

12.  We  let  it  gently  simmer  one  hour. 

13.  We  take  the  fat  which  we  have  cut  off  the  steak,  and 
cut  it  into  small  pieces. 

14.  We  put  the  pieces  of  fat  on  a  tin  dish. 

15.  We  put  the  fat  in  the  oven  to  cook  till  brown. 

N.B. — It  is  better  for  stewed  steak,  to  cook  the  fat  separately,  as  it   keeps 
the  gravy  of  the  steak  free  from  grease. 

16.  When  the  steak  is  sufficiently  stewed,  we  must  put 
it  on  a  hot  dish,  put  the  vegetables  round,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over ;  we  take  the  tin  dish  out  of  the  oven,  and  place 
the  pieces  of  fat  about  on  the  steak.  It  is  now  ready  for 
serving. 

N.B. — If  liked,  for  serving  the  steak  might  be  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  about 
the  size  of  a  veal  cutlet,  and  the  vegetables  arranged  on  eacli  piece  of 
steak,  or  in  the  centre. 
About  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  sprinkled   over   the  top    is  an 
improvement  to  the  taste  and  look. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Toad  in  the  Hole.     145 
TOAD   IN   THE   HOLE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Toad  in  the  Hole!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

\  lb.  of  flour o  1 

2  eggs o  2 

1  pint  of  milk    o  2^ 

i|  lbs.  of  meat  (either  beef  or  mutton)     . .  ) 

Seasoning  }  l  ° 

HI 

Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  three  quarters. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Toad  in  the  Hole. 

1.  We  put  eight  ounces  of  flour  into  a  basin,  with  half  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt. 

2.  We  break  two  eggs  into  thefloitr,  and  stir  in  smoothly, 
and  by  degrees,  one  pint  of  milk. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  it  is  not  lumpy. 

3.  We  should  beat  it  up  as  much  as  possible,  as  it  will 
make  the  batter  lighter. 

4.  We  take  one  pound  of  meat,  put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut 
it  in  neat  pieces. 

N.B. — Buttock  steak,  beef  skirt,  or  any  pieces  of  mutton  might  be  used ;  for 
instance,  the  short  bones  from  the  neck  of  mutton.  Sausages  or  cold  meat 
might  very  well  be  used. 

5.  We  take  a  pie  dish  or  a  tin  and  grease  it  inside  with 
clarified  dripping. 

6.  We  season  the  pieces  of  meat  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  place  them  in  the  greased  dish. 

7.  We  pour  the  batter  over  the  meaty  and  put  the  dish  in 
the  oven  to  bake  for  one  hour. 

8.  After  that  time  it  is  ready  for  serving. 


146     National  Training  ScJiool  for  Cookery. 


BUBBLE    AND    SQUEAK. 

Average  cost  of  "  Bubble  and  Squeak." 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.   d. 

1  lb.  of  boiled  salt  beef,  or  pork  o  10 \ 

1  cabbage o    2 


1     o\ 
Time  required,  about  half-an-hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Bubble  and  Squeak. 

1.  We  take  a  cabbage,  and  wash  it  well  in  salt  and  water. 

2.  We  put  a  saucepan  of  water  on  the  fire  to  boil,  we 
add  a  tablespoon/id  of  salt,  and  a  tiny  piece  of  common  soda, 
about  the  size  of  a  pea. 

3.  When  the  water  boils,  we  put  in  the  cabbage,  and  let 
it  boil  for  about  twenty  minutes.  We  should  feel  the  stalk 
with  a  fork  to  see  if  it  is  tender,  and  then  drain  off  all  the 
water,  and  put  the  cabbage  on  a  plate. 

N.B. — Any  remains  of  cold  boiled  cabbage  could  be  used  instead  of  boiling 
a  fresh  one. 

4.  We  cut  some  thin  slices  of  cold  salt  beef,  and  a  little 
of  the  fat,  and  put  them  in  a  frying  pan. 

5.  We  put  the  pan  over  the  fire,  and  fry  the  meat  a  light 
brown.  We  must  turn  the  slices  occasionally,  and  not  let 
them  burn. 

6.  We  arrange  the  slices  in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish, 
cover  the  dish,  and  stand  it  in  the  oven  to  keep  warm. 

7.  We  take  the  boiled  cabbage,  put  it  on  a  board,  chop  it 
up  in  small  pieces,  and  put  it  in  the  frying  pan  to  fry,  a  few 
minutes.  We  must  stir  it,  and  not  let  it  burn,  or  stick  to 
the  pan. 

N.B. — If  there  are  any  remains  of  cold  boiled  carrots  or  parsnips,  they  could 
be  chopped  up  and  warmed  in  a  saucepan  with  about  §  oz.  of  clarified 
dripping. 

8.  For  serving,  we  put  the  fried  cabbage,  and  carrots  or 
parsnips  round  the  dish,  and  the  slices  of  meat  in  the  centre. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Mutton  Broth.      14? 
MUTTON    BROTH. 

Average  cost  of '"  Mutton  Broth"  {about  five  pints). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 
3  lbs.  of  the  scrag  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton, 

xod.  per  lb 2  6 

2  oz.  of  pearl  barley  or  rice o  o^ 

I  turnip   o  oh 

1  onion o  ok 


2  leeks . . o     1 

1  carrot  o    oh, 

1  teaspoonful  of  parsley )  ^ 

Salt  and  pepper    J  % 

2    9z 

Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Mutton  Broth. 

1.  We  take  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley,  wash  it  well,  and 
put  it  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  to  soak. 

2.  We  put  three  pounds  of  the  scrag  end  of  the  neck  of 
mutton  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  up  in  joints. 

3.  We  wash  the  pieces  of  mutton  in  cold  water,  and  then 
put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  put 
the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  comes  to  the  boil, 
skim  it  well,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  (which  will 
encourage  the  scum  to  rise),  skim  it  again,  and  move  it  to 
the  side  of  the  fire,  to  simmer  gently  for  one  hour  and  a 
half ;  we  must  watch  it,  and  skim  it  occasionally. 

4.  We  take  a  turnip  and  an  onion,  wash  them,  and  peel 
them. 

5.  We  take  a  carrot,  wash  it,  and  scrape  it. 

6.  We  take  two  leeks,  cut  off  the  tops  of  the  green  leaves, 
and  wash  them  well. 

7.  We  cut  up  all  the  vegetables  to  the  shape  of  dice. 

8.  When  the  mutton  has  simmered  long  enough,  we 
tstrain  off  the  liquor  into  a  basin,  and  take  the  mutton,  and 

cut  up  all  the  meat  into  small  pieces. 


i4§     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  We  return  the  liquor  to  the  saucepan,  add  the  meat, 
vegetables,  the  soaked  barley,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
an  J  put  the  saucepan  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  to  simmer 
gently,  for  about  half  an  hour,  until  the  vegetables  are 
tender. 

10.  We  take  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  wash  it,  and  chop 
up  finely  on  a  board. 

11.  When  the  broth  is  finished,  we  must  skim  off  all  the 
grease,  and  then  add  the  chopped  parsley. 

12.  For  serving,  we  pour  the  broth  into  a  hot  soup  tureen. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Roast  Rabbit  Stuffed.    1 49 
ROAST    RABBIT    STUFFED. 

Average  cost  of  "  Stuffed  Rabbit!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  Rabbit i  g 

£  lb.  of  bread  crumbs o  i 

2  oz.  of  suet ...» o  1 1 

A  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley    \ 

A  teaspoonful  of  chopped  herbs  (marjoram  I 

and  thyme) )  o  zk 

A  little  grated  lemon  rind  and  nutmeg   . . 

Salt  and  pepper    J 

1  egg , o  1 

1  onion  , : . . .  o  oh 

1  shalot o  o^ 

§  pint  of  stock o  3J 

1  oz.  of  flour o  o I 

j  oz.  of  butter  o  1 

2     7! 

Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  three  quarters. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Stuff  and  Roast  a  Rabbit. 

1.  We  take  a  rabbit  (which  has  been  skinned  and  pro- 
perly prepared  for  cooking),  wash  it  well  in  cold  water, 
and  wipe  it  dry  inside. 

2.  We  take  the  rabbi  fs  liver ;  put  it  in  a  small  saucepan, 
and  cover  it  with  water,  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and 
when  it  comes  to  the  boil  we  should  take  out  the  lizer,  and 
put  it  on  a  board. 

N.B. — This  is  called  parboiling  the  liver. 

3.  We  chop  up  the  liver  into  small  pieces. 

4.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  over  the  board,  take  some 
crumb  of  bread,  and  rub  it  through  the  sieve,  there  should 
be  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  breadcrumbs. 

5.  We  put  two  ounces  of  suet  on  the  board,  cut  away 
ithe  skin,  and  chop  it  up  finely. 

6.  We  take  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  marjoramy  and  about 
two  sprigs  of  parsley,  take  away  the  stalks,  and  chop  them 
them  up  finely,  there  should  be  about  a  dessertspoonfid. 

7.  We  put  the  liver,  breadcrumbs,  suet,  and  mixed  herbs 
into  a  basin,  we  also  grate  over  about  half  a  teaspoonful  of 


150     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

lemon  rind  and  nutmeg  (as  much  as  would  cover  one  side 
of  a  3d.  piece),  we  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
add  one  egg,  and  mix  all  well  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

8.  We  fill  the  inside  of  the  rabbit  with  this  stuffing,  and 
sew  it  up  with  string. 

9.  For  trussing  it,  we  place  it  on  a  board,  cut  off  the 
fore  joints  of  the  shoulders  and  legs,  press  the  legs  close 
to  the  body  on  either  side,  and  pass  a  skewer  through  each 
to  secure  them  :  draw  back  the  head  between  the  shoulders, 
and  pass  a  skewer  through  to  keep  it  back. 

10.  We  grease  a  piece  of  paper  with  some  clarified 
dripping  or  butter,  and  wrap  it  round  the  rabbit,  to  prevent 
it  burning ;  we  put  it  on  a  tin  with  about  an  ounce  of 
clarified  dripping. 

11.  We  put  the  tin  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  about  one 
hour;  we  must  watch  it  frequently  and  baste  it  well;  a 
few  minutes  before  it  is  done,  we  should  remove  the 
buttered  paper,  and  sprinkle  over  the  rabbit  about  a 
quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  baste  it  well. 

12.  While  the  rabbit  is  baking  we  should  make  the 
sauce :  we  take  one  small  onion  and  a  shalot,  peel  them,  cut 
them  in  slices,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  one  ounce 
of  butter. 

13.  We  put  the  pan  over  the  fire,  and  let  the  onion  fry 
for  about  three  minutes  ;  it  must  not  burn. 

14.  We  now  add  07ie  ounce  of  flour,  and  stir  it  well  ;  we 
pour  in  half  a  pint  of  stock,  and  stir  well  till  it  boils  and 
thickens ;  we  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and 
move  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep  warm. 

N.B. — If  mushrooms  can  be  obtained  they  would  improve  the  sauce:  about 
six  would  be  wanted,  well  washed,  peeled,  and  cut  in  quarters,  added 
to  the  sauce,  and  stewed  in  it  gently  for  ten  minutes. 

15.  For  serving,  we  take  the  rabbit  out  of  the  oven, 
place  it  on  a  hot  dish,  carefully  remove  the  skewers,  and 
pour  the  sauce  through  a  strainer  over  the  rabbit. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Liver  and  Sacon.  i0s 
LIVER  AND   BACON. 

Average  cost  of  "  Liver  and  Bacon" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

2  lbs.  sheep's  or  calf's  liver i    4 

1  lb.  bacon 1     o 

1  dessertspoonful  of  flour    j 

Pepper  and  salt    ,      o    o| 

1  small  onion ; 

JLil 
Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Liver  and  Bacon. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  bacon,  put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut 
it  in  thin  slices. 

2.  We  cut  the  rind  off  each  slice  of  bacon. 

3.  We  put  these  slices  of  bacon  into  a  frying-pan. 

4.  We  put  the  frying-pan  on  the  fire  to  fry  the  bacon. 
It  will  take  about  ten  minutes. 

N.B. — If  the  bacon  is  not  very  fat,  we  must  put  a  small  piece  of  dripping  in 
the  frying-pan  with  the  bacon. 

5.  We  should  turn  it  when  one  side  is  fried. 

6.  We  now  take  two  pounds  of  sheep's  or  calf's  liver,  put 
it  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

7.  We  put  about  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour  on  a  plate. 

8.  We  dip  the  slices  of  liver  into  the  flour,  and  flour 
them  well  on  both  sides. 

9.  When  the  bacon  is  fried  we  take  it  out  of  the  frying- 
pan  and  put  it  on  a  warm  dish. 

10.  We  stand  the  dish  near  the  fire  to  keep  warm. 

11.  We  put  the  slices  of  liver  in  the  frying-pan,  a  few  at 
a  time,  as  they  must  not  be  on  the  top  of  each  other. 

N.B. — If  the  flavour  of  onion  is  liked,  a  small  onion,  peeled,  and  cut  in  slices, 
might  be  fried  with  the  liver. 

12.  The  liver  will  take  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  fry. 

13.  We  should  watch  it  occasionally,  and  turn  it  once. 

14.  To  see   when   the   liver  is   sufficiently   cooked    we 


152      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

should  cut  a  slice  ;    the  inside  should  be  of  a  brownish 

colour. 

15.  When  the  liver  is  all  cooked  we  should  place  it  on 
the  dish  with  the  bacon. 

16.  We  put  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour  in  a  cup,  and  mix  it 
into  a  smooth  paste  with  nearly  a  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint)  of 
water. 

17.  We  pour  the  flour  and  water  into  the  frying-pan  and 
stir  it  until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

18.  We  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  pour  this  sauce 
over  the  liver  and  bacon.     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Brain  Cakes.      153 
BRAIN    CAKES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Brain  Cakes  "  (about  6  cakes). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
Calf  s  or  sheep's  brains  (about  5  ozs. )    3 

1  oz.  of  flour o^ 

\  oz.  of  butter o| 

Pepper  and  salt J 

\  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley    f      i 

Nutmeg    I 

2  sage  leaves    J 

2  eggs    I      2» 

3  oz.  of  bread  crumbs    j        i 


Time  required,  about  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Brain  Cakes. 

1.  We  take  the  brains,  wash  them  well  in  cold  water,  to 
remove  all  impurities,  then  put  them  in  a  stewpan,  cover 
them  with  cold  water,  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
two  sage  leaves. 

2.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  comes 
to  the  boil,  we  should  skim  it  well,  and  move  it  rather  to 
the  side  of  the  fire,  to  boil  gently  for  ten  minutes. 

3.  After  that  time,  we  turn  the  brains  on  to  a  plate,  and 
when  quite  cold,  we  should  cut  them  up  in  small  pieces. 

4.  We  take  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  wash  it,  dry  it,  and 
chop  it  up  finely  on  a  board  ;  there  should  be  about  half 
a  teaspoonful. 

5.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  over  a  plate,  take  some  crumb 
of  bread  and  rub  it  through  the  sieve  ;  there  should  be 
about  three  ounces  of  bread-crumbs. 

6.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  put  it 
over  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  melted,  stir  in  one  ounce  of 
flour  \  we  also  add  one  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint)  of  cold  water, 
and  half  a  teaspoon] cid  of chopped  parsley  ;  we  stir  it  all  over 

t   the  fire,  until  it  boils,  and  thickens. 

7.  We  now  add  two  ounces  of  bread-crumbs,  and  the 
brains ;  and    take  a  grater   and  a  nutmeg,  and  give  tivo 


154     National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

grates  of  the  nutmeg  over  the  sauce  ;  add  pepper,  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  mix  all  well  together. 

8.  We  take  an  egg,  break  it,  put  the  white  in  a  cup  (it 
is  not  required  for  present  use),  and  add  the  yolk  to  the 
sauce,  and  stir  well  over  the  fire  till  cooked  ;  it  will  take 
about  five  minutes. 

9.  We  must  then  turn  the  mixture  on  to  a  plate,  and 
stand  it  aside  to  cool. 

10.  We  put  one  pound  of  clarified  dripping  or  lard  into 
a  deep  stewpan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  heat :  we  must 
be  careful  it  does  not  burn. 

11.  When  the  mixture  is  quite  cold,  we  divide  it  into 
pieces  of  equal  size,  and  form  them  into  cakes  ;  we  must 
sprinkle  some  flour  over  them,  to  prevent  them  from 
sticking. 

12.  We  break  an  egg  on  to  a  plate,  and  beat  it  up  slightly 
with  a  knife. 

13.  We  dip  the  cakes  into  the  egg,  and  egg  them  well 
all  over  with  a  paste-brush. 

14.  We  take  the  rest  of  the  bread-crumbs,  and  cover  the 
cakes  well  all  over  with  them. 

15.  We  take  a  frying  basket,  and  arrange  the  cakes  in 
it ;  we  must  finger  them  as  little  as  possible,  and  not  allow 
them  to  touch  each  other. 

16.  When  the  fat  is  quite  hot,  and  smoking  (we  should 
test  the  heat  of  it  by  throwing  in  a  piece  of  bread,  which 
should  fry  brown  directly),  we  put  in  the  frying  basket,  for 
two  minutes  or  so,  to  fry  the  cakes  a  pale  yellow. 

17.  We  put  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  on  a  plate, 
and  as  the  cakes  are  fried,  we  turn  them  on  to  the  paper,  to 
drain  off  the  grease. 

18.  For  serving,  we  arrange  the  cakes  tastily  on  a  hot 
dish,  and,  if  liked,  garnish  them  with  fried parsley  (see  Vege- 
tables, Lesson  No.  4,  note  20). 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Braised  Liver.      155 


BRAISED    LIVER. 

Average  cost  of  "  Braised  Liver?* 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  sheep's  liver 4 

a  oz.  of  fat  bacon   1 1 

1  carrot    o\ 

1  onion,  or  1  doz.  button  onions    1 

Bouquet  garni  {i.e.  sprig  of  thyme,  parsley, 

and  bay  leaf ) 

r  oz.  of  flour   

Salt  and  pepper 

a  oz.  of  butter a 

10 

Time  required,  about  2  hours  and  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  lard  and  braise  liver. 

1.  We  take  two  ounces  of  fat  bacon,  put  it  on  a  board, 
and  cut  it  into  strips  one  inch  long,  and  one  eighth  of  an  inch 
in  width  and  thickness. 

2  We  take  a  larding  needle  with  a  little  strip  of  bacon  in 
it,  and  lard  half  a  pound  of  sheep's  liver  neatly,  in  regular 
rows,  until  one  side  is  entirely  covered  with  strips  of  bacon. 

3.  We  put  two  ounces  of  butter  and  the  larded  liver  into 
a  stewpan,  put  it  over  the  fire,  and  fry  the  liver  brown  ;  we 
must  be  careful  not  to  burn  it. 

4.  We  now  take  out  the  liver,  and  put  it  on  a  plate. 

5.  We  stir  smoothly  into  the  butter,  in  the  stewpan,  one 
ounce  of  flour,  and  pour  in  one  pint  of  stock  or  water,  place 
the  stewpan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  well  till  it  boils  and 
thickens,  then  move  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire. 

6.  We  take  a  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean  with  a  knife, 
and  cut  it  in  half. 

7.  We  take  an  onion  or  one  dozen  button  onions,  wash 
them,  and  peel  them  carefully. 

8.  We  add  these  vegetables,  and  the  liver  to  the  stewpan, 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  to  taste  ;  we  also  add  a 
bouquet  garni,  consisting  of  a  sprig  of  thyme,  parsley,  and  a 
bay  leaf,  tied  tightly  together. 


156     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  We  let  it  all  simmer  gently  for  two  hours. 

10.  After  that  time  we  take  the  liver  out  of  the  stewpan, 
and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  through  a  strainer 
over  the  liver >  and  if  there  are  any  button  onions,  they 
should  be  carefully  taken  out  of  the  strainer,  and  served  in 
the  sauce,  with  the  liver.     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Haricot  Mutton.     157 
HARICOT    MUTTON. 

Average  cost  of  "  Haricot  Mutton? 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

2  lbs.  of  the  scrag  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton  ....  1     4 

2  onions    0     I 

2  carrots O     1 

2  turnips O     J 

1  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup  o       £ 

I  oz.  of  clarified  dripping     J 

1  oz.  of  flour    J  o      I 

Pepper  and  salt ) 

1     jjj 

Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Haricot  Mutton. 

1.  We  take  the  mutton,  wash  it  well,  dry  it,  put  it  on  a 
board,  and  cut  it  up  in  pieces ;  if  it  is  very  fat,  we  must  cut 
the  fat  away. 

N.B. — Any  pieces  of  mutton  can  be  used  instead. 

2.  We  put  the  pieces  of  mutton  in  a  saucepan,  with  one 
ounce  of  dripping,  put  it  over  the  fire,  to  fry  the  mutton  brown ; 
we  must  watch  it,  and  turn  the  pieces,  to  fry  both  sides. 

3.  We  take  two  carrots,  wash  them,  scrape  them  clean 
with  a  knife,  and  cut  them  to  the  shape  of  dice. 

4.  We  take  two  turnips,  and  two  onions,  wash  them,  peel 
them,  and  cut  them  the  same  size  as  the  carrots. 

5.  We  add  these  vegetables  to  the  saucepan,  season  it 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  pour  in  one  pint  and  a  half 
of  cold  water. 

6.  We  put  one  ounce  of  flour  into  a  basin,  and  mix  it  to 
a  smooth  paste,  with  about  a  tablespoonful  of  zvater,  we  stir 
this  paste  into  the  saucepan,  and  stir  well  over  the  fire  till 
it  boils,  we  must  skim  it  well  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
mushroom  ketchup;  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the 
fire,  to  simmer  gently  for  two  hours. 

7.  For  serving,  we  arrange  the  meat  in  a  circle  on  a  hot 
dish,  place  the  vegetables  in  the  centre,  and  pour  the  sauce 
all  over. 


158     National  .Training  School  for  Cookery. 
CALFS-HEAD,    ROLLED    AND    STUFFED- 

Average  cost  of  "  Calf  s-head? 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.     d. 

\  a  calf 's-head     5    o 

3  oz.  of  suet o    2 

7  oz.  of  bread  crumbs    o    2 

1  tablespoonful  of  mixed  herbs  (basil,  mar- 
joram, thyme,  and  parsley) 


xegg 

Cayenne  pepper  and  salt 

1  gill  of  brown  sauce o     3I 

1  gill  of  tomato  sauce    1  iof 

7    8 
Time  required,  about  three  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Calf1  s-head. 

1.  We  put  the  half  head  on  a  board,  take  a  sharp  knife, 
and  commence  from  the  lip,  keep  the  knife  close  to  the  bone, 
and  carefully  remove  the  flesh  in  one  piece.  We  cut  out 
the  tongue  and  the  brains,  and  put  them  aside. 

2.  We  put  the  head  and  bones  in  cold  water,  while  we 
make  the  forcemeat. 

3.  We  take  three  ounces  of  beef  suet,  put  it  on  a  board, 
cut  away  all  skin,  and  chop  it  up  very  finely  with  a  knife. 

4.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  over  a  piece  of  paper,  take  some 
crumb  of  bread  and  rub  it  through  the  sieve.  We  weigh 
out  six  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  the  rest  we  put  aside  for 
further  use. 

5.  We  put  a  small  sprig  of  thyme,  of  basil,  of  marjoram 
and  of  parsley,  on  a  board,  take  away  the  stalks,  and  chop 
the  herbs  up  very  finely.     (There  should  be  a  tablespoonful) 

6.  We  put  the  suet,  bread  crumbs,  and  mixed  herbs  into  a 
basin,  we  also  add  about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon 
rind,  season  it  with  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  break  in  one 
egg,  and  mix  all  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

7.  We  take  the  head  out  of  the  water,  lay  it  on  a  board, 
and  dry  it  with  a  clean  cloth. 

8.  We  now  place  the  forcemeat  in  the  centre  of  the  heads 
roll  it  up  tightly  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  fasten  it  securely  at 
both  ends,  with  a  piece  of  string. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Calfs-head.      159 

9.  We  put  the  rolled  head,  bones,  and  tongue  into  a  large 
saucepan,  and  cover  them  with  cold  water,  we  also  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt. 

10.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  comes 
i  to  the  boil,  we  must  skim  it  carefully  with  a  spoon,  and  then 
;  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  to  simmer  gently 
I  for  two  hours. 

11.  While  the  head  is  cooking  we  should  prepare  the 
i  sauce.  We  want  one  gill  of  brown  sauce  {see  "  Sauces,"  Lesson 
}  No.  2),  and  a  gill  of  Tomato  sauce  {see  "  Sauces,"  Lesson  No.  6). 

N.B. — If  liked,  the  Tomato  Sauce  might  be  omitted. 

12.  We  mix  the  sauces  together,  add  a  few  grains  of 
I  Cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  and  pour  it  into  a  stew- 

|  pan,  put  the  lid  on,  and  stand  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  to 
keep  warm  till  required  for  use. 

13.  Half  an  hour  before  the  head  is  finished,  we  wash  the 
brains  in  cold  water  (removing  all  skin),  and  put  them  into 
the  saucepan  with  the  head,  to  cook  for  ten  minutes. 

14.  We  take  the  remaining  bread  crumbs  and  put  them 
on  a  plate  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  they  do  not  get  burnt. 

15.  We  now  take  the  tongue,  and  brains  out  of  the 
saucepan,  and  cut  them  in  small  pieces. 

16.  We  break  one  egg  on  a  plate,  and  beat  it  slightly. 

17.  We  take  the  rolled  head  out  of  the  saucepan,  take  off 
the  cloth,  and  place  it  in  the  middle  of  a  hot  dish,  egg  it 
over  with  the  egg,  and  then  cover  it  with  the  brozvned  bread 
crumbs. 

18.  We  put  the  tongue  and  brains  round  the  head,  and 
I  pour  the  sauce  round. 

It  is  now  ready  for  serving. 

19.  We  pour  the  stock  through  a  strainer  into  a  basin 
a  and  stand  it  aside  to  get  cold. 

N.B. — This  stock  should  be  used  for  mock  turtle  soup  {see  "  Soups,"  Lesson 
No.  7,  from  paragraph/)  ;  the  remains  of  the  calf  s-head,  after  serving, 
can  be  used  for  the  soup,  the  forcemeat  should  be  removed,  and  can  be 
used  for  the  balls,  and  the  flesh  should  be  cut  up  in  small  pieces  and  put 
in  the  soup. 


160     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


SHEEP'S    TROTTERS. 

Average  cost  of  " Sheep's  Trotters"  with  either  " Piquante 
Sauce"  or  "  White  Sauce" 


INGREDIENTS. 


s.    d. 
i    4 


4  trotters    

i  tablespoonful  of  vinegar , 

i  carrot f 

i  onion   

i  oz.  of  flour    o    o\ 


For  Piquante  Sauce. 

d. 

i  carrot o\ 

i  onion  ok 


i  oz.  butter    i 

|  oz.  of  flour o| 

Pepper  and  salt    1 

I  dessertspoonful  of  Harvey  Sauce 
i  dessertspoonful  of  Mushroom 

Ketchup    

i  tablespoonful  of  vinegar 

|  pint  of  brown  stock 3! 

~7i 


For  White  Sauce. 

1  oz.  butter 

\  oz.  of  flour 

1  gill  of  milk 

Pepper  and  salt    \ 

4  mushrooms  (if  obtainable) . . . .  > 
I  pint  of  stock  from  sheep's  trotters  ) 


d. 

1 

ok 

A 


4k 


Time  required,  abotctfour  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Sheep's  Trotters. 

1.  We  take  the  sheep's  trotters,  wash  them  well  in  a  basin 
of  cold  water  ;  then  put  them  in  a  stewpan,  with  sufficient 
cold  water  to  cover  them,  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and 
when  it  boils,  take  the  stewpan  off,  strain  off  the  water,  and 
put  the  trotters  in  a  basin  of  cold  water. 

N.B.— This  is  to  blanch  them. 

2.  We  wash  the  stewpan  out,  wash  the  trotters  tho- 
roughly, and  then  put  them  back  in  the  stewpan. 

3.  We  take  a  carrot,  wash  it,  and  scrape  it  clean  with  a 
sharp  knife. 

4.  We  take  an  onion,  wash  it,  and  peel  it. 

5.  We  put  one  ounce  of  flour  into  a  basin,  and  mix  it 
smoothly  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Meat. — Sheep's  Trotters.     161 

6.  We  now  put  the  vegetables  into  the  stewpan  with 
the  trotters,  we  also  add  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  two 
quarts  of  water,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  and  stir  in  the 
flour  and  water. 

7.  We  put  the  stewpan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  it  till  it 
just  boils,  then  move  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  to  simmer 
for  four  hours. 

8.  While  the  trotters  are  cooking,  we  should  make  the 
sauce,  either  piquante  sauce,  or  white  sauce,  according  to 
taste.  For  piquante  sauce,  or  white  sauce,  the  above  pro- 
portion of  ingredients  should  be  used,  and  the  sauces  made 
in  the  same  way  as  directed  in  "  Sauces,  Lessons  No.  I  and 
No.  4." 

9.  After  that  time  we  take  the  trotters  carefully  out  of 
the  stewpan,  and  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve 
them  with  the  sauce,  which  can  either  be  poured  over  the 
trotters,  or  served  separately  in  a  sauce-boat,  according  to 
taste. 


1 62      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 
TRUSSING  A   FOWL   FOR   BOILING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "Boiled  Fowl"  and  "Egg  Sauce!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

i  fowl 2    9 

\\  oz.  of  butter o     if 

i  carrot \ 

i  small  onion >  o    i 

A  bouquet  of  herbs ) 

2  eggs o    2 

i  oz.  of  flower  \  L 

%  pint  of  milk    j  °     z2 

Gill  of  cream o    6 


Time  requiredt  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  prepare  a  Fowl,  and  truss 
it  for  boiling. 

1.  We  take  a  fowl  that  has  been  already  plucked,  and 
put  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  prepare  it  and  clean  it  in  the  same  way  as 
described  in  "  Trussing  a  Fowl  for  Roasting,"  from  Note  I 
to  Note  12. 

3.  We  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  off  the  claws,  and  the 
end  of  the  legs  of  the  fowl  to  the  first  joint. 

4.  We  take  a  twist  of  paper  or  taper  and  light  it. 

5.  We  take  the  fowl  up  by  its  legs,  and  hold  the  lighted 
paper  under  it  to  singe  off  the  little  hairs. 

6.  We  then  hold  the  fowl  up  by  its  wings  and  singe  the 
other  end. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  in  singeing  not  to  blacken  or  mark  the  fowl  in 
any  way. 

7.  We  turn  the  fowl  on  its  back  with  the  tail  towards  us. 

8.  We  put  our  hands  through  the  incision  (made  for 
drawing  the  fowl),  and  pass  two  fingers  round  the  inside 
of  the  leg,  so  as  to  loosen  the  outside  skin. 

9.  We  draw  this  outside  skin  right  off  the  legs,  and 
press  the  legs  well  into  the  sides  of  the  fowl,  forcing  the 
breast  up  to  give  the  fowl  a  good  shape. 


Cooking  Poultry.  —  Trussing  Boiled  Fowl.    163 


10.  We  pull  this  outside  skin  and  turn  it  neatly  inside 
the.  fowl  over  the  joints  of  the  legs. 

11.  We  turn  the  fowl  on  its  breast,  and  draw  tightly  the 
breast  skin  over  the  incision  on  to  the  back  of  the  neck. 

12.  We  cross  the  ends  of  the  wings  over  the  back  of  the 
neck. 

13.  We  now  turn  the  fowl  on  its  back  with  the  neck 
towards  us. 

14.  We  take  a  trussing  needle  and  thread  it  with  fine 
t  twine. 

15.  We  take  the  threaded  trussing  needle,  and  pass  it 
I  through  the  bottom  of  one  thigh,  through  the  body,  and 

out  on  the  other  side  through  the  other  thigh. 

16.  We  must  now  turn  the  fowl  on  its  breast,  and  take 
the  threaded  trussing  needle  again,  and  pass  it  through  the 
middle  of  the  pinion  or  wing,  through  the  little  bone,  called 
the  sidesman  or  stepmother's  wing,  catching  up  the  skin 
which  folds  over  the  incision,  and  out  through  the  other 
little  bone  and  wing. 

17.  We  must  pull  this  twine  very  tightly  and  tie  it  as 
firmly  as  possible  at  the  side  of  the  fowl. 

18.  We  turn  the  fowl  over  on  its  back,  keeping  the  neck 
still  towards  us. 

19.  We  put  our  finger  in  the  incision  (made  for  drawing 
the  fowl),  and  lift  up  the  end  of  the  breast  bone. 

20.  We  take  the  threaded  trussing  needle  and  pass  it 
through  the  skin  over  the  bottom  of  the  breast  bone,  over 
one  leg,  back  through  the  body  close  to  the  back  bone,  and 
tie  it  firmly  over  the  other  leg  at  the  side. 

21.  We  take  a  piece  of  kitchen  paper  and  butter  it  well. 

22.  We  take  this  piece  of  buttered  paper  and  wrap  it 
\  well  round  the  fowl. 

23.  We  take  a  large  saucepan  half  full  of  hot  second 
1  white  stock  or  water ;  and  put  it  on  the  fire. 

N.B. — The  reason  why  second  white  stock  should  be  used  is  that  the  good- 
ness which  comes  from  the  fowl  after  boiling  adds  to  the  goodness  of 
this  stock,  which  can  afterwards  be  used  for  soup. 

N.B. — If  hot  water  be  used,  the  goodness  which  comes  from  the  fowl  after 
boiling  is  only  wasted,  as  it  is  not  of  sufficient  strength  to  make  the  Large 
quantity  of  water  of  any  use. 

L    2 


164      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

24.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  place  the  fowl 
in  the  saucepan  with  its  breast  downwards. 

25.  We  also  put  into  the  saucepan  one  carrot,  which  has 
been  scraped,  a  small  onion,  which  has  been  peeled,  and  a 
bouquet  of  herbs  for  flavouring. 

26.  The  fowl  will  take  from  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to 
one  hour  to  boil,  according  to  its  size. 

N.B. — We  must  not  allow  it  to  boil  fast,  only  to  simmer.     The  saucepan 
should  be  at  the  side  of  the  fire. 


Now  we  must  make  the  Egg  Sauce  to  be  served  with 
the  boiled  fowl. 

N.B. — If  liked,  the  eggs  can  be  omitted,  and  only  plain  white  sauce  poured 
over  the  fowl  for  serving. 

1.  We  take  a  small  saucepan  full  of  hot  water,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  put  in  two  eggs 
to  boil  for  ten  minutes. 

3.  We  take  a  stewpan  and  put  in  it  one  ounce  of  butter 
and  one  ounce  of  flour. 

4.  We  mix  them  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

5.  We  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  milk. 

6.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  the  mixture 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

7.  We  must  then  remove  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the 
fire  until  required  for  use. 

8.  When  the  eggs  are  sufficiently  boiled,  we  take  them 
carefully  out  of  the  saucepan  with  a  spoon. 

9.  We  take  the  eggs  and  knock  them  against  the  edge 
of  a  basin  to  break  off  all  the  shell. 

10.  We  take  a  small  basin  of  cold  water. 

11.  We  cut  the  eggs  in  half  and  take  out  the  yolks. 

12.  We  put  the  whites  into  cold  zvater  to  prevent  their 
turning  yellow. 

13.  We  take  the  whites  of  the  eggs  out.  of  the  water  and 
cut  them  to  the  shape  of  small  dice. 

14.  We  add  the  pieces  of  white  of  egg  to  the  sauce  in  the 
stewpan. 


Cooking  Poultry. — Tries  sing  Boiled  Fowl.    165 

15.  We  now  add  one  gill  of  cream  to  the  sauce. 

16.  We  move  the  stewpan  to  the  centre  of  the  fire,  and 
stir  well  till  it  boils  again. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  in  stirring  not  to  break  the  pieces  of  egg. 

17.  When  the  fowl  is  sufficiently  boiled  we  take  it  out 
of  the  saucepan  ;  we  take  off  the  buttered  paper,  and  place 
the  fowl  on  a  hot  dish. 

18.  We  take  a  knife  and  cut  the  twine,  and  draw  it  all 
out  of  the  fowl 

19.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  fowl. 

20.  We  take  a  wire  sieve  with  the  hard  boiled  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  place  it  over  the  fowl,  and  rub  the  yolks  through 
on  to  the  breast.     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — The  neck,  gizzard,  liver,  heart,  and  claws  of  the  fowl  (namely  the 
Giblets),  should  be  put  aside,  and  when  properly  prepared  can  be  used 
for  soup  (see  "Soups,"  Lesson  No.  6),  or  should  be  put  in  the  stock  pot. 

N.B. — To  clean  and  prepare  the  giblets  for  use. 

A.  We  take  the  gizzard,  cut  it  very  carefully  with  a  knife  down  the  centre, 
where  there  is  a  sort  of  seam  (we  must  be  sure  only  to  cut  the  first  or 
outer  skin),  and  draw  off  the  outer  skin  without  breaking  the  inside, 
which  should  be  thrown  away. 

B.  We  take  the  outer  skin  of  the  gizzard,  the  heart,  and  liver,  wash  them 
well  in  water,  and  dry  them  in  a  cloth. 

C.  We  take  the  neck,  cut  off  the  head,  which  is  of  no  use,  draw  the  skin 
off  the  neck,  and  wash  the  latter  well  in  water,  so  as  to  remove  the 
blood  and  any  impurities. 

D.  We  put  the  claws  and  ends  of  legs  in  a  basin  of  boiling  water  for  some 
minutes,  then  take  a  knife,  cut  off  the  nails,  and  draw  off  the  outer  skin, 
which  can  be  pulled  off  like  a  glove. 


1 66      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


TRUSSING    A    FOWL    FOR    ROASTING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Roasting  a  Fowl "  and  making  "  Bread 

Saucer 

INGREDIENTS. 

j.  d. 

i  fowl 2  9 

i  oz.  of  butter o  i 

i  penny  roll  or  a  gill  of  bread  crumbs o  i 

i  onion o  o\ 

\  pint  of  milk    o  i.\ 

Speppercorns   )  , 

Salt )  °  °4 

i  tablespoonful  of  cream o  i| 

3     2i 

Time  required,  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  prepare  a  Fowl  and  truss 
it  for  roasting. 

1.  We  take  a  suitable  fowl  that  has  been  already  plucked, 
and  put  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  turn  the  fowl  on  its  breast,  and  make  an  incision 
of  an  inch  long  down  the  neck,  three  inches  below  the  head. 

3.  We  pass  our  thumb  round  this  incision  and  loosen  the 
skin. 

4.  We  take  a  sharp  knife  and  put  it  under  the  skin,  and 
cut  off  the  neck  as  near  the  body  as  possible. 

5.  We  must  be  careful  in  cutting  off  the  neck  to  leave  a 
piece  of  skin  to  fold  over  on  to  the  back  of  the  neck  and 
cover  the  opening. 

6.  We  take  out  the  crop  which  lies  in  the  front  of  the  neck. 

7.  Then  with  our  finger  we  loosen  the  liver  and  the 
other  parts  at  the  breast  end. 

8.  We  must  now  turn  the  fowl  round,  and  make  an  inci- 
sion at  the  vent,  about  one  inch  and  a  half  wide. 

9.  We  must  put  our  hand  through  this  incision  into  the 
body  and  draw  out  all  the  interiors  carefully,  so  as  not  to 
mess  the  fowl. 


Cooking  Poultry, — Trussing  Roast  Fowl.     167 

10.  We  must  be  very  careful  not  to  break  the  gall  bag, 
or  the  liver  will  be  spoiled. 

N.B. — We  take  the  liver,  heart,  and  gizzard,  and  put  them  in  a  basin  of 
water,  with  about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  the  other  interiors  should 
be  thrown  away. 

N.B. — We  should  look  through  the  fowl  from  one  end  to  the  other  and  see 
it  is  perfectly  cleared  out. 

11.  We  take  a  damp  cloth  and  wipe  out  the  inside  of  the 
/  fowl  to  clean  it  thoroughly. 

N.B. — If  the  fowl  is  not  quite  fresh,  we  should  use  a  little  vinegar  and  water 
on  the  cloth  we  use  for  cleaning  it,  and  then  take  a  clean  cloth  and  wipe 
it  quite  dry. 

12.  We  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  off  the  claws  from 
t  the  legs  of  the  fowl. 

13.  We  take  a  basin  of  boiling  water,  and  hold  the  end 
of  the  legs  of  the  fowl  in  the  water  for  a  minute  or  two. 

14.  We  then  take  off  the  outside  skin  as  far  as  to  the 
I  first  joint. 

15.  We  take  a  twist  of  paper  or  a  taper  and  light  it. 

16.  We  take  the  fowl  up  by  its  legs  and  hold  the  lighted 
paper  under  it  to  singe  off  the  little  hairs. 

17.  We  then  hold  the  fowl  up  by  its  wings  and  singe 
the  other  end. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  in  singeing  not  to  blacken  or  mark  the  fowl  in 
any  way. 

18.  We  turn  the  fowl  on  its  breast,  and  draw  tightly  the 
I  breast  skin  over  the  incision  on  to  the  back  of  the  neck. 

19.  We  cross  the  ends  of  the  wings  over  the  back  of  the 
\  neck. 

20.  We  now  turn  the  fowl  on  its  back  with  the  neck 
t  towards  us, 

21.  We  take  a  trussing  needle  and  thread  it  with  fine  twine. 

22.  We  hold  the  legs  up  and  press  the  thighs  well  into 
t  the  sides  of  the  fowl,  forcing  the  breast  up  to  give  the  fowl 
a  a  good  shape. 

23.  We  take  the  threaded  trussing  needle,  and  pass  it 
t  through  the  bottom  of  one  thigh,  through  the  body,  and 
tout  on  the  other  side  through  the  other  thigh. 

N.B  — If  liked,  a  part  of  the  gizzard  and  liver  (when  cleaned,  see  Note  at 
the  end  of  "  Trussing  a  Fowl  for  Boiling  ")  can  be  put  into  the  wings  of 
the  fowl. 


1 68      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

24.  We  must  now  turn  the  fowl  on  its  breast,  and  take 
the  threaded  trussing  needle  again,  and  pass  it  through  the 
middle  of  the  pinion  or  wing,  through  the  little  bone  called 
the  sidesman  or  stepmother's  wing,  catching  up  the  skin 
which  folds  over  the  incision,  and  out  through  the  other 
little  bone  and  wing. 

25.  We  must  pull  this  twine  very  tightly  and  tie  it  as 
firmly  as  possible  at  the  side  of  the  fowl. 

26.  We  turn  the  fowl  over  on  its  back,  keeping  the  neck 
still  towards  us. 

27.  We  put  our  finger  in  the  incision  (made  for  drawing 
the  fowl)  and  lift  up  the  end  of  the  breast  bone. 

28.  We  take  the  threaded  trussing  needle  and  pass  it 
through  the  skin  over  the  bottom  of  the  breast  bone,  over 
the  end  of  one  leg,  back  through  the  body  close  to  the 
backbone,  and  tie  it  firmly  over  the  other  leg  at  the  side. 

N.B. — If  there  is  no  gravy  ready  for  serving  with  the  roast  fowl,  we  should 
prepare  it  now  (see  Note  at  the  end). 

29.  We  now  put  the  screen  with  the  jack  and  dripping- 
pan  before  the  fire. 

30.  We  must  make  up  the  fire  in  the  same  manner  as 
described  in  Roasting. 

N.B. — We  do  not  require  such  a  large  fire  as  for  roasting  meat. 

31.  We  take  the  trussed  fowl  and  pass  the  hook  of  the 
jack  through  the  back  of  the  fowl,  and  hang  it  up  on  the 
jack. 

N.B. — If  the  fire  is  very  fierce,  we  should  take  a  piece  of  whitey  brown  paper, 
butter  it,  and  tie  it  over  the  fowl  so  as  to  prevent  it  from  burning. 

32.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  the  dripping-pan  to 
melt. 

33.  We  use  this  melted  butter  to  baste  the  fowl,  as  the 
fowl  is  not  very  fat,  there  will  not  be  much  dripping 
from  it. 

34.  The  fowl  will  take  from  half  an  hour  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  to  roast,  according  to  its  size. 

35.  We  must  baste  the  fowl  frequently. 

N.B. — While  the  fowl  is  roasting,  we  should  make  the  bread  sauce  (see  below). 
N.B. — If  liked,  the  roast  fowl  can  be  garnished  with  rolls  of  bacon  (see  the 
end  of  "Veal  Cutlets,"  Entrees,  Lesson  No.  6). 


Cooking  Poultry, — Trussing  Roast  Fowl.     169 

36.  When  the  fowl  is  quite  done,  we  take  it  off  the  jack, 
and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish. 

37.  We  take  a  knife  and  cut  the  twine,  and  draw  it  all 
out  of  the  fowl,  and  take  off  the  paper  before  serving. 


For  making  Bread  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  a  French  penny  roll,  or  a  gill  of  bread  crumbs, 
and  cut  it  in  half. 

2.  We  pull  out  all  the  inside  crumb,  and  put  it  on  a 
plate. 

3.  We  pull  this  crumb  apart  into  small  pieces. 

4.  We  take  a  small  onion,  and  peel  it  with  an  onion  knife. 

5.  We  take  a  small  stewpan  and  put  in  it  the  peeled  onion. 

6.  We  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  milk. 

7.  We  now  put  in  the  crumb  of  the  roll. 

8.  We  add  five  peppercorns,  and  salt  to  taste. 

9.  We  stand  the  stewpan  aside  with  the  lid   on,  for   a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  to  soak  the  crumb. 

10.  After  that  time  we  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and 
stir  the  sauce  smoothly  with  a  wooden  spoon,  until  it  boils. 

11.  We  now  add  a  tablespoonfid  of  cream,  and  stir  the 
Uauce  until  it  just  boils  again. 

12.  Before  serving  the  sauce,  we  must  take  out  the  onion, 
1  ind  pour  the  sauce  into  a  sauce  tureen. 

N.B. — The  neck,  gizzard,  liver,  and  claws  of  the  fowl,  when  properly  pre- 
pared (see  Note  at  the  end  of  "Trussing  a  Fowl  for  Boiling"),  can  be 
used  for  soup,  or  gravy,  to  be  served  with  the  Roast  Fowl.  For  making 
the  gravy,  we  put  the  giblets  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  cover 
them  (about  \  a  pint),  we  also  add  half  an  onio?i  (peeled),  6  peppercorns, 
and  salt  to  taste.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  comes 
to  the  boil,  we  move  it  to  the  side  to  simmer  while  the/owl  is  roasting. 

For  serving,  we  strain  the  gravy  into  a  basin  and  colour  it,  if  necessary,  by 
stirring  in  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  "Liedig's  Extract,"  or  ten  or 
twelve  drops  of  caramel,  we  then  pour  it  in  a  sauce  tureen,  or  round 
the  fowl. 


1 70     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SOUPS. 
Lesson  No.  i. 

clear  SOUP. 

Average  cost  for  making  "  Clear  Soup"  (to  he  served)  with 

Vegetables  or  Savoury  Custard  {about  3  pints). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

2  quarts  of  stock 2  45 

§  lb.  of  gravy  beef o  6| 

2  carrots    o  1 

1  turnip o  o  \ 

2  leeks  o  2 

1  cabbage  lettuce     o  1 

1  tablespoonful  of  young  peas } 

1  lump  of  sugar >     o     1 

Salt    ) 

For  "Savoury  Custard." 

1  gill  of  stock o    2 

3  eggs    o    3 

Butter    o    o \ 

o    5* 
Time  required,  {the  stock  should  be  made  the  day  before, )  about  one  hotcr  and  a  half. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Clear  Soup. 

1.  We  take  two  quarts  of  stock  (see  Lesson  on  "  Stock") ; 
we  must  be  careful  to  remove  from  it  all  fat. 

2.  We  put  the  stock  into  a  stewpan. 

3.  We  take  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  gravy  beef  (from 
the  shin  of  beef),  put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut  off  all  the  fat 
and  skin  with  a  sharp  knife. 

4.  We  chop  the  beef 'up  very  fine. 

N.B. — The  proportion  of  beef  for  clarifying  stock  is  one  pound  to  every 
five  pounds  of  meat  with  which  the  stock  is  made. 

5.  We  put  the  chopped  gravy  beef  into  the  stewpan. 

6.  We  take  one  carrot,  one  turnip »,  and  one  leek,  and  wash 
them  well  in  cold  water. 

7.  We  take  the  vegetables  out  of  the  water  and  put 
them  on  a  board. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. — 'Clear  Soup.      171 

8.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  and  scrape  the  carrot  quite 
clean,  and  slice  it  up. 

9.  We  take  the  turnip,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  small 
pieces. 

10.  We  take  the  leek,  and  cut  off  part  of  the  long  green 
leaves,  and  the  little  straggling  roots,  and  chop  up  finely 
the  remainder. 

11.  We  put  all  these  vegetables  into  the  stewpan,  and 
stir  them  all  well  with  an  iron  spoon,  until  they  are  well 
mixed  with  the  beef  and  stock. 

12.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  the  contents 
until  it  boils. 

13.  We  must  stand  the  stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire 
for  twenty  minutes. 

14.  We  take  a  clean  soup  cloth,  and  fix  it  on  the  soup 
stand. 

15.  We  take  a  large  basin,  and  place  it  below  the  cloth. 

16.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  pour  the 
contents  carefully  into  the  cloth,  and  let  it  all  pass  into 
the  basin. 

N.B. — The  chopped  gravy  beef  acts  as  a  filter  to  the  soup. 

17.  After  the  soup  has  all  passed  through,  we  remove  the 
basin  and  put  a  clean  one  in  its  place. 

18.  We  take  a  soup  ladle  and  pour  a  little  of  the  soup 
(at  a  time)  over  the  meat  in  the  cloth,  and  let  it  pass 
through  very  slowly. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  disturb  the  deposit  of  chopped  beef,  which 

settles  at  the  bottom  of  the  cloth. 
N.B — If  savoury  custard  should  be  preferred  in  the  soup,  instead  of  shredded 

vegetables,  see  No.  31. 

19.  We  take  a  small  carrot,  a  leek,  cabbage  lettuce,  and  a 
'  tablespoonful  of  young  peas,  and  wash  them  in  cold  water. 

20.  We  put  the  vegetables  on  a  board,  scrape  the  carrot 
clean,  and  cut  off  all  the  outside  leaves  of  the  lettuce,  and 
the  long  green  leaves  of  the  leek. 

21.  We  must  shred  the  carrot,  leek  and  cabbage  lettuce 
very  finely  in  equal  lengths. 


172     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

22.  We  put  the  shredded  carrot  and  leek  into  a  small 
saucepan  of  cold  water  with  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

23.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  let  it  just  come  j 
to  the  boil. 

N.B. — This  is  to  blanch  the  vegetables. 

24.  We  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire  and  strain  thr 
water  from  the  vegetables. 

25.  We  take  a  stewpan,  and  put  in  the  blanched  vege- 
tables and  cabbage  lettuce  and  peas  ;  we  add  a  lump  of  sugar 
and  half  a  pint  of  the  clear  soup 

26.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil  fast,  and  re- 
duce the  soup  to  a  glaze  over  the  vegetables. 

27.  We  take  the  basin  of  strained  soup  and  pour  the 
soup  on  the  vegetables  in  the  stewpan,  and  let  it  just  boil. 

28.  We  then  remove  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire> 
and  let  it  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour. 

29.  For  serving  we  pour  the  soup  into  a  hot  soup  tureen. 
For  Savoury  Ctistard. 

30.  We  take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  the  white  of  one, 
and  put  them  in  a  small  basin. 

31.  We  add  one  gill  of  the  clear  soup,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt. 

32.  We  whisk  up  the  eggs  and  the  stock  well  together. 

33.  We  take  a  small  gallipot  and  butter  it  inside. 

34.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  the  gallipot. 

35.  We  take  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  and  butter  it. 

36.  We  put  this  buttered  paper  over  the  top  of  the 
gallipot  and  tie  it  on  with  a  piece  of  string. 

37.  We  take  a  saucepan  of  hot  water  and  put  it  on  the 
fire. 

38.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  stand  the  little 
gallipot  in  it. 

N.B. — The  water  must  not  quite  reach  the  paper  with  which  the  gallipot  is 
covered. 

39.  We  draw  this  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  j 
let  it  simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

N.B. — It  must  not  boil  or  the  custard  will  be  spoiled. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. — Clear  Soup,      173 

40.  We  take  the  gallipot  out  of  the  saucepan,  take  off 
he  buttered  paper,  and  turn  the  custard  out  on  to  a  plate 
o  cool. 

41.  We  cut  the  custard  into  small  pieces  the  shape  of 
liamonds. 

42.  Just  before  serving,  we  pour  the  soup  into  the  hot 
ureen.and  add  the  savoury  custard  to  the  soup. 


i  74     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SOUPS. 
Lesson  No.  2. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

Average  cost  of  "  Tapioca  Cream"  {about  ipint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  pint  of  white  stock    o  j\ 

1  oz.  of  tapioca o  i 

Yolks  of  2  eggs o  2 

1  gill  of  cream  or  good  milk j  , 

Salt /  °  6 


44 


Time  required  {the  stock  should  be  made  the  day  before),   about  a   quarter  0] 

an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Tapioca  Cream. 

1.  We  take  one  pint  of  white  stock  (see  "Lesson  on 
Stock,")  and  pour  it  in  a  stewpan. 

2.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

3.  We  take  one  ounce  of  prepared  crushed  tapioca. 

4.  When  the  white  stock  boils,  we  stir  in  gradually  the 
tapioca. 

5.  We  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let 
it  all  simmer  until  the  tapioca  is  quite  clear. 

6.  Now  we  must  prepare  the  liaison. 

7.  We  put  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  a  basin,  and  add 
to  them  one  gill  {or  qitarter  of  a  pint)  of  cream  or  good 
milk. 

8.  We  just  stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  then  pour 
the  mixture  through  a  strainer  into  another  basin. 

9.  When  the  stock  is  quite  boiling,  we  add  it  by  degrees 
to  the  liaison,  stirring  well  all  the  time. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  the  eggs  do  not  curdle. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. —  Tapioca  Cream.    175 

10.  We  add  salt  to  the  soup,  according  to  taste,  and  pour 
the  soup  back  into  the  stewpan. 

11.  We  place  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  for  three  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time. 

N.  B. — It  must  not  boil,  or  it  would  curdle. 

For  serving,  we  pour  it  into  a  hot  soup  tureen. 


I J 6      National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 


SOUPS. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

BONNE    FEMME    SOUP. 

Average  cost  of  "Bonne  Femme  Soitp  "  (one  pint  and  a  half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

2  small  lettuces o  2 

2  leaves  of  sorrel o  1 

4  sprigs  of  tarragon o  1 

4  sprigs  of  chervil o  1 

\  a  cucumber    o  4 

\  oz.  of  butter  o  ok 

Salt \ 

1  saltspoonful  of  sugar    ]  °  °4 

x\  pint  of  white  stock o  \o\ 

The  yolks  of  3  eggs o  3" 

1  gill  of  cream  or  milk    o  6 

The  crust  of  a  French  roll o  1 

2    6\ 

Time  required,  about  half  an  hour.     ( The  stock  should  be  made  the  day  before. ) 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Bonne  Femme  Soup. 

1.  We  take  two  small  lettuces,  two  leaves  of  sorrel,  fou>- 
sprigs  of  tarragon,  four  sprigs  of  chervil,  and  wash  them 
well  in  cold  water. 

2.  We  take  these  vegetables  and  herbs  out  of  the  water, 
put  them  upon  a  board,  and  shred  them  finely. 

3.  We  take  a  cucumber  and  cut  it  in  half. 

4.  We  peel  half  the  cucumber,  and  cut  it  up  in  thin 
slices,  and  then  shred  it  with  a  sharp  knife. 

5.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  put 
it  on  the  fire  to  melt. 

6.  We  place  all  the  shredded  vegetables  and  herbs  in  the 
stewpan  to  sweat  for  five  minutes. 

7.  We  sprinkle  over  them  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and 
a  saltspoonful  of  castor  sugar. 

8.  We  must  watch  it  occasionally,  as  the  vegetables  must 
not  burn  or  in  any  way  discolour. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup.  — Bonne  Femme  Soup.  1 7  7 

9.  We  take  spirit  and  a  half  of  white  stock  (see  "  Lesson 
on  Stock  ")  and  put  it  in  another  saucepan. 

10.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

11.  We  must  now  make  a  "  liaison!' 

12.  We  take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  put  them  in  a  basin, 
and  beat  them  well. 

13.  We  stir  in  one  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint)  of  cream  or 
milk. 

14.  We  take  a  French  roll 'and  cut  off  all  the  crust 

15.  We  put  the  crust  on  a  tin,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to 
dry  for  a  minute  or  two. 

16.  When  the  stock  is  quite  boiling,  we  pour  it  into  the 
stewpan  with  the  vegetables,  and  let  all  boil  gently  for  ten 
minutes  until  the  vegetables  are  quite  tender. 

17.  We  now  stir  in  the  liaison,  straining  it  through  a 
hair-sieve  into  the  stewpan. 

18.  We  stand  the  stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep 
warm  until  required  for  use. 

N.B. — We  must  not  let  it  boil  as,   now  the  "  liaison"  is  added,  it  would 
curdle. 

19.  We  take  the  tin  out  of  the  oven  and  turn  the  dried 
:rust  on  to  a  board. 

20.  We  cut  this  crust  up  into  small  pieces,  or  in  any 
:ancy  shapes,  according  to  taste. 

21.  We  place  these  pieces  of  crust  in  a  hot  soup  tureen 
ind  pour  the  soup  over  them.     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


ijS      National  Training  School  Jor  Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

PUREE    OF    POTATOES. 

Average  cost  for  making  a  "  PurSe  of  Potatoes  "  (about 
1  pint  and  a  half.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  lb.  of  potatoes    o  i 

1  small  onion o  o\ 

2  leaves  of  celery  , o  I 

1  oz.  of  butter    t o  i 

ij  pint  of  white  stock o  xoi 

Salt    ) 

1  gill  of  cream    J      ° 

Fried  bread    .  0 , , „ o    2 


Time  required  {the  stock  should  be  made  the  day  before),  about  three-quarters  of  an  i 

hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Pure'e  of  Potatoes. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  potatoes,  put  them  in  a  basin  of 
cold  water  and  scrub  them  clean  with  a  scrubbing  brush. 

2.  We  take  a  sharp  knife  and  peel  the  potatoes}  and  cut 
them  in  thin  slices. 

3.  We  take  a  small  onion,  wash  it  well  in  cold  water,  and 
peel  it. 

4.  We  take  two  leaves  of  celery  and  wash  them. 

5.  We  take  a  stewpan  and  put  in  it  one  oitnce  of  butter. 

6.  We  now  add  the  sliced  potatoes,  the  onion,  and  the 

celery. 

7.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  let  the  vegetables 
sweat  tor  five  minutes ,  we  must  take  care  that  they  do  not 
discolour. 

8.  We  pour  into  the  stewpan  one  pint  of  white  stock  and 
stir  frequently  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  prevent  it  from 
burning. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. — Purge  of  Potatoes.  179 

9.  We  let  it  boil  gently  till  the  vegetables  are  quite 
cooked. 

10.  We  put  an  extra  half  pint  of  white  stock  into  a  stew- 
pan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  heat. 

11.  We  now  place  a  tammy-sieve  over  a  basin  and  pass 
the  contents  of  the  stewpan  through  the  sieve  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  adding  by  degrees  the  half  pint  of  hot  white  stock, 
which  will  enable  it  to  pass  through  more  easily. 

12.  We  take  the  stewpan  and  wash  it  out. 

13.  We  pour  the  Puree  back  into  the  stewpan. 

14.  We  add  salt  according  to  taste,  and  one  gill  (quarter 
of  a  pint)  of  cream  and  stir  smoothly  with  a  wooden  spoon 
until  it  boils. 

15.  For  serving  we  pour  it  into  a  hot  soup  tureen. 

N.B. — Fried  bread  cut  in  the  shape  of  dice  should  be  served  with  the  pur& 
(see  "  Vegetables,"  Lesson  No.  8,  from  Note  13  to  17). 


i8o     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

SPRING    VEGETABLE    SOUP. 

Average  cost  of  "  Spring  Vegetable  Soup  "  (two  quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

2  lbs.  of  the  shin  of  beef i  6 

2  lbs.  of  the  knuckle  of  veal    i  o 

Salt >; 1    o    i 

2  young  carrots j 

i  young  turnip o    o\ 

i  leek  o     i 

|  of  a  head  of  celery    o     2 

1  cauliflower o    4 

1  gill  of  peas ) 

J  of  a  saltspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda  . .  j  J 

3     Si 
Time  required,  about  five  hours. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  two  quarts  of  Spring 
Vegetable  Soup. 

1.  We  take  two  pounds  of  shin  of  beef  ,  and  two  pounds  of 
knuckle  of  veal,  and  put  them  on  a  board. 

2.  We  must  cut  off  all  the  meat  from  the  bone  with  a 
sharp  knife. 

3.  We  cut  off  all  the  fat  from  the  meat  (the  fat  we  put 
aside  for  other  purposes). 

4.  We  take  a  chopper  and  break  the  bones  in  halves. 

5.  We  take  out  all  the  marrow  inside  the  bones,  and  put 
it  aside  for  other  uses. 

N.B. — If  the  fat  and  marrow  were  to  go  into  the  soup  they  would  make  it; 
greasy. 

6.  We  take  a  stockpot  or  a  large  stewpan,  and  put  thej 
meat  and  bones  into  it. 

7.  We  pour  in  five  pints  of  cold  water. 

8.  We  put  in  a  teaspoonfid  of  salt.     This  will  assist  the) 
scum  to  rise. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup.  — Spring  Vegetable  Soup.  1 8 1 

9.  We  put  the  stockpot  on  the  fire,  with  the  lid  on,  and 
let  it  come  to  the  boil  quickly. 

10.  We  take  a  spoon  and  remove  all  the  scum  as  it 
rises. 

11.  We  now  draw  the  stockpot  rather  to  the  side  of  the 
fire  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  five  hours. 

12.  We  take  two  young  carrots,  scrape  them  clean  with  a 
knife,  and  cut  them  in  slices. 

13.  We  take  one  young  turnip,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

14.  We  take  half  a  head  of  celery  and  one  leek,  wash  them 
well  in  cold  water,  and  cut  them  in  squares  with  a  knife. 

15.  We  take  one  cauliflower,  wash  it  in  cold  water,  and 
put  it  in  a  basin  of  cold  water,  with  a  dessertspoonful  of 
salt,  for  two  or  three  minutes. 

16.  We  then  take  the  cauliflower  out  of  the  water,  and 
squeeze  it  dry  in  a  cloth. 

17.  We  take  a  knife  and  cut  off  all  the  green  leaves  and 
the  stalk  from  the  cauliflower,  and  pull  the  flower  into 
sprigs. 

18.  We  must  watch  and  skim  the  soup  occasionally,  and 
we  should  add  a  little  cold  water  to  make  the  scum  rise. 

19.  One  hour  before  serving  the  soup  we  should  add  the 
vegetables. 

20.  We  must  first  put  in  the  sliced  carrots,  and  the  cut 
up  celery  and  leek.  (These  vegetables  take  the  longest  to 
boil.) 

21.  In  half  an  hour  we  should  add  the  sliced  turnips,  and 
fifteen  minutes  after  that  the  cut  up  flower  of  the  cairti- 
flower, 

22.  We  take  a  saucepan  full  of  hot  water,  and  put  it  on 
the  fire  to  boil. 

23.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  put  in  one  gill  of 
shelled  peas,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  salt- 
spoo7iful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  and  let  it  boil  from  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes  y  according  to  the  age  of  the  peas. 

N.B. — The  cover  should  be  off  the  saucepan. 


1 82      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

24.  After  that  time  we  should  feel  the  peas,  and  if  they 
are  quite  soft  we  take  them  out  of  the  saucepan  and  drain 
them  in  a  colander. 

25.  For  serving,  we  put  the  boiled  peas  into  a  hot  soup 
tureen,  and  ladle  the  soup  and  the  other  vegetables  from  the 
stockpot  out  into  the  tureen. 


Lessons  on  Making  Sotip. — Giblet  Soup.      18 


o 


SOUPS. 

Lesson  No.  6. 

GIBLET    SOUP. 

Average  cost  of  "  Giblet  Soup  "  (about  three  pints). 

INGREDIENTS. 

2  sets  of  giblets 2  o 

\  of  a  head  of  celery o  2 

1  carrot    o  oh 

1  turnip   o  oh 

2  small  onions   o  o\ 

2  cloves   \ 

1  blade  of  mace , f 

A  bouquet  garni  of  parsley,  thyme,  lemon-  I  °  - 
thyme,  basil,  marjoram  and  bay  leaf    . .  J 

2  quarts  of  second  white  stock 1  2] 

i§  oz.  of  clarified  butter o  1^ 

1  oz.  of  flour o  0i 

h  a  pint  of  Madeira 1  0 

30  drops  of  lemon  juice  o  1 

A  few  grains  of  Cayenne  pepper    i 

Salt )    °    °i 

4    9l 

{Slock  made  the  day  before.)     Time  reqtcired,  about  three  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Giblet  Soup. 

1.  We  take  two  sets  of  goose  ox  four  of  ducks  giblets,  scald 
and  skin  the  claws,  ends  of  legs,  &c,  and  wash  them  clean 
in  cold  water  (see  Note  for  "  Cleaning  Giblets  "  at  the  end 
of  "  Trussing  a  Fowl  for  Boiling  "). 

2.  We  should  put  them  into  boiling  water  to  blanch 
them,  ior  five  minutes. 

3.  We  then  lay  them  in  a  basin  of  cold  water,  and  wash 
and  scrape  them  clean. 

4.  We  take  them  out  of  the  water  and  drain  them. 

5.  We  take  a  knife  and  cut  the  giblets  in  pieces  to  about 
one  and  a  half  inch  in  length. 

6.  We  put  the  pieces  of  giblet  into  a  stewpan. 

7.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  head  of  celery  and  wash  it  well 
in  cold  water. 


184     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

8.  We  take  one  carrot,  wash  it  in  cold  water,  and  scrape 
it  clean  with  a  knife. 

9.  We  take  one  turnip  and  two  small  onions,  wash  them 
in  cold  water  and  peel  them. 

10.  We  add  these  vegetables  to  the  giblets  in  the  stewpan. 

11.  We  also  put  in  two  cloves,  one  blade  of  mace,  and  a 
bouquet  garni,  consisting  of  parsley,  one  sprig  of  thyme, 
lemon-thyme,  basil,  marjoram,  and  one  bay-leaf  all  tied 
tightly  together. 

12.  We  pour  in  two  quarts  of  second  white  stock. 

13.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently 
for  two  hours  ;  we  must  skim  it  occasionally. 

14.  After  that  time,  we  take  out  the  best  pieces  of  the 
giblets,  and  trim  them  neatly. 

15.  We  put  these  pieces  aside  until  required  for  use. 

16.  We  leave  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil  for  half  an 


17.  We  put  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  clarified  butter,  and 
one  ounce  of  flour  into  a  stewpan. 

18.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  let  the  flour  and 
butter  fry  for  a  few  minutes,  stirring  it  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

19.  We  now  add  the  stock  and  stir  it  well  until  it  boils. 

20.  We  must  now  remove  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the 
fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  twenty  minutes  (the  cover  of 
the  saucepan  should  be  only  half  on). 

21.  After  that  time,  we  take  a  spoon  and  carefully  skim 
off  all  the  butter  that  will  have  risen  to  the  top  of  the  soup. 

22.  We  now  strain  the  soup  into  a  basin,  add  to  it  half 
a  pint  of  Madeira,  thirty  drops  of  lemon  juice,  a  few  grains 
(just  enough  to  cover  thinly  a  threepenny  piece)  of  Cayenne 
pepper,  and  salt  according  to  taste. 

23.  For  serving,  we  pour  the  soup  into  a  hot  soup  tureen, 
and  add  to  it  the  pieces  of  gib  let  that  were  put  aside. 

N.B. — If  the  wine  be  disliked,  it  may  be  omitted. 


Lesson  on  Making  Soup. — Mock   Turtle  Soup.  185 


SOUPS. 

Lesson  No.  7. 

MOCK  TURTLE   SOUP. 


Average  cost  of 


Mock  Turtle  Soup  "  (about  two  quarts). 


INGREDIENTS. 


\  a  calf's  head 5 

3  oz.  of  butter   ) 

|  a  tablespoonful  of  salt ) 

\  lb.  of  lean  ham o 

i  shalot \ 

i  clove  of  garlic    I 

6  mushrooms     o 

i  carrot  

\  head  of  celery    

I  leek 


d. 
o 

3 
3 
ok 

4 


|  a  turnip 

Bouquet  garni  (i.e.  sprig  of  thyme,  mar-     / 

joram,  parsley,  basil,  and  a  bay  leaf) . 

i  blade  of  mace    

6  cloves  

3  oz.  of  flour j 

2  wine  glasses  of  sherry o 

The  juice  of  §  a  lemon    o 

I   dozen  forcemeat  balls   (see    "Entrees," 

Lesson  No.  8)  o 


o    5^ 


4 


7    5 


Time  required,  about  six  hours. 

N.B. — If  the  soup  is  required  to  be  made  in  one  day,  the  stock  should  be 
made  early  in  the  morning,  so  as  to  give  time  for  it  to  get  cold  to  have 
the  fat  removed. 

N.B. — If  liked,  the  calf's  head  could  be  served  the  previous  day  (see  Calf's 
head  rolled  and  boiled),  and  this  soup  be  made  with  the  calf's  head 
stock,  and  the  remains  of  the  calf's  head  will  be  sufficient  to  cut  up  and 
put  in  the  soup.    In  this  case  we  commence  this  lesson  from  paragraph  7. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Mock  Turtte  Soup. 

1.  We  take  half  a  calf's  head,  and  wash  it  well  in  water, 
to  remove  all  blood  and  impurities. 

2.  We  cut  all  the  flesh  from  the  bones,  and  tie  the  flesh 
up  in  a  very  clean  cloth  or  napkin. 

3.  We  put  it  in  a  large  stewpan  with  the  bones  and  four 
quarts  of  cold  water,  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

4.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  come  to 
the  boil. 


1 86      National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

5.  As  soon  as  it  boils,  we  should  skim  it  carefully  with 
a  spoon,  and  move  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to 

stew  gently  for  three  hours. 

N.B. — We  should  watch  it  and  skim  it  occasionally. 

6.  After  that  time  we  take  out  the  calf's  head,  and  pour 
the  stock  through  a  strainer  into  a  basin. 

7.  We  stand  the  basin  of  stock  aside  to  get  cold,  when 
we  should  carefully  remove  every  particle  of  fat  from  the 
top  of  the  stock. 

8.  We  must  now  make  some  forcemeat  (see  "  Beef 
J)lives,"  Entrees,  Lesson  No.  8,  from  Note  4  to  Note  12), 

and  make  it  up  into  little  balls,  about  one  dozen. 

9.  We  take  six  mitshrooms  (cut  off  the  end  of  the  stalks), 
one  onion,  and  half  a  turnip,  wash  them,  peel  them,  and  cut 
them  up  in  slices. 

10.  We  take  one  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean,  and  cut 

it  in  slices. 

11.  We  take  half  a  head  of  celery,  and  one  leek,  wash 
them,  cut  off  the  long  green  leaves  (to  be  thrown  away), 
and  cut  them  in  slices. 

12.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  potmd  of  lean  ham  on  a  board, 
and  cut  it  up  in  small  pieces. 

13.  We  put  one  oicnce  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  melt. 

14.  We  add  the  ham  and  all  the  sliced  vegetables  to  the 
butter  in  the  stewpan. 

15.  We  also  add  one  shalot  (peeled),  one  clove  of  garlic, 
one  blade  of  mace,  six  cloves,  and  a  bouquet  garni  (consisting 
of  a  sprig  of  thyme,  marjoram,  parsley,  basil,  and  a  bay  leaf 
tied  tightly  together). 

16.  We  let  all  these  vegetables  and  herbs,  &c,  fry  in  the 
butter  for  ten  minutes.     We  must  stir  them  occasionally. 

17.  After  that  time  we  add  three  ounces  of  flour,  and  stir 
well. 

18.  We  now  add  the  stock  and  stir  it  until  it  boils,  then 
move  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer 
for  about  ten  minutes. 


Lessens  on  Making  Soup. — Mock  Turtle  Souft.   187 

19.  We  must  then  take  a  spoon  and  remove  every 
particle  of  scum. 

20.  We  now  strain  the  soup  into  another  stewpan. 

21.  We  take  the  calf's  head  out  of  the  cloth,  and  cut  it 
up  in  small  and  neat  pieces. 

22.  We  add  the  pieces  of  calf's  head  to  the  soup,  also 
two  wine  glasses  of  sherry,  the  dozen  forcemeat  balls,  and 
squeeze  in  through  a  strainer  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

23.  We  let  the  soup  just  come  to  the  boil,  and  then  pour 
it  in  a  hot  soup  tureen  for  serving. 


1 88     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


SOUPS. 

Lesson  No.  8. 

POT-AU-FEU    OR    SOUP. 

And  use  of  Meat  from  which  the  Soup  has  been  made. 

Average  cost  of  "  Pot-ait-feu"  consisting  of  about  five 
quarts  of  soup,  and  a  dish  of  meat  with  vegetables. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 
4  lbs.  of  beef,  or  4  lbs.  of  the  meat  off  the  ox 

cheek   2  o 

Sago  or  tapioca  for  soup     o  o\ 

\  oz.  salt,  2  turnips o  1 

2  carrots o  1 

2  leeks o  2 

1  parsnip     o  1 

1  small  head  of  celery o  3 

2  or  3  sprigs  of  parsley o  o\ 

1  cabbage  o  1 

1  bay-leaf,  thyme  and  marjoram,  and  1  onion, 

stuck  with  3  cloves  o    1 

2    n 
Time  required,  about  four  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Pot-au-feu, 

1.  We  put  six  qicarts  of  water  in  a  large  pot. 

2.  We  take  four  pounds  of  the  sticking  of  beef,  or  four 
pounds  of  the  meat  off  the  ox  cheek,  without  any  bone,  tie  it 
up  firmly  into  a  shape  with  a  piece  of  string,  and  put  it 
into  the  pot. 

3.  We  put  the  pot  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

4.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling  we  put  in  half  an 
ounce  of  salt,  and  then  move  the  pot  to  the  side  of  the  fire 
to  simmer. 

5.  We  take  two  carrots,  two  leeks,  two  turnips,  one  parsnip, 
one  small  head  of  celery,  and  wash  them  well  in  cold  water. 

6.  We  scrape  the  carrots  and  the  parsnip,  and  cut  them 
in  quarters  with  a  knife. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. — Pot-au-Feu  or  Soup.  189 

7.  We  take  the  leeks  and  cut  off  the  long  green  leaves,  as 
only  the  white  part  is  required. 

8.  We  take  the  head  of  celery  and  cut  off  the  green  tops 
of  the  leaves. 

9.  We  tie  the  leeks,  the  celery,  and  the  parsnip  and  carrot 
together  with  a  piece  of  string. 

10.  We  take  a  cabbage,  cut  it  in  two,  and  wash  it 
thoroughly  in  cold  water,  and  tie  it  firmly  together  with 
string. 

11.  We  should  skim  the  Pot-au-feu  occasionally  with  a 
spoon. 

12.  When  the  Pot-au-feu  has  boiled  very  gently  for  one 
hour,  we  add  to  it  all  the  vegetables,  except  the  cabbage. 

13.  We  take  one  bay -leaf,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  sprig  of 
thyme,  a  sprig  of  marjoram,  and  tie  them  together  with  a 
piece  of  string. 

14.  We  put  these  herbs  into  the  pot. 

15.  We  take  one  onion,  peel  it,  and  stick  three  cloves  in  it. 

16.  We  put  the  onion  into  the  pot. 

17.  When  the  vegetables  have  been  two  hours  in  the  pot 
we  put  in  the  cabbage. 

18.  When  the  contents  of  the  pot  have  simmered  gently 
for  four  hours,  we  take  out  the  meat  and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish. 

19.  We  garnish  the  meat  with  the  carrots,  turnips,  and 
parsnips,  and  pour  over  it  about  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  for 
gravy. 

20.  We  take  out  the  cabbage  and  serve  it  in  a  hot  vege- 
table dish. 

21.  We  strain  the  liquor  through  a  colander  or  cloth  into 
a  basin,  and  put  it  by  to  cool. 

22.  We  do  not  remove  the  fat  until  the  liquor  is  required 
for  use  ;  it  keeps  the  air  from  it. 

To  make  a  soup  of  the  liquor. 

23.  We  put  two  quarts  of  the  liquor  in  a  saucer  an,  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 


i  go     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

24.  We  take  two  ounces  of  crushed  tapioca  or  small  sago y 
and  when  the  liquor  boils  we  sprinkle  in  the  tapioca  or  sago, 
and  let  it  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 

25.  We  then  pour  it  into  a  soup-tureen,  and  it  is  ready 
for  use. 

N.B. — If  liked,  Beef  a-la-mode,  or  rissoles   (see  "Cooked   Meat,"  Lesson 
No.  6),  can  be  made  with  the  meat  from  the  pot-au-feu. 

For  "  Beef  a-la-mode!' 

1.  We  put  two  oiinces  of  dripping  into  a  saucepan  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  to  melt. 

2.  We  then  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

3.  We  take  one  pound  and  a  half  of  the  meat  and  cut  it 
in  neat  pieces. 

4.  We  put  these  pieces  of  meat  into  the  saucepan. 

5.  When  the  meat  is  fried  we  turn  over  the  slices  of 
meat  and  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water. 

6.  We  take  one  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean  and  cut  it 
in  slices. 

7.  We  put  the  carrot  into  the  saucepan  ;  we  also  add  a 
bunch  of  herbs,  namely,  a  sprig  of  marjoram  and  thyme,  and 
a  bay-leaf,  tied  tightly  together. 

8.  We  let  it  just  come  to  the  boil  and  then  move  the 
saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for 
three  hours. 

9.  We  should  watch  it  and  stir  it  occasionally. 

10.  For  serving,  we  turn  the  meat  on  to  a  hot  dish,  and 
place  the  carrot  on  the  top  of  the  meat. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. — Ox-Tail  Sottp.     191 

SOUPS. 
Lesson  No.  9. 

OX-TAIL    SOUP. 

Average  cost  of  "  Ox-tail  Soup"  {about  three  pints  and 

a  half) 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

1  ox-tail 2     6 

4  oz.  of  butter o     4 

2  carrots o     1 

1  turnip o    o| 

1  onion  stuck  with  six  cloves o    o\ 

\  a  head  of  celery    o    2 

3  oz.  of  flour \ 

Bouquet  garni  (i.e.  sprig  of  thyme,  mar- 
joram, parsley,  and  a  bay  leaf)     I  i 

12  peppercorns / 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt    

2  quarts  of  water / 

3     3l 
Or  with  3  quarts  of  second  stock 1     9 

5    o| 
Time  required  (stock  already  made),  about  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Ox-tail  Soup. 

1.  We  take  the  ox-tail,  put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut  it 
through  the  joints  into  pieces  with  a  knife. 

2.  We  put  the  pieces  of  ox-tail  into  a  stewpan,  cover 
them  with  cold  water,  and  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to 
boil. 

3.  We  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes,  take  the  stewpan  off 
the  fire,  strain  off  the  water,  and  wipe  the  pieces  of  ox-tail 
dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 

4.  We  put  the  ox-tail  back  in  the  stewpan,  with  two 
ounces  of  butter. 

5.  We  take  one  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean  with  a 
knife,  cut  it  in  half,  and  put  it  in  the  stewpan. 


192       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

6.  We  take  an  onion,  peel  it,  and  stick  six  cloves  in  it. 

7.  We  take  half  a  head  of  celery,  wash  it,  and  cut  off  the 
green  tops  of  the  leaves. 

8.  We  put  the  onion  and  celery  into  the  stewpan  ;  we  also 
add  twelve  peppercorns,  and  a  bouquet  garni,  consisting  of  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  thyme,  marjoram,  and  a  bay-leaf,  all  tied 
tightly  together. 

9.  We  should  place  the  lid  on  the  stewpan,  and  put  it 
over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 

10.  We  must  now  add  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt. 

N.B. — If  there  is  any  stock  that  can  be  used,  it  would  of  course  im- 
prove the  soup,  then  three  quarts  of  it  should  be  used  instead  of  the 
water. 

11.  When  it  boils  we  must  skim  it  well,  and  then  draw 
the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  for  two 
hours. 

12.  Half-an-hour  before  the  stock  is  done,  we  put  two 
ounces  of  butter  into  another  stewpan. 

13.  We  take  one  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean  with  a 
knife,  and  cut  it  up  into  rounds  the  size  of  a  shilling. 

14.  We  take  a  small  turnip,  wash  it,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  up 
like  the  carrot. 

15.  We  add  these  vegetables  to  the  butter,  put  the 
stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  let  them  cook  for  ten  minutes ; 
we  must  stir  them  occasionally,  and  not  allow  them  to 
discolour. 

16.  When  the  stock  is  ready,  we  should  take  the  pieces 
of  ox-tail  out,  and  pour  the  stock  through  a  strainer  into  a 
basin. 

17.  We  put  three  ounces  of  flour  into  the  stewpan,  with 
the  vegetables  and  butter,  and  stir  well. 

18.  We  now  add  the  stock  to  the  stewpan,  put  it  over  the 
fire,  and  stir  well  until  it  boils  and  thickens,  then  move  the 
stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  until  the 
vegetables  are  tender:  it  will  take  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup.  —  Ox- Tail  Soup.     193 

19.  We  must  watch  it,  and  carefully  skim  it,  and  remove 
any  fat  that  rises  to  the  top. 

20.  We  now  add  the  pieces  of  ox-tail  to  the  soup,  and 
let  it  just  warm. 

21.  For  serving,  we   pour   the   soup   into   a   hot  soup- 
turecn. 


94       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

Lesson  No.  io. 

SEMOLINA    SOUP. 

Average  cost  of  "  Semolina  Soup  "  (about  one  quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  quart  of  second  stock    j\ 

2  tablespoonsful  of  semolina  ij 

I  pint  of  milk i        x 

Salt  and  pepper j      T% 

9l 

[Stock  already  made. )     Time  required,  about  half-an-Jwur . 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Semolina  Soup. 

1.  We  put  one  quart  of  second  stock  (or  stock  from  pot-au- 
feu)  into  a  saucepan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  When  the  stock  is  boiling,  we  stir  in  very  gradually, 
two  tablespoonsful  of  Semolina. 

3.  We  must  stir  it  well  while  it  boils,  for  ten  minutes. 

4.  We  now  add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste. 

N.B. — The  milk  might  be  omitted  if  not  required. 

5.  We  let  the  soup  warm  through,  stirring  well  all  the 
time,  and  then  pour  it  into  a  hot  soup  tureen,  or  basin,  for 
serving. 

N.B. — Toasted,  or  fried  bread,  cut  in  the  shape  of  dice,  should  be  served 
with  this  soup. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. — Milk  Soup.      195 


SOUPS. 
Lesson  No.  ii. 

MILK    SOUP. 

Average  cost  of  "  Milk  Soup  "  (about  two  quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  lbs.  potatoes 2 

2  leeks  or  onions , 1 

2  oz.  butter 2 

£oz.salt  I  0i 

Pepper J  °4 

1  pint  of  milk  2J 

3  tablespoonsful  of  tapioca    i| 

~9\ 
Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Milk  Soup. 

1.  We  put  two  quarts  of  water  into  a  large  saucepan,  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  take  two  pounds  of  potatoes,  wash,  and  scrub  them 
clean  in  cold  water,  peel  them,  and  cut  them  in  quarters. 

3.  We  take  two  leeks,  cut  off  the  green  tops  of  the  leaves. 
wash  them  well  in  cold  water,  and  cut  them  up. 

N.B. — Onions  can  be  used  instead  of  leeks,  only  they  would  give  a  stronger 
flavour. 

4.  We  put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  we  add 
the  vegetables,  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  let  the  vege- 
tables sweat  in  the  butter  for  five  minutes. 

5.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling  we  pour  in  the  vege- 
tables and  butter,  we  also  add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  saltt 
and  pepper  to  tastee 

6.  We  let  it  boil  till  done  to  a  mash. 

7.  We  then  strain  off  the  soup  through  the  colander,  or 
wire  sieve. 

8.  We  rub  the  vegetables  through  the  colander,  with  a 
wooden  spoon. 

N  2 


196     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  We  return  the  pulp  and  the  soup  to  the  saucepan,  add 
to  it  one  pint  of  milk,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

10.  When  it  boils  we  sprinkle  in  by  degrees,  three  table 
spoonsful  of  crushed  tapioca,  stirring  it  well  the  whole  time. 

11.  We  let  it  boil  gently  fifteen  minutes. 

12.  For  serving,  we  pour  the  soup  in  a  hot  tureen. 

N.B. — To  improve  this  soup  more  milk  and  less  water  should  be  used,  and 
half  a  gill  of  cream  stirred  in  at  the  last. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. — Cabbage  Soup.    197 

SOUPS. 

Lesson  No.  12. 

CABBAGE   SOUP. 

Average  cost  of  making  "  Cabbage  Soup  "  (about  one  quart 

and  a  half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  cabbage 2 

2  oz.  of  butter 2 

§  of  a  pint  of  milk 2 

Pepper  and  salt )  » 

A  slice  of  bread j  °- 

Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Cabbage  Soup. 

1.  We  put  three  pints  of  water  into  a  saucepan,  and  put 
it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  take  a  good  sized  cabbage,  wash  it  well  in  cold 
water,  and  trim  off  the  outside  dead  leaves. 

3.  We  cut  the  cabbage  up,  but  not  into  very  small  pieces. 

4.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  cabbage,  and  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes. 

N.B.— This  is  to  blanch  it. 

5.  We  now  pour  off  the  water  from  the  cabbage. 

6.  We  add  to  the  cabbage,  two  quarts  of  water,  two 
ounces  of  butter t  and  pepper  and  salt  for  seasoning,  and  let 
it  boil  for  one  hour. 

7.  After  that  time,  we  pour  in  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of 
milk,  and  let  it  boil  up. 

8.  We  take  a  slice  of  bread,  stick  it  on  a  toasting  fork, 
and  toast  it  slightly  on  both  sides  in  front  of  the  fire. 

9.  We  cut  the  toasted  b  read  up  in  pieces,  the  size  of  dice, 
and  put  them  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  or  basin. 

10.  We  pour  the  cabbage  soup  on  to  the  bread 'in  the  soup 
tureen,  and  it  is  ready  for  serving. 


198     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SOUPS. 
Lesson  No.  13. 

PEA    SOUP. 

Average  cost  of  "  Pea  Soup  "  (about  2  quarts) 
INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  quart  of  split  peas o  5 

2  onions o  1 

1  turnip  o  o^ 

1  carrot o  0% 

1  head  of  celery    o  4 

Teaspoonful  of  salt )  L 

£  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  /  4 

Cooked  or  uncooked  bones  o  2 

Time  required  {after  the  peas  have  been  soaked  all  night),  abouttwo  hours  and  a  naif . 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Pea  Soup. 

1.  We  put  a  quart  of  split  peas  into  a  basin  with  cold 
water  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  soak  for  twelve  hours. 

N.B. — This  should  be  done  over  night. 

2.  We  put  two  quarts  of  cold  water  and  the  split  peas 
into  a  saucepan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

N.B. — If  there  is  any  liquor  from  boiled  meat  it  would  of  course  be  better 
than  water  for  the  soup. 

3.  We  take  two  onions  and  one  turnip,  wash  them  in 
cold  water,  peel  them,  and  cut  them  in  halves. 

4.  We  take  one  carrot y  wash  it,  and  scrape  it  clean  with 
a  knife. 

5.  We  take  one  head  of  celery,  cut  off  the  ends  of  the 
root,  and  wash  it  well  in  cold  water. 

6.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  boiling  we  put  in 
all  the  vegetables. 

7.  We  take  tivopennyworth  of  cooked,  or  uncooked  bones, 
wash  them,  add  them  to  the  saucepan,  and  season  it  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  pepper. 

N.B. — If  some  liquor  (in  which  meat  or  pork  has  been  boiled)  is  used  the 
addition  of  bones  will  not  then  be  necessary. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. — Pea  Soitp.        199 

8.  We  let  it  all  boil  slowly  for  two  hours,  and  we  must 
watch  it  and  skim  it  occasionally. 

9.  After  that  time  we  take  the  bones  out  of  the  saucepan. 

10.  We  place  a  colander  or  wire  sieve  over  a  basin. 

11.  We  pour  the  contents  of  the  saucepan  into  the 
colander,  and  rub  them  through  into  the  basin  with  a 
wooden  spoon. 

12.  The  pea  soicp  is  then  ready  for  serving. 

13.  Powdered  {dried)  mint,  and  toasted  bread,  cut  to  the 
shape  of  dice,  should  be  handed  with  the  soup,  either  pat 
in,  or  served  separately  on  plates. 


200     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SOUPS. 
Lesson  No.  14. 

MACCARONI   SOUP. 

Average  cost  of  "  Maccaroni  Soup"  made  from  Bones 
(about  3  pints). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Bones  (if  bought)    2 

1  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  peppercorns    . . . .  )  x 

1  good-sized  turnip  and  4  leeks J  42 

2  carrots  1 

2  onions,  2  cloves,  and  a  blade  of  mace    i| 

A  bunch  of  herbs,  i.e.  marjoram,  thyme,  lemon  \  x 

thyme,  and  parsley    )  °f 

\  lb.  of  maccaroni 1^ 

Time  required,  about  two  and  a  half  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Soup  from  Bones. 

1.  We  take  the  bones  and  cut  off  all  the  meat  that  can  be 
used. 

N.B. — Cooked  or  uncooked  bones  can  be  used. 

2.  We  break  up  the  bones  in  pieces  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan,  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  one 
quart  more. 

3.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

4.  When  it  just  boils,  we  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  to 
help  the  scum  to  rise. 

5.  We  take  one  good-sized  turnip \  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in 

quarters. 

N.B. — When  turnips  are  used  only  for  flavouring,  they  can  be  peeled  thinner 
than  if  for  eating. 

6.  We  take  two  carrots,  wash  them,  scrape  them,  and  cut 
them  in  quarters  ;  we  take  four  leeks,  wash  them,  and  shred 
them  up  finely. 

N.B. — As  these  vegetables  are  prepared,  they  should  be  thrown  into  cold 
water  to  keep  them  fresh. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. — Macaroni  Soup.    201 

7.  We  take  two  onions,  peel  them,  and  stick  two  cloves 
into  one  onion. 

N.B. — The  outer  skins  of  the  onions  can  be  put  into  a  saucepan  by  the  side 
of  the  fire  to  brown ;  when  browned,  they  are  useful  for  colouring  gravies 
and  soups. 

8.  We  should  skim  the  soup  well  and  then  put  in  the 
vegetables ;  we  also  add  a  blade  of  mace  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  peppercorns. 

9.  We  must  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  two  hours  and  a  half. 

10.  We  should  raise  the  lid  slightly  to  let  out  the  steam. 

N.B. — It  is  better  to  boil  maccaroni  separately,  as  the  first  water  is  not  clean. 
The  soup  can  be  thickened  with  maccaroni,  vermicelli,  barley,  or  rice. 

11.  If  the  soup  is  thickened  with  maccaroni,  we  should 
put  a  saucepan  of  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

12.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling  we  put  in  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  maccaroni,  and  sprinkle  about  half  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt  over  it. 

13.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  until 
the  maccaroni  is  quite  tender ;  it  will  take  about  half  an 
hour. 

14.  We  should  feel  the  maccaroni  with  our  fingers,  to  see 
that  it  is  quite  soft,  and  tender. 

15.  When  it  is  sufficiently  boiled,  we  turn  it  into  a  colander, 
to  strain  the  water  off,  then  pour  some  cold  water  on  it, 
and  wash  the  maccaroni  again. 

16.  We  put  the  maccaroni  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  into 
small  pieces  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  length,  it  is  then 
ready  to  be  put  into  the  soup. 

N.B. — If  barley  is  used  instead  of  maccaroni,  it  will  take  a  much  longer  time 
to  boil,  but  if  vermicelli  is  used,  it  takes  a  very  short  time  to  boil. 

17.  When  the  soup  is  ready  for  use,  we  should  put  the 
maccaroni  into  a  soup  tureen,  and  strain  the  hot  soup  over 
it.     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


202     National  Training  Sc/wol  for  Cookery. 

SOUPS. 
Lesson  No.  15. 

LENTIL    PUREE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Lentil  Soup"  {about  one  pint  and  a  half), 

INGREDIENTS. 

d, 

1  pint  of  red  lentils    3 

1  onion o| 

3  sticks  of  celery 1 

1  oz.  of  butter j 

Pepper  and  salt ;      i| 

2  quarts  of  water    ) 

~5f 

Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  lentil  soup, 

1.  We  take  one  pint  of  red  lentils,  and  wash  them  well  in 
cold  water. 

2.  We  take  a  saucepan,  and  butter  it  well  inside  with 
one  ounce  of  butter. 

3.  We  take  the  lentils  out  of  the  water,  and  put  them  in 
the  saucepan. 

4.  We  take  an  onion,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

5.  We  take  three  sticks  of  celery,  cut  off  the  green  tops, 
wash  them,  and  add  them  and  the  sliced  onion  to  the  sauce- 
pan. 

6.  We  put  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  the  lid  on,  for 
five  minutes. 

7.  We  now  add  two  quarts  of  cold  water;  move  the 
saucepan  rather  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  the  contents 
simmer/tfr  one  hour, 

8.  We  place  a  hair  sieve  over  a  basin,  and  pass  the 
contents  of  the  saucepan  through  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

N.B. — A  wire  sieve,  or  even  a  colander,  might  be  used,  but  the  hair  sieve 
is  the  best. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. — Lentil  Puree.    203 

9.  We  pour  the  puree  back  into  the  saucepan  ;  add  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste ;  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  warm 
the  puree. 

10.  For  serving,  we  pour  \h&  puree  into  a  hot  soup  tureen 
or  basin. 

N.B. — Toasted,  or  fried  bread,  cut  in  the  shape  of  dice,  should  be  served 
with  the  purie. 


204     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

Lesson  No.  16. 

HARICOT    PUREE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Haricot  Soup  "  {about  two  quarts), 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  pint  of  Haricot  beans    3 

1  onion     j 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt      ;      o| 

Pepper ) 

Pint  of  milk 2J 

2  quarts  of  water. 

6 

Time  required,  after  the  beans  are  soaked,  about  four  hours  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Haricot  Puree. 

1.  We  soak  one  quart  of  Haricot  beans  in  cold  water  all 
night. 

2.  We  take  the  soaked  beans  out  of  the  water,  and  put 
them  in  a  saucepan,  with  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt. 

3.  We  take  an  onion,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

4.  We  add  the  sliced  onion  to  the  saucepan. 

5.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils, 
we  move  it  rather  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil 
gently  for  four  hours. 

6.  After  that  time,  we  place  a  wire  sieve,  or  colander, 
over  a  basin,  and  pass  the  contents  of  the  saucepan  through 
the  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

7.  We  now  stir  in  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  milk,  pour 
the  puree  back  into  the  saucepan,  add  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  warm  the  puree  : 
we  must  stir  it  well  while  it  is  warming. 

8.  For  serving,  we  pour  the  puree  into  a  hot  soup  tureen 
or  basin. 

N.B. — Toasted  or  fried  bread,  cut  in  the  shape  of  dice,  should  be  served 
with  the  purde. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup. —  Vegetable  Puree.    205 


SOUPS. 
Lesson  No.   17. 

VEGETABLE    PUREE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Vegetable  Puree"  {about  five  pints). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

3  carrots o  \\ 

2  turnips     o  i 

1  head  of  celery    o  4 

2  onions o  1 

2  leeks    o  2 

1  lettuce     o  1 

1  small  cabbage    o  1^ 

Pepper  and  salt    I 

I  lb.  of  butter    )     °    4 

3  quarts  of  water. 

1     4 
Time  required,  about  one  kotcr  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Vegetable  Purie. 

1.  We  take  three  carrots,  wash  them  well,  scrape  them 
and  cut  them  in  slices. 

2.  We  take  two  turnips,  and  two  onions,  wash  them  well, 
peel  them,  and  cut  them  in  slices. 

3.  We  take  one  head  of  celery  and  two  leeks,  wash  them 
well,  and  cut  them  up  in  quarters. 

4.  We  take  one  lettuce  and  a  small  cabbage,  wash  them 
well,  and  cut  them  in  quarters. 

5.  We  put  a  qicarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  saucepan 
and  add  all  the  vegetables. 

6.  We  put  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  to  cook  for  ten 
minutes.     We  must  stir  the  vegetables  occasionally. 

7.  We  then  add  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  when  it 
boils,  we  must  skim  it  well,  and  then  move  the  saucepan 
rather  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  the  contents  simmer 
for  one  hour. 


206     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

8.  We  place  a  hair  sieve  over  a  basin,  and  pass  the 
contents  of  the  saucepan  through  the  sieve  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

N.B. — A  wire  sieve,  or  colander  might  be  used,  but  a  hair  sieve  is  the  best. 

9.  We  now  pour  the  puree  back  into  the  saucepan,  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  to  warm. 

10.  For  serving,  we  pour  the  puree  into  a  hot  soup 
tureen,  or  basin. 

N.B. — Toasted  or  fried  bread,  cut  in  the  shape  of  dice,  should  be  served 
with  the  purde. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup.— Stock.  207 


STOCK. 

Average  cost  of  brown  or  white  "  Stock  "  for  soup  (about 

two  quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 
4  lbs.  of  shin  of  beef,  or  2  lbs.  of  knuckle  ) 

of  veal  and  2  lbs.  of  beef j  3  ° 

4  young  carrots  or  2  old  ones o  2 

1  turnip o  o| 

1  onion o  o  k 

1  leek    o  1 

Half  a  head  of  celery ) 

Salt }  °  2 

3    6 

Time  required,  about  five  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Stock  for  soup.     It 
should  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  required  for  use. 

1.  We  take  four  pounds  of  shin  of  beef  and  put  it  on  a 
board. 

2.  We  must  cut  off  all  the  meat  from  the  bone,  with  a 
sharp  knife. 

3.  We  take  a  chopper  and  break  the  bone  in  half. 

4.  We  take  out  all  the  marrow  inside  the  bone,  and  put 
it  aside  for  other  uses. 

N.B. — If  the  marrow  were  to  go  into  the  stock,  it  would  make  it  greasy. 

5.  We  take  a  stockpot  or  a  large  stewpan,  and  put  the 
meat  and  bone  into  it. 

6.  We  pour  in  five  pints  of  cold  water. 

N.B. — One  pint  of water is  allowed  for  each  pound  of  meat,  and  one  pint  over. 

7.  We  put  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.     This  will  assist 
the  scum  to  rise. 

8.  We  put  the  stockpot  on  the  fire  with  the  lid  on,  and 
let  it  come  to  the  boil  quickly. 


2o8     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  We  take  four  young  carrots,  scrape  them  clean  with 
a  knife,  and  cut  them  in  pieces. 

10.  We  take  one  turnip  and  one  onion,  peel  them  and  cut 
them  in  quarters. 

11.  We  take  a  leek  and  half  a  head  of  celery  and  wash 
them  well  in  cold  water. 

12.  We  take  a  spoon  and  remove  the  scum  and  fat  from 
the  stock  as  it  rises. 

13.  Now  we  put  in  all  the  vegetables,  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  five  hours, 

14.  We  must  watch  and  skim  it  occasionally,  and  we 
should  add  a  little  cold  water  to  make  the  scum  rise. 

15.  We  take  a  clean  cloth  and  put  it  over  a  good-sized 
basin. 

16.  We  put  a  hair-sieve  on  the  top  of  the  cloth  over  the 
basin. 

17.  When  the  stock  has  been  simmering  for  five  hours  we 
take  the  stockpot  off  the  fire. 

18.  We  pour  the  contents  into  the  sieve,  which  contains 
the  meat,  bone,  and  vegetables ;  and  the  cloth  very  effectually 
strains  the  stock. 

N.B. — The  meat  and  bone  can  be  used  again  for  second  stock,  with  the 
addition  of  fresh  vegetables  and  water. 

19.  We  take  the  basin  (into  which  the  stock  has  been 
strained),  and  put  it  in  a  cool  place  till  the  next  day,  when 
it  will  be  a  stiff  jelly. 

20.  When  this  stock  jelly  is  required  for  use,  we  must 
take  off  the  fat  from  the  top  with  a  spoon. 

21.  We  take  a  clean  cloth  and  dip  it  in  hot  water,  and 
wipe  over  the  top  of  the  jelly  so  as  to  remove  every  particle 
of  fat. 

22.  Now  we  must  take  a  clean  dry  cloth  and  wipe  the 
top  of  the  jelly  dry.     It  is  now  ready  for  use. 

N.B. — For  some  soups,  vegetable  soups,  or  purees,  white  stock  is  required. 
White  stock  is  made  in  the  same  way,  only  with  veal  instead  of  beef, 
and  it  can  also  be  made  of  veal  and  beef  mixed,  or  rabbit  and  beef,  but 
veal  alone  is  considered  best. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soup.  —  Vegetable  Stock.     209 
VEGETABLE    STOCK. 

Average  cost  of  "  Vegetable  Stock  "  (about  two  quarts;. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  cabbage 1 

3  large  or  6  small  onions  i| 

2  carrots    1 

1  turnip o| 

2  oz.  of  butter 2 

3  cloves I 

30  peppercorns    I 

A  bunch  of  herbs  (thyme,  marjoram,  and  a  )     o\ 

bay-leaf)    

Salt    J 

6\ 

Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Vegetable  Stock. 

1.  We  take  one  cabbage,  wash  it  well  in  cold  water,  and 
cut  it  in  quarters. 

2.  We  take  two  carrots,  wash  them,  scrape  them  clean, 
and  cut  them  in  quarters. 

3.  We  take  one  turnip,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  quarters. 

4.  We  take  three  large  or  six  small  onions,  and  wash 
them  clean  (the  skins  are  to  be  left  on). 

5.  We  put  all  these  vegetables  into  a  saucepan,  with  tzuo 
oimces  of  butter. 

6.  We  also  add  a  bwich  of  herbs  (namely,  a  sprig  of 
thyme,  marjoram,  and  a  bay-leaf)  tied  tightly  together,  three 
cloves  and  thirty  peppercorns. 

7.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  let  the 
vegetables  and  herbs  sweat  in  the  butter  for  ten  mirmtes. 
We  must  stir  them  and  not  let  them  burn. 

8.  We  now  pour  in  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  add 
salt  according  to  taste. 

9.  When  the  water  boils  we  move  the  saucepan  to  the 
side  of  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  two  hours.  We 
must  watch  it  and  skim  it  occasionally. 


2io      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


10.  After  that  time  we  strain  the  stock  into  a  basin,  and 
it  is  ready  for  use.  It  is  now  reduced  to  two  quarts  and, 
7*"l,f  a  pint 

N.B. — This  stock  can  be  used  for  thick  vegetable  soups. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Boiled  Turbot. 


21  I 


FISH. 

Lesson  No.   l. 

BOILED   TURBOT,   AND   LOBSTER 
SAUCE. 

Turbot  varies  in  price  considerably. 

Average  cost  of  ingredients  for  "  Lobster  Sauce" 

s-  d- 

Lobster 2  0 

2  oz.  of  butter o  2 

i  tablespoonful  of  cream \  0  x  i 

i  oz.  of  flour i 

£  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  j  °  °^ 

2     4 

Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  boil  Turbot  and  make 
Lobster  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  the  turbot. 

2.  We  put  it  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  and  wash  it  well. 

3.  We  get  a  fishkettle  and  fill  it  with  cold  water,  add  to 
it  as  much  salt  as  will  make  the  water  taste  salt,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  boil. 

4.  We  take  the  turbot  out  of  the  basin. 

5.  We  put  it  on  the  drainer  of  the  fishkettle,  and  put  it 
in  the  kettle  of  boiling  water,  so  that  it  is  well  covered  with 
water. 

6.  We  let  it  boil  for  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour. 

7.  We  must  watch  it  and  skim  the  water  if  necessary. 

N.B. — While  the  turbot  is  boiling,  we  should  make  the  lobster  sauce  (see 
below). 

8.  When  the  fish  is  sufficiently  boiled,  the  flesh  will 
divide  from  the  bone. 

9.  Now  we  take  the  drainer  carefully  out  of  the  fishkettle, 
stand  it.  across  the  kettle  a  minute  to  drain,  and  slip  the  fish 
carefully  on  to  a  hot  dish  for  serving. 

O    2 


2  i  2      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

For  Lobster  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  a  small  lobster — it  should  be  a  hen  lobster  if 
possible. 

2.  We  put  the  lobster  on  a  board. 

3.  We  take  a  chopper  and  break  the  shell  of  the  lobster 
by  hitting  it  with  the  blade  of  the  chopper,  not  with  the 
edge  ;  1st  because  it  would  cut  the  lobster  in  pieces,  and 
2nd  because  it  would  spoil  the  edge  of  the  chopper. 

4.  We  break  all  the  shell  off  the  claws  and  back  with 
our  fingers  and  take  out  all  the  flesh. 

5.  We  cut  this  flesh  up  with  a  sharp  knife  to  the  size  of 
small  dice. 

6.  If  the  lobster  is  a  hen  lobster  we  shall  find  a  bit  of  coral 
in  the  neck,  and  a  strip  of  it  down  the  back. 

7.  We  take  all  this  coral  out  of  the  lobster  and  wash  it 
carefully  in  cold  water  in  a  small  basin. 

8.  We  take  the  coral  out  of  the  basin  and  put  it  in  a 
mortar  with  one  ounce  of  butter. 

9.  We  pound  the  coral  and  the  butter  well  with  the 
pestle. 

10.  We  take  it  out  of  the  mortar,  and  scrape  the  mortar 
out  quite  clean  with  a  palette  knife,  for  none  must  be  lost. 

11.  If  we  have  not  a  palette  knife  we  can  manage  as  well 
with  a  piece  of  uncooked  potato  cut  into  the  shape  of  a 
knife  blade  with  a  thick  back,  with  this  we  can  scrape  all 
out  of  the  mortar. 

12.  We  take  a  hair  sieve  and  put  it  over  a  plate. 

18.  We  rub  the  pounded  mixture  through  the  sieve  with 
the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon. 

14.  We  must  turn  up  the  sieve  when  all  the  mixture  has 
passed  through,  and  we  shall  find  some  sticking  on  the 
underneath  part. 

15.  We  scrape  all  this  carefully  off  with  the  spoon. 

16.  We  make  it  all  into  a  little  pat. 

17.  We  take  a  stewpan  and  put  in  it  one  ounce  of  butter 
and  one  ounce  of  flour. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Lobster  Sauce.   213 

18.  We  mix  them  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

19.  We  add  half  a  pint  of  cold  zvater. 

20.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire. 

21.  We  stir  the  mixture  smooth,  with  a  wooden  spoon 
until  it  boils,  and  thickens.  We  add  a  large  tablespooiiful  of 
cream,  and  stir  well  till  it  boils  again. 

22.  We  then  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  stand  it 
on  a  piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

23.  We  add  to  the  mixture  in  the  stewpan  the  pat  of 
coral  butter,  by  degrees,  to  colour  it. 

N.B.  — If  there  be  no  coral,  the  sauce  might  be  coloured  with  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  essence  of  anchovy. 

24.  We  stir  it  quite  smoothly  with  a  wooden  spoon,  it 
must  not  be  lumpy. 

25.  We  now  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  fezv  grains  of 
Cayenne  pepper,  according  to  taste. 

26.  We  take  the  chopped  lobster,  and  mix  it  into  the 
sauce,  and  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

27.  We  pour  the  sauce  into  a  sauceboat,  and  serve  it 
with  the  turbot. 


2 1 4     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

FISH. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

FISH    PUDDING. 

v   Average  cost  of  "  Fish  Pudding  and  Egg  Sauce, 

INGREDIENTS. 

"  Sauce." 


"Haddock." 

s.  d, 

Haddock i  o 

2  lbs.  of  potatoes    o  2 

2  oz.  of  butter o  2 

1  egg    , o  1 


d. 
2  oz.  of  butter    2 

1  oz.  of  flour oj 

\  gill  of  cream  .  ■. 3 

2  eggs  and  salt 2 


7) 


Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Fish  Pudding  with 
Haddock. 

N.B. — Any  cold  boiled  fish  can  be  used  for  the  fish  pudding,  instead  of  haddock. 

1.  We  take  a  fishkettle  of  warm  water,  and  we  put  in  it 
a  little  salt,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  take  a  haddock,  and  put  it  into  a  basin  of  cold 
water  and  wash  it  well. 

3.  We  take  the  haddock  out  of  the  basin  and  put  it  into 
the  fishkettle  of  boiling  water,  laying  it  carefully  on  the 
drainer  so  that  it  is  well  covered  with  water. 

4.  We  let  it  simmer  {or  fifteen  minutes. 

5.  We  take  six  potatoes,  put  them  into  a  basin  of  cold 
water,  and  scrub  them  well  with  a  scrubbing-brush. 

N.B. — Any  cold  potatoes  can  of  course  be  used  instead  of  boiling  fresh  ones, 

6.  We  take  the  potatoes  out  of  the  basin,  and  dry  them 
with  a  cloth. 

7.  We  take  a  sharp  knife  and  peel  \he  potatoes. 

8.  We  take  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  and  lay  the  potatoes 
in  it. 

9.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil.  It  must  not 
boil  less  than  twenty  minutes,  or  more  than  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  according  to  the  size  of  the  potatoes 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Fish  Pudding.     215 

10.  When  we  think  the  potatoes  are  sufficiently  done,  we 
take  a  steel  fork  and  try  the  potatoes,  to  see  if  they  are 
tender  all  through. 

11.  When  they  are  quite  boiled,  we  drain  off  all  the  water 
from  the  saucepan,  and  sprinkle  the  potatoes  with  a  little 
salt. 

12.  We  put  on  the  lid  of  the  saucepan,  and  stand  it 
by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  steam  the  potatoes  until  they  have 
become  quite  mealy  and  dry. 

13.  We  should  shake  the  saucepan  every  now  and  then, 
to  prevent  the  potatoes  from  sticking  to  the  bottom. 

14.  When  the  haddock  is  sufficiently  boiled,  we  take  it 
carefully  out  of  the  fishkettle. 

15.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  and  cut  off  the  head  and  tail 
of  the  fish. 

16.  We  skin  the  fish  from  the  head  to  the  tail. 

17.  We  cut  up  the  fish  and  take  out  all  the  bones. 

18.  We  cut  the  fish  up  into  small  pieces  the  size  of  dice, 
and  put  them  in  a  large  basin. 

19.  When  the  potatoes  are  steamed,  we  take  them  out  of 
the  saucepan  with  a  spoon. 

20.  We  have  a  wire  sieve  ready  standing  over  a  large 
plate. 

21.  We  rub  the  potatoes  quickly  through  the  sieve  with  a 
wooden  spoon. 

N.B. — The  potatoes  when  sifted  should  be  of  the  same  weight  as  the  Jlsh'. 

22.  We  add  the  sifted  potatoes  to  the  haddock,  and  mix 
them  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

23.  We  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne 
pepper  to  taste. 

24.  We  put  in  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter. 

25.  We  take  one  egg,  and  beat  it  slightly  in  a  basin. 

26.  We  pour  the  egg  into  the  above  mixture,  and  mix 
all  together  to  a  thick  paste. 

27.  We  take  a  large-sized  flat  tin,  and  butter  it  well  with 
our  fingers. 


2  1 6     National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

28.  We  put  the  mixture  on  to  this  tin,  and  shape  it  as 
well  as  we  can  like  a  haddock. 

N.B. — If  preferred,  the  mixture  can  be  formed  into  cutlets,  or  croquette 
shapes,  or  as  fish  cakes,  and  egged  and  bread  crumbed  and  fried  in 
dripping,  as  for  lobster  cutlets  (see  "Fish,"  Lesson  No.  j,  Note  34  to 
Note  40). 

29.  We  cut  up  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  small  pieces, 
and  put  them  all  about  on  the  shape. 

30.  We  put  the  tin  into  a  quick  oven  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.     It  should  become  a  pale-brown  colour. 

Now  we  will  make  the  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  a  stewpan,  and  put  in  it  two  ounces  of  butter 
and  one  ounce  of  flour. 

2.  We  mix  them  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

3.  We  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

4.  We  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water. 

5.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  all  smooth 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  boils. 

6.  We  now  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  cream,  and  let  it 
boil,  stirring  all  the  time. 

7.  We  stand  the  stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire.     The 
mixture  must  not  boil  again,  but  only  keep  warm. 

8.  We  take  a  saucepan  of  warm  water  and  put  it  on  the 
fire  to  boil. 

9.  When  the  water  boils  we  put  two  eggs  in  to  boil  for 
ten  minutes. 

10.  We  put  the  eggs  into  cold  water  for  a  minute,  and 
then  shell  them. 

11.  We  cut  the  eggs  with  a  sharp  knife  into  little  square 
pieces. 

12.  We  take  the  stewpan  of  sauce  off  the  fire,  and  stand 
it  on  a  piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

13.  We  add  the  cut-up  eggs  to  the  sauce,  and  stir  them 
lightly  in,  not  to  break  the  pieces  of  egg. 

14.  For  serving  we  move  the  fish  pudding  carefully  on 
to  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  egg-sauce  round. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — 'Whitebait.       i\-] 

FISH. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

WHITEBAIT. 

Whitebait  varies  in  price  ;  it  is  in  season  from  July  to  September. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  fry  Whitebait 

1.  We  take  a  saucepan,  and  put  in  it  one  pound  and  a 
half  of  lard,  or  clarified  dripping. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  heat  the  fat. 
When  the  fat  smokes  it  will  then  be  hot  enough. 

N.B. — The  fat  requires  to  be  much  hotter  for  frying  whitebait,  than  for  any- 
thing else. 

N.B. — If  possible  the  fat  should  be  tested  by  a  frimometer,  and  the  heat 
should  rise  to  400  degrees  Fahrenheit. 

3.  We  take  the  whitebait,  wash  them  in  iced  zvater,  pick 
them  over  carefully,  and  dry  them  well  in  a  cloth. 

4.  We  take  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  put  on  it  a  good  tea- 
cupful  of  flour. 

5.  We  take  the  whitebait,  and  sprinkle  them  in  the  flour. 
They  must  not  touch  each  other,  and  we  must  ringer  them 
as  little  as  possible. 

6.  We  take  up  the  paper,  and  shake  the  whitebait  well 
in  the  flour,  so  that  they  are  well  covered  with^^r. 

7.  We  turn  the  whitebait  from  the  paper  of  floitr,  into  a 
whitebait  basket,  and  sift  all  the  loose  floitr  back  on  to  the 
paper. 

8.  We  then  turn  the  whitebait  a  few  at  a  .time,  into  the 
frying  basket  and  put  it  into  the  boiling  fat  for  one  minute. 
The  whitebait  should  be  quite  crisp. 

9.  We  put  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  on  a  plate, 
stand  the  plate  near  the  fire,  and  turn  the  fried  whitebait 
on  to  the  paper  to  drain  off  the  grease.  (We  serve  them 
on  a  napkin  on  a  hot  dish.  Lemon  cut,  and  thin  slices  of 
brown  bread  and  bittter  should  be  served  with  the  white- 
bait^ 


218      National  Training  School  for  Cookery 


FISH. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

SOLE    AU    GRATIN. 

Average  cost  of  "  Sole  au  Gratin" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  sole  1  o 

Parsley  and  \  of  shalot    o  oh 

4  mushrooms o  2 

A  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice . .  I  t 

Salt  and  pepper j  °  °5 

2  tablespoonsful  of  glaze o  3 

I  oz.  butler o  07 

Crumbs  o  og 


1     7 

Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Sole  ait  Gratin. 

1.  We  take  a  small  sole  and  cut  off  with  a  sharp  knife 
the  outside  fins. 

2.  We  cut  through  the  skin  only,  across  the  head  and 
the  tail,  on  both  sides  of  the  fish. 

3.  We  take  the  skin  off  from  the  tail  to  the  head. 

4.  We  wash  the  sole  in  cold  water  and  dry  it  with  a 
cloth,  and  nick  it  with  a  knife  on  both  sides. 

5.  We  can  cook  the  sole  in  fillets,  if  required,  or  whole. 
(N.B.  —If  in  fillets,  we  fillet  the  sole  the  same  as  for  the 
fried  fillets  in  Lesson  No.  6.)  We  are  going  to  cook  the 
sole  whole. 

6.  We  take  a  small  bunch  of  parsley  and  dry  it  well  in  a 
cloth. 

7.  We  chop  the  parsley  up  finely  on  a  board. 

8.  We  chop  a  quarter  of  a  shalot  up  finely  and  mix  it 
with  the  parsley. 

9.  The  chopped  parsley  and  shalot  should  fill  a  tablespoon. 

10.  We  take  four  small  mitshrooms,  cut  off  the  roots,  and 
then  wash  the  mushrooms  well  in  a  basin  of  cold  water. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Sole  au  Gratin.    219 

11.  We  take  them  out  of  the  water,  dry  them  in  a  cloth 
and  peel  them. 

12.  We  chop  them  up  finely. 

13.  We  take  a  dish,  and  spread  a  little  butter  on  it  with 
our  fingers. 

14.  We  sprinkle  half  of  the  chopped  parsley,  shalot,  and 
mushroom  over  the  bottom  of  the  buttered  dish. 

15.  We  pour  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  over  the 
chopped  parsley,  shalot,  and  mushroom  in  the  dish,  also 
sprinkle  half  a  saltspoonfid  of  salt  and  a  quarter  of  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper. 

16.  We  lay  the  sole  carefully  in  the  dish,  and  sprinkle 
over  it  the  remainder  of  the  chopped  parsley,  shalot,  and 
mushroom. 

17.  We  sprinkle  over  the  sole  pepper  and  salt  (enough 
to  cover  a  threepenny  piece),  and  squeeze  over  it  half  a  tea- 
spoonfid  of  lemon  juice. 

18.  We  take  half  an  ounce  of  butter  and  cut  it  in  small 
pieces  and  put  them  over  the  sole. 

19.  We  pour  over  it  two  tablespoonsful  of  glaze. 

N.B. — Glaze  can  be  bought,  or  it  can  be  made  by  reducing  some  strong 
stock  over  the  fire  (see  "Stews,"  Lesson  No  4,  Note  12). 

20.  We  take  a  wire  sieve  and  put  it  over  a  piece  of 
paper. 

21.  We  take  some  crumb  of  bread  and  rub  it  through 
the  sieve. 

22.  We  take  these  bread  crumbs  and  put  them  on  a  flat 
tin.  We  put  this  tin  into  the  oven  to  dry,  and  slightly 
brown,  the  bread  crumbs. 

23.  When  the  crumbs  are  done  we  sift  them  over  the 

sole. 

24.  We  now  put  the  dish  into  a  brisk  oven  for  ten 
minutes.  We  must  take  a  fork  and  feel  in  the  thick  part 
of  the  sole  if  the  fish  is  tender. 

25.  We  carefully  move  the  sole  with  a  slice  on  to  a  clean 
dish,  and  pour  the  saucf  round.     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


220     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

FISH. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

FILLETS    OF    SOLES    A    LA    MAiTRE 
D'HOTEL. 

Average  cost  of  "  Fillets  of  Soles  a  la  Maitre  d' Hotel" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

Sole ....  r  o 

Lemon  juice ; o  o\ 

1  oz.  of  butter o  i" 

I  oz.  of  flour , o  oj 

\  gill  of  cream o  3 


1     4f 


Time  required  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Fillets  of  Soles  a  la 
Maitre  d' Hotel 

N.B. — Fillets  of  plaice  or  whiting  could  be  cooked  in  this  way. 

1.  We  take  one  sole  and  fillet  it  in  the  same  way  as  for 
fried  fillets  (see  "  Fish,"  Lesson  No.  6). 

2.  We  take  the  bones  and  fins  of  the  sole,  put  them  into 
a  stewpan  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  put  it  on  the  fire 
to  boil. 

3.  We  take  a  flat  tin  pan  and  butter  it  with  our  fingers. 

4.  We  fold  the  fillets  loosely  over  and  lay  them  in  the 
buttered  tin. 

5.  We  sprinkle  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  over 
the  fillets  and  squeeze  six  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and  cover 
them  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper. 

6.  We  put  the  tin  with  the  fillets  into  a  sharp  oven  for 
six  minutes. 

Now  we  will  make  the  Sauce. 

N.B. — If  there  be  no  cream,  the  sauce  can  be  made  with  milk  ;  the  bones  of 
the  fish  should  therefore  be  boiled  in  half  a  pint  of  milk  instead  of  water. 


Cooking  Fish. — Soles  a  la  Maitre  oT Hotel  22  \ 

1.  We  take  a  small  bunch  of  parsley \  wash  it,  dry  it,  and 
chop  it  finely  with  a  knife  on  a  board. 

2.  We  take  a  stewpan  and  put  in  it  one  ounce  of  butter 
and  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  flour. 

3.  We  mix  them  smoothly  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

4.  We  take  the  saucepan  of  fish  stock  and  pour  it  by 
degrees  through  a  strainer  into  the  stewpan  of  butter  and 
flour,  stirring  well. 

5.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  stir  the  mixture 
smoothly  with  a  wooden  spoon  ;  we  now  add  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  cream  and  stir  it  well  until  it  Hoils. 

6.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  and  stand  it  on  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

7.  We  add  the  chopped  parsley  to  the  mixture. 

8.  We  add  half  a  teaspoonfid  of  lemon  juice,  salt,  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  stir  the  sauce  well. 

9.  Now  we  take  the  fillets  out  of  the  oven  and  arrange 
them  on  a  hot  dish  ;  we  add  the  liquor  from  the  fillets  oj 
soles  out  of  the  tin,  to  the  sauce. 

10.  We  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fillets  of  soles.  It  is  now 
ready  for  serving. 


222     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

FISH. 

Lesson  No.  6. 

FRIED    FILLETS   OF   SOLE. 

Average  cost  of ' " Fried  Fillets  of  Sole,  and  Anchovy  Sauce!' 

INGREDIENTS. 
For  "Fried  Sole."  |  For  ' '  Anchovy  Sauce." 


s.  d. 

1 1  lb.  of  lard  or  clarified  drip- 
ping for  frying    

Sole  i  o 

i  egg     o  i 

Crumbs    o  o| 


d. 

i  oz.  fresh  butter v  i 

\-oz.  flour I 

Anchovy  sauce [;       t 


Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Fry  Fillets  of  Sole,  Plaice, 
or  Whiting. 

1.  We  take  one  sole,  wash  it  well,  and  lay  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  off  all  the  outside  fins, 
the  head,  and  the  tail. 

3.  We  take  the  skin  off  the  sole,  from  the  tail  to  the  head. 

4.  We  cut  down  the  centre  of  the  fish. 

5.  We  slide  the  knife  along  carefully  between  the  flesh 
and  the  bones,  holding  the  flesh  in  one  hand  and  drawing 
it  gently  away  as  the  knife  cuts  it  away  from  the  bone. 

6.  We  do  both  sides  of  the  fish  alike,  and  it  will  make 
four  fillets. 

7.  We  put  each  fillet  separately  on  a  plate,  and  rub  it 
over  with  flour. 

8.  We  take  a  wire  sieve  and  stand  it  over  a  piece  of 
paper. 

9.  We  take  some  crumb  of  bread  and  rub  it  through  the 
sieve. 

10.  We  take  one  egg  and  beat  it  on  a  plate  with  a  knife. 

11.  We  lay  the  fillets  in  the  egg,  and  egg  them  well  all 
over  with  a  brush. 


Lessons  on  Cod  king  Fish. — Fried  Fillets  of  Sole.   223 

12.  We  then  put  them  in  the  bread  crumbs,  and  cover 
them  well.  We  should  be  careful  to  finger  them  as  little 
as  possible. 

13.  We  take  a  saucepan,  and  put  in  it  one  pound  and  a 
half  of  lard  or  clarified  dripping. 

Now  we  must  make  the  Butter  Sauce  with  Anchovy  (see 
below). 

14.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  heat  the  fat. 
Test  the  heat  of  it  by  throwing  in  a  piece  of  bread,  and  if 
it  makes  a  fizzing  noise  it  is  ready. 

N.B.  The  heat  is  tested  best  by  a  frimometer  ;  the  heat  should  rise  to  345*. 

15.  We  take  a  frying  basket,  and  place  in  it  the  fillets. 

16.  The  fillets  should  be  slightly  bent,  or  folded  over,  to 
prevent  their  being  quite  flat  when  fried. 

17.  When  the  fat  is  quite  hot,  we  put  in  the  frying 
basket,  with  the  fillets,  for  three  minutes. 

18.  We  put  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  on  a  plate. 

19.  When  the  fillets  are  done,  they  should  be  a  pale 
brown  :  we  turn  them  out  on  to  the  paper  on  the  plate,  to 
drain  off  the  grease. 

20.  We  serve  them  in  a  hot  dish  on  a  napkin,  garnished 
with  a  little  fried  parsley  [Refer  to  "  Fish,"  Lesson  No.  7, 
Note  41]. 

For  Anchovy  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  a  stewpan,  and  put  in  it  one  ounce  of  butter 
and  half  an  ounce  of  flour. 

2.  We  mix  them  well  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

3.  We  add  one  gill  and  a  half  of  cold  water. 

4.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  well  with  a 
ivooden  spoon  until  the  mixture  is  quite  smooth  and  boils. 

5.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  stand  it  on  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

N.B. — About  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  butter  stirred  into  the  sauce  at  the 
last,  very  much  improves  it. 

6.  We  now  add  one  tablespoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  and 
stir  it  well  into  the  butter  sauce. 

1.  For  serving,  we  pour  it  into  a  sauceboat. 


224     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


FISH. 
Lesson  No.  7. 

LOBSTER    CUTLETS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Lobster  Cutlets"  {about  seven). 
INGREDIENTS. 


s.    d. 
ik  oz.  of  butter 


1  lobster 


o  i* 

1  tablespoonful  of  cream 0  ii 

Seasoning  and  flavouring 0  i~ 

I  oz.  of  flour 0  0l 

iegg '..'.'..'.  o  i4 

Bread 0  ql 

Parsley    0  0| 

Time  required  about  three  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Lobster  Cutlets. 

1.  We  take  a  small  lobster — it  should  be  a  hen  lobster  if 
possible. 

2.  We  put  the  lobster  on  a  board. 

3.  We  take  a  chopper  and  break  the  shell  of  the  lobster 
by  hitting  it  with  the  blade  of  the  chopper,  not  with  the 
edge  ;  1st,  because  it  would  cut  the  lobster  in  pieces,  and 
2nd,  because  it  would  spoil  the  edge  of  the  chopper. 

4.  We  break  all  the  shell  off  the  claws  and  back  with  our 
fingers  and  take  out  all  the  Jlesh. 

5.  We  cut  this  flesh  up  in  pieces,  with  a  sharp  knife  to 
the  size  of  dice. 

6.  If  the  lobster  is  a  hen  lobster  we  shall  find  a  bit  of 
coral  in  the  neck,  and  a  strip  of  it  down  the  back. 

7.  We  take  all  this  coral  out  of  the  lobster  and  wash  it 
carefully  in  cold  water  in  a  small  basin. 

8.  We  take  the  coral  oat  of  the  basin  and  put  it  in  a 
mortar  with  one  ounce  of  butter. 

9.  We  pound  the  coral  and  the  butter  well  with  the 
pestle. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Lobster  Cutlets.     225 


10.  We  take  it  out  of  the  mortar  and  scrape  the  mortar 
out  quite  clean  with  a  palette  knife  or  a  slice  of  raw  potato, 
for  none  must  be  lost. 

11.  We  take  a  hair  sieve  and  put  it  over  a  plate. 

12.  We  pass  the  pounded  mixture  through  the  sieve  with 
a  wooden  spoon. 

13.  We  must  turn  up  the  sieve  when  all  the  mixture  has 
passed  through,  and  we  shall  find  some  sticking  inside. 

14.  We  scrape  all  this  carefully  off  with  the  spoon. 

15.  We  make  it  all  into  a  little  pat. 

16.  We  take  a  stewpan  and  put  in  it  one  ounce  of  flour 
and  half  an  ounce  of  butter.  We  mix  them  well  together 
with  a  wooden  spoon. 

17.  We  add  one  gill  of  cold  water  (one  gill  is  a  quarter 
pint).  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  stir  the  mixture 
with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it  boils  and  thickens. 

18.  We  add  one  tablespoonful  of  cream  and  stir  smoothly 
until  it  boils. 

19.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  and  stand  it  on  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

20.  We  now  stir  in  by  degrees  the  pat  of  coral  butter. 
We  must  be  sure  the  sauce  is  quite  smooth  and  not 
lumpy. 

21.  We  add  salt  and  pepper  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne 
pepper,  according  to  taste,  and  about  six  drops  of  lemon  face, 
and  mix  well. 

22.  We  add  the  chopped  lobster,  and  mix  it  with  the 
sauce. 

23.  We  take  a  clean  plate  and  pour  the  mixture  from 
the  stewpan  on  to  it,  smoothing  it  with  a  knife. 

24.  We  take  a  piece  of  paper  and  cut  it  round  to  the 
size  of  the  plate.     We  butter  it  with  a  knife. 

25.  We  put  the  buttered  paper  over  the  mixture  which 
is  in  the  plate,  to  prevent  the  dust  from  getting  in. 

26.  We  take  the  plate  and  stand  it  on  ice  (if  possible), 
or  put  it  in  a  cold  place  to  cool. 


226      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

27.  We  take  a  wire  sieve  and  put  it  over  a  piece  of 
paper. 

28.  We  take  a  piece  of  crumb  of  bread  and  rub  it 
through  the  wire  sieve. 

29.  We  take  one  egg  and  beat  it  slightly  with  a  knife  on 
a  plate. 

30.  We  take  a  saucepan  and  put  in  it  one  pound  and  a 
half  of  lard  or  clarified  dripping. 

31.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  heat  the  fat.  It 
must  not  burn. 

32.  We  take  the  plate  of  lobster  mixture,  which  should 
by  this  time  be  cold  and  rather  stiff. 

33.  We  shape  the  mixture  into  cutlets.  This  quantity 
will  make  seven. 

34.  We  dip  the  cutlets  into  the  egg,  and  egg  them  well  all 
over  with  a  brush. 

35.  We  take  them  carefully  out  of  the  egg  and  cover 
them  well  with  the  bread  crumbs. 

N.B. — If  the  cutlets  are  not  well  covered  with  egg  and  bread-crumbs  they 
will  burst  in  the  frying. 

36.  We  take  a  frying  basket  and  lay  in  it  the  lobster 
cutlets,  a  few  at  a  time,  so  as  not  to  touch  each  other. 

37.  When  the  fat  is  quite  hot,  we  should  test  it  by  a 
frimometer  if  possible,  and  the  heat  should  rise  to  345°, 
or  by  throwing  into  it  a  piece  of  bi'ead :  if  it  makes  a  sharp 
fizzing  noise  it  is  ready. 

38.  We  put  the  frying  basket  into  the  fat,  for  three 
minutes,  or  perhaps  less.  The  cutlets  should  become  a  pale 
brown. 

39.  We  put  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  on  a  plate 
ready  to  receive  the  cutlets  when  they  come  out  of  the 
boiling /#£     This  is  to  drain  all  the  grease  from  them. 

40.  We  take  the  small  claws  of  the  lobster,  and  stick 
them  into  the  end  of  each  cutlet,  to  represent  the  bone. 

41.  We  take  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  wash  them,  dry 
them  in  a  cloth,  and  put  them  into  the  frying  basket. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Lobster  Cutlets.    227 

42.  We  just  toss  the  basket  with  the  parsley  into  the 
boiling/^  for  a  second. 

43.  We  arrange  the  cutlets  on  a  napkin  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  garnish  them  with  the  fried  parsley.  It  is  now  ready 
for  serving. 


22S     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

FISH. 

Lesson  No.  8. 

BOILED    COD    FISH    AND    OYSTER 
SAUCE. 

Cod-fish  varies  in  price  considerably. 
It  is  in  season  from  October  to  February. 

Average  cost  of  "  Oyster  Sauce!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.     d. 

i  dozen  oysters i     6 

i-oz.  butter    (  , 

£-oz.  flour J 

i  tablespoonful  of  cream     o     ih 

Lemon-juice  and  cayenne  pepper o    o^ 

i     8i 

Time  required  about  twe?ity  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Cod  Fish^  and  make 
Oyster  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  a  slice  of  cod  weighing  one  pound. 

2.  We  put  it  in  a  basin  of  cold  water,  and  wash  it  well. 

3.  We  take  a  small  fish-kettle  and  fill  it  with  warm  water, 
and  add  to  it  as  much  salt  as  will  make  the  water  taste  salt. 

4.  We  put  the  fish-kettle  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

5.  We  take  the  cod  out  of  the  basin,  and  place  it  on 
the  drainer  in  the  fish-kettle,  and  let  it  boil  for  fifteen 
mint  ties. 

N.B. — It  must  not  boil  fast. 

N.B. — While  ihejis/i  is  boiling,  we  should  make  the  sauce  :  see  below. 

6.  When  the  slice  of  cod  is  sufficiently  cooked,  the  flesh 
will  leave  the  bone 

N.B. — The  bone  is  usually  left  in,  or  the  fish  would  break  to  pieces. 

7.  We  serve  the  slice  of  cod  on  a  folded  napkin  on  a  hot 
dish,  with  oyster  sauce. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Oyster  Saitce.      229 

For  Oyster  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  oiie  dozen  oysters  and  the  liquor  that  is  with 
them,  and  put  them  into  a  small  saucepan. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  bring  them  to 
the  boil,  this  is  to  blanch  the  oysters. 

3.  We  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire  as  soon  as  it  boils. 

4.  We  take  a  basin  and  pour  into  it  the  oyster  liquor 
through  a  strainer. 

5.  We  take  the  oysters,  and  lay  them  on  a  plate. 

6.  We  take  off  the  beards  and  all  the  hard  parts  of  the 
oysters,  leaving  only  the  soft  part. 

7.  We  take  a  stewpan  and  put  in  half  an  oimce  of  butter, 
and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  flour. 

8.  We  mix  the  floiLr  and  the  butter  well  together  with 
a  wooden  spoon. 

9.  We  now  add  to  the  contents  of  the  stewpan  the 
oyster  liquor  which  is  in  the  basin. 

10.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  stir  the  mixture 
well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

11.  We  now  add  one  tablespoonfid  of  cream,  and  stir 
again  until  it  boils. 

12.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  and  stand  it  on  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

13.  We  add  six  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  a  few  grains  of 
cayenne  pepper  according  to  taste. 

14.  We  take  the  trimmed  oysters  and  cut  them  into 
small  pieces. 

15.  We  add  the  pieces  of  oyster  to  the  mixture  in  the 
stewpan  and  mix  all  together  with  a  wooden  spoon.  We 
then  pour  the  sauce  into  a  hot  sauce-boat  and  it  is  ready 
for  serving. 


230     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

FISH. 

Lesson  No.  9. 

GRILLED   SALMON,  AND   TARTARE 
SAUCE. 

Salmon  varies  in  price  considerably. 
It  is  in  season  from  May  to  August. 

Average  cost  of  "  Tartare  Sauce? 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  eggs  2 

Salt  and  pepper i 

A  tablespoonful  of  French  vinegar /  z 

Gherkins  or  capers I 

1  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard  \  x 

1  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar J  °2 

1  gill  of  oil  6 


10 
Time  required,  about  fifteen  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Salmon,  and  make 
Tartare  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  a  slice  of  salmon  weighing  one  pound. 

2.  We  wipe  the  salmon  with  a  clean  cloth. 

3.  We  take    a   plate,   and   pour  on  it  about  a  gill  of 
salad  oil. 

4.  We  dip  the  slice  of  salmon  into  the  oil,  on  both  sides 
the  oil  will  prevent  the  fish  from  drying  whilst  cooking. 

5.  We  season  the  slice  on  both  sides,  with  pepper  am 
salt. 

6.  We  take  a  gridiron  and  heat  it  on  both  sides,  by  the 
fire.     This  is  to  prevent  the  fish  sticking. 

7.  When  the  gridiron   is  hot,  we   place  on  the  slice  of 
salmon,  and  let  it  grill  for  a  quarter,  of  an  hour. 

N.B. — While  the  salmon  is  cooking,  we  must  make  the  sauce. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Grilled  Salmon.     231 

8.  We  must  turn  the  gridiron  occasionally,  so  as  to  cook 
the  fish  on  both  sides,  which  should  become  of  a  pale 
brown  colour. 

9.  When  the  fish  is  quite  done,  we  can  remove  the  bone 
from  the  centre  of  the  slice.  We  serve  the  salmon  on  a 
napkin  on  a  hot  dish. 


For  Tartare  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  two  eggs,  put  the  yolks  in  one  basin,  and 
the  zvhitcs  (which  will  not  be  wanted)  into  another  basin. 

2.  We  take  a  wooden  spoon,  and  just  stir  the  yolks 
enough  to  break  them. 

3.  We  add  to  them  a  saltspoonfid  of  salt,  and  half  a 
saltspoonfid  of  pepper,  and  a  tablespoonfid  of  French  vinegar. 

4.  We  take  a  bottle  of  salad  oil,  and,  putting  our  thumb 
half  over  the  top,  pour  in  drop  by  drop,  the  oil,  stirring 
well  with  a  whisk  the  whole  time ;  a  gill  of  oil  will  be 
sufficient. 

5.  We  now  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  ready-made  mustard, 
and  a  teaspoonfid  of  tarragon  vinegar. 

6.  We  take  a  few  gherkins  or  capers,  and  chop  them  up 
finely  on  a  board,  there  should  be  enough  to  fill  a  table- 
spoon. 

7.  We  take  these  chopped  gherkins  or  capers  and  put 
them  all  into  the  sauce,  and  mix  them  with  a  spoon. 

8.  We  serve  the  sauce  in  a  sauce  tureen,  with  the  grilled 
salmon. 


232 


National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


FISH. 

Lesson  No.  10. 

BAKED    MACKEREL    OR    HERRING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Mackerel  or  Herring  "  (baked  with 
bread  crumbs  and  herbs). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  mackerel  6d.  or  herrings  2d. 

1  dessertspoonful  of  chopped  herbs  and  onions  1 

1  dessertspoonful  of  chopped  parsley    o\ 

1  dessertspoonful  of  bread  crumbs )  L 

Pepper  and  salt j  °z 

2  oz.  of  dripping 1 


3 


With  Herrings,  $d. 
With  Mackerel,  gd. 

Time  required  about  forty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  bake  Mackerel  01 
Herrings  with  herbs  and  bread  crumbs. 

1.  We  wash  the  mackerel  or  herrings  in  cold  water,  dry 
them  in  a  cloth,  and  put  them  upon  a  board. 

2.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  cut  off  the  heads  of  the  fish 
and  carefully  split  open  each  fish  and  take  out  the  back 
bone. 

3.  We  lay  one  fish  open  flat  on  a  tin  (skin  downwards). 

4.  We  take  a  sprig  of  parsley \  wash  it  in  water,  and  dry 
it  in  a  cloth. 

5.  We  put  the  parsley  on  a  board  and  take  away  the 
stalks  and  chop  it  up  as  finely  as  possible  (there  should  be 
about  a  dessertspoonful). 

6.  We  take  half  an  onion,  peel  it,  put  it  on  a  board,  with 
a  sprig  of  thyme  and  marjoram,  and  chop  them  up  finely 
(there  should  be  about  a  dessertspoonful). 

7.  We  take  a  grater,  stand  it  on  the  board,  and  grate  a 
few  bread  crumbs  (there    should  be  about  a  dessertspoonful). 


Cooking  Fish. — Baked  Mackerel  or  Herring.   233 

8.  We  mix  the  onion,  herbs,  and  bread  crumbs  together. 

9.  We  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  over  the  fish  in 
the  tin. 

10.  We  then  sprinkle  over  the  fish  the  mixture  of  herbs 
and  bread  crumbs. 

11.  We  take  the  other  fish  and  lay  it  over  the  one  in  the 
tin  (skin  upwards). 

12.  We  put  two  ounces  of  clarified  dripping  in  a  saucepan, 
and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  melt. 

13.  We  pour  the  melted  dripping  over  the  fish  in  the  tin. 

14.  We  cover  the  tin  with  a  dish,  and  stand  it  on  the  hot 
plate  or  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

15.  We  must  watch  it  and  baste  it  occasionally  with  the 
dripping. 

16.  For  serving,  we  turn  the  fish  carefully  out  of  the  tin 
on  to  a  hot  dish. 


234      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

FISH. 

Lesson  No.  ii. 

BAKED    STUFFED    HADDOCK. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Stuffed  Haddock  "  (baked). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  Haddock s 6 

Bread  crumbs i 

i  dessertspoonful  of  chopped  parsley    oV 

i  teaspoonful  of  chopped  herbs o* 

Pepper  and  salt ) 

2  oz.  of  suet J 

i  egg i 

2  oz.  of  dripping i 

ii 

Time  required,  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Stuff  a  Haddock  and 
Bake  it. 

1.  We  take  a  haddock,  wash  it,  clean  It  carefully  in  cold 
water,  and  dry  it  in  a  cloth. 

2.  We  stand  a  grater  on  a  piece  of  paper  and  grate  some 
bread  crumbs. 

3.  We  take  a  sprig  of  parsley,  wash  it  in  cold  water,  and 
dry  it  in  a  cloth. 

4.  We  put  the  parsley  on  a  board,  and  chop  it  up  finely 
(There  should  be  about  a  dessertspoonful.) 

5.  We  take  a  small  sprig  of  thyme  and  marjoram,  take 
away  the  stalks,  and  chop  the  herbs  up  finely  on  a  board. 
(There  should  be  about  a  teaspoonful) 

N.B. — The  stalks  will  do  for  flavouring,  but  they  cannot  be  eaten,  as  they 
are  bitter. 

6.  We  mix  all  the  herbs  together  with  two  tablespoon sf til 
of  the  bread  crumbs. 

N.B. — The  remainder  of  the  bread  crumbs  we  shall  require  for  rolling  the 
fish  in. 

7.  We  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  mix  the  stuffing 
together  with  two  ounces  of  suet  (finely  chopped). 


Cooking  Fish. — Baked  Stuffed  Haddock.      235 

8.  We  stuff  the  belly  of  the  fish  with  the  stuffing  and  sew 
it  up. 

9.  We  break  an  egg  into  a  plate,  and  brush  the  fish  over 
with  it,  then  roll  it  in  the  bread  crumbs,  covering  it  well  all 
over. 

10.  We  grease  a  dish  or  tin  with  a  piece  of  dripping. 

11.  We  lay  the  fish  on  the  dish  or  tin  and  put  it  into  the 
oven  to  bake  for  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour% 
basting  it  frequently  with  dripping. 

12.  Before  serving,  we  should  carefully  take   away  the 
cotton  with  which  the  fish  was  sewed. 


236       National   Training  School  for  Cookery 


FISH. 

Lesson  No.  12. 

FISH    BAKED    IN    VINEGAR. 

Average  cost  of  "  Fish  Baked  in  Vinegary 

INGREDIENTS- 

d. 

6  Herrings   6 

30  peppercorns    \ 

1  blade  of  mace / 

1  shalot    : I      x 

1  bay  leaf j 

1  gill  (J  pint)  of  vinegar    |        , 

Salt  j     °* 

~7\ 


Time  required,  abotit  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Bake  Fish  (such  as 
herrings  or  mackerel),  in  Vinegar. 

1.  We  take  the  fish,  wash  them,  and  clean  them  tho- 
roughly in  cold  water. 

2.  We  put  the  fish  on  a  board,  and  cut  them  into  thick 
pieces. 

3.  We  lay  these  pieces  close  together  in  a  stone  jar,  with 
thirty  peppercorns  and  half  a  teaspoonfid  of  salt. 

4.  We  add  one  blade  of  mace  and  a  bay-leaf. 

5.  We  take  one  shalot,  peel  it,  and  add  it,  or  part  of  it 
(according  to  taste),  to  the  fish. 

6.  We  pour  in  one  gilt  (a  quarter  of  a  pint)  of  vinegar,  and 
tie  a  piece  of  brown  paper  tightly  over  the  top  of  the  jar 
with  a  piece  of  string. 

7.  We  put  the  jar  into  a  very  slow  oven  to  bake  for  two 
hours,  or  it  may  stand  in  a  baker's  oven  all  night. 

N.B.  —  The  fish  is  to  be  eaten  cold. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish.  —  Fried  Plaice.      237 


FISH. 

Lesson  No.   13. 

FRIED    PLAIOE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Plaice"  (fried). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d 

1  Plaice 1     o 

1  egg o     1 

Bread  crumbs    o     o 

Dripping  for  frying 

1     1 

Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  fry  Plaice  in  Egg  and 
Bread  Crumbs,  or  Batter. 

1.  We  put  about  half  a  pound  of  clarified  dripping  into  a 
saucepan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  heat. 

2.  We  take  the  plaice,  wash  it  in  cold  water,  and  dry  it 
in  a  cloth. 

3.  We  put  the  plaice  on  a  board,  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
carefully  cut  off  the  head  and  the  tail. 

4.  We  hold  a  grater  over  a  piece  of  paper  and  grate 
some  bread  crumbs. 

5.  We  cut  up  the  fish  into  slices  or  fillets. 

6.  We  break  an  egg  on  to  a  plate  and  beat  it  lightly  with 
a  knife. 

7.  We  dip  the  slices  of  fish  into  the  egg,  and  egg  them 
well  all  over. 

8.  We  then  roll  them  in  the  bread  crumbs,  covering  them 

well. 

N.B. — We  must  shake  off  the  loose  crumbs. 

9.  When  the  dripping  is  quite  hot  and  smoking  we  care- 


238      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

fully  put  in  the  fish,  fingering  it  as  little  as  possible,  so  as 
not  to  take  off  any  of  the  egg  or  bread  crumbs. 

N.B. — We  should  not  put  too  many  pieces  at  a  time  into  the  dripping,  as 
they  must  not  touch  each  other. 

10.  We  put  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  on  to  a  plate, 
and  as  the  fis/i  is  fried  we  take  it  out  of  the  dripping  care- 
fully with  a  slice,  and  lay  it  on  the  paper  to  drain  off  the 
grease. 

N.B. — Soles  or  any  fish  can  be  fried  in  the  same  way. 

N.B. — For  frying  fish  in  batter,  we  dip  each  piece  of  fish  in  the  batter,  made 
as  for  meat  fritters  (see  Cooked  Meat,  Lesson  No.  2),  and  fry  it  in  the 
same  way  as  above. 

11.  For  serving  we  should  arrange  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish 
and  garnish  it  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Boiled  Fish.        239 

FISH. 
Lesson  No.  14. 

I  BOILED   FISH. 

^Average  cost  of  the  Sauce  to  be  served  with  boiled  fish 
(about  half  a  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  oz.  of  butter i 

\  oz.  flour    o\ 

Anchovy  sauce  or  lemon  juice o\ 

jL 

Time  required  for  boiling  fish,  about  twenty  minutes  to  three  quarters  of  an  hourt 
according  to  the  size  of  the  fish. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Boil  Fish. 

1.  We  put  a  saucepan  or  fish-kettle  of  water  on  the  fire 
to  boil. 

2.  We  take  the  fish  and  clean  it  thoroughly  in  cold 
water. 

3.  When  the  water  is  warm,  we  put  in  the  fish  on  a 
strainer  or  a  plate  (there  should  be  sufficient  water  just  to 
cover  the  fish.) 

N.B. — For  salmon  the  water  must  be  boiling,  but  for  all  other  fish  it  should 
only  be  warm  water. 

4.  We  also  put  in  some  salt,  enough  to  make  the  water 
taste  salt. 

5.  We  put  the  lid  on  the  saucepan,  and  move  it  to  the 
side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  gently  iox  from  twenty  minutes  to 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  (according  to  the  size  of  the  fish). 

6.  We  must  watch  it  and  skim  it  occasionally. 

7.  When  we  find  that  the  skin  of  the  fish  is  cracking,  we 
shall  know  that  it  is  sufficiently  boiled. 

While  the  fish  is  boiling  we  make  Melted  Butter  sauce 
(see  "  Sauces/'  Lesson  No.  7). 


240     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

8.  For  serving,  we  take  the  fish  carefully  out  of  the 
saucepan  and  place  it  on  a  hot  dish,  we  pour  the  sauce  into 
a  sauce  boat  or  a  basin,  or  round  thefish. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Stewed  Eels.      241 


FISH. 

Lesson  No.   15. 

STEWED    EELS. 

Average  cost  of  "  stewed  Eels!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  lb.  of  eels i  o 

1  oz.  of  flour o  o \ 

1  oz.  of  butter o  i 

1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley \  , 

Cayenne  pepper  and  salt    /  °  °- 

1     i| 

Time  required,  about  half  a?i  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Stew  Eels. 

1.  We  must  put  the  eels  on  a  board,  cut  off  their  heads, 
and  cut  down  the  front  of  them,  clean  them  thoroughly 
inside,  and  skin  them,  beginning  from  the  head. 

2.  We  now  cut  them  in  pieces,  about  one  inch  in  length, 
wash  the  pieces  in  cold  water,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan, 
with  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire, 
and  when  it  comes  to  the  boil,  skim  it  well,  and  move  it  to 
the  side  of  the  fire,  to  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 

3.  We  put  one  ounce  of  flour  in  a  basin,  and  mix  it  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  about  a  iiblespoonful  of 'water. 

4.  We  take  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  wash  it,  dry  it, 
and  chop  it  up  finely  on  a  board,  there  should  be  about  a 
tcaspoonful. 

5.  When  the  eels  have  simmered,  we  stir  in  the  flour,  and 
season  it  with  very  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  let  it  cook  over  the  fire,  for  about  five  minutes ;  we 
must  stir  it  well. 

N.B. — If  liked,  about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  might  be  added. 


242     National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

6.  We  now  add  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  stir  it  well,  and 
then  add  the  chopped  parsley. 

7.  For  serving,  we  arrange  the  eels  in  a  circle  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  round. 

N.B. — Eels  must  be  very  fresh,  they  should  be  only  just  dead,  before  cook- 
ing. If  liked,  the  sauce  can  be  made  richer  by  using  stock  instead  of 
water,  or  the  eels  can  be  served  with  the  following  sauces  :  Tartare  (see 
:'Fish,"  Lesson  No.  9),  Melted  Butter  (see  "Sauces,"  Lesson  No.  7). 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Fish. — Kedgeree.        243 

FISH. 

Lesson  No.   16. 

KEDGEREE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Kedgeree? 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

£  lb.  of  boiled  fish 5 

\  lb.  rice  of 

2  eggs    2 

2  ozs.  butter     » 

Cayenne  pepper  and  salt J  2 

IT 

Time  required,  about  half-an-hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Kedgeree. 

1.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  wash  it,  boil  it, 
and  dry  it,  as  directed  in  Lesson  on  rice. 

2.  While  the  rice  is  boiling-,  we  take  a  small  saucepan 
full  of  hot  water,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil  ;  when  it 
boils,  we  should  put  two  eggs  in  carefully,  and  let  them 
boil  hard  for  ten  minutes. 

3.  We  take  some  cold  boiled  fish,  break  it  in  pieces,  and 
carefully  remove  all  the  bones. 

4.  When  the  eggs  are  sufficiently  boiled,  we  take  them 
out  of  the  saucepan  ;  we  should  tap  them  all  over  on  the 
edge  of  a  basin,  and  take  off  all  the  shell :  we  then  put  the 
eggs  in  a  basin  of  cold  water. 

5.  We  take  the  eggs  out  of  the  water,  put  them  on  a 
board,  cut  them  in  halves,  take  out  the  yolks,  and  cut  the 
whites  up  in  pieces  to  the  shape  of  dice. 

6.  When  the  boiled  rice  is  dry,  we  put  two  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  stewpan,  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  the  butter 
is  melted,  we  should  add  the  rice  and  stir  it  well  with  a 
fork. 

N.B. — We  must  not  use  a  spoon. 

Q  ? 


244     National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

7.  We  now  add  the  fish,  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  a  fevb 
grains  of  cayenne  pepper  (about  as  much  as  would  thinly 
cover  one  side  of  a  threepenny-piece),  and  salt  to  taste ; 
mix  it  all  well  together,  and  turn  it  out  on  a  hot  dish. 

8.  We  must  now  place  a  sieve  over  it,  take  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  and  rub  them  through  the  sieve  all  over  the  fish 
and  rice :  it  is  now  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Vegetables. — Boiled  Potatoes.  245 

VEGETABLES. 
Lesson  No.  r. 

BOILED    AND    STEAMED    POTATOES. 


Time  required  for  boiling: — 
Old  potatoes,  ibout  half  an  Jiour. 
New  potatoes,  about  twenty  minutes. 
Steamed  potatoes,  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  dress  Potatoes. 
For  boiling  Old  Potatoes. 

1.  We  wash  two  pounds  of  potatoes  well  in  cold  water, 
and  scrub  them  clean  with  a  scrubbing  brush. 

N.B. — If  the  potatoes  are  diseased  then  we  take  a  sharp  knife,  peel  them 
and  carefully  cut  out  the  eyes  and  any  black  specks  about  the  potato,  but 
it  is  much  better  to  boil  them  in  their  skins. 

2.  We  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  enough 
to  cover  them,  and  sprinkle  over  them  a  teaspoon/ ul 
of  salt. 

3.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  to  boil  the  potatoes 
for  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 

4.  We  should  take  a  fork  and  put  it  into  the  potatoes,  to 
feel  if  the  centre  is  quite  tender. 

5.  When  they  are  sufficiently  boiled,  we  drain  off  all  the 
water,  and  place  a  clean  cloth  over  the  potatoes  in  the 
saucepan. 

6.  We  stand  the  saucepan  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  with 
the  lid  on,  to  steam  the  potatoes. 

7.  When  the  potatoes  have  become  quite  dry,  we  take 
them  carefully  cut  of  the  saucepan,  peel  them  without 
breaking  them,  and  place  them  in  a  hot  vegetable  dish  for 


246     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

For  boiling  New  Potatoes. 

1.  We  wash  two  pounds  of  potatoes  in  cold  water. 

2.  We  take  a  knife  and  scrape  them. 

3.  We  take  a  saucepan  of  warm  water,  and  put  it  on  the 
fire  to  boil. 

4.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  put  in  the  new 
potatoes,  and  sprinkle  over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

5.  We  let  them  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  we  should 
take  a  fork  or  skewer,  and  put  it  in  the  potatoes,  to  feel  if 
the  centre  is  quite  tender. 

6.  We  then  drain  off  all  the  water,  and  place  a  clean 
cloth  in  the  saucepan,  over  the  potatoes,  and  stand  the 
saucepan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  with  the  lid  on. 

7.  When  they  have  become  quite  dry,  we  take  them  out 
of  the  saucepan,  and  arrange  them  on  a  hot  vegetable  dish 
for  serving. 


For  Steamed  Potatoes. 

N.B.  — Old  potatoes  only,  can  be  steamed. 

1.  We  wash  the  potatoes  well  in  cold  water,  and  scrub 
them  clean  with  a  scrubbing  brush. 

N.B. — It  is  best  to  steam  the  potatoes  in  their  skins,  but  they  can  be  peeled 
if  preferred. 

2.  We  take  a  potato  steamer,  fill  the  saucepan  with  hot 
water,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

3.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  put  the  potatoes 
in  the  steamer,  and  sprinkle  them  over  with  salt. 

4.  WTe  place  the  steamer    on   the  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  and  cover  it  down  tight  to  keep  the  steam  in. 

5.  We  let  the  potatoes  steam  for  half  an  hour. 

6.  We  should  take  a  fork  and  put  it  in  \h^  potatoes,  to 
feel  if  the  centre  is  quite  tender. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Vegetables. — Steamed  Potatoes.  247 

7.  When  they  are  sufficiently  steamed,  we  take  them 
carefully  out  of  the  steamer,  peel  them  without  breaking 
them,    and    arrange    them    on    a   hot   vegetable    dish    for 


248     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  2.  ' 

MASHED,    SAUTE,    AND    BAKED 
POTATOES. 

Average  cost  of  a  dish  of  "  Potatoes." 

INGREDIENTS. 

For  "  Sattte"  Potatoes" 


For  "  Mashi'd  Potatoes:' 

d. 

2  lbs  of  old  potatoes  2 

1  oz.  of  butter  1 

1  gill  of  milk )        1 

Pepper  and  salt    )        ~ 


Time  required,  about  forty  minuie.s. 


d 

New  potatoes 2 

2  oz.  of  butter | 

Salt j      2 


4 
Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Time  required  for  Baked  Potatoes,  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  dress  Potatoes. 
For  a  d  ish  of  Mashed  Potatoes. 

1.  We  take  two  pounds  of  old  potatoes,  wash  them,  and 
steam  them  as  for  steaming  potatoes  (see  "Vegetables,  Lesson 

No.  1  "). 

2.  We  take  a  stew-pan  and  put  in  it  one  ounce  of  btttter^ 
one  gill  of  milk,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

3.  WTe  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

4.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  over  a  plate. 

5.  We  take  the  steamed  potatoes,  one  at  a  time,  out  of 
the  steamer,  put  them  on  the  sieve,  and  pass  them  through 
on  to  the  plate  as  quickly  as  possible,  rubbing  them  with  a 
wooden  spoon. 

6.  We  take  the  sifted  potato  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling 
milk,  in  the  stew-pan. 

7.  We  must  now  beat  it  all  lightly  together,  and  then 
turn  it  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish  for  serving. 


L  essons  on  Cooking  Vegetables. — Baked  Potatoes.   249 

For  Saute'  Potatoes — 

1.  We  take  some  nezv  potatoes,  as  small  as  possible,  wash 
them  in  cold  water,  and  scrape  them  clean. 

N.B. — If  the  potatoes  are  large,  they  should  be  cut  in  halves,  or  even  in 
quarters,  and  trimmed. 

2.  We  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  with  cold  water. 

3.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  only  just  bring 
them  to  the  boil. 

4.  We  then  drain  off  the  water,  and  wipe  the  potatoes 
dry  in  a  clean  cloth. 

'  5.  We  take  a  thick  stewpan  and  put  in  it  two  ounces  of 
butter,  and  the  potatoes. 

6.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  a  quick  fire  for  about  tzventy 
minutes,  to  brown  the  potatoes ;  we  must  watch  them,  and 
when  they  have  begun  to  brown  we  should  toss  them  occa- 
sionally in  the  stewpan,  so  as  to  brown  them  on  all  sides 
alike. 

7.  We  then  strain  off  the  butter,  sprinkle  them  over  with 
salt,  and  serve  them  on  a  hot  vegetable  dish. 


For  Baked  Potatoes — 

1.  We  take  the  potatoes,  wash,  and  scrub  them  well  with 
a  scrubbing-brush  in  a  basin  of  cold  water. 

2.  We  take  them  out  of  the  water,  and  dry  them  with  a 
cloth. 

3.  We  put  them  in  a  brisk  oven  to  bake  ;  they  will  take 
from  half  an  hour  to  tJiree-quarters  of 'an  hour,  according  to 
the  heat  of  the  oven,  and  the  size  of  the  potatoes. 

4.  We  take  a  steel  fork  or  skewer,  and  stick  it  into  ih-z 
potatoes,  to  see  if  they  are  done.     They  must  be  soft  inside. 

5.  We  take  a  table  napkin  and  fold  it. 

6.  We  place  the  folded  napkin  on  a  hot  dish. 

7.  When  the  potatoes  are  sufficiently  baked,  we  take 
them  out  of  the  oven,  and  arrange  them  on  the  napkin  for 


250     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

FRIED    POTATOES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Potato  Chips  or  Fried  Slices  of  Potato. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  lb.  of  Potatoes } 

Salt   /      r 

The  use  of  i|  lb.  of  clarified  fat  or  lard  for  frying. 

Time  required,  about  eight  minutes  for  either. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  dress  Potatoes. 
For  Potato  Chips — 

1.  We  wash  the  potatoes  well  in  cold  water,  and  scrub 
them  clean  with  a  scrubbing-brush. 

2.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  peel  them,  and  carefully  cut 
out  the  eyes  and  any  black  specks  about  them. 

3.  We  must  now  peel  the  potatoes  very  thinly  in  ribbons, 
and  twist  them  into  fancy  shapes. 

4.  We  take  a  saucepan  and  put  in  it  one  pound  and 
a  half  of  clarified  fat  or  lard. 

5.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  heat  the  fat.  We 
must  test  the  heat  of  it  with  a  piece  of  bread  (see  Lesson 
on  "  Frying"). 

6.  We  take  a  frying-basket  and  put  the  ribbons  of  potato 
in  it. 

7.  When  the  fat  is  quite  hot  we  put  in  the  frying-basket 
with  the  potatoes  for  about  six  minutes. 

8.  We  place  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  on  a  plate. 

9.  When  the  chips  are  done,  they  should  be  quite  crisp 
and  of  a  pale  brown  colour.  We  turn  them  out  on  to  the 
paper,  to  drain  off  the  grease,  and  sprinkle  over  them  a  little 
salt. 

10.  We  serve  them  on  a  hot  dish. 


L  csso7is  on  Cooking  Vegetables.  — Fried  Potatoes.   2  5 1 


For  Fried  Slices  of  Potato — 

1-  We  take  the  potatoes,  wash  them  clean,  and  peel  them 
with  a  sharp  knife. 

2.  We  put  the  potatoes  on  a  board,  and  cut  them  in 
slices,  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 

3.  We  take  a  saucepan  and  put  in  it  one  and  a  half  pound 
of  clarified  dripping  or  lard. 

4.  We  take  a  frying-basket  and  place  in  it  the  sliced 
potatoes. 

5.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  warm  the  fat. 

6.  When  the  fat  is  warm,  but  not  very  hot,  we  place  in 
the  frying-basket  with  the  slices  of  potatoes,  and  let  them 
boil  in  the  fat,  until  they  are  quite  tender. 

N.B. — We  should  take  out  a  piece  of  potato  and  press  it  between  the  thumb 
and  finger,  to  feel  that  it  is  quite  tender. 

7.  We  must  now  take  out  the  frying-basket  with  the 
potatoes  and  place  it  on  a  plate. 

8.  We  leave  the  fat  on  the  fire  to  heat. 

9.  When  the  fat  is  quite  hot,  we  place  in  the  frying- 
basket  with  the  potatoes  for  about  two  minutes. 

10.  We  put  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  on  a  plate. 

11.  When  the  potatoes  are  fried,  they  should  be  a  pale 
brown  ;  we  turn  them  out  on  to  the  paper  to  drain  off  the 
grease. 

12.  We  should  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them. 

13.  For  serving  we  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish. 


252     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

POTATO    CROQUETTES. 

Average  cost  of"  Potato  Croqitettes"  {about  18). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  lbs.  potatoes 2 

1  oz.  butter    )        k 

1  tablespoonful  of  milk /        4 

3  eggs ■ 3 

A  small  bunch  of  parsley   1 

Bread  crumbs I 

Pepper  and  salt    / 

Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Potato  Croquettes. 

1.  We  take  two  pounds  of  potatoes,  wash,  scrub,  and  boil  or 
steam  them  (see  "  Vegetables,"  Lesson  No.  1). 

N.B. — Any  remains  of  cold  potatoes  could  be  used  up  in  this  way,  instead  of 
boiling  fresh  ones. 

2.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  over  a  plate. 

3.  We  take  the  potatoes,  one  at  a  time,  place  them  on 
the  sieve  and  rub  them  through  with  a  wooden  spoon  as 
quickly  as  possible  on  to  the  plate. 

N.B. — The  potatoes  can  be  passed  through  the  sieve  much  quicker  while 
they  are  hot. 

4.  We  put  I  oz.  of  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  into 
a  stewpan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire. 

5.  When  the  milk  and  butter  are  hot,  we  stir  in  smoothly 
the  sifted  potato. 

6.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  stand  it  on  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

7.  WTe  break  two  eggs,  put  the  whites  in  a  cup  (as  they 
are  not  required  for  present  use),  and  stir  the  yolks,  one  at 
a  time,  into  the  potato  in  the  stewpan. 

8.  We  take  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  wash  them  in  cold 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Vegetables.  -Potato  Croquettes.    2  5  3 

Abater,  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  and  chop  them  up  finely  on  a 
board  (there  should  be  about  a  tcaspoonful). 

9.  We  sprinkle  the  parsley  into  the  stewpan,  and  season 
the  potato  according  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt. 

10.  We  turn  the  potato  mixture  on  to  a  plate  and  stand 
it  aside  till  cold. 

11.  We  put  1  lb.  of  clarified  dripping  into  a  deep  stewpan, 
and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  heat;  we  must  be  careful  it  does 
not  burn. 

12.  We  take  some  crumb  of  bread,  and  rub  it  through  a 
wire  sieve  on  to  a  piece  of  paper. 

13.  When  the  potato  mixture  is  cold,  we  form  it  into 
croquettes  or  balls,  according  to  taste. 

14.  We  break  an  egg  on  to  a  plate  and  beat  it  up  slightly 
with  a  knife. 

15.  We  dip  the  croquettes  into  the  egg,  and  egg  them 
well  all  over  with  a  paste  brush. 

16.  We  now  roll  them  in  the  bread  crumbs,  covering 
them  well  all  over. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  to  cover  them  smoothly  and  not  too  thickly. 

17.  We  take  a  frying  basket  and  arrange  the  croquettes 
in  it ;  but  we  must  finger  them  as  little  as  possible,  and 
not  allow  them  to  touch  each  other. 

18.  When  thejfatf  on  the  fire  is  quite  hot  and  smoking 
(we  should  test  the  heat  by  throwing  in  a  piece  of  bread 
which  should  fry  brown  directly),  we  put  in  the  frying 
basket  for  two  minutes  or  so  to  fry  the  croquettes  a  pale 
yellow. 

19.  We  put  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  on  a  plate, 
and  as  the  croquettes  are  fried  we  turn  them  on  to  the 
paper  to  drain  off  the  grease. 

20.  We  put  three  or  four  small  sprigs  of  parsley  (washed 
and  dried)  into  the  frying  basket,  and  just  toss  the  basket 
into  the  boiling  fat  for  a  second  or  so. 

21.  For  serving,  we  arrange  the  croquettes  tastily  on  a 
hot  dish,  with  the  fried  parsley  in  the  centre. 


254      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

BRUSSELS    SPROUTS. 

Average  cost  of  dressing  "  Brussels  Sprouts? 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  lbs.  of  Brussels  sprouts 6 

Salt j 

\  of  a  saltspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda  . . . .  f        A 

i  ounce  of  butter    X     x* 

Pepper J 

~\ 
Time  required,  about  half  an  hotir. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  dress  Brussels  Sprouts. 

1.  We  take  the  Brussels  sprouts,  wash  them  well  in  two 
or  three  waters,  and  trim  them. 

2.  We  take  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  warm  water  in  it. 

3.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

4.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda. 

5.  We  put  in  the  sprouts,  and  let  them  boil  quickly  for 
from  ten  to  twenty  minutes,  according  to  their  age. 

N.B. — Young  sprouts  take  the  shortest  time  to  boil. 

6.  We  must  keep  the  lid  off  the  saucepan  the  whole  time. 

7.  After  that  time,  we  pour  the  sprouts  into   a   colander 
to  drain. 

8.  When  the  sprouts  are  quite  dry,  we  put  them  in  a 
saute-pan  with  one  ounce  of  butter. 

9.  We  sprinkle  over  them  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  toss 
them  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  but  they  must  not  fry. 

10.  For  serving,  we  arrange  them  tastily  on  a  hot  vege- 
table dish. 


Lessons  on  CookuigVcgetables.-Carrots&Turnips.  255 

VEGETABLES. 
Lesson  No.  6. 

CARROTS    AND    TURNIPS. 

Average  cost  of  dressing  u  Carrots  and  Turnips!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Carrots  or  Turnips   » 

2  tahlespoonsful  of  salt    J 

Half  a  pint  of  stock   3 1 

Dessertspoonful  of  castor  sugar    ,     o| 

Half  an  ounce  of  butter o| 


Time  required,  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  dress  Carrots  and  Turnips. 
For  Carrots — 

1.  We  take  a  saucepan  of  water,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to 
boil. 

2.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt. 

3.  We  take  the  carrots,  and  if  they  are  quite  young,  we 
put  them  into  the  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  to  boil  for 
tzventy  minittes. 

4.  We  must  take  a  fork  and  stick  it  in  the  carrots  to  feel 
that  they  are  quite  tender  all  through. 

5.  After  that  time  we  take  them  out  of  the  saucepan, 
and  rub  them  clean  with  a  cloth. 

N.B. — If  the  carrots  are  old  we  should  wash,  scrape  them  clean  with  a 
knife,  and  cut  them  to  the  shape  of  young  carrots,  or  cut  them  in 
quarters,  or  in  fancy  shapes,  with  a  cutter,  before  boiling. 

6.  We  should  let  them  boil  for  from  half  an  hour  to 
thrcc-qitarters  of  an  hour. 

7.  We  take  a  stewpan  and  put  the  boiled  carrots  in  it. 

8.  We  pour  in  about  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  stock,  enough 
to  cover  them. 

9.  We  put  in  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  nut,  and 


256      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

sprinkle    about  a  teaspoonful  of  white  castor  sugar  over 
them. 

10.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil  (the  lid  should 
be  off),  and  reduce  to  a  glaze  over  the  carrots. 

11.  We  then  take  them  out  of  the  stewpan,  and  they  are 
ready  for  serving. 


For  Turnips — 

1.  We  take  the  turnips  and  wash  them  well  in  cold 
water. 

2.  We  take  them  out  of  the  water,  put  them  on  a  board, 
peel  them  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  cut  them  in  quarters,  or 
cut  them  out  with  a  round  cutter. 

3.  We  take  a  saucepan  of  water  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to 
boil. 

4.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling  we  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  salt. 

5.  We  now  put  in  the  cut-up  turnips,  and  let  them  boil 
for  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 

6.  When  they  are  sufficiently  boiled,  we  take  them  out 
of  the  saucepan,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  about 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  stock,  enough  to  cover  them. 

7.  We  add  to  them  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  nuty 
and  sprinkle  over  them  about  a  teaspoonful  of  white  castor 
sugar. 

8.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil  (the  lid  should-, 
be  off),  and  reduce  to  a  glaze  over  the  turnips 

9.  We  then  take  them  out  of  the  stewpan,  and  they  are 
ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — The  turnips  and  the  carrots,  as  described  above,  can  be  served  with, 
braised  veal  (see  Braised  Fillet  of  Veal),  qr  separately  as  a  vegetable^ 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Vegetables -Boiled  Cauliflower.  257 

VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  7. 

BOILED    CAULIFLOWER    AND    CAULI- 
FLOWER   AU    GRATIN. 

Average  cost  of  dressing  "Cauliflower  an  Grating 

INGREDIENTS- 

d. 

Cauliflower    6 

Salt j 

Half  an  ounce  of  butter .      i 

i  ounce  of  flour    ) 

Tablespoonful  of  cream i£ 

2  ounces  of  Parmesan  cheese | 

Cayenne  pepper   /     3 


ii 
Time  required,  about  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  dress  a  Caidiflowcr. 

1.  We  take  a  cauliflozver  and  wash  it  well  in  two  or  three 
waters,  and  take  a  knife,  and  cut  off  the  end  of  the  stalk 
and  any  withered  outside  leaves. 

2.  We  put  it  in  a  basin  of  cold  water,  with  a  dessertspoon- 
fid  of  salt,  and  let  it  stand  for  two  or  three  minutes. 

3.  We  take  a  large  saucepan  full  of  water,  and  put  it  on 
the  fire  to  boil. 

4.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling  we  put  in  a  table- 
spoonfid  of  salt. 

5.  We  take  the  cauliflower  out  of  the  salt  and  water, 
and  place  it  in  the  saucepan  with  the  flower  downwards, 
and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  quite  tender  for  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes. 

6.  We  must  take  it  carefully  out  with  a  slice,  and  feel 
the  centre  of  the  flower  with  our  finger,  to  see  that  it  is 
quite  tender. 

7.  After  that  time  we  take  it  out  of  the  saucepan,  and 
put  it  on  a  sieve  to  drain. 

8.  For  serving,  we  place  it  on  a  hot  vegetable  dish. 

R 


258     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

If  Cauliflower  au  Gratin  be  required — 

1.  We  take  the  cauliflower  and  wash  it,  and  boil  it  in  the 
same  way  as  described  above,  from  Note  1  to  Note  6. 

2.  When  the  cauliflower  is  sufficiently  boiled,  we  take  it 
out  of  the  saucepan  with  a  slice  and  put  it  on  a  plate. 

3.  We  take  a  knife  and  cut  off  all  the  outside  green 
leaves. 

4.  We  put  a  cloth  over  the  cauliflower,  and  squeeze  all 
the  water  out  of  the  cauliflower. 

5.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  and  one  ounce  of  flour 
in  a  stewpan,  and  mix  them  well  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

6.  We  pour  in  one  gill  (or  quarter  of  a  pint)  of  cold 

water. 

7.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  smoothly 
until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

8.  We  now  add  one  tablespoonful  of  cream,  cayenne 
pepper  (about  as  much  as  would  very  thinly  cover  half  the 
top  of  a  threepenny  piece),  and  salt,  according  to  taste. 

9.  We  stand  the  stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  until  the 
sauce  is  required  for  use. 

10.  We  take  two  ounces  of  Parmesan  cheese,  and  grate  it 
with  a  grater  on  to  a  piece  of  paper. 

11.  We  now  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  and  stand  it  on 
a  piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

12.  We  stir  rather  more  than  half  the  grated  cheese  into 
the  sauce. 

13.  We  place  the  cauliflower  on  a  tin  dish. 

14.  We  pour  the  sauce  all  over  the  cauliflower. 

15.  We  take  the  remainder  of  the  grated  cheese  and 
sprinkle  it  over  the  cauliflower,  and  brown  the  top  of  it  with 
a  hot  salamander. 

16.  The  cauliflower  should  become  a  pale  brown,  and  be 
served  hot. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Vegetables. — Spinach.     259 


VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  8. 

SPINACH. 

Average  cost  of  dressing  "  Spinach." 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

2  lbs.  of  spinach   o    6 

Salt ) 

3  ounces  of  butter    j      °    3 

Half  a  gill  of  cream     .....    o    3 

Pepper    '(  x 

A  slice  of  bread    J     °    °* 


1    o± 
Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  dress  Spinach. 

1.  We  take  two  pounds  of  spinach  and  place  it  on  a  board. 

2.  We  must  pick  off  all  the  stalks  from  the  leaves. 

3.  We  put  the  leaves  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  wash 
them  two  or  three  times. 

4.  We  turn  the  spinach  on  to  a  colander  to  drain. 

5.  We  take  a  large  saucepan  and  put  the  spinach  into  it, 
sprinkle  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt  over  it,  and  put  it  on  the  fire 
to  boil.  The  drops  of  water  on  the  leaves  and  their  own 
juice  are  sufficient  without  adding  any  water. 

6.  We  let  it  boil  quickly  for  ten  minutes,  with  the 
cover  off. 

7.  We  then  pour  the  spinach  into  the  colander  to  drain. 

8.  We  must  now  press  all  the  water  out  of  the  spinach, 
squeezing  it  quite  dry. 

9.  We  put  it  on  a  board  and  chop  it  up  as  finely  as 
possible. 

N.B. — If  preferred,   the   spinach  might  be  rubbed  through  a  wire   sieve 
instead  of  being  chopped  up. 

10.  We  take  a  stewpan  and  put  in  it  one  ounce  of  butter^ 

R  2 


260     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

11.  We  put  the  spinach  in  the  stewpan,  and  add  about 
half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  or  more, 
according  to  taste,  and  half  a  gill  of  cream,  and  mix  all 
together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

12.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  stir  the  spinach 
until  it  is  quite  hot 

13.  We  cut  a  slice  of  crumb  of  bread,  about  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  in  thickness,  put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  up  into 
triangular  pieces. 

14.  We  take  a  frying-pan,  and  put  into  it  two  ounces  of 

butter  or  clarified  dripping. 

15.  We  put  the  frying-pan  on  the  fire  to  heat  the  fat. 

16.  When  the  fat  is  quite  hot,  we  throw  in  the  pieces  of 
bread,  and  let  them  fry  a  pale  brown. 

17.  We  take  the  pieces  of  fried  bread  and  arrange  them 
round  a  hot  vegetable  dish  to  form  a  wall. 

18.  We  serve  the  dressed  spinach  in  the  centre. 


Lessons  on   Cooking    Vegetables. — Peas.        261 


VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  9. 

PEAS. 

Average  cost  of  dressing  "Peas" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

£  a  peck  of  Peas  i    o 

Salt I 

£  of  a  saltspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda  . .  >     o    o^ 

I  an  ounce  of  butter    ) 

Castor  sujrar o    oj 


1 
Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  dress  Peas. 

1.  We  take  the  peas  and  shell  them. 

2.  We  take  a  saucepan  full  of  warm  water  and  put  it  on 
the  fire  to  boil. 

3.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  put  in  the  shelled 
peas,  a  teaspoonfid  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of 
carbonate  of  soda. 

N.B. — The  soda  will  keep  the  peas  a  good  colour. 

4.  We  let  them  boil  for  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes, 
according  to  the  age  of  the  peas.  (The  cover  should  be  off 
the  saucepan.) 

5.  After  that  time  we  should  feel  the  peas,  that  they  are 
quite  soft,  we  then  take  them  out  of  the  saucepan  and  drain 
off  all  the  water  in  a  colander. 

6.  We  now  turn  the  peas  into  a  saute-pan  with  half  an 
ounce  of  butter. 

7.  We  sprinkle  about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
about  a  teaspoonful  of  castor  sugar  over  the  peas,  and  toss 
them  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  but  they  must  not  fry. 

8.  For  serving,  we  arrange  them  on  a  hot  vegetable  dish. 


262      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  10. 

HARICOT    BEANS. 

Average  cost  of  " Haricot  Beans"  with  "Parsley  and  Butter* 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  pint  of  beans    3 

1  oz.  of  butter 1 

A  sprig  of  parsley 1 

Pepper  and  salt >      o\ 

\  oz.  of  clarified  dripping ) 

~\ 

Time  required,  after  the  beans  are  soaked,  about  two  hours  and  ten  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  boil  Haricot  Beansy  and 
serve  them  with  parsley  and  butter. 

1.  We  soak  one  pint  of  haricot  beans  in  cold  water  all 
night. 

2.  We  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  three  pints  of  cold 
water ;  and  a  qitarter  of  an  oitnce  of  clarified  dripping. 

3.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils 
we  move  it  rather  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  very 
gently  for  two  hoitrs. 

4.  After  that  time  we  turn  the  beans  on  to  a  colander, 
drain  off  the  water,  and  put  the  beans  back  into  the  dry 
saucepan  with  one  ounce  of  butter. 

5.  We  take  a  sprig  of  parsley,  wash  it,  and  dry  it  in  a 
cloth,  put  it  on  a  board  and  chop  it  up  as  finely  as  possible. 

6.  We  sprinkle  the  parsley  over  the  beans  and  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt. 

7.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  stir  the  contents 
carefully  for  about  five  minittes. 

8.  For  serving,  we  turn  the  beans  on  to  a  hot  dish. 


Lessons  on  Cooking-    Vegetables. — Turnips.    263 

VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  ii. 

turnips. 

Average  cost  of  a  dish  of  "  Turnips  "  boiled  and  mashed. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

4  large  turnips     4 

1  oz.  of  butter \ 

Pepper  and  salt j 

5 

Time  required,  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  boil  Titmips  and  mash 
them. 

1.  We  put  two  quarts  of  zvarm  zvater  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  salt  into  a  saucepan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  take  some  turnips,  wash  them  in  cold  water,  and 
peel  them  thickly  with  a  sharp  knife. 

3.  If  the  turnips  are  very  large,  we  should  cut  them  in 
quarters. 

4.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling  we 
put  in  the  titmips  and  let  them  boil  gently  until  they  are 
quite  tender. 

5.  We  should  feel  them  with  a  fork  to  see  if  they  are 
tender  all  through. 

6.  We  then  turn  them  into  a  colander  and  drain  them 
very  dry. 

7.  For  serving,  we  put  them  on  to  a  hot  dish.  If  mashed 
titmips  are  required, 

8.  We  boil  them  as  above. 

9.  We  squeeze  them  as  dry  as  possible  in  the  colander, 
pressing  them  with  a  plate. 

10.  When  the  turnips  are  quite  free  from  water,  we  hold 
the  colander  over  a  saucepan  and  rub  the  turnips  through 
with  a  wooden  spoon. 


264     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

11.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  into  the  saucepan  with  the 
turnips  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

12.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  the  contents 
until  the  butter  is  well  mixed  with  the  turnips  and  they  are 
.horoughly  warmed  through. 

13.  For  serving,  we  turn  the  turnips  on  to  a  hot  dish. 


Lessons  on  Cooking  Vegetables. — Carrots.     265 

VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  12. 

CARROTS. 

Average  cost  of  a  dish  of  "  Carrots" 

INGREDIENTS- 

d. 

Carrots,  6  young  3d.,  or  4  old    ) 

1  tablespoonful  of  salt   j      4 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  boil  Carrots. 

1.  We  put  tzvo  quarts  of  warm  water  into  a  saucepan 
with  one  good  tablespoonftd  of  sa/t,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to 
boil. 

2.  We  take  the  carrots  and  cut  off  the  green  tops  and 
wash  the  can'ots  well  in  cold  water. 

3.  We  scrape  the  carrots  clean  with  a  sharp  knife,  and 
carefully  remove  any  black  specks. 

4.  If  the  carrots  are  very  large  we  cut  them  in  halves 
and  quarters. 

5.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  carrots  and  let  them  boil  until  they  are  tender. 

N.B. —  Yoitng  carrots  need  not  be  cut  up,  nor  do  they  take  so  long  to  boil  as 
old  ones. 

6.  For  serving  we  turn  the  carrots  into  a  colander  to 
drain,  and  then  put  them  on  a  hot  dish. 


266      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

VEGETABLES. 

Lesson  No.  13. 

STEWED    LENTILS. 

Average  cost  of"  Stewed  Lentils"  (one  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  pint  of  brown  lentils  (Fronch) 3 

1  oz.  of  butter    1 

1  gill  of  stock 1 

1  onion )  1 

Pepper  and  salt J  3 

Time  required,  after  the  lentils  are  soaked,  about  one  hour  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  stew  lentils. 

1.  We  take  one  pint  of  brown  lentils  (the  French  are  best 
suited  for  stewing),  wash  them  well  in  cold  water,  and  put 
them  to  soak  in  water  for  four  hours,  or  all  night  is  best. 

2.  After  that  time,  we  take  the  lentils  out  of  the  water, 
put  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  them  with  cold  water,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt \  put  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  to  boil. 
When  it  boils,  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to 
simmer  for  one  hour. 

N.  B. — The  lid  should  be  off  the  saucepan,  all  the  water  will  be  absorbed 
by  the  lentils. 

3.  We  take  one  small  onion,  peel  it,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

4.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  add  the 
sliced  onion,  put  it  over  the  fire  to  fry  the  onion  brown.  We 
must  stir  it  occasionally,  and  be  careful  the  onion  does  not 
burn. 

5.  When  the  lentils  are  done,  we  turn  them  into  the 
saucepan  with  the  onion,  and  add  one  gill  (or  ^  of  a  pint)  of 
second  stock.  We  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and 
stir  it  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes. 

6.  For  serving  we  pour  the  contents  of  the  saucepan  into 
a  hot  vegetable  dish. 


Lessons  on  Making  Sauces.  —  White  Sauce.      267 

SAUCES. 

Lesson  No.   i. 

WHITE    SAUCE. 

I  Average  cost  of  "  White  Sauce"  (about  one  pint  and  a  half). 
INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  pint  of  white  stock    o  7^ 

2  oz.  of  butter   o  2 

\\  oz.  of  flour    o  o k 

6  mushrooms    o  3 

Half  a  pint  of  cream    1  o 

The  juice  of  half  a  lemon    o  o  j 

2     ii 

Time  required  {if  the  Stock  is  made),  about  half  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  White  Sauce. 

1.  We  put  tivo  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stewpan. 

2.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  when  the  butter 
is  melted  we  stir  in  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  flour  with  a 
wooden  spoon. 

3.  We  add  one  pint  of  zvJiite  stock  (see  Lesson  on  "  Stock"), 
and  stir  it  until  it  boils. 

4.  We  take  half  a  dozen  mushrooms,  wash  them  and  peel 
them. 

5.  We  add  them  to  the  sauce. 

6.  We  let  it  come  to  the  boil  again,  then  move  the  stew- 
pan to  the  side  of  the  fire,  with  the  lid  half  on,  to  simmer 
for  twenty  minutes,  to  throw  up  the  butter. 

7.  As  the  butter  rises  we  skim  it  off  with  an  iron  spoon. 

8.  We  pour  the  sauce  through  a  tammy  cloth,  into 
another  saucepan. 

9.  We  put  this  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  till  it  boils, 
then  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  take  half  a  lemon,  and  squeeze 
in  the  juice,  and  let  the  sauce  boil  well,  for  from  three  to  five 
minutes. 

10.  We  pour  it  into  a  basin  and  stir  while  it  cools,  it  is 
then  ready  for  use. 


268     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SAUCES. 

Lesson  No.   2. 

BROWN    SAUCE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Brown  Sauce"  (about  one  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  pint  of  brown  stock o  75 

i|  oz.  of  flour    )  1 

Salt  and  pepper    J  °  °'~ 

•2  oz.  butter o  2 

4  mushrooms     o  2 

1  carrot  o  o' 

1  small  onion     o  o\ 

1  shalot  o  ok 

1     1 

Time  required,  about  15  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Brown  Sauce, 

1.  We  take  four  mushrooms  (if  large,  or  six  small),  cut 
off  the  end  of  the  stalks,  wash  them  well  in  cold  water,  and 
peel  them. 

2.  We  take  one  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean,  and  cut 
it  in  slices. 

3.  We  take  one  small  onion,  and  a  shalot,  wash  them, 
peel  them,  and  cut  them  in  slices. 

4.  We  pat  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  melt. 

5.  When  the  butter  in  the  stewpan  is  melted,  we  add  all 
the  vegetables,  and  let  them  fry  brown  ;  we  also  stir  in  two 
ounces  of  flour,  and  mix  it  into  a  smooth  paste  with  a 
wooden  spoon. 

6.  We  now  add  one  pint  of  brown  stock,  and  stir  the 
sauce  smoothly  over  the  fire,  until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

N.B. — The  mtishrooms  might  be  omitted  if  liked,  and  the  sauce  flavoured 
according  to  the  dish  with  which  it  is  to  be  served. 

7.  We  then  move  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes. 


Lessons  on  Making  Sauces. — Brown  Sauce.     269 

8.  We  must  watch  it   carefully,   and   skim    off  all   the 
butter  as  it  rises  to  the  top  of  the  sauce. 

9.  We  season  the  sauce  with  pepper  and  salt  according  to 
taste. 

N.B. — If  the  sauce  is  not  brown  enough  in  colour,  a  teaspoonful  of  caramel 
[burnt  sugar)  might  be  stirred  into  it. 

N.B.— For  making  caramel  (browned  sugar)  for  colouring  gravies,  &c.  We 
put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  moist  or  loaf  sugar  into  an  old  saucepan,  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  burn  until  it  has  become  quite  a  dark  brown 
liquid  ;  we  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  boil  for  five 
minutes,  stirring  it  occasionally  ;  we  then  strain  it,  and  pour  it  in  a 
bottle,  and  it  is  ready  for  use  at  any  time. 

10.  We  now  strain  the  sauce  through  a  tammy  sieve  into 
a  basin,  and  it  is  then  ready  for  use. 


270     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SAUCES. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

MAYONNAISE    SAUCE. 

Average  cost  of  "Mayonnaise  Sauce"7 
{not  quite  half  a  pint). 


INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
2  esfcrS 2 


Salt  and  pepper )  x 

1  teaspoonful  of  common  vinegar )  2 

§  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard )  , 

1  teaspoonful  of  Tarragon  or  French  vinegar  .  j  2 

1  gill  of  salad  oil 6 

10 

Time  required,  about  10  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Mayonnaise  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  two  eggs  and  put  the  yolks  in  one  basin  and 
the  whites  (which  will  not  be  wanted)  into  another  basin. 

2.  We  take  a  wooden  spoon  and  just  stir  the  yolks 
enough  to  break  them. 

3.  We  add  to  them  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper. 

4.  We  take  a  bottle  of  salad  oil,  and,  putting  our  thumb 
half  over  the  top,  pour  in,  drop  by  drop,  the  oil,  stirring 
well  with  a  whisk  the  whole  time  ;  a  gill  of  oil  will  be 
sufficient. 

5.  We  now  stir  in  smoothly  a  teaspoonful  of  Tarragon  or 
French  vinegar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  common  vinegar,  also 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  ready-made  mustard,  according  to 
taste. 

6.  The  sauce  is  now  ready  for  use. 


Lessons  on  Making  Sauce. — Plqziante  Sauce.    271 

SAUCES. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

SAUCE    PIQUANTE 

Average  cost  of  Sauce  Piquante  or  sharp  sauce  (about 
half  a  pint.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  shalot,  half  a  carrot,  3  mushrooms z\ 

1  oz.  of  butter 1 

j  oz.  of  flour    0} 

Half  a  pint  of  brown  stock 3! 

1  sprig  of  thyme . 

1  bay  leaf t 

Salt  and  Cayenne  pepper I 

2  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar ) 

8 
Time  required,  about  twenty-five  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Sauce  Piquante  or 
sharp  sauce. 

1.  We  take  a  shalot  and  three  mushrooms,  and  peel  them, 
we  scrape  half  a  carrot,  and  then  chop  them  up  together 
very  finely  on  a  board. 

2.  We  put  the  chopped  shalot,  carrot,  and  mushroom  into 
a  stewpan  with  one  ounce  of  butter. 

3.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  try  them  brown. 

4.  We  then  stir  in  half  an  ounce  of  flour  and  half  a  pint 
of  brown  stock  (see  Lesson  on  "Stock"). 

5.  We  also  add  one  sprig  of  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  Harvey  Sauce  and  stir  the  sauce  well  until 
it  boils. 

6.  We  then  move  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and 
let  it  simmer  for  twenty  minutes. 

7.  We  season  the  sauce  with  salt  according  to  taste, 
Cayenne  pepper  (enough   to  cover  very  thinly  half  the  top  of 

<a  threepenny  piece),  and  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar. 

8.  We  strain  the  sauce  and  it  is  then  ready  for  use. 


272 


National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


SAUCES. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

DUTCH    SAUCE. 

Average  cost  of"  Dutch  Sauce" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Half  a  pint  of  melted  butter     3 

5  yolks  of  eggs    5 

Salt  and  Cayenne  pepper \ 

2  teaspoonsful  of  lemon  juice   )       x 

9 

N.R  ■ -If  liked,  a  more  economical  Dutch  sauce  can  be  made. 

Ingredients  required. 

d. 

I  a  teaspoonful  of  flour ) 

1  oz.  of  butter J      I 

2  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar ) 

2  tablespoonsful  of  water [      z\ 

The  yolks  of  2  eggs 


The  juice  of  half  a  lemon 
Salt  and  pepper 


1* 


Time  required ',  about  twenty  minutes.  ,\ 

Mix  the  flour  and  butter  together,  in  a  stewpan  over  the  fire,  then  add  the 
eggs,  vhiegar,  and  water,  and  proceed  in  the  same  way  as  below,  from  note  four. 
Great  care  should  be  taken  to  mix  it  smoothly  and  not  let  it  curdle. 
Time  required,  about  teti  minutes. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Dutch  Sauce, 

1.  We  take  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter  and  put  it  into  a 
stewpan. 

2.  We  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs. 

3.  We  stand  the  stewpan  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water  over 
the  fire,  and  stir  well  with  a  wThisk. 

4.  We  season  it  with  salt  according  to  taste,  and  Cayenne 
pepper  (enough  to  cover  very  thinly  half  the  top  of  a  three- 
penny piece). 

5.  We  must  stir  continually  until  it  thickens,  and  we 
must  not  let  the  sauce  boil  or  it  will  curdle. 

6.  Just  before  the  sauce  is  finished  we  stir  in  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  lemon  juice. 

7.  We  pour  the  sauce  into  a  hot  sauce-boat  and  it  is  then 
ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Making  Sauce. —  Tomato  Sauce.    273 

SAUCES. 

Lesson  No.   6. 

TOMATO    SAUCE. 

Average  cost  oi"  Tomato  Sauce"  (about  one  gill). 
INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

6  tomatos i     6 

3  shalots  o     13 

1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar    s 

2  oz.  of  lean  ham    r  a 

1  bayleaf  and  sprig  of  thyme  I  *4 

12  peppercorns  and  salt     / 

1  oz.  of  butter o    1 

1      IOJj 

Time  required,  about  twenty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Tomato  Sauc^. 

1.  We  take  a  saute-pan,  and  butter  it  well  inside,  with  one 
ounce  of  butter. 

2.  We  take  six  tomatoes,  wipe  them  in  a  clean  cloth,  put 
them  on  a  plate,  cut  them  in  slices  ;  and  put  them  into  the 
saute-pan. 

3.  We  take  two  ounces  of  lean  ham,  and  chop  it  up  finely. 

4.  We  take  three  shalots,  peel  them,  chop  them  up 
finely  on  a  board,  and  put  them  into  the  saute-pan,  we  also 
add  the  chopped  ham,  twelve  peppercorns,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  tablespoofiful  of  vinegar,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  a 
bayleaf,  tied  together. 

5.  We  put  the  saute-pan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  the  contents 
well,  with  a  spoon,  until  they  are  reduced  ;  it  will  take  about 
fifteen  minutes. 

6.  We  place  a  hair  sieve  over  a  basin,  pour  the  contents 
of  the  saute-pan  on  to  it,  and  rub  them  through,  with  a 
wooden  spoon  ;  when  it  has  all  passed  through  into  the 
basin,  we  return  it  to  the  saute-pan  and  let  it  warm  through 
over  the  fire  :  It  is  now  ready  for  use,  to  be  served  with 
cutlets  or  with  Brown  sauce  for  Calf  s-head. 


274     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SAUCES. 

Lesson  No.  7. 

MELTED    BUTTER    SAUCE. 

(For   Fish    or    Pudding.) 

Average  cost  of" Melted  Butter  Sauce"  (about  a  quarter  of 

a  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  oz.  of  fresh  butter x\ 

\  oz.  of  flour    \ 


Time  required,  about  5  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Melted  Butter  Sauce. 

1.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  put  it  over 
the  fire  ;  and  when  it  is  melted,  we  stir  in  half  an  ounce  of 

flour  1  and  mix  them  smoothly  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

2.  We  now  pour  in  a  gill  {quarter  of  a  pint)  and  a  half 
of  cold  water,  and  stir  the  sauce  smoothly  until  it  boils  and 
thickens. 

N.B. — About  a  quarter  of  an  oz.  of  butter  stirred  into  the  sauce  just  before 
serving,  very  much  improves  it,  and  makes  it  smoother. 

If  the  sauce  is  to  be  served  with  fish,  we  can  add  a  tablespoonful  of  anchovy 
sauce,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

If  the  sauce  is  for  puddings,  we  sweeten  it  according  to  taste  with  castor 
sugar,  and  add,  if  liked,  half  a  wineglassful  of  sherry  ;  if  it  is  to  be 
served  with  treacle  pudding,  the  sauce  should  be  sweetened  with  treacle. 


Lessons  on  Making  Pastry. — Puff  Paste.      275 

PASTRY. 

Lesson  No.  i. 

PUFF    PASTE. 

Average  cost  of"  Puff Paste"  (to  cover  about  1  pint  and 
a  J  pie  dish,  or  make  about  8  patty  cases). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  flour    i\ 

I  lb.  of  fresh  butter    8 

Salt    )        i 

A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice J      °z 

77w*  required,  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to   make  Puff  Paste  for  a 
//7/2V  to?Y,  tartlets,  or  /atf#/  ^.s^. 

1.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  lay  it  on  a  clean 
cloth. 

2.  We  fold  the  cloth  over  the  butter  and  squeeze  it  to 
get  all  the  water  out  of  the  butter. 

3.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  flour,  put  it  in  a  heap  on  a 
board,  and  make  a  well  in  the  centre  of  the  flour. 

4.  We  add  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon  j idee,  and  sufficient  water  to  make  the  paste  of 
the  same  consistency  as  the  squeezed  butter,  and  work  it 
well  together. 

5.  We  take  a  rolling  pin,  flour  it,  and  also  sprinkle  flour 
on  the  board  to  prevent  the  paste  from  sticking. 

6.  We  roll  out  the  paste  rather  thin,  to  about  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  in  thickness. 


276       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

7.  We  place  the  pat  of  squeezed  butter  on  one  half  of  the 
paste,  and  fold  the  other  half  over  the  butter,  so  as  to  cover 
it  entirely,  pressing  the  edges  together  with  our  thumb. 

8.  We  let  it  stand  on  a  plate  in  a  cool  place  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour. 

N.B. — It  is  not  necessary  to  do  this  in  cold  weather,  it  might  be  rolled  at 
once. 

9.  We  bring  the  paste  back  and  place  it  on  the  board, 
we  roll  it  out  with  the  rolling  pin  and  fold  it  over  in  three. 

10.  We  turn  it  round  with  the  rough  edges  towards  us. 

11.  We  roll  it  again  and  fold  it  in  three. 

12.  We  put  it  aside  again  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

13.  We  bring  it  back  on  the  board  and  roll  it  with  a 
rolling  pin  and  fold  it  in  three,  twice  as  before. 

14.  We  put  it  aside  again  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

15.  We  bring  it  back  to  the  board  and  roll  it  and  fold  it 
in  three  as  before. 

16.  We  put  it  aside  for  another  quarter  of  an  hour. 

17.  We  bring  it  back  to  the  board,  and  roll  it  out  ready, 
if  for  a  fruit  tart,  (see  "Pastry,"  Lesson  No.  2,  from  note 
14  to  note  27). 

18.  If  the  paste  is  used  for  tartlets,  the  paste  should  be 
one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick.     (If  for  patty  cases,  see  below). 

19.  We  take  the  tartlet  tins  and  wet  them  with  the  paste 
brush. 

20.  We  cut  the  paste  out  with  a  cutter,  a  size  larger  than 
the  tins.  The  cutter  must  hz  floured,  or  the  paste  will  stick 
to  it. 

21.  We  fix  the  paste  into  the  tins,  and  put  a  dummy  in 
the  centre  of  the  tartlet,  to  prevent  the  paste  rising  straight, 

22.  We  put  the  tins  on  a  baking  sheet. 

23.  We  put  the  baking  sheet  in  a  hot  oven  for  six 
minutes ;  the  thermometer  fixed  in  the  oven  door  should 
rise  to  3000  Fahrenheit. 

24.  When  the  tartlets  are  baked  sufficiently,  we  take 
them  out  of  the  oven. 


Lessons  on  Making  Paltry. — Puff  Paste.     277 

25.  We  take  out  the  dummies,  and  turn  the  paste  out  of 
the  tin. 

26.  We  fill  in  the  tartlets  with  Jam. 


N.B. — If  Patty  Cases  are  required, 

1.  We  take  the  puff  paste,  it  should  be  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  stamp  it  out  with  a  round  cutter,  the  usual  size  of  an 
oyster  patty. 

2.  We  take  these  cut  rounds,  and  place  them  on  a 
baking  sheet. 

3.  We  take  a  round  cittter,  three  sizes  smaller,  and  dip  it 
in  hot  water,  and  stamp  the  cut  rounds  of  paste  in  the 
centre,  but  not  right  through. 

4.  We  put  the  baking  sheet  in  a  hot  oven  for  six  minutes. 

N.B. — The  heat  of  the  oven  should  be  the  same  as  for  tartlets. 

5.  When  the  patties  are  sufficiently  baked,  we  take  the 
baking  sheet  out  of  the  oven. 

6.  The  cut  centre  of  each  patty  case  wilL  have  risen  so 
that  we  can  take  it  off. 

7.  We  take  a  small  knife,  and  with  the  point  cut  out  all 
the  moist  paste  from  the  centre  of  the  patty  case. 

8.  Now  the  cases  are  ready  to  be  filled  in  with  either 
prepared  oysters,  minced  veal,  chicken,  or  pheasant,  &c, 
according  to  taste. 


2y&     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PASTRY. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

SHORT    CRUST. 

Average  cost  of  "  Short  Crust " 
(to  cover  a  pint  and  a  half  pie  dish.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

6  oz.  of  flour    1 

4  oz.  of  butter 4 

1  oz.  of  castor  sugar 

Yolk  of  1  egg  , 

Salt    /      ** 


A  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice 


Time  required,  about  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Short  Crust. 

1.  We  take  six  ounces  of  flour  and  four  ounces  of  butter. 

2.  We  put  these  on  a  clean  board,  and  mix  them  well 
together,  rubbing  them  lightly  with  our  hands  until  there 
are  no  lumps  of  hitter  left,  and  the  flour  and  butter 
resemble  sifted  bread  crumbs. 

3.  We  take  a  large  tablespoonful  of  castor  sugar. 

4.  We  mix  the  sugar  well  into  the  buttered  flour. 

5.  We  heap  it  on  the  board,  making  a  well  in  the  centre. 

6.  We  take  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  place  it  in  the  well. 

7.  We  sprinkle  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  over 
the  egg. 

8.  We  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

9.  We  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  cold  water. 

10.  We  slowly  and  lightly  mix  all  these  ingredients  with 
our  fingers  until  they  are  formed  into  a  stiff  paste. 

11.  We  must  keep  our  hands  and  the  board  well  floured 
that  the  paste  may  not  stick. 

12.  We  fold  the  paste  over  and  knead  it  lightly  with  our 
knuckle  \ 


Lessons  on  Making  Pastry. — Short  Crust.      279 

13.  We  take  a  rolling  pin  and  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the 
paste  to  the  size  and  thickness  required. 

14.  If  the  paste  is  for  a  fruit  tart  we  roll  it  out  to  the 
shape  of  the  pie  dish,  only  a  little  larger,  and  to  the  thick- 
ness of  about  a  qtiarter  of  an  inch. 

15.  We  arrange  the  fruit  in  the  pie  dish,  heaped  up  in 
the  centre. 

16.  We  sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  moist  sugar  over  the 
fruit,  or  more  or  less  according  to  the  fruit  used. 

17.  We  take  a  paste  brush  and  wet  the  edge  of  the  dish 
with  water,  or  a  little  white  of  egg. 

18.  We  cut  a  strip  of  the  paste  the  width  of  the  edge  of 
the  pie  dish  and  place  it  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

19.  We  take  the  paste  brush  again,  and  wet  the  edge  of 
the  paste  with  water  or  white  of  egg. 

20.  We  take  the  remaining  paste  and  lay  it  over  the  pie 
dish,  pressing  it  down  with  our  thumb  all  round  the  edge. 

21.  We  must  be  very  careful  not  to  break  the  paste. 

22.  We  take  a  knife  and  trim  off  all  the  rough  edges  oi 
the  paste  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

23.  We  take  a  knife  and  with  the  back  of  the  blade  we 
make  little  notches  in  the  edge  of  the  paste,  pressing  the 
paste  firmly  with  our  thumb  to  keep  it  in  its  proper  place. 

24.  We  make  a  little  hole  in  the  paste  of  the  tart,  to 
let  out  the  steam. 

25.  We  take  the  paste  brush,  and  wet  the  tart  all  over 
with  water. 

26.  We  sprinkle  some  castor  sugar  over  the  tart.  This 
is  to  glaze  it. 

27.  We  now  put  the  tart  into  a  hot  oven  (the  thermo 
meter  fixed  in  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400  Fahrenheit) 
for  half  an  hour,  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  tart.  We  must  watch  it  occasionally  and 
turn  it,  to  prevent  its  burning.  It  should  become  a  pale 
brown.  It  is  then  ready  for  serving,  either  hot  or  cold 
according  to  taste. 


280     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


PASTRY. 
Lesson  No.  3. 

GENOESE    PASTRY. 

Average  cost  of  "  Genoese  Pastry.  " 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

6  ozs.  of  flour    o  i 

6  ozs.  of  butter      o  6 

8  ozs.  of  castor  sugar o  3 

7  eggs      o  7 


1    5 

Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Genoese  Pastry. 

1.  We  take  a  small  stewpan  and  put  in  it  six  ounces  of 
butter. 

2.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  melt  the  butter. 
We  must  be  careful  that  it  does  not  burn  or  boil. 

3.  We  take  a  round  tin  two  inches  deep  and  fit  into  it  a 
sheet  of  paper,  cut  round  so  that  it  will  allow  one  inch  of 
paper  to  be  above  the  edge  of  the  tin. 

4.  We  must  butter  the  paper  with  a  paste  brush  dipped 
in  the  melted  butter. 

5.  We  stand  a  wire  sieve  over  a  plate,  and  rub  through 
it  six  ounces  of  flour. 

6.  We  take  a  large  basin  and  break  into  it  seven  eggs. 

7.  We  add  half  a  pound  of  castor  sugar. 

8.  We  take  a  large  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  put  it 
on  the  fire. 

9.  We  stand  the  basin  containing  the  eggs  and  sugar  in 
the  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  whip  the  eggs  and  su,gar 
for  twenty  minutes.     They  must  not  get  very  hot. 

10.  We  take  the  basin  out  of  the  saucepan,  and  stand  it 
on  the  table. 


Lessons  on  Making  Pastry. — Genoese  Pastry.      281 

^  11.  We  now  add  the  butter  and  then  sprinkle  in  the 
sifted  flour y  stirring  lightly  with  a  wooden  spoon  all  the 
time. 

12.  We  pour  this  mixture  into  the  prepared  tin. 

13.  We  put  the  tin  into  a  quick  oven  to  bake  (the  ther- 
mometer in  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2200),  for  half  an 
hour.     The  mixture  should  become  a  pale  brown. 

N.B. — When  the  paste  is  sufficiently  baked  no  mark  should  remain  on  it  if 
pressed  with  the  finger. 

14.  When  it  is  quite  baked,  we  take  the  tin  out  of  the 
oven,  and  turn  the  cake  upside  down  on  a  hair  sieve  to 
cool. 

15.  When  it  is  cold  we  cut  it  into  little  shapes  with  a 
cutter.     Sandwiches  of  jam  can  be  made  with  it  if  required. 


282       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PASTRY. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

ROUGH    PUFF    PASTE. 

Average  cost  of"  Rough  Puff  Paste"  (to  cover  about  a 
pint  and  \  pie  dish). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

8  ozs.  of  flour 1^ 

6  ozs.  of  butter    6 

Salt   \       A 

\  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice    J        4 

7*V»£  required,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  make. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Rough  Pitff  Paste. 

1.  We  take  eight  ounces  of  flour  and  six  ounces  of  butter 
and  put  them  on  a  clean  board. 

2.  We  take  a  knife  and  chop  up  the  butter  in  the  flour. 

3.  We  heap  it  on  the  board,  making  a  well  in  the  centre. 

4.  We  sprinkle  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  over  the 
flour,  and  squeeze  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

5.  We  add  a  /#  r£^  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  beat  it 
up  slightly  with  a  knife. 

6.  We  now  slowly,  and  lightly,  mix  it  all  with  our 
ringers,  adding  more  water  if  necessary,  until  it  be  formed 
into  a  stiff  paste. 

7.  We  must  keep  our  hands  and  the  board  well  floured, 
that  the  paste  may  not  stick. 

8.  We  take  a  rolling  pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the  paste, 
and  fold  it  over  in  half. 

9.  We  turn  it  round  with  the  rough  edges  towards  us. 

10.  We  roll  it  again  and  fold  it  in  half. 


Lessons  on  Making  Pastry.  — Rough  Piiff  Paste.   283 

11.  We  must  roll  out  the  paste,  and  fold  it  twice  more 
as  before. 

N.B. — The  paste  is  now  ready  to  be  used  for  a  meat  pie,  apple  tart,  tart- 
lets, &c.  The  heat  of  the  oven  should  rise  to  2800,  but  it  must  be  reduced 
down  to  220°  after  the  first  quarter  of  an  hour. 


284     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


PASTRY. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

SUET   CRUST  FOR    BEEF-STEAK    AND    KIDNEY 
PUDDING,  OR   ROLY   POLY   PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Suet  Crust"  (for  a  quart  pudding). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  flour    i| 

5  oz.  of  beef  suet    }        3 

Salt I     2* 

4 

For  Beefsteak  Pudding.  For  Roly  Poly  Pudding. 

s.    d.  d. 

i|  lb.  of  rump  or  beefsteak 19  §  pot  of  jam  or  marmalade. .     4 

\  lb.  of  beef  kidney ;...)  g  — — 

Pepper  and  salt J 

2    3 

7Yz«£  reqtiired,  about  three  hours  and  a  half  for  the  Meat  Pudding. 
For  the  Roly  Poly,  about  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Suet  Crust,  to  be 
used  for  either  a  Beef-Steak  Pudding,  or  Roly-Poly,  &c. 

1.  We  take  five  ounces  of  beef  suet,  and  put  it  on  a 
board. 

2.  We  take  a  knife,  and  cut  away  all  the  skin,  and  chop 
up  the  suet  as  finely  as  possible. 

3.  We  put  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin,  and  add  to 
it  the  chopped  suet  and  a  teaspoo7tful  of  salt. 

N.B. — If  the  paste  is  to  be  used  for  a  Roly  Poly,  we  should  only  add  a 
quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

4.  We  rub  the  S7iet  well  into  the  flour  with  our  hands. 

5.  We  then  add,  by  degrees,  enough  cold  water  to  make 
it  into  a  stiff  paste.     We  should  mix  it  well. 

6.  We  take  the  paste  out  of  the  basin,  and  put  it  on  a 
board. 


Lessons  on  Making  Pastry. — Suet  Crust.     285 

7.  We  take  a  rolling-pin  and  flour  it.  We  also  sprinkle 
flour  on  the  board,  to  prevent  the  paste  from  sticking. 

N.B. — If  a  Roly  Poly  is  to  be  made,  we  proceed  as  directed,  see  Note  24. 

8.  We  roll  out  the  paste  once,  to  the  thickness  of  rather 
more  than  one-eighth  of  an  inch. 

N.B. — Now  the  paste  is  ready  for  use,  and  if  it  is  required  for  beef-steak 
pudding — 

9.  We  take  a  quart  pudding  basin,  and  butter  it  well 
inside. 

10.  We  line  the  basin  smoothly  inside  with  paste. 

11.  We  take  a  knife,  flour  it,  and  cut  away  the  paste 
that  is  above  the  edge  of  the  basin. 

12.  We  fold  this  paste  together,  and  roll  it  out  to  a 
round,  the  size  of  the  top  of  the  basin,  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  in  thickness. 

13.  We  take  one  pound  and  a  half  of  rump  or  beef -steak, 
put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  into  thin  slices. 

14.  We  flour  the  slices  well  (using  about  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour),  and  season  them  with  plenty  of  pepper  and  salt. 

15.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  beef  kidney,  and  cut  it  up 
in  small  pieces. 

16.  We  roll  up  the  slices  of  beef -steak,  and  fill  the  basin 
with  the  meat  and  the  kidney. 

N.B. — The  pudding  might  be  flavoured  with  shalot,  parsley,  and  mushrooms 
according  to  taste. 

17.  We  now  pour  into  the  basin  one  gill  of  water. 

18.  We  wet  the  paste  round  the  edge  of  the  basin  with 
cold  water,  and  cover  over  the  top  of  the  basin  with  the 
round  of  paste. 

19.  We  must  join  the  paste  together  at  the  edge  of  the 
basin,  pressing  it  down  with  our  thumb. 

20.  We  take  a  pudding  cloth,  flour  it,  and  lay  it  over 
the  top  of  the  basin,  tying  it  on  tightly  with  a  piece  of 
twine. 

21.  W7e  take  a  large  saucepan  of  warm  water,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  boil. 


286       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

22.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  put  in  the 
pudding,  and  let  it  boil  for  three  hours. 

23.  For  serving,  we  take  off  the  cloth  and  turn  the 
pudding  carefully  out  of  the  basin  on  to  a  hot  dish. 

24.  For  a  Roly-Poly  Pudding,  we  roll  out  the  paste  very 
thin,  we  take  half  a  pot  of  jam  or  marmalade,  spread  it 
well  all  over  the  paste,  and  then  roll  the  paste  up. 

25.  We  take  a  clean  cloth,  wring  it  out  in  warm  water 
sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  it,  place  the  rolled  paste  in  the 
middle  of  it,  roll  it  round,  and  tie  it  securely  at  each  end 
with  string. 

26.  We  put  the  pudding  into  the  saucepan  of  boiling, 
water  to  boil  for  two  hours. 

27.  For  serving,  we  take  the  pudding  out,  carefully  take 
off  the  cloth,  and  place  the  pudding  on  a  hot  dish. 


Lessons  on  Making  Pastry. — Short  Crust.     287 

PASTRY. 
Lesson  No.  6. 

SHORT  CRUST  FOR  APPLE  TURNOVERS 
AND  APPLE  DUMPLINGS,  &c. 

Average  cost  of  "  Apple  Turnovers  "  (about  three). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
f  lb.  of  flour    2 

\  lb.  of  clarified  dripping  or  butter  \d 2 

\  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder I 

3  apples    / 

3  teaspoonsful  of  moist  sugar 1 

7 
Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Apple  Turnovers. 

1.  We  take  three  apples,  peel  and  quarter  them,  cut  out 
the  core,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices. 

N.B. — One  apple  is  required  for  each  turnover. 

N.B. — If  3.  fruit  pie  or  apple  dumplings  are  required,  see  below. 

2.  We  put  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin, 
and  mix  into  it  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

3.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  clarified  dripping  or 
butter,  and  rub  it  well  into  the  flour  with  our  hands. 

4.  We  add   enough  cold  water  to  moisten  it,  and  mix  it 
into  a  stiff  paste. 

6.  We  take  a  board,  flour  it,  and  turn  the  paste  out  on  to  it. 

6.  We  flour  a  rolling  pin,  and  roll  out  the  paste  to  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 

7.  We  cut  the  paste  into  rounds ;  each  round  should  be 
about  the  size  of  a  small  plate. 

8.  We   lay  the  apple  on  one  half  of  the  round  of  paste, 
and  sprinkle  over  it  one  teaspoonful  of  moist  sugar. 


288      National  Training  School,  for  Cookery. 


9.  We  wet  the  edges  of  the  paste,  fold  the  paste  over  the 
apple,  pressing  the  edges  together  with  our  thumb. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  to  join  the  paste  together  on  all  sides,  or  the 
juice  of  the  apple  will  run  out  whilst  it  is  cooking. 

10.  We  grease  a  tin  with  a  little  dripping,  and  place  the 
turnovers  on  it. 

11.  We  put  the  tin  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2200)  to  bake  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour. 

12.  For  serving  we  place  the  turnovers  on  a  hot  dish. 

For  Baked  Apple  Dumplings. 

1.  We  divide  the  paste  into  three  portions. 

2.  We  take  three  apples,  peel  them,  and  cut  out  the  core 
from  the  centre. 

N.B. — We  must  not  cut  the  apples  in  pieces. 

3.  We  fill  the  centre  of  the  apples  with  moist  sugar. 

4.  We  press  each  apple  into  the  centre  of  each  portion  of 
paste,  and  gradually  work  the  paste  over  the  apple,  until  the 
apple  is  entirely  covered  in. 

N.B. — We  must  be  very  careful  to  join  the  paste  together  as  neatly  as  pos- 
sible, so  as  not  to  show  the  join  ;  and  there  must  be  no  cracks  in  the 
paste. 

5.  We  grease  a  tin,  as  described  above,  place  the 
dumplings  on  it,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour. 

6.  For  serving  we  take  the  dumplings  off  the  tin,  and 
put  them  on  a  hot  dish. 

1.  If  the  paste  is  for  a  Fruit  Pie,  we  roll  it  out  to  the 
shape  of  the  pie  dish,  only  a  little  larger,  and  to  the  thick- 
ness of  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch. 

2.  We  arrange  the  fruit  in  the  pie  dish,  heaped  up  in  the 
centre. 

3.  We  sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  moist  sugar  over  the 
fruit,  or  more  or  less  according  to  the  fruit  used. 

4.  We  take  a.  paste  brush  and  wet  the  edge  of  the  dish 
with  water,  or  a  little  white  of  egg. 


Lessons  on  Making  Pastry. — Short  Crust.     289 

6.  We  cut  a  strip  of  tlie  paste  the  width  of  the  edge  of  tlte 
pie  dish,  and  place  it  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

6.  We  take  the  paste  brush  again  and  wet  the  edge  of  the 
paste  with  water  or  white  of  egg. 

7.  We  take  the  remaining  paste  and  lay  it  over  the  pie 
dish,  pressing  it  down  with  our  thumb  all  round  the  edge. 

8.  We  must  be  very  careful  not  to  break  the  paste. 

9.  We  take  a  kfiife  and  trim  off  all  the  rough  edges  of  the 
paste  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

10.  We  take  a  knifey  and  with  the  back  of  the  blade  we 
make  little  notches  in  the  edge  of  the  paste,  pressing  the  paste 
firmly  with  our  thumb  to  keep  it  in  its  proper  place. 

11.  We  make  a  little  hole  in  the  paste  of  the  tart,  to  let 
out  the  steam. 

12.  We  take  the  paste  brush  and  wet  the  tart  all  over 
with  water. 

13.  We  sprinkle  some  pounded  loaf  sugar  over  the  tart, 
this  is  to  glaze  it. 

14.  We  now  put  the  tart  into  a  hot  oven  (the  thermo- 
meter at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  for  half  an  hour, 
or  three  quarters  of  a?i  hour,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
tart.  We  must  watch  it  occasionally  and  turn  it,  to  prevent 
its  burning ;  it  should  become  a  pale  brown.  It  is  then 
ready  for  serving,  either  hot  or  cold  according  to  taste. 

N.B. — If  a  better  crust  is  required  for  apple  turnovers,  &c„  see  "Pastry," 
Lesson  No.  2. 


290     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


PASTRY. 

Lesson  No.  7. 

FLAKY  CRUST   FOR    FRUIT   PIES   AND 
OPEN   TARTS. 

Average  cost  of  " Flaky  Crust"  (to  cover  a 
quart  pie  or  tart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

f  lb.  of  flour    3 

§  lb.  of  butter 8 

10 
Time  required  {for  making  the  pastry) ,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Flaky  Crust  for  pies 
or  tarts. 

1.  We  put  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  and  a  quarter 
of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  into  a  basin,  and  mix  it  into  a 
stiff  paste  with  water  (about  one  gill). 

2.  We  flour  a  board,  and  turn  the  paste  out  on  it. 

3.  We  take  a  rolling  pin ,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the  paste 
to  a  thin  sheet. 

4.  We  divide  the  half-pound  of  butter  into  three  portions. 

5.  We  take  one  portion  of  the  butter  and  spread  it  all 
over  the  paste  with  a  knife. 

6.  We  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  butter,  and  fold  the 
paste  into  three. 

7.  We  flour  the  rolling  pin  and  roll  out  the  paste,  and 
spread  another  portion  of  the  butter  over  it. 

8.  We  fold  the  paste  as  before,  roll  it  out,  and  add  the 
remainder  of  the  butter. 


Lessons  on  Making  Pastry. — Flaky  Crust.     291 

9.  We  then  fold  the  paste  again,  and  roll  it  out  to  the 
size  and  thickness  required  either  for  a  fruit  pie  or  an  open 
tart. 

N.B. — This  crust  should  be  baked  in  a  quick  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2400). 

N.B. — The  top  of  a  fruit  pie  should  be  brushed  over  with  water,  and  then 
sprinkled  with  pounded  white  sugar. 

N.B. — For  an  open  tart  we  take  a  tin  (the  size  required)  and  grease  it  with 
clarified  dripping  or  butter.  We  should  roll  out  the  paste  to  a  thin 
sheet  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  rather  larger  than  the 
size  of  the  tin.  We  place  the  paste  in  the  greased  tin,  pressing  it  into 
the  shape  of  the  tin  with  our  thumb.  We  should  place  a  dummy  or  a 
piece  of  crust  of  bread  in  the  centre  of  the  paste  to  prevent  the  paste  from 
rising  while  baking.  We  put  the  tin  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty 
minutes.     The  jam  should  be  put  into  the  tart  after  it  is  baked. 


292      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.   i. 

CABINET    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Cabinet  Pudding "  (about  one  pint 
and  a  half). 


INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 
1  doz.  cherries  or  raisins  and  two  or  three  )  * 

pieces  of  angelica J  °       2 

4  sponge  cakes  and  |  a  doz.  ratafias   o    7 

1  oz.  of  loaf  sugar  and  15  drops  of  essence  )  . 

ofVanilla   }  °    °* 

4  eggs o    4 

1  pint  of  milk    o     ■zS 

Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Cabinet  Pudding. 

1.  We  take  a  pint  and  a  half  mould,  and  butter  it  inside 
with  our  fingers. 

2.  We  take  a  dozen  raisins,  or  dried  cherries,  and  two 
or  three  pieces  of  angelica,  and  ornament  the  bottom  of  the 
mould  with  them. 

3.  We  take  four  sponge  cakes  and  break  them  in 
pieces. 

4.  We  partly  fill  the  mould  with  pieces  of  cake  and  half  a 
dozen  ratafias. 

5.  We  take  4  yolks  and  2  whites  of  eggs,  and  put  them  in 
a  basin. 

6.  We  add  to  the  eggs  one  ounce  of  white  sugar,  and  whip 
them  together  lightly. 

7.  We  stir  in  by  degrees  one  pint  of  milk. 

8.  We  flavour  it  by  adding  fifteen  drops  of  essence  of 
Vanilla. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — u  Cabinet!'     293 

9.  We  pour  this  mixture  over  the  cakes  in  the  mould. 

10.  We  place  a  piece  of  buttered  paper  over  the  top  of  the 

mould. 

11.  We  take  a  saucepan  half  full  of  boiling  water,  and 
stand  it  on  the  side  of  the  fire. 

12.  We  stand  the  mould  in  the  saucepan  to  steam  for 
from  three  quarters  of  an  hour  to  an  hour. 

N.B. — The  water  should  only  reach  half-way  up  the  mould,  or  it  would  boil 
over  and  spoil  the  puddi?ig. 

13.  For  serving,  we  turn  the  pudding  carefully  out  of  the 
mould  on  to  a  hot  dish. 

N  B.— For  a  cold  "  Cabinet  Pudding,"  see  "  Puddings,"  Lesson  No.  27. 


294      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

BAKED    LEMON    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "Lemon  Pudding"  {in  about  1  pint  dish). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

2  lemons o  3 

3  ozs.  of  loaf  sugar „ o  1 

3  eggs o  3 

1  a  gill  of  cream o     3 

\  a  gill  of  milk o    o\ 

2  ozs.  of  cake  crumbs )  x 

\  inch  of  cinnamon  stick    J  2"1 

x     of 
Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Lemon  Pudding. 

1.  We  take  two  lemons,  wipe  them  clean  in  a  cloth,  and, 
grate  the  rind  of  them  on  six  lumps  of  sugar. 

2.  We  take  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon 
and  put  it  in  a  mortar. 

3.  We  pound  the  cinnamon  well  in  the  mortar  with  the 

sugar. 

4.  We  put  this  into  a  basin. 

5.  We  take  three  ounces  of  cake  crumbs,  and  add  them 
to  the  above  in  the  basin,  and  mix  all  well  together. 

6.  We  take  the  two  lemons,  cut  them  in  halves,  and 
squeeze  the  juice  of  them  into  the  basin,  through  a  strainer. 

7.  We  add  the  yolks of 'three  eggs,  and  beat  them  in  with 
the  above.  {Two  of  the  whites  of  eggs  we  put  on  a  plate, 
the  other  we  put  aside.) 

8.  We  stir  in  well  and  smoothly  half  a  gill  of  cream,  and 
half  a  gill  of  milk  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

9.  We  whip  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
with  a  knife,  and  add  them  at  the  last  moment  to  the  above 
mixture,  stirring  it  lightly. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings.  — "  Lemon!'      2g5 

10.  We  take  a  pie  dish,  and  line  the  edge  of  it  with  puff 
paste  (see  "  Pastry,"  Lesson  No.  i). 

11.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  the  pie  dish. 

12.  We  put  the  pie  dish  in  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door  should  rise  to  220°)  to  bake,  till  the  mixture 
is  set,  and  of  a  light  brown  colour  ;  it  is  then  readv  for 


296      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

APPLE    CHARLOTTE. 

Average  cost  of"  Apple  Charlotte"  {about  one  pint  dish). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

2  lbs.  of  apples o  6 

\  lb.  of  loaf  sugar o  2 

The  rind  of  one  lemon o  1 

Bread  and  clarified  butter o  6| 

Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  an  Apple  Charlotte. 

1.  We  take  two  pounds  of  good  cooking  apples,  and  peel 
them  thinly  with  a  sharp  knife. 

2.  We  take  a  knife  and  cut  them  in  slices,  and  take  out 
the  core. 

3.  We  put  these  sliced  apples  into  a  stewpan,  with 
sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten  them,  and  one  gill  of  water. 

4.  We  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  in  a  cloth,  and  peel  it 

very  thinly. 

5.  We  take  the  rind  of  the  lemon,  and  tie  it  together  with 
a  piece  of  cotton,  and  put  it  in  the  stewpan  with  the  apples, 

6.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  it  boils,  and  the  apples  are  reduced  to 
about  half  the  quantity.  It  will  take  from  one  hour  to  one 
hour  and  a  half. 

7.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  stand  it  on  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  table,  and  we  must  take  out  the  lemon 
peel. 

8.  We  take  a  plain  round  tin  mould  (about  one  pint). 

9.  We  cut  a  slice  of  the  crumb  of  bread,  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  in  thickness,  and  round  to  the  size  of  the  mould. 


Lessons  on  Puddings. — Apple  Charlotte.     297 

10.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stewpan  to 
melt  and  clarify. 

11.  We  must  cut  the  rowid  of  bread  into  quarters,  dip 
them  in  the  clarified  butter,  and  place  them  at  the  bottom 
of  the  mould. 

12.  We  now  cut  slices  of  the  crumb  of  bread,  one-eighth  of 
an  incJi  in  tJiickness,  and  the  depth  of  the  mould  in  length. 

13.  We  cut  these  slices  into  strips  an  i7ich  wide. 

14.  We  dip  these  strips  into  the  clarified  butter,  and  place 
them  round  inside  the  mould,  allowing  them  to  lie  half  over 
each  other. 

15.  We  must  now  pour  the  apples  into  the  middle  of  the 
mould. 

16.  We  cover  the  apples  with  a  round  of  bread  dipped  in 
the  clarified  bittter. 

17.  We  put  the  mould  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer 
at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  about  220°)  to  bake  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

N.B. — The  bread  should  be  quite  brown  and  crisp. 

18.  For  serving,  we  turn  it  carefully  out  of  the  mould  on 
to  a  hot  dish. 


298     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

PANCAKES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Pancakes  "  (about  eight). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
3  ozs.  of  flour 1 

2  eggs 2 

I  a  pint  of  milk i 

1  a  saltspoonful  of  salt I        x 

3  ozs.  of  lard   ]      2* 

The  juice  of  half  a  lemon i 

2  ozs.  of  moist  sugar. \ 


Time  required,  about  twenty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  we  make  Pancakes. 

1.  We  take  three  ounces  of  flour,  and  put  it  in  a  basin. 

2.  We  add  half  a  saltspoonful  of salt,  and  mix  it  well  into 
the  flour. 

3.  We  break  two  eggs  into  the  flour,  and  add  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  milk,  and  mix  all  well  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

4.  We  stir  in  gradually  half  a  pint  of  milk,  making  the 
mixture  very  smooth. 

N.  B. — If  possible  it  is  better  to  let  this  mixture  stand  before  frying  it  into 
pancakes. 

5.  We  put  a  fryingpan  on  the  fire,  and  put  into  it  a  piece 
of  lard  the  size  of  a  nut,  and  let  it  get  quite  hot,  but  it  must 
not  burn. 

6.  We  then  pour  into  the  fryingpan  two  large  table- 
spoonsful  of  the  batter,  and  let  it  run  thinly  all  over  the 
pan. 

7.  When  the  pancake  has  become  a  light  brown  on  one 
side,  we  should  shake  the  pan,  and  toss  the  pancake  over,  to 
brown  the  other  side  the  same. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Pancakes.      299 

8.  We  should  stand  a  plate  on  the  hot-plate,  or  in  the 
front  of  the  fire  to  heat. 

9.  When  the  pancake  is  fried,  we  turn  it  on  to  this  heated 
plate. 

10.  We  should  squeeze  about  fifteen  drops  of  lemon  juice, 
and  sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of  moist  s?cgar  over  it. 

11.  We  now  roll  up  the  pancake,  and  place  it  on  the  edge 
of  the  plate,  so  as  to  leave  room  for  the  remainder  of  the 
pancakes. 

N.  B. — We  should  fry  all  the  pancakes  in  this  manner,  adding  each  time  a 
piece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  nut. 

12.  For  serving  we  arrange  the  pancakes  on  a  hot  dish, 
olacing  one  on  the  top  of  the  other. 


o 


oo      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

RICE    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "Rice  Pudding"  (about  one  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\\  oz.  of  Carolina  rice   o\ 

Butter   o\ 

1  tablespoonful  of  moist  sugar    o\ 

1  pint  of  milk 2t 

~3§ 

Time  required,  about  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  plain  Rice 
Pudding. 

1.  We  take  a  pint  dish  and  butter  it  well  inside. 

2.  We  take  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  Carolina  rice,  and  wash 
it  well  in  two  or* three  waters. 

3.  We  put  the  rice  into  the  buttered  dish,  and  sprinkle 
over  it  a  tablespoonful  of  moist  sugar. 

4.  We  fill  up  the  dish  with  milk. 

N.B. — Nutmeg  may  be  grated,  or  pounded  ctnnamon  be  sifted,  over  the  top 
of  the  pudding  before  it  is  put  in  the  oven. 

5.  We  put  the  dish  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door,  should  rise  to  about  2200)  to  bake  for  two 
hours. 

6.  We  must  watch  it  occasionally,  and  as  the  rice  soaks 
up  the  milk,  more  milk  should  be  added  (carefully  lifting 
up  the  skim  and  pouring  the  milk  in  at  the  side),  so  as  to 
keep  the  dish  always  full.      It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Custard.      301 
PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  6. 

CUSTARD    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Custard  Pudding  "   (about  one  pinl 
and  a  half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

4  eggs 4 

i  pint  of  milk     2 

Grated  nutmeg  and  salt )  x 

1  tablespoonful  of  castor  sugar j  °z 

Butter  and  flour  for  paste  2 

it 

Time  required,  abozit  thirty-five  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Cttstard  Pudding, 

1.  We  take  a  pint  and  a  half  dish  and  line  the  dish 
throughout  with  paste  (see  "  Pastry,"  Lesson  No.  2). 

N.B. — The  pudding  can  be  made  without  paste,  if  preferred  ;  in  which  case 
the  dish  must  be  butttered  inside. 

2.  We  break  four  eggs,  put  the  yolks  into  a  basin,  with 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  beat  them  well  together  (the 
others  we  put  aside). 

3.  We  add  a  tablespoonful  of  castor  sugar. 

4.  We  stir  one  pint  of  cold  milk  in  with  the  eggs,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

5.  We  pour  this  custard  into  the  dish  lined  with  paste. 

6.  We  grate  half  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

7.  We  put  the  dish  into  a  moderate  oven  (the  thermo- 
meter at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2 20°)  to  bake  for  half 
an  hour.      It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


302     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  7. 

PLUM    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "Plum,  Pudding"  {about  two  pounds). 


INGREDIENTS. 


INGREDIENTS. 


s.  d. 

1  lb.  of  beef  suet    o  5 

2  lb.  of  currants o  3 

I  lb.  of  sultanas  or  raisins    ....  o  3 
5  lb.  of  mixed  candied  peel,  ) 

viz.,  citron,  lemon  &  orange  j  °  3 

£  lb.  of  bread  crumbs    )  1 

i  lb.  of  flour    j  °  2* 

J  lb.  of  moist  sugar    o  2 

1  lemon    o  2 

4  eggs  04 

1  gill  (|  pint)  of  milk o  oh 

1  wineglassful  of  brandy   o  6 

2  ozs.  of  almonds    o  ij 

5  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  . . . .  ) 

I  a  nutmeg j  ° 


9h 


INGREDIENTS  for  Brandy  or 

Wine  Sauce. 


3  eggs   

1  gill  of  cream  (or  milk  %d.)  ... 
1    wineglassful  of  brandy  or 
sherry   

1  dessertspoonful  of  sugar    . . . 


Time  required,  about  Jive  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Plum  Pudding. 

1.  We  put  a  saucepan  of  warm-  water  on  the  fire  to 
boil. 

2.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  put  it  on  a  board, 
cut  away  all  the  skin,  and  chop  up  the  suet  as  finely  as 
possible  with  a  sharp  knife. 

3.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  currants,  wash  them  clean  in 
water,  and  rub  them  dry  in  a  cloth. 

4.  We  take  up  the  citrrants  in  handfuls,  and  drop  them, 
a  few  at  a  time,  on  to  a  plate,  so  as  to  find  out  if  there  are 
any  stones  with  them. 

5.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  sultana  raisins,  and  pick 
them  over. 


N.B. — If  large  raisins  are  used,  they  should  be  stoned„ 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Plum.      303 

6.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  over  a  piece  of  paper. 

7.  We  take  some  crumb  of  bread  and  rub  it  through  the 
sieve.  (There  should  be  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bread 
crumbs) 

8.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  mixed  peel,  citron, 
lemon,  and  orange,  and  cut  it  up  into  small  pieces. 

9.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  kitchen 
basin,  and  add  to  it  the  chopped  suet,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt. 

10.  We  rub  the  suet  well  into  the  flour  with  our  hands, 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  not  to  leave  any  lumps. 

11.  We  now  add  the  bread  crumbs,  the  currants  and 
raisins,  half  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  and  the  pieces  of 
candied  peel,  and  mix  all  well  together. 

12.  We  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  in  a  cloth,  and  grate 
the  rind  of  it  into  the  basin. 

13.  We  also  grate  half  a  nutmeg  into  the  basin,  and  add 
two  ounces  of  almonds  (previously  blanched  and  chopped 
up  finely). 

14.  We  break  four  eggs  into  a  basin,  and  add  to  them 
one  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint)  of  milk  and  a  wineglassful  of 
brandy. 

15.  We  stir  this  into  the  ingredients  in  the  basin,  mixing 
them  all  together. 

16.  We  take  a  strong  pudding-cloth,  sprinkle  about  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  over  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  basin. 

17.  We  turn  the  mixture  from  the  basin  into  the  centre 
of  the  floured  cloth. 

18.  We  tie  up  the  pudding  tightly  in  the  cloth  with  a  piece 
of  string. 

N.B. — If  preferred,  the  pudding  might  be  put  into  a  buttered  mould  and  a 
.cloth  tied  over  the  top. 

19.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  puddingy  and  let  it  boil  for  five  hours. 


304     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

20.  For  serving,  we  take  the  pudding  out  of  the  cloth 
and  turn  it  on  to  a  hot  dish. 

N.B. — Brandy  or  wine  sauce  (see  below)  can  be  served  with  the  pudding  if 
liked,  either  poured  over  it  or  served  separately  in  a  sauce  boat. 


For  Brandy  or  Wine  Sauce. 

1.  We  put  three  yolks  of  eggs  into  a  small  stewpan. 

2.  We  add  a  dessertspoonful  of  castor  sugar,  one  gill  (a 
quarter  of  a  pint)  of  cream  or  milk,  and  a  wineglassfid  of 
brandy  or  sherry,  and  whisk  all  well  together  with  a  whisk. 

3.  We  take  a  saucepan,  fill  it  half  full  of  hot  water,  and 
put  it  on  the  fire. 

4.  We  stand  the  stewpan  in  the  saucepan  of  hot  water, 
and  whisk  the  sauce  well  for  about  six  or  eight  minictes. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  the  sauce  does  not  boil,  or  it  will  curdle. 

5.  After  that  time  we  take  the  stewpan  out  of  the 
saucepan. 

6.  We  pour  the  sauce  over  the  plum  pudding  (see  above) 
or  into  a  sauce-boat  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. —  Vemioise.    305 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  8. 

VENNOISE    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "Vemioise  Pudding"  {one  pint  and  a 
half  mould). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

5  oz.  of  crumb  of  bread o  2 

2  ozs.  of  candied  peel o  2 

3  ozs.  of  castor  sugar )  ± 

1  oz.  of  lump  sugar J      °  Ji 

1  lemon o  2 

4  eggs o  4 

\  a  pint  of  milk o  i\ 

1  gill  (5  pint)  of  cream    o  6 

3  ozs.  of  Sultana  raisins o  1^ 

1  wineglassful  of  sherry o  6 

2  z\ 

Time  required,  about  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Vemioise 
Pudding. 

1.  We  take  a  piece  of  stale  crumb  of  bread  (about  five 
ounces),  put  it  upon  a  board,  and  cut  it  up  in  the  shape  of 
dice. 

2.  We  put  the  bread  into  a  basin  with  three  ounces  of 
castor  sugar  and  three  ounces  of  sultana  raisins. 

3.  We  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  with  a  cloth,  and  grate 
the  rind  of  it  into  the  basin. 

4.  We  chop  up  two  ounces  of  candied  peel  and  put  it  into 
the  basin. 

5.  We  pour  in  a  wineglassful  of  sherry. 

6.  We  put  a  saucepan  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to 
boil. 

7.  We  put  one  ounce  of  lump  sugar  into  a  stewpan,  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  to  brown. 

8.  When  it  has  become  a  dark  brown  liquid  we  add  to 


306      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

it  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  stir  it  until  the  milk  is  sufficiently 
coloured. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  the  sugar  is  quite  dissolved,  that  there  be 
no  lumps  left. 

9.  We  then  stand  the  stewpan  on  a  piece  of  paper  on  the 
table. 

10.  We  put  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  into  a  basin  (the  whites 
we  should  put  aside,  as  they  are  not  required  for  present 
use). 

11.  We  pour  the  coloured  milk  into  the  eggs,  stirring  well 
all  the  time. 

12.  We  stir  the  milk  and  eggs  into  the  ingredients  in  the 
basin. 

13.  We  also  add  one  gill  (a  quarter  of  a  pint)  of  cream. 

14.  We  take  a  pint  and  a  half  mould  and  butter  it  inside. 

15.  We  pour  the  pudding  into  the  mould. 

16.  We  butter  a  piece  of  kitchen  paper  and  lay  it  over 
the  top  of  the  mould. 

17.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
place  in  the  mould  to  steam  (the  water  should  only  reach 
half  way  up  the  mould,  or  it  will  boil  over  and  get  into  the 
pudding). 

18.  We  let  the  pudding  steam  for  one  hour  and  a  half. 

19.  For  serving,  we  take  the  buttered  paper  off  from  the 
top;  of  the  mould,  and  turn  the  pudding  out  carefully  on  to 
a  hot  dish. 

N.B. — German  Sauce  (see  "  Puddings,"  Lesson  No.  io)  can  be  served  with 
the  pudding  if  liked,  either  poured  round  it,  or  served  separately  in  a 

sa  i  iceboat. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Amber.     307 


PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  9. 

AMBER    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  an  " Amber  Pudding"  (one pint  dish). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

6  apples o  4 

3  ozs.  of  moist  sugar    o  1 

1  lemon  o  2 

2  ozs.  of  butter o  3 

3  eg&s o    3 

Putt  paste  o    4 

1     5 

Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  an  Amber  Pudding. 

1.  We  take  six  large  apples,  peel  them,  cut  out  the  core, 
and  cut  them  up  into  slices. 

2.  We  put  the  apples  into  a  stewpan  with  three  oimces  of 
moist  sugar,  and  two  ounces  of  butter. 

3.  We  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  with  a  cloth,  and  peel 
it  as  thinly  as  possible  with  a  sharp  knife. 

4.  We  cut  the  lemon  in  half  and  squeeze  the  juice  through 
a  strainer  into  the  stewpan. 

5.  We  also  add  the  lemon  peel. 

6.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  let  it  stew  till  the 
apples  are  quite  tender  (it  will  take  about  three-quarters  oj 
an  hour). 

7.  We  place  a  hair  sieve  over  a  large  basin. 

8.  When  the  apples  are  sufficiently  stewed,  we  pour  them 
on  to  the  sieve  and  rub  them  through  into  the  basin  with  a 
wooden  spoon. 

9.  We  stir  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  into  the  basin. 

u  2 


308     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

10.  We  take  a  pie-dish  (about  one  pint),  and  line  the  edge 
with  puff  paste  (see  "  Pastry,"  Lesson  No.  i). 

N.B. — If  we  have,  no  puff  paste,  short  paste  (see  "Pastry,"  Lesson  No.  2) 
will  do. 

11.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  the  pie-dish,  and  put  it  in 
the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to 
2400)  for  twenty  minutes. 

12.  We  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth. 

13.  When  the  pudding  is  a  light  brown,  we  take  it  out 
spread  the  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs  over  the  top,  and  sift 
about  a  dessertspoonful  of  castor  sugar  over  it. 

14.  We  put  the  dish  back  in  the  oven  till  the  icing  is  a 
light  brown  ;  the  pudding  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Brown  Bread.  309 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.   10. 

BROWN    BREAD    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Brown  Bread  Pudding  and  German 
Sauce"  (one pint  mould). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.     d. 

A  loaf  of  brown  bread o    2 

1  lemon o    2 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  Vanilla. .  "1 


3  ozs.  of  castor  sugar 


1  gill  (i  pint)  of  milk    o  of 

1  gill  ( \  pint)  of  cream o  6 

4  eggs , o  4 

1  4l 

German  Sauce. 

2  eggs o  2 

1  vvineglassful  of  sherry  o  6 

1  dessertspoonful  of  castor  sugar o  o\ 

o  8| 
Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to   make  a  Brown  Bread 
Pudding. 

1.  We  take  a  stale  brown  loaf  and  cut  off  all  the  crust. 

2.  We  put  a  wire  sieve  over  a  plate  and  rub  the  crumb 
cf  bread  through  it. 

3.  We  put  one  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint)  of  milk  into  a 
stewpan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

4.  We  put  five  ounces  of  the  bread  cnmib  into  a  basin, 
with  three  ounces  of  castor  sugar. 

5.  We  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  in  a  cloth,  and  grate 
the  rind  over  the  bread  crumbs. 

6.  We  also  add  half  a  teaspoonfid  of  essence  of  Vanilla. 

7.  We  put  a  stewpan  full  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to 

bull. 


310      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

8.  When  the  milk  boils  we  pour  it  over  the  crumbs. 

9.  We  put  one  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint)  of  cream  into  a 
basin,  and  whip  it  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  whisk. 

10.  We  add  the  cream  to  the  other  ingredients,  and  also 
stir  in  one  at  a  time  the  yolks  of  'four  eggs  (the  whites  of  two 
of  the  eggs  we  put  on  a  plate,  the  others  we  put  aside). 

11.  We  whip  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
with  a  knife,  and  then  stir  them  lightly  into  the  basin, 
mixing  all  the  ingredients  together. 

12.  We  take  -&pint  mould  and  butter  it  well  inside. 

13.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  the  mould,  butter  a  piece 
of  kitchen  paper,  and  place  it  over  the  top. 

14.  When  the  water  in  the  stewpan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
stand  the  mould  in  it  to  steam  the  pudding  (the  water 
should  only  reach  half-way  up  the  mould,  or  it  will  boil 
over  and  spoil  the  pudding). 

15.  We  let  it  steam  for  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 

16.  For  serving  we  take  off  the  buttered  paper,  and  turn 
the  pnddtng  on  to  a  hot  dish. 


GERMAN    SAUCE. 


1.  We  put  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
wineglassful  of  sherry  and  a  dessertspoonfid  of  castor  sugar. 

2.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  and  mill  it  with  a 
whisk  till  it  comes  to  a  thick  froth. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  the  sauce  does  not  boil,  or  it  will  curdle. 

3.  We  pour  the  sauce  round  the  pudding ;  it  is  ready  for 
serving. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Carrot.      3 1 1 

PUDDINGS. 
Lesson  No.  it. 

CARROT    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  u  Carrot  Pudding"  {one pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

\  lb.  of  carrots o  1 

3  ozs.  of  bread  crumbs    o  1 

2  ozs.  of  butter o  2 

\  a  gill  of  cream    o  3 

2  eggs o  2 

\  a  gill  of  sherry    o  3 

1  oz.  of  castor  sugar    o  1 

1  tablespoonful  of  orange  flower  water    ....  o  i£ 

Puff  paste o  4 

j_3 

Time  required,  about  three  quarters  of  an  hottr. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Carrot  Puddi?ig. 

1.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  carrots,  wash  them 
and  scrape  them  clean  with  a  knife. 

2.  We  take  a  grater,  and  grate  all  the  red  part  of  the 
carrots  into  a  basin. 

3.  We  stand  a  wire  sieve  over  a  plate. 

4.  We  take  some  crumb  of  bread,  and  rub  it  through  the 
sieve,  there  should  be  about  three  ounces  of  bread  crumbs. 

5.  We  put  the  bread  crumbs  into  the  basin  with  the 
carrot,  we  also  add  one  oimce  of  castor  sugar. 

6.  We  put  two  ounces  of 'butter  into  a  stewpan,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  melt. 

7.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  we  take  the  stewpan  off 
the  fire,  and  stand  it  on  a  piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

8.  We  then  stir  into  it  half  a  gill (one  gill  is  a  quarter  of 
a  pint)  of  sherry,  half  a  gill  of  cream,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
orange  flower  water. 


3T2     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  We  also  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  (the  whites  we  put 
on  a  plate). 

10.  We  whip  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
with  a  knife,  and  then  stir  them  lightly  into  the  stewpan, 
mixing  all  the  ingredients  together. 

.  11.  We  then  pour  the  contents  of  the  stewpan  into  the 
basin  with  the  carrot  and  bread  crumbs,  and  mix  them  well 
together. 

12.  WTe  take  a  pie-dish  (about  one  pint)  and  line  the 
edge  of  it  with  puff paste  (see  "  Pastry,"  Lesson  No  i). 

13.  We  pour  the  pudding  into  the  pie-dish,  and  put  it 
into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should 
rise  to  2400)  to  bake  for  half  an  hour;  it  is  then  ready  for 
serving. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings.- — Alexandra.     313 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  12. 

ALEXANDRA    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  an  "A  lexandra  Pudding"  {one pint  and  half) , 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

10  eggs   o  10 

2  ozs.  of  castor  sugar  o  i 

1  gill  (\  pint)  of  milk    o  of 

£  a  pint  of  good  cream    i  o 

1  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  Vanilla o  i 


2     o: 


Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  twenty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  an  Alexandra 
Pudding. 

1.  We  put  a  saucepan  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  put  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  into  a  basin  (the  whites 
of  five  of  the  eggs  we  put  in  another  basin,  the  others  we 
put  aside). 

3.  We  stir  into  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  two  ounces  of  castor 
sugar. 

4.  We  also  add  one  gill  (quarter  of  a  pint)  of  milk  and 
half  a  pint  of  good  cream, 

5.  We  whip  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs  slightly  with  a 
whisk  or  knife. 

6.  We  take  a  plain  tin  mould  (about  one  pint  and  a  half 
and  butter  it  inside,  we  cover  the  bottom  with  three  rounds 
of  buttered  paper. 

7.  We  add  the  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  a  teaspoon* 
ful  of  essence  of  Vanilla  to  the  mixture  in  the  basin,  and  stir 
all  lightly  together. 

8.  We  pour  the  mixture  through  a  strainer,  into  the 
mould,  and  tie  over  it  a  piece  of  stiff  paper  with  a  string. 


314     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  boils  we  stand  in 
the  mould.  (The  water  should  only  reach  half  way  up  the 
mould,  or  it  will  boil  over  and  spoil  the  pudding?) 

10.  We  let  it  simmer  gently  until  the  pudding  is  quite 
firm.     (It  will  take  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter?) 

N.B. — It  must  on  no  account  boil  fast. 

11.  After  that  time  we  take  the  pudding  out  of  the  sauce- 
pan and  stand  it  in  ice. 

12.  For  serving,  we  take  off  the  buttered  paper  and  turn 
the  pudding  carefully  out  on  to  a  dish,  and  ornament  it 
with  red  currant  jelly  according  to  taste. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings, — Blanc- Mange.  315 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  13. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Blanc-mange"  (about  one  quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

a. 

4.  tablespoonsful  of  cornflour   2 

1  quart  of  milk    4 

3  ozs.  of  loaf  sugar. .    j 

1  inch  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon  or  lemon  peel  j  r 

7 

Time  required,  about  a  quarter  of  an  /wur  to  make,  and  about  three  quarters  uf 
an  hour  to  get  cold. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Blanc-mange. 

1.  We  put  one  quart  of  milk  into  a  saucepan  with  three 
ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  one  inch  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon  or 
the  peel  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  for  flavouring. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

3.  We  put  four  tablespoonsful  of  cornflour  into  a  basin 
and  mix  it  smoothly  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  milk. 

4.  When  the  milk  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
stir  in  the  cornflour  quickly  and  let  it  boil  for  two  minutes, 
stirring  continually. 

N.B. — We  must  be  very  careful  not  to  let  it  get  lumpy. 

5.  We  take  a  quart  basin  or  a  mould  and  rinse  it  out  in 
cold  water. 

6.  We  now  take  the  piece  of  cinnamon  or  lemon  peel 
out  of  the  cornflour,  and  pour  the  cornflour  into  the  basin, 
and  stand  it  aside  to  cool. 

7.  When  the  blanc-mange  is  quite  cold,  we  turn  it  out  of 
the  basin  on  to  a  dish,  and  it  is  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — If  liked  the  blanc-mange  may  be  served  with  jam — or  with  custard- 
sauoc  (see  Souffle's,  Lesson  No.  r). 


316      National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  14. 

BOILED    BATTER    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Boiled  Batter  Pudding?  (about  a  pint 
and  a,  half}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

6  oz.  of  flour    ) 

Salt    (      z 

3  eggs    3 

1  pint  of  milk 2% 

~h 

Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  fifteen  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Boiled  Batter 
Pudding. 

1.  We  put  a  saucepan  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  put  six  ounces  of  flour  into  a  basin  and  mix  half 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt  with  it. 

3.  We  break  three  eggs  into  the  flour,  and  beat  them  well 
together. 

4.  We  now  add  by  degrees  one  pint  of  milk,  stirring  very 
smoothly  all  the  time,  until  the  batter  is  well  mixed. 

5.  We  take  a  pudding  basin  and  grease  it  inside  with 
butter. 

6.  We  stir  the  batter,  and  then  pour  it  into  the  basin. 

7.  We  wring  out  a  pudding  cloth  in  warm  and  then  cold 
water,  and  flour  it  well. 

8.  We  place  the  cloth  over  the  batter,  and  tie  it  on 
securely  with  a  piece  of  string,  just  below  the  rim  of  the 
basin.     We  tie  the  four  corners  of  the  cloth  over  the  top. 

9.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling  we 
put  in  the  pudding,  and  let  it  boil  for  one  hoiir  and  a  half 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Boiled  Batter.  317 

10.  For  serving,  we  take  the  basin  out  of  the  saucepan, 
take  off  the  cloth,  and  turn  the  pudding  carefully  out  on  a 
hot  dish. 


318      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  15. 

CORNFLOUR    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Cornflour  Pudding"  (in  a  cup). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  teaspoonful  of  cornflour oh 

J  pint  of  milk of 

4  lumps  of  sugar 03 

1  egg i" 

Z4 

Time  required,  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Cornflour  Pudding 
(in  a  cup,  for  infants  or  invalids). 

1.  We  put  a  saucepan  half  full  of  warm  water  on  the  fire 
to  boil. 

2.  We  put  one  teaspoonful  of  cornflour  into  a  sauce- 
pan. 

3.  We  pour  in  by  degrees  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk, 
mixing  it  very  smoothly. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  it  does  not  get  lumpy. 

4.  We  now  add  to  it  four  lumps  of  sugar,  put  the  sauce- 
pan on  the  fire  and  stir  smoothly  until  it  boils ;  it  will  take 
about  ten  minutes. 

5.  We  then  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire. 

6.  We  break  one  egg  into  the  saucepan,  and  beat  it  up 
until  it  is  all  well  mixed. 

N.B. — If  liked,  the  pudding  can  be  flavoured  with  essence  of  vanilla,  about 
five  drops  should  be  added. 

7.  We  take  a  cup  (just  large  enough  to  hold  the,  pudding), 
and  grease  it  inside  with  a  piece  of  butter. 

8.  We  pour  the  mixture  out  of  the  saucepan  into  the 
cup. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Cornflour.     319 


9.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
stand  in  the  cup  (but  we  must  be  careful  that  the  water 
only  comes  halfway  up  the  cup,  or  it  will  boil  over  and 
get  into  the  cup),  and  let  it  steam  for  twenty-five  minutes. 

10.  For  serving,  we  take  out  the  cup,  and  the  pudding 
may  be  turned  out  or  not,  according  to  taste. 


320     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  16. 

BATTER    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  " Batter  Pudding"  (in  a  cup). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  egg i 

i  dessertspoonful  of  flour J 

i  teacupful  of  milk  \      x 

Salt I      a 


Fime  required,  about  thirty-five  minutes  to  make  and  thirty  minutes  to  stand. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Batter  Pudding 
(in  a  cup  for  infants  or  invalids). 

1.  We  put  a  saucepan  half  full  of  warm  water  on  the  fire 
to  boil. 

2.  We  put  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour  into  a  ibasin  with  a 
few  groAns  of  salt. 

3.  We  break  one  egg  into  the  basin  and  mix  it  well  into 
the  flour. 

4.  We  now  add  by  degrees  a  teacupfid  of  milk,  stirring 
vigorously  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

5.  We  let  the  batter  stand  for  half  an  hour. 

6.  After  that  time  we  take  a  cup  (just  large  enough  to  hold 
the  batter)  and  grease  it  well  inside  with  a  piece  of  butter. 

7.  We  stir  the  batter,  and  then  pour  it  into  the  cup. 

8.  We  take  a  small  cloth,  wring  it  out  in  boiling  water, 
flour  it  well,  and  tie  it  over  the  top  of  the  cup,  with  a  piece 

of  string. 

N.B. — We  tie  the  four  corners  of  the  cloth  together  over  the  top  of  the  cup. 

9.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  cup,  and  let  it  boil  for  three  quarters  of  an  hottr. 

10.  For  serving,  we  take  the  cloth  off  the  cup,  and  the 
pudding  may  be  turned  out  or  not,  according  to  taste. 

Now  it  is  finished. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Cornftoiir.   32 1 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  17. 

CORNFLOUR    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Cornflour  Pudding "  (about  one  quart; 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

4  tablespoonsful  of  cornflour    I 

1  quart  of  milk    5 

3  tablespoonsful  of  pounded  sugar 1 

2  eggs   2 

1  inch  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon  or  a  bay  leaf  (        , 

1  ol 


Grated  nutmeg 


91 


Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Cornflour  Pudding. 

1.  We  put  four  tablespoons/id  of  cornflour  into  a  basin, 
and  mix  it  quite  smooth  with  a  tablespoonfid  of  cold  milk. 

2.  We  put  the  remainder  of  the  quart  of  milk  into  a 
saucepan  with  three  tablespoonsfid  of  pounded  sicgar  and  one 
inch  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon  or  a  bay  deaf. 

3.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

4.  When  the  milk  boils  we  pour  it  on  to  the  mixture^ 
stirring  it  smoothly  all  the  time. 

5.  We  break  two  eggs  into  the  cornflour,  and  beat  it  up 
lightly. 

6.  We  take  a  quart  pie-dish  and  grease  it  inside  with 
butter. 

7.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  the  pie-dish,  and  grate  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

8.  We  put  the  dish  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2200)  to  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

9.  It  will  then  be  ready  for  serving. 


322      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  18. 

RICE    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Rice  Pudding"  (about  one  quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  rice i \ 

i  quart  of  milk  5 

2  eggs 2 

2  oz.  of  moist  sugar , of 

2  oz.  of  suet . . . , , 1 

Grated  nutmeg    , oj 

Time  required,  from  forty  minutes  to  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Rice  Pudding. 

1.  We  wash  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  two  or  three  waters, 
and  then  put  it  into  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  and  put  it  on 
the  fire  till  it  boils  and  swells. 

2.  We  break  two  eggs  into  a  basin. 

3.  We  add  to  them  two  ounces  of  moist  sugar  and  one 
quart  of  milk,  and  stir  them  together. 

4.  We  put  two  ounces  of  suet  on  a  board,  cut  away  all 
the  skin,  and  shred  it  as  finely  as  possible. 

5.  We  take  a  qitart  dish,  and  grease  it  inside  with  clarified 
dripping  or  butter. 

6.  We  drain  off  the  rice  on  a  colander  as  dry  as  possible, 
and  lay  it  in  the  greased  dish. 

7.  We  pour  the  mixture  of  milk  and  eggs  over  the  rice, 
and  sprinkle  the  shredded  sitet  over  the  top. 

8.  We  take  a  grater,  and  grate  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
nittmeg  over  the  top. 

9.  We  put  the  dish  into  an  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  220°)  to  bake  for,  from  forty 
minutes  to  an  hour. 

10.  After  that  time  it  is  ready  for  serving. 


L essons  on  Making  Puddings. — Curates.      323 


PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  19. 

CURATE'S    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Curates  Pudding"  (about  one  quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  lb.  of  potatoes i 

3  eggs    3 

1  pint  of  milk 2| 

Sugar    , o\ 

7 
Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Curates  or  Sweet 
Potato  Pudding. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  potatoes,  wash  them,  and  boil 
them  as  described  (see  "  Vegetables,"  Lesson  No.  1). 

N.B. — Any  remains  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  could  be  used  instead  of  fresh 
ones. 

2.  We  rub  these  boiled  potatoes  through  a  colander  into 
a  basin  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

3.  We  break  three  eggs  into  another  basin,  and  stir  into 
them  one  pint  of  milk. 

4.  We  stir  the  milk  and  eggs  smoothly  into  the  potatoes, 
and  sweeten  it  with  sugar  according  to  taste. 

5.  We  take  a  quart  pie  dish,  grease  it  inside,  and  pour 
the  mixture  into  it. 

6.  We  put  the  pie  dish  in  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2200)  to  bake  for  half  an  hour; 
it  will  then  be  ready  for  serving. 


X   n 


324     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  20. 

BREAD    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Bread  Pudding"  {one  pint  and  a  half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  lb.  of  scraps  of  bread ih 

1  pint  of  milk 2| 

2  eggs 2 

2  tablespoonsful  of  moist  sugar Oj 

4  oz.  of  raisins  or  currants    i 

2  oz.  of  suet    i| 

Time  reqicired,  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Bread  Pudding. 

1.  We  put  one  pound  of  scraps  of  bread  into  a  basin,  with 
plenty  of  cold  water  to  soak. 

N.B. — Any  scraps  of  bread,  either  crumb  or  crust,  however  stale,  so  long  as 
they  are  not  mouldy  or  burnt,  can  be  used  for  this  pudding. 

2.  We  put  one  quart  of  milk  into  a  saucepan,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  boil. 

3.  We  put  into  the  milk  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
nut,  to  prevent  it  from  burning. 

4.  We  take  the  bread  out  of  the  basin  and  squeeze  out 
all  the  water. 

5.  We  empty  the  water  out  of  the  basin,  and  put  back 
the  bread. 

6.  When  the  milk  boils  we  pour  it  over  the  bread,  and 
let  the  bread  soak  until  it  is  soft. 

7.  We  break  two  eggs  into  a  small  basin,  add  to  them 
two  tablespooftsful  of  moist  sugar,  and  beat  them  lightly 
together. 

8.  We  take  four  ounces  of  large  raisins  and  stone  them, 
or,  if  currants  are  preferred,  we  should  wash  them,  dry  them 
in  a  cloth,  and  pick  them  over  to  see  there  are  no  stones 
with  them. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings, — Bread  Pudding,  325 

9.  We  take  two  ounces  of  suet,  put  it  on  a  board,  cut 
away  the  skin,  and  chop  it  up  finely. 

10.  We  now  beat  the  bread  up  with  a  fork  as  smooth  as 
possible. 

11.  We  put  in  the  raisins  or  currants,  the  chopped  suet, 
the  eggs,  and  sugar,  and  mix  them  all  well  together. 

12.  We  take  a  pint  and  a  half  pie  dish  or  tin,  grease  it 
well  inside,  and  pour  in  the  mixture. 

13.  We  put  it  in  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven 
door  should  rise  to  2200)  to  bake,  for  half  an  hour  ;  it  will 
then  be  ready  for  serving. 


326     National  Training  School  for  Coo!: cry 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  21. 

TREACLE    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Treacle  Pudding"  {one  quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  lb.  of  flour 2j 

5  lb.  of  suet 2 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder } 

Salt    \  o£ 

1  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger    ) 

About  a  \  lb.  of  treacle i 

About  5  of  a  pint  of  milk o\ 

1  egg . 1 

T 
/ 

Time  required,  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Treacle  Pudding. 

1.  We  put  a  large  saucepan  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to 
boil. 

2.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet,  put  it  on  a  board, 
cut  away  the  skin,  and  chop  up  the  suet  as  finely  as  possible. 

3.  We  put  one  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin  with  a  little 
salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

4.  We  add  the  chopped  suet  and  one  teaspoonful  of  ground 
ginger,  and  mix  all  well  together  with  a  spoon. 

5.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  treacle  into  a  basin 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk  and  one  egg,  and  mix  them 
together. 

N.B. — If  liked,  rather  more  treacle  can  be  added. 

6.  We  stir  this  into  the  mixture  in  the  basin,  and  add 
more  milk  if  required  to  make  the  pudding  moist. 

N.B. — When  the  pudding  is  mixed  it  should  be  rather  stiff. 

7.  We  take  a  quart  basin,  grease  it  well  inside,  and  pour 
the  mixture  into  it. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  that  the  basin  is  full,  for  if  not  quite  full  the 
water  will  ge<  into  it  and  spoil  the  pudding. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Treacle.     327 

8.  We  sprinkle  some  flour  over  the  top  of  the  padding, 
put  a  cloth  over  it,  and  tie  it  tightly  down  with  a  piece  of 
string,  just  below  the  rim  of  the  basin,  and  tie  the  corners 
of  the  cloth  together. 

9.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  pudding,  and  let  it  boil  for  two  hours. 

10.  For  serving,  we  take  the  pudding  out  of  the  saucepan, 
take  off  the  cloth,  place  a  hot  dish  over  the  pudding,  and 
turn  it  carefully  out  of  the  basin. 


328     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  22. 

PLUM    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Plum  Pudding"  {about  a  pound). 

INGREDIENTS, 

d. 

5  oz.  of  bread  crumbs    i  \ 

7  oz.  of  flour     o\ 

\  lb.  of  suet . 2 

\  lb.  of  raisins i \ 

\  lb.  of  currants x\ 

2  oz.  of  moist  sugar o| 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder o \ 

2  eggs  2 

I  gill  (I  pint)  of  milk o| 

10 

Time  required,  two  a?id  a  half  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Plum  Pudding. 

1.  We  put  a  large  saucepan  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to 
boil. 

2.  We  stand  a  grater  on  a  piece  of  paper,  and  grate  some 

bread  crumbs  ;  there  should  be  five  ounces. 

3.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet  and  put  it  on  a 
board. 

4.  We  take  a  knife,  cut  away  all  the  skin,  and  chop  up 
the  suet  as  finely  as  possible. 

5.  We  should  sprinkle  flour  over  the  suet  to  prevent  it 
sticking  to  the  board  or  knife. 

6.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants,  wash  them 
well  in  cold  water,  and  rub  them  dry  in  a  cloth. 

7.  We  take  up  the  currants  in  handsful  and  drop  them,  a 
few  at  a  time,  on  to  a  plate,  so  as  to  find  out  if  there  are 
any  stones  mixed  with  the  currants. 

8.  We  take  a  qtiarter  of  a  pound  of  large  raisins  and' 
stone  them. 


Lessons  o?i  Making  Puddings. — Plum  Pudding.   329 

9.  We  put  seven  ounces  of  flour  into  a  basin,  and  add 
to  it  the  chopped  suet,  quarter  of  a  saltspoonfid  of  salt,  and  a 
tea  spoonful  of  baking  poivder. 

10.  We  rub  the  suet  well  into  the  flour  with  our  hands. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  not  to  leave  any  lumps. 

11.  We  now  add  the  bread  crumbs,  the  currants  and 
raisins,  two  ounces  of  moist  sugar,  and  mix  all  well  with 
a  wooden  spoon. 

N.B. — If  preferred,  treacle  may  be  used  instead  of  sugar. 

12.  We  break  two  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  to  them  one  gill 
(a  quarter  of  a  pint)  of  milk  and  beat  them  up. 

13.  We  now  stir  the  milk  and  eggs  into  the  pudding  and 
mix  all  well  together. 

14.  We  take  a  cloth,  wring  it  out  of  hot  water,  Hour  it, 
and  lay  it  over  a  quart  basin. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  that  the  cloth  is  strong  and  that  there  are  no 
holes  in  it. 

15.  We  turn  the  mixture  from  the  basin  into  the  centre 
of  the  floured  cloth. 

16.  We  hold  up  the  four  corners  of  the  cloth  and  tie  up 
the  pudding  tightly  with  a  piece  of  string. 

17.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  pudding,  and  let  it  boil  for  two  hours. 

N.B. — The  lid  should  be  on  the  saucepan. 

18.  For  serving,  we  take  the  pudding  out  of  the  cloth 
and  turn  it  on  to  a  hot  dish. 


330     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  23. 

TAPIOCA    AND    APPLES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Stewed  Tapioca  and  Apples." 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  tablespoonsful  of  Tapioca o| 

6  apples 4 

4  cloves  and  the  peel  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon     i 

3  tablespoonsful  of  sugar o§ 

6 

Time  required  {after  the  tapioca  has  soaked  twelve  hours),  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  stew  of  Tapioca 
and  Apples. 

1.  We  put  two  tablespoonsful  of  tapioca  into  a  basin  with 
one  pint  of  water,  and  let  it  soak  for  twelve  hours. 

N.B.—  This  should  be  done  over-night. 

2.  We  take  six  apples,  peel,  quarter,  and  core  them. 

3.  We  put  three  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  into  a  saucepan 
with  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  put  it  over  the  fire  and  stir, 
until  it  has  reduced  and  become  a  thick  syrup. 

4.  We  take  half  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  with  a  cloth,  and 
peel  it  very  thinly  with  a  sharp  knife. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  cut  any  of  the  white,  as  it  is  very  bitter. 

5.  We  put  the  soaked  tapioca  into  a  large  saucepan,  add 
the  syrupy  the  lemon  peel,  and  four  cloves. 

6.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  stir  it  well  until 
it  boils. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  not  to  let  any  stick  to  the  bottom. 

7.  We  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes,  until  the  tapioca  has 
become  clear. 

8.  After  that  time  we  put  the  apples  into  the  saucepan^ 


Lessons  on  Puddings. — Tapioca  and  Apples. 


oo 


arranging  them  at  the  bottom,   so  that  they  are  covered 
with  the  tapioca. 

9.  We  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let 
the  apples  stew  gently  for  from  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes, 
according  to  their  size. 

10.  We  must  not  let  them  boil,  or  they  will  break. 

11.  We  now  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  half  'lemon  over  the 
apples,  and  stir  carefully. 

12.  When  they  are  stewed  quite  tender,  we  take  them 
out  of  the  saucepan  and  put  them  on  a  dish. 

13.  We  take  the  lemon  peel  and  the  cloves  out  of  the 
tapioca  sauce,  and  colour  the  sauce  (if  liked)  by  adding 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  cochineal. 

14.  We  now  pour  the  tapioca  sauce  over  the  apples.     It  is 
then  ready  for  serving. 


332     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS 

Lesson  No.  24. 

BOILED    LEMON    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "Boiled  Lemon  Pudding"  (in  about  one 

pint  basin}) 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  bread  crumbs 2 

\  lb.  of  suet r z\ 

2  oz.  of  flour o{ 

J  lb.  of  moist  sugar 1 

2  lemons 3 

2  eggs 2 

2  tablespoonsful  of  milk . ok 

777/z*  required,  about  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Lemon  Pudding, 

1.  We  put  a  large  saucepan  full  of  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet  on  a  board,  cut 
away  all  the  skin,  and  chop  it  up  finely. 

3.  We  put  two  ounces  of  flour  m  a  basin,  and  add  to  it 
the  chopped  suety  and  rub  the  suet  well  into  the  flour  with 
our  fingers. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  leave  any  lumps. 

4.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  over  a  plate  ;  we  take  half  a 
pound  of  the  cntmb  of  bread,  and  rub  it  through  the  sieve, 
we  add  these  bread  crumbs  to  theflour  and  suet ;  we  also 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  moist  sugar. 

5.  We  take  two  lemons,  wipe  them  clean  with  a  cloth, 
and  grate  the  rinds  of  them  into  the  basin  ;  we  then  cut  the 
lemons  in  half,  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  both  the  lemons; 
we  must  be  careful  not  to  let  the  pips  fall  into  the 
basin  :  we  mix  all  these  ingredients  well  together. 

6.  We  break  two  eggs  into  a  basin  ;  and  add  to  them  two 
tablespoonsful  of  milk  and  beat  them  together. 


Lessons  on  Ptiddings. — Boiled  Lemon  Pudding.    333 

7.  We  now  pour  the  eggs  and  milk  on  to  the  other 
ingredients,  and  mix  them  well  together. 

8.  We  take  a  small  pint  basin,  and  butter  it  well  inside, 
we  pour  the  mixture  into  the  basin  ;  we  take  a  clean  cloth, 
wring  it  out  in  hot,  and  then  in  cold  water,  sprinkle  a 
little  Jtour  over  it,  and  tie  it  over  the  top  of  the  basin,  with 
a  piece  of  string. 

9.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  pitdding,  and  let  it  boil,  for  one  hour  and  a  half. 

10.  For  serving  we  take  the  pudding  out  of  the  saucepan, 
take  off  the  cloth,  and  turn  the  pudding  carefully  out  on  to 
a  hot  dish. 


334     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  25. 

SEMOLINA    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Semolina  Pudding." 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  pint  milk  i \ 

1  tablespoonful  semolina o| 

1  egg 1 

1  dessertspoonful  moist  sugar (  i 

Butter  and  nutmeg    J  °2 


31 

Time  required,  about  twenty-five  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Semolina  Pudding. 

1.  We  put  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
semolina  into  a  saucepan. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  stir  occasionally 
until  it  boils  and  swells,  then  we  set  it  by  the  side  of  the 
lire. 

3.  We  break  one  egg  into  a  basin  and  add  to  it  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  moist  sugar  and  beat  them  lightly  together  with 
a  fork. 

4.  We  take  a  three-quarters  of  a  pint  pie-dish  and  grease 
it  inside  with  a  piece  of  butter. 

5.  When  the  semolina  is  sufficiently  cool,  we  stir  in  lightly 
the  sweetened  egg. 

6.  We  pour  this  mixture  into  the  pie-dish. 

7.  We  take  a  grater  and  a  nutmeg  and  grate  a  quarter  of 
a  teaspoonful  over  the  mixture. 

8.  We  put  the  dish  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2 20°)  to  bake  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  and  it  is  ready  for  serving. 

N.B.  Puddings  can  be  made  in  the  same  way  with  sago,  tapioca,  or  rice. 


Lessons  on  Puddings. — Baked  Batter.        335 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  26. 

BAKED  BATTER  PUDDING  WITH   FRUIT. 

Average  cost  of  "Batter  and  Fruit  Pudding"  {one pint 
and  a  half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  flour of 

Salt    (  1 

\  pint  milk   j  I+ 

2  e<?gs   2 

\  lb.  fruit of 

I  oz.  butter oV 

Sugar    o\ 

Time  required,  about  forty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Batter  Pudding 
with  fruit  in  it. 

1.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  floitr  and  put  it  in  a 
basin. 

2.  We  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

3.  We  stir  in  gradually  half  a  pint  of  milk. 

4.  When  it  has  become  sufficiently  liquid,  we  should  beat 
it  with  a  spoon  instead  of  stirring  it,  as  that  will  make  it 
lighter. 

5.  We  break  an  egg  into  a  cup,  and  then  add  it  to  the 
batter,  beating  it  up  lightly  all  the  time,  until  it  is  thoroughly 
mixed. 

6.  We  then  break  a  second  egg  into  the  cup  and  add  it  to 
the  batter y  mixing  it  thoroughly  as  before. 

N.B. — Eggs  should  always  be  broken  separately  into  a  cup  to  see  if  they  are 
good  before  cooking. 

The  more  the  batter  is  beaten  the  lighter  it  becomes. 

7.  We  take  a  pint  and  a  half  pie-dish  and  grease  it  well 
inside  with  butter. 

8„  We  pour  the  batter  into  the  pie-dish. 


336     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


9.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  damsons  (or  any 
other  fruit),  and  wipe  them  with  a  cloth  to  be  sure  that 
they  are  quite  clean. 

10.  We  sprinkle  the  fruit  into  the  batter >  and  put  two  or 
three  bits  of  butter  on  the  top  to  prevent  its  being  dry. 

N.B. — If  preferred  the  fruit  can  be  omitted. 

11.  We  put  the  pie-dish  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer 
at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  220°)  to  bake  for  half  an 
hour. 

12.  After  that  time  we  take  the  pie-dish  out  of  the  oven 
and  sprinkle  some  sugar  over  the  top,  and  it  is  ready  for 

serving. 

N.B. — Sugar  should,  of  course,  be  eaten  with  the  batter  pudding. 

N.B. — If  sugar  were  added  to  the  batter  before  it  was  baked  it  would  make 
it  heavy. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Cold  Cabinet    t>Z7 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  27. 

COLD    CABINET    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "Cold  Cabinet  P  lidding"  {one  pint  mould). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

6  sponge  finger  biscuits     o  3 

2  oz.  ratafias    o  2 

\  pint  of  milk o  1  \ 

\  oz.  of  best  gelatine o  \\ 

The  yolks  of  4  eggs    o  4 

2  oz.  of  dried  cherries   I  , 

Two  or  three  pieces  of  angelica j  °  I3 

\  a  gill  of  cream o  3 

1  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  vanilla \ 

I  tablespoonful  of  castor  sugar   \  °  2 

Time  required  to  make,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Cold  Cabinet 
Pudding. 

1.  We  take  a  pint  mould  and  ornament  the  bottom  of  it 
(according  to  taste)  with  the  dried  cherries,  and  pieces  oj 
angelica. 

2.  We  split  the  sponge-biscuits  in  half,  and  line  the  inside 
of  the  tin  with  them  and  the  ratafias  in  the  moidd. 

N.B. — We  must  place  the  biscuits  only  round  the  sides  of  the  tin  (not  over 
the  bottom),  arranging  them  alternately  back  and  front  next  the  tin. 

3.  We  break  four  eggs,  put  the  yolks  in  a  basin  (the 
whites  we  put  aside,  as  they  are  not  required  for  present 
use),  and  beat  them  well  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

4.  We  stir  half  a  pint  of  milk  into  the  eggs,  and  pour 
the  mixture  into  a  jug. 

5.  We  take  a  saucepan,  fill  it  half  full  of  hot  water,  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil,  when  the  water  boils  we  move 
the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire. 


338     National  Training  Sctiool  for  Cookery. 

6.  We  stand  the  jug  in  the  saucepan,  and  stir  the  custard 
very  smoothly  until  it  thickens  and  becomes  the  substance 
of  cream,  but  it  must  not  boil  or  it  will  curdle. 

7.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  small  stewpan 
or  gallipot,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  water ;  and  stand  it  near 
the  fire  to  melt. 

8.  When  the  custard  is  sufficiently  thick,  we  take  the 
jug  out  of  the  saucepan  and  stand  it  aside  to  cool. 

N.B.— We  should  place  a  piece  of  paper  over  the  mouth  of  the  jug  to  pre- 
vent the  dust  getting  in. 

9.  We  stir  the  gelatine  until  it  is  quite  melted. 

10.  We  pour  the  melted  gelatine  through  a  strainer  into 
the  custard. 

11.  We  also  add  half  a  gill  (one  gill  is  a  quarter  of  a 
pint)  of  cream,  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  vanilla,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  castor  sugar. 

12.  We  pour  it  all  on  the  cakes  in  the  mould. 

13.  We  stand  the  mould  in  a  cold  place  to  set;  in 
summer  time  it  should  be  placed  on  ice. 

14.  When  the  pudding  is  quite  cold  and  set,  we  turn  it 
out  carefully  on  to  a  dish,  and  it  is  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Suet  Pudding.  339 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  28. 

SUET    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Suet  Pudding"  (about  two  pounds). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  suet 4 

1  lb.  of  flour 2,\ 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder Oj 

Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  three-quarters. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Suet  Pudding. 

1.  We  put  a  saucepan  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  suet,  put  it  on  a  board,  cut 
away  all  the  skin,  and  chop  the  suet  up  as  finely  as  possible 
with  a  sharp  knife. 

3.  We  put  one  poitnd  of  four  into  a  basin,  with  one  tea- 
spoonfid  of  baking  powder. 

4.  We  add  the  chopped  suet  and  rub  it  well  into  the  flour 
with  our  hands. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  have  any  lumps. 

5.  We  now  add  enough  cold  water  to  mix  it  into  a  stiff 
paste. 

6.  We  take  a  strong  pudding  cloth,  wring  it  out  in 
boiling  water,  and  sprinkle  flour  over  it. 

7.  We  turn  the  paste  out  on  to  the  cloth,  hold  up  the 
ends  of  the  cloth,  and  tie  it  tightly  round  the  pudding  with 
a  piece  of  string,  leaving  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell. 

8.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  pudding,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  one  hour  and  a 
half 

N.B. — We  should  keep  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  fill  up  the  saucepan  as 
the  water  in  it  boiLs  away. 

9.  For  serving,  we  take  the  pudding  out  of  the  saucepan, 
take  off  the  cloth,  and  turn  it  on  to  a  hot  dish. 

N.B. — This  pudding  can  be  eaten  with  meat,  or  it  can  be  eaten  with  sugar, 
jam,  or  treacle. 


Y  2 


34  O     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  29. 

YORKSHIRE    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Yorkshire  Pudding  "  (about  one  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
8  oz.  of  flour i| 

1  pint  of  milk    2J 

2  eggs j 


J* 

Time  required,  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Yorkshire 
Pudding. 

1.  We  put  eight  ounces  of  flour  into  a  basin,  and  mix  into 
it  half  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 

2.  We  break  two  eggs  into  the  flour  and  stir  it  well. 

3.  We  now  add  by  degrees  a  pint  of  milk,  beating  all 
the  time  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  make  the  batter  as  smooth 
and  as  light  as  possible. 

4.  We  take  a  pudding  tin  (about  a  pint),  place  it  under 
the  meat  that  is  roasting  in  front  of  the  fire,  to  catch  some 
dripping  to  grease  the  tin. 

5.  We  then  pour  the  batter  into  the  tin  and  let  it  cook 
under  the  meat  for  half  an  hour,  or  put  it  in  the  oven  to 
bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

6.  We  must  watch  it,  and  turn  the  tin,  so  that  the 
puddifig  does  not  get  burnt. 

N.B. — A  commoner  and  more  substantial  Yorkshire  pudding  can  be  made  in 
the  same  way  as  above,  only  with  6  oz.  of  flour,  1  egg,  1  pint  of  milk, 
and  1  tablespoojiful  of  chopped  suet  sprinkled  over  the  batter  when  it  is 
poured  into  the  tin. 

7.  When  the  pudding  is  sufficiently  cooked,  we  turn  it 
carefully  out  of  the  tin  on  to  a  hot  dish,  and  it  is  then 
ready  for  serving  with  the  roast  meat. 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings. — Fig  Pudding.   3  4  1 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  30. 

FIG    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of"  Fig  Pudding"  {about  I  pound), 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

1  lb  of  dried  figs o  6 

\  lb  of  moist  sugar o  r 

6  oz.  of  suet o  3^ 

5  lb.  of  bread  crumbs \  L 

J  lb.  of  flour   )  °  2- 

2  eggs    o  2 

2  tablespoonsful  of  milk    \  3 

Salt )  °  °* 

i     4 

Tune  required,  about  three  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Fig  Pudding, 

1.  We  put  a  large  saucepan  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to 
boil. 

2.  We  put  six  ounces  of  suet  on  a  board,  cut  away  all  the 
skin,  and  chop  up  the  suet  as  finely  as  possible. 

3.  We  take  half  a  poimd  of  dried  figs,  and  chop  them  up 
finely  with  a  sharp  knife. 

4.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  on  the  board,  take  some  crumb 
of  bread  and  rub  it  through,  there  should  be  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  bread  crumbs. 

5.  We  put  a  qitarter  of  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin,  and 
add  to  it  the  chopped  suet,  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

6.  We  rub  the  suet  well  into  the  four  with  our  hands. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  not  to  leave  any  lumps. 

7.  We  now  add  the  bread  crumbs,  the  figs,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  and  about  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg 
grated,  and  mix  them  all  well  together. 

8.  We  break  two  eggs  into  a  basin,  and   add  two  table- 


342     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


spoonsful  of  milk,  we  stir  this  into  the  ingredients  in  the 
basin,  and  mix  all  well  together. 

9.  We   take   a   pudding   cloth,  lay  it   in  a   basin,   and 
sprinkle  about  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  over  it. 

10.  We  turn  the  mixture  into  the  centre  of  the  floured 
cloth,  and  tie  it  up  in  the  cloth,  with  a  piece  of  string. 

N.B. — If  preferred,  the  pudding  could  be  put  into  a  hcttered  mould  or 
basin  and  a  cloth  tied  over  the  top,  but  it  is  better  to  boil  it  in  a  cloth. 

11.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  pudding,  and  let  it  boil  for  two  hours  and  a  half 

N.B. — If  the  pudding  is  boiled  in  a  mould  or  basin,  we  must  allow  at  least 
three  hours  for  boiling. 

12.  For  serving  we  take  the  pudding  out  of  the  cloth, 
snd  turn  it  on  to  a  hot  dish. 

N.B. — This  pudding  can    be    served    with    "Melted  Butter  Sauce"   (see 
"Sauces,"  Lesson  No.  7.) 


Lessons  on  Making  Puddings.-, — Marmalade.    343 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  31. 

MARMALADE    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  a  "Marmalade  Pudding"  (about  one  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

3  tablespoonsful  of  marmalade    o  4 

2  oz.  of  moist  sugar    o  o| 

1  oz.  of  candied  peel o  1 

3  oz.  of  flour    )  1 

3  oz.  of  bread  crumbs    /  4 

£  lb  of  suet  o  2  J 

1  lemon    o  \\ 

*egg J 


1     c^ 


Time  required,  about  three  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Marmalade  Pudding, 

1.  We  put  a  saucepan  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet,  on  a  board,  cut 
away  all  the  skin,  and  chop  it  up  finely  with  a  knife. 

3.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  on  a  plate,  take  some  crumb  of 
bread,  and  rub  it  through  the  sieve,  there  should  be  three 
ounces  of  bread  crumbs. 

4.  We  put  three  ounces  of  flour  in  a  basin,  add  to  it  a 
quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  chopped  suet,  and 
rub  them  together  with  our  fingers. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  there  are  no  lumps. 

5.  We  now  add  the  bread  crumbs  and  two  ounces  of  moist 
sugar,  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean,  and  grate  the  rind  into 
the  basin.  We  also  add  one  ounce  of  candied  peel,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  three  tablespoonsful  of  marmalade,  and  mix 
them  all  well  together. 

6.  We  cut  the  lemon  in  half,  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  it 
into  the  basin  over  the  other  ingredients,  we  also  add  one 
egg,  and  mix  it  all  well  together. 


344     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

7.  We  take  about  a  pint  basin,  butter  it  inside,  and  turn 
the  mixture  into  it,  but  the  basin  must  be  quite  full. 

8.  We  take  a  small  pudding  cloth,  wring  it  out  in  warm 
water,  and  then  in  cold  water,  and  sprinkle  some  flour  over 
it,  we  put  this  cloth  over  the  top  of  the  basin,  and  tie  it  on 
tightly  with  a  piece  of  string  under  the  rim  of  the  basin  ;  we 
tie  the  four  corners  of  the  cloth  together  over  the  top  of 
the  pudding. 

9.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  pudding  and  let  it  boil  for  three  hours. 

N.B. — The  lid  should  be  on  the  saucepan. 

N.B. — We  should  keep  a  kettle  of  water  boiling  on  the  fire,  and  fill  up  the 
saucepan,  as  the  water  in  it  boils  away. 

10.  For  serving  we  take  the  basin  out  of  the  saucepan, 
take  off  the  cloth,  and  turn  the  pudding  carefully  out  of  the 
basin  on  to  a  hot  dish. 


Lessons  on  Puddings. — Ginger  Pudding.     345 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  32. 

GINGER    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Ginger  Pudding"  {in  about  a  pint  basin). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  flour  1 

\  lb.  of  suet    a| 

h  lb.  of  moist  sugar 2 

2  large  teaspoonsful  of  grated  ginger )  1 1 

\  oz.  of  butter    )        3 

7 
Time  required,  about  six  hotirs  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Ginger  Pudding. 

1.  We  put  a  large  saucepan  of  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet  on  a  board,  cut 
away  the  skin  and  chop  it  up  very  finely  with  a  sharp  knife. 

3.  We  put  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin,  add  the 
chopped  suet,  and  rub  it  well  into  the  flour  with  our  fingers. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  leave  any  lumps. 

4.  We  take  some  ginger  and  a  grater,  and  grate  two 
large  teaspoonsful  of  sugar. 

5.  We  now  add  the  grated  ginger  and  half  a  pound  of 
moist  sugar  to  the  basin,  and  mix  all  well  together. 

6.  We  take  a  small  basin  [about  I  pint)  butter  it  well 
inside,  and  turn  the  dry  mixture  into  the  basin. 

7.  We  take  spudding  cloth,  wring  it  out  in  hot  water, 
and  then  in  cold,  and  sprinkle  some  flour  over  it. 

8.  We  place  the  floured  cloth  over  the  basin,  and  tie  it 
on  with  string  just  below  the  rim;  we  tie  the  ends  of  the 
cloth  together. 

9.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  pudding,  and  let  it  boil,  for  at  least  six  hours. 

10.  For  serving  we  take  out  the  basin,  take  off  the  cloth, 
and  turn  the  pudding  carefully  out  on  to  a  hot  dish. 

N.B. — If  liked,  melted  butter  sauce  (see  "  Sauces,"  Lesson  No.  7)  may  be 
served  with  the  pudding. 


346     National  Training  School  for  Cookery 


PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  $$. 

BREAD-AND-BUTTER    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "Bread-and-Butter  Pudding"  (in  one-pint 

disk). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

6  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter 4 

\  oz.  of  clarified  dripping \ 

1  oz.  of  currants L     o| 

Nutmeg,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  moist  sugar  J 

2  eggs 2 

1  pint  of  milk 2§ 

7V/b«  required,  about  one  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Bread-and-Butter 
Pudding. 

1.  We  butter,  and  cut  six  thin  slices  of  bread, 

2.  We  grease  the  inside  of  a  pint  pie  dish,  with  half  an 
ounce  of  clarified  dripping. 

3.  We  take  one  ounce  of  currants,  wash  them  well,  dry 
them  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  pick  them  over. 

4.  We  lay  the  slices  of  bread  and  butter  in  the  pie  dish, 
and  sprinkle  the  currants  between  each  slice  of  bread  and 
butter. 

N.B. — One  ounce  of  candied  peel,  chopped  up  fine,  might  be  sprinkled  in  as 
well,  if  liked. 

5.  We  break  two  eggs  into  a  cup,  and  beat  them  up  well, 
we  add  to  them  a  tablespoonful  of  moist  sugar  and  a  pint  of 
milk,  and  stir  them  well  together. 

6.  We  pour  this  custard  over  the  bread  and  butter  in  the 
pie  dish,  take  a  grater  and  a  nutmeg,  and  grate  about  half 
a  teaspoonfid  of  nutmeg  over  the  top  ;  and  then  let  the 
pudding  soak,  for  half  an  hour  before  baking. 

7.  After  that  time  we  put  the  pudding  into  a  moderate 
oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  mark  2200 
Fahrenheit),  to  bake  for  about  half  an  hour. 

8.  The  pudding  can  be  served  in  the  dish,  or  turned 
out  on  to  a  hot  flat  dish,  and  then  sprinkled  with  half  a 
teaspoonfid  of  castor  sugar. 


Lessons  on  Puddings. — Apple  Amber  Pudding.  347 

PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  34. 

APPLE    AMBER    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  an  "Apple  Amber  Pudding"  (in   about  a 
pint  moidd) 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

6  oz.  of  bread  crumbs    c  i| 

2  oz.  of  flour    o  o\ 

4  oz.  of  suet o  2§ 

1  lb.  of  apples o  3 

2  oz.  of  castor  sugar i 

1  lemon ,  o  if 

Nutmeg    ) 

3  eggs    o  3 

\  oz.  of  butter o  o\ 


1    o 


Time  required,  about  two  Jiours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  an  Apple  Amber 
Pudding. 

1.  We  put  a  large  saucepan  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to 
boil 

2.  We  put  two  ounces  of  flour  into  a  basin. 

3.  We  put  four  ounces  of  suet  on  a  board,  cut  away  the 
skin,  and  chop  it  up  finely  ;  we  add  the  chopped  suet  to  the 

flour,  and  rub  them  together  with  our  fingers. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  leave  any  lumps. 

4.  We  place  a  wire  sieve  over  a  board,  take  six  ounces 
of  the  crumb  of  bread,  and  rub  it  through  the  sieve. 

5.  We  take  about  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  apples,  peel 
them  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  out  the  core,  and  chop  up  the 
apples  ;  there  should  be  half  a  pound  of  chopped  apples. 

6.  We  now  add  the  bread  crumbs  and  two  ounces  of  castor 
sugar  to  the  flour  and  suet  and  mix  them  together,  we  also 
add  the  chopped  apples  ;  we  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean,  and 


348     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

grate  the  rind  of  it  into  the  basin,  we  also  grate  in  about 
a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg. 

7.  We  take  three  eggs,  break  them  one  by  one,  into 
another  basin,  and  then  add  them  to  the  other  ingredients, 
and  mix  them  all  well  together. 

8.  We  take  about  a  pint  mould,  or  basin,  butter  it  well 
inside,  with  half  an  ounce  of  butter ,  and  then  pour  in  the 
mixture. 

9.  We  take  a  clean  cloth,  wring  it  out  in  hot,  and  then 
cold  water,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  it,  and  place  it  over 
the  top  of  the  mould,  and  tie  it  on  with  string. 

10.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  puddingy  and  let  it  boil  for  tzvo  hours  and  a  half 
to  three  hours. 

11.  For  serving,  we  take  out  the  pudding,  take  off  the 
cloth,  and  carefully  turn  the  pudding  out  of  the  mould,  on 
to  a  hot  dish. 


Lessons  on  Ptiddings. — Baked  Plum  Pudding.  349 


PUDDINGS. 

Lesson  No.  35. 

BAKED   PLUM    PUDDING. 

Average  cost  for  making  a  "  Baked  Plum  Pudding"  (2  lbs). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

£  lb.  of  suet Q.\ 

£  lb.  of  flour 2 

£  lb.  of  large  raisins i h 

1  lb.  of  currants ij 

2  oz.  of  candied  peel i 

2  oz.  of  moist  sugar oh 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder )        i 

£  of  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spice J        2 

1  egg 1 

I  pint  of  milk i 

Time  required  about  one  hour  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Baked  Plum 
Pudding. 

1.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet  on  a  board,  cut 
away  all  the  skin,  and  chop  it  up  as  finely  as  possible 
with  a  sharp  knife. 

N.B. — We  should  sprinkle  a  X\\.\\&  flour  over  the  suet  to  prevent  it  sticking  to 
the  knife. 

2.  We  put  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin, 
and  mix  into  it  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

3.  We  now  add  the  chopped  suet,  and  rub  it  well  into 
the  flour  with  our  hands. 

4.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  large  raisins  and 
stone  them. 

5.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants,  wash  them, 
and  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  and  pick  them  over  to  see  there 
are  no  stones  mixed  with  them. 

6.  We  take  two  ounces  of  mixed  candied  peel,  and  cut  it 
up  in  small  pieces  on  a  board. 


350      'National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

7.  We  now  add  all  these  ingredients  to  the  four  in  the 
basin. 

8.  We  also  add  two  ounces  of  moist  sugar,  and  sprinkle 
over  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spice. 

9.  We  break  I   egg  into  a  cup,  and  beat  it  up  lightly 
with  a  gill  of  milk  (a  gill  is  a  quarter  of  a  pint). 

10.  We  pour  the  egg  and  milk  into  the  ingredients  in  the 
basin,  and  mix  them  all  well  together  into  a  stiff  paste. 

11.  If  necessary,  we  can  add  another  gill  of  milk.     (The 
mixture  should  be  so  stiff  that  a  spoon  can  stand  up  in  it). 

12.  We  take  a  i^  pint  tin  or  a  disk,  and  grease  it  inside 
with  a  little  clarified  dripping. 

13.  We  turn  the  mixture  into  the  tin  and  put  it  into  a 
moderate  oven  to  bake  for  one  hour. 

14.  After  that  time  we  take  it  out  of  the  oven,  and  it  is 
ready  for  serving.  ^ 


Lessons  on  Puddings. — Norfolk  Dumplings.  351 


NORFOLK    DUMPLINGS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Norfolk  Dumplings  "  (about  ten). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  lb.  of  patent  flour    ^ 

Water   J      3 

3 
Time  reqtiired,  about  half-an-hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Norfolk  Dumplings. 

1.  We  put  a  saucepan  of  warm  water   on   the   fire   to 
boil.  «• 

2.  We  put  one  pound  of  patent  floitr  into  a  basin. 

3.  We  add  to  it  enough  cold  water  to  make  it  into  a 
smooth  dough ; — it  must  not  be  too  stiff. 

4.  We  form  this  dough  into  round  balls  about  the  size  of 
a  large  egg. 

N.B. — This  quantity  will  make  about  ten  dumplings. 

5.  When  the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
put  in  the  dumpfaigs,  and  let  them  boil  for  twenty  minutes. 

6.  After  that  time  we  take  them  out  of  the  saucepan, 
and  they  are  then  ready  for  serving. 


352      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


JELLIES. 
Lesson  No.  i. 

WINE   JELLY. 

Average  cost  of  "  Wine  Jelly  from  Calf's  Feet "  (about 
one  quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

2  calf's  feet i  6 

3  lemons o  4^ 

2  eggs o  2 

4  oz.  of  loaf  sugar    j 

1  inch  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon >  o  of 

4  cloves  ) 

1  wine-glass  of  sherry o  6 

Half  a  wine-glass  of  brandy « o  3 

2  10J 

Time  requh'ed :  the  jelly  stock  should  be  made  the  day  before  required 
for  use  ;  to  finish  making  it,  about  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  about  one  quart  of 
Wine  Jelly  from  Calf's  Feet. 

1.  We  take  two  calf's  feet  and  put  them  on  a  board. 

2.  We  chop  eachy^  in  four  pieces  with  a  chopper. 

3.  We  put  these  pieces  in  a  basin  of  clean  cold  water  and 
wash  them  well. 

4.  We  take  them  out  of  the  basin  and  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  them. 

N.B.—  This  is  to  blanch  them. 

5.  We  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

6.  When  the  water  boils  we  take  the  stew-pan  and 
stand  it  on  a  piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

7.  We  take  the  pieces  of  the  feet  out  of  the  stew-pan 
with  a  fork  and  put  them  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  and  wash 
them  well. 

8.  We  empty  the  water  out  of  the  stew-pan. 

9.  We  wash  the  stew-pan  well. 

10.  We  take  the  pieces  of  the  feet  out  of  the  basin  and 
put  them  in  the  stew-pan  with  five  pints  of  cold  water. 

N.B. — This  stock  will  be  reduced  to  about  one  pint  and  a  half,  when  it  is 
sufficiently  boiled. 


Lessons  on  Making  Jellies. —  Wine  Jelly.  353 

11.  We  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

12.  We  must  watch  it  and  skim  it  often  with  a  skimming 
spoon. 

13.  We  must  let  it  boil  very  gently  for  five  hours. 

14.  After  that  time  we  strain   off  the  liquor  through  a 
hair  sieve  into  a  basin. 

15.  We  must  put  this  basin  in  a  cool  place  for  some 
hours,  until  the  stock  is  perfectly  cold  and  is  in  a  jelly. 

16.  We  now  take  this  basin  of  jelly  stock  and  skim  off  all 
the  fat  carefully  with  a  spoon. 

17.  We  take  a  clean  cloth  and  put  it  in  hot  water. 

18.  We  take  this  damp   cloth  and  dab  it  over  the  jelly 
stock}  so  as  to  remove  every  particle  of  grease. 

19.  We  take  a  clean  dry  cloth  and  rub  lightly  over  the 
ielly  stock  to  dry  it. 

20.  We  take  three  lemons,  wipe  them  clean  in  a  cloth, 
and  peel  them  very  thinly  with  a  sharp  knife. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful,  in  peeling  the  lemons,  not   to  cut  any  of  the 
white  skin,  as  it  would  make  the.  jelly  bitter. 

21.  We  put  the  lemon  peel  into  a  stew-pan. 

22.  We  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  two  lemons  through  a 
strainer  into  the  stew-pan. 

23.  We  take  tzvo  eggs  and  put  the  yolks  in  one  basin, 
and  the  whites  in  another. 

24.  We  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  slightly,  but   not 
very  stiff. 

25.  We  put  the  whipped  white  of  egg  into  the  stew-pan 
and  the  crushed  egg  shell. 

26.  We  put  in  also  four  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  one  inch  of 
the  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  four  cloves. 

27.  We  whip  all  these  together  with  a  whisk. 

28.  We  now  add  the  jelly  stock. 

29.  We  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire,  and  whisk  well 
till  it  boils. 

30.  We  now  put  the  lid  on  the  stew-pan,  and  stand  it 
by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  twenty  minutes  to  form  a  crust. 


354     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


31.  We  place  the  jelly  bag  stand  in  front  of  the  fire,  and 
hang  the  jelly  bag  in  it,  we  must  put  a  basin  on  the  stand 
underneath  the  jelly  bag. 

N.B. — We  must  be  sure  that  the  jelly  bag  is  quite  clean. 

32.  We  take  a  jug  of  warm  water,  and  pour  it  through 
the  jelly  bag. 

33.  We  must  do  this  four  or  five  times,  always  using 
warm  water  until  the  bag  is  quite  warm. 

34.  We  must  look  at  the  jelly  in  the  stew-pan,  and  when 
the  crust  is  formed,  it  is  ready  to  be  strained. 

N.B. — We  must  be  sure  that  there  is  no  water  left  in  the  bag,  before  passing 
the  jelly  through,  and  the  basin  in  the  stand  should  be  quite  dry. 

N.B. — The  pouring  of  the  jelly  into  the  bag  forces  the  water  (the  few  drops 
that  remain)  first  out  into  the  basin  ;  these  first  few  drops  should  be 
thrown  away  and  a  clean  basin  put  in  its  place  immediately. 

35.  We  now  take  the  stew-pan  off  the  fire,  and  pour  the 
jelly  carefully  into  the  bag  to  pass  into  the  basin. 

36.  We  repeat  this  two  or  three  times,  until  the  jelly 
runs  through  quite  clear. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  in  pouring  the  jelly  through  the  bag,  that  we  do 
not  disturb  the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  bag,  which  will  serve  as  a 
filter. 

3  7.  We  ad  d  a  ivineglassful  of  sherry,  and  half  a  wineglassfiu 
of  brandy,  or  any  other  wine  or  liqueur  according  to  taste. 

38.  We  take  a  quart  mould,  scald  it  with  boiling  water, 
and  then  rinse  it  in  cold  water. 

39.  We  place  the  mould  in  ice. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  the  mould  stands  quite  straight  and  firm. 

40.  We  pour  in  enough  of  the  jelly  just  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  mould. 

41.  When  this  jelly  has  set  slightly,  we  can  garnish  the 
mould  with  grapes,  strawberries,  &c,  according  to  taste. 

42.  We  then  pour  the  remainder  of  the  jelly  into  the 
mould,  and  let  it  stand  in  the  ice,  until  it  is  firmly  set. 

43.  When  the  jelly  is  required  for  use,  we  dip  the  mould 
into  a  basin  of  hot  water  for  about  a  second. 

44.  We  shake  the  mould  to  loosen  the  jelly,  place  a  dish 
over  the  top  of  the  mould,  and  turn  the  jelly  carefully  out,, 
so  as  not  to  break  it.     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Making  Jellies. — Aspic  Jelly.   355 

JELLIES. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

ASPIC    JELLY. 

Average  cost  of  "  Savoury  or  Aspic  Jelly  "  (about  one  quart) 
INGREDIENTS. 


s.   d 
2  calf's  feet i     6 

2  lbs.  of  knuckle  of  veal    I     4 

Salt    

30  peppercorns    

2  blades  of  mace 

1  clove  of  garlic 

2  shalots   

1  sprig  of  thyme 

Two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley 

1  onion,  stuck  with  four  cloves    ) 

1  leek    o    o\ 

\  a  head  of  celery  o    2 

2  carrots    }  t 

1  turnip     )      °    I2 

1  sprig  of  tarragon \ 

1  sprig  of  chervil 

2  bay  leaves \     o    6 

The  rind  of  1  lemon I 

The  juice  of  3  lemons J 

The  whites  of  2  eggs ; o    2 

1  lb.  of  lean  veal o  10 

1  gill  of  chablis  or  sherry o     6 

2  tablespoonsful  of  French  vinegar o    2 


5    6i 


Time  required  {the  jelly  stock  should  be  made  the  day  before)  to  finish 
making  it,  if  not  decorated,  about  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  one  quart  of  Savoury 
or  Aspic  Jelly. 

1.  We  take  two  calf's  feet  and  put  them  on  a  board. 

2.  We  chop  the  feet  in  eight  pieces  with  a  chopper. 

3.  We  put  these  pieces  in  a  basin  of  clean  cold  water 
and  wash  them  well. 

4.  We  take  them   out  of  the  basin  and  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan,  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  them. 

5.  We  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

N.B. — This  is  to  blanch  them. 

Z  2 


356     National  Training  School  for  Cookery \ 

6.  When  the  water  boils,  we  take  the  stew-pan  off,  and 
stand  it  on  a  piece  of  paper,  on  the  table. 

7.  We  take  the  pieces  of  feet  out  of  the  stew-pan  with  a 
fork,  put  them  in  a  basin  of  cold  water,  and  wash  them  well. 

8.  We  empty  the  water  out  of  the  stew-pan. 

9.  We  wash  the  stew-pan  well. 

10.  We  take  the  pieces  of  feet  out  of  the  basin,  and  put 
them  back  into  the  stew-pan. 

11.  We  take  two  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal,  and  put  it  on 
a  board. 

12.  We  take  a  sharp  knife,  and  cut  off  the  meat  from  the 
bone. 

13.  We  put  the  meat  and  the  bone  into  the  stew-pan, 
with  the  feet. 

14.  We  pour  in  five  pints  of  water,  put  the  stew-pan  on 
the  fire,  and  just  bring  it  to  the  boil. 

15.  We  must  watch  it,  and  skim  it  with  a  spoon. 

16.  We  now  add  half  a  teaspoonfid  of  salt,  thirty  pepper- 
corns, two  blades  of  mace,  one  clove  of  garlic,  two  shalots,  one 
sprig  of  thyme,  and  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley. 

17.  We  take  an  onion,  peel  it,  and  stick  four  cloves  in  it. 

18.  We  take  one  leek,  and  half  a  head  of  celery,  and  wash 
them  in  cold  water. 

19.  We  take  two  carrots,  wash  them,  and  scrape  them 
clean. 

20.  We  take  a  turnip,  wash  it  and  peel  it. 

21.  We  put  all  these  vegetables  into  the  stew-pan. 

22.  We  also  add  one  sprig  of  tarragon,  one  sprig  of 
chervil,  and  two  bay  leaves. 

23.  We  let  all  these  boil  gently  for  five  hours. 

24.  After  that  time,  we  strain  off  the  liquor,  through  a 
hair  sieve  into  a  basin. 

25.  We  must  put  this  basin  into  a  cool  place,  for  some 
hours  until  the  stock  is  perfectly  cold,  and  in  a  jelly. 


Lessons  on  Making  Jellies. — Aspic  Jelly.  357 

26.  We  now  take  the  basin  of  jelly,  and  skim  off  all  the 
fat  carefully  with  a  spoon. 

27.  We  take  a  clean  cloth  and  put  it  in  hot  water. 

28.  We  take  this  damp  cloth,  and  dab  it  over  the  jelly 
stock,  so  as  to  remove  every  particle  of  grease. 

29.  We  take  a  clean  dry  cloth,  and  rub  lightly  over  the 
felly  stock,  to  dry  it. 

30.  We  take  one  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  in  a  cloth,  and  peel 
it  very  thinly,  with  a  sharp  knife. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  in  peeling  the  lemon  not  to  cut  any  of  the  pith, 
as  it  would  make  the  jelly  bitter. 

31.  We  put  the  lemon  peel  into  a  stew-pan. 

32.  We   squeeze   the  juice  of  three  lemons,   through  a 
strainer,  into  the  stew-pan. 

33.  We  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  slightly,  but  not 
very  stiff. 

34.  We  put  the  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs  into  the  stew- 
pan,  also  the  egg  shells. 

35.  We  take  one  pound  of  lean  veal,  put  it  on  a  board, 
and  chop  it  up  finely. 

36.  We  put  this  chopped  veal  in  the  stew-pan. 

37.  We   pour  in  one  gill  of  chablis  or  sherry,  and   two 
tablespoonsful  of  French  vinegar. 

38.  We  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  whip  altogether 
with  a  whisk. 

39.  We  put  in  the  jelly  stock. 

40.  We  put  the  stew-pan  on  the  fire,  and  whisk  well 
until  it  boils. 

41.  We  now  take  a  large  spoon  and  skim  it  carefully  if 
necessary. 

42.  We  put  the  stew-pan  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let 
it  stand  for  half  an  hour  to  form  a  crust. 

43.  We  take  a  clean  soup  cloth,  or  a  jelly  bag,  and  fix  it 
on  the  stand. 

44.  We  take  a  large  basin,  and  place  it  below  the  cloth 


358      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

45.  We  take  the  stew-pan  off  the  fire,  and  pour  the  con- 
tents into  the  cloth,  and  let  it  all  pass  into  the  basin. 

N.B. — The  chopped  veal  acts  as  a  filter  to  the  jelly. 

46.  After  the  jelly  has  all  passed  through,  we  remove 
the  basin,  and  put  a  clean  one  in  its  place. 

47.  We  take  a  soup  ladle,  and  pour  a  ladle-ful  of  the  jelly, 
at  a  time,  over  the  meat  in  the  cloth,  and  let  it  pass  for  the 
second  time,  very  slowly,  into  the  basin. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  disturb  the  deposit  of  chopped  veal,  which 
settles  at  the  bottom  of  the  cloth. 

48.  If  a  border  mould  of  Aspic  jelly  be  required,  we  take 
the  mould,  scald  it  with  boiling  water,  and  then  rinse  it  in 
cold  water. 

N.B. — If  the  Aspic  jelly  is  only  required  for  garnishing  cold  meats,  &c,  we 
stand  the  basin  of  jelly  on  ice,  or  in  a  cool  place,  until  it  be  firmly  set  ; 
we  can  then  cut  the  jelly  into  fancy  shapes,  or  chop  it  up  finely  with  a 
knife. 

49.  We  place  the  mould  in  ice. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  that  the  mould  stands  quite  straight  and  firm. 

50.  We  pour  in  enough  of  the  jelly  just  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  mould. 

51.  When  this  jelly  has  slightly  set,  we  can  garnish  the 
mould  with  fish  or  vegetables,  &c,  according  to  taste,  or 
with  what  it  is  to  be  served. 

52.  We  then  pour  the  remainder  of  the  jelly  into  the 
mould,  and  let  it  stand  in  the  ice  until  it  is  firmly  set. 

53.  When  the  jelly  is  required  for  use,  we  dip  the  mould 
into  a  basin  of  hot  water  for  about  a  second. 

54.  We  shake  the  mould  to  loosen  the  jelly,  and  place  a 
dish  over  the  top  of  the  mould,  and  turn  the  jelly  carefully 
out,  so  as  not  to  break  it.     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — The  centre  of  the  mould  can  be  filled  with  a  salad  of  mixed  vegetables. 

(See  No.  13  in  Entries,  Lesson  No.  5.) 
N.B. — A  less  expensive  recipe  for  Aspic  Jelly  will  be  found  in  the  Appendix. 


Lessons  on  Making  Jellies. — Iceland  Moss.   359 

JELLIES. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

ICELAND    MOSS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Water  Jelly  or  Milk  Jelly  made  with 
Iceland  Moss  "  (about  one  quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

For  Milk  Jelly. 


For  Water  Jelly. 

d. 
1  oz.  of  Iceland  Moss  . . . .  ) 

1  quart  of  water     j 

2  tablespoonsful  of  pounded 

loaf  sugar \ 


(To  be  eaten  with  wine  or  milk.) 


d. 
1  oz.  of  Iceland  Moss i 

1  quart  of  milk 5 

2  tablespoonsful  of  pounded 

loaf  sugar    1 


Time  required  [after  the  Iceland  Moss  has  soaked  all  night),  for  "  Water  Jelly,' 
about  one  hour  ;  for  "  Milk  Jelly,"  about  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Jelly  with  Iceland 
Moss. 

1.  We  wash  one  oz.  of  Iceland  Moss  well  in  cold  water. 

2.  We  then  put  it  in  a  basin  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  soak 
all  night. 

3.  After   that  time  we    take   it  out  of  the  water   and 
squeeze  it  dry  in  a  cloth. 

4.  We  then  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of  cold 
water. 

5.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  for  one 
hour ;  we  must  stir  it  frequently. 

6.  We  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  and 
sweeten  it  with  loaf  sugar. 

7.  It  can  be  taken  with  either  wine  or  milk  according  to 
taste. 


360      National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 


For  Milk  Jelly  :— 

L.  We  boil  the  moss  in  the  same  quantity  of  milk  instead 
of  water  (after  it  has  been  soaked)  as  above,  only  for  two 
hours  instead  of  one  hour. 

2.  We  then  strain  it  into  a  basin  and  sweeten  with  loaf 
sugar  according  to  taste. 

3.  When  it  is  cold  we  turn  the  felly  out  of  the  basin  on 
to  a  dish  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 


Lessons  on  Making  Jellies. — Milk  Jelly.    361 

JELLIES. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

MILK    JELLY    FROM    COW-HEEL, 
AND  THE   MEAT  SERVED  WITH   ONION   SAUCE. 

Average  cost  of  about  one  quart  of  "  Milk   Jelly" 
and  the  meat  served  with  the  onion  sauce — ■ 


Milk  Jelly. 

d. 

1  cow-heel 6 

I  quart  of  milk 5 

a   inches   of    the  stick   of 

cinnamon    

Sugar  


INGREDIENTS. 

Onion  Sauce. 


a. 

3  or  4  onions 1  £ 

£  pint  of  milk ii 

1  an  oz.  of  flour    \        a 

2  an  oz.  of  butter }     °4 

"si 


Time  required,  about  four  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Milk  Jelly  from 
Cow-heel. 

1.  We  buy  a  dressed  cozv-heel  from  a  tripe  shop. 

2.  We  put  the  cozv-heel  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  up  into 
small  pieces. 

3  We  put  these  pieces  into  an  earthen  jar  or  a  saucepan 
with  one  quart  of  milk  and  two  inches  of  the  stick  of 
cinnamon. 

4.  We  put  the  lid  on  the  top  of  the  jar,  put  a  piece  of 
paper  over  the  lid,  and  tie  it  tightly  down. 

5.  We  put  the  jar  into  a  very  slow  oven  to  stew  for  at 
least  three  hours. 

6.  If  there  is  no  oven  to  the  stove,  we  can  stand  the  jar 
by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  stew. 

N.B. — It  reduces  less  if  stewed  in  the  oven. 

7.  When  the  stew  is  finished  we  take  the  jar  out  of  the 
oven,  take  off  the  lid,  and  strain  the  milk  into  a  basin,  and 
sweeten  it  according  to  taste. 


362      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

8.  We  put  the  basin  aside  till  the  jelly  is  set ;  it  may  be 
eaten  hot  or  cold  according  to  taste. 


For  serving  the  Cow-Heel  with  Onion  Sauce : — 

1.  We  take  three  or  four  onions,  peel  them,  and  cut  them 
in  quarters. 

2.  We  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  half  a  pint  of 
milk. 

3.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil  till  the  onions 
are  quite  tender  ;  it  will  take  about  one  hour. 

4.  After  that  time  we  strain  off  the  milk  into  a  basin, 
put  the  onions  on  a  board,  and  chop  them  up  small. 

5.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  the  saucepan  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  to  melt. 

6.  When  the  butter  is  melted  we  add  half  an  ounce  of 
flour,  and    mix   them   smoothly  together  with    a  wooden 

spoon. 

7.  We  pour  the  milk  in  gradually,  stirring  it  till  it  boils 
and  thickens. 

8.  We  then  add  the  onions,  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
according  to  taste  ;  and  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of 
the  fire. 

9.  We  put  the  pieces  of  cow-heel  into  the  sauce,  and  let 
them  warm  through. 

10.  For  serving  we  put  the  pieces  of  cow-heel  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  pour  over  them  the  onion  sauce. 

N.B. — The  meat  from  the  cow-heel  might  be  served  as  a  curry.  The  curry 
should  be  made  in  the  same  way  as  described  in  "Cooked  Meat," 
Lesson  No.  4. 

N.B.— -The  bones  of  the  cow-heel  should  be  put  into  the  stock-pot. 


Lessons  on  Making  Jellies. — Ox  Foot  Jelly.  363 

JELLIES. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

JELLY  AND  STEW  FROM  OX  FOOT. 

Average  cost  of  about  one  quart  of  "  Jelly  and  a  stew " 
made  from  Ox  Foot. — 


For  Jelly. 
1  ox  foot    

INGREC 
s.    d. 

)IENTS. 

For  Stew. 

1  carrot,  i  turnip,  i  onion  „ 
\  oz.  of  dripping    

d. 

.     0! 

\  lb.  of  lump  sugar     . . 

. .     01 
. .     01 
..03 
..     00^ 

1  egg 

h  oz.  of  butter    

.     0^ 

2  lemons  

Spices    

Flour  and  seasoning 

■     oi 

*    sk 

22 

Jelly  flavoured  with  porter  would  be  is.  z\d. 
Time  required  : — 

1st  day  to  stew  the  foot 7    hours. 

2nd  day  to  finish  jelly i|     ,, 

To  make  stew  ik    ,, 


Total 10  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  jelly  from  Ox 
Foot. 

1.  We  take  a  scalded  ox  foot,  put  it  in  cold  water,  and 
wash  it  well. 

2.  We  take  it  out  of  the  water,  dry  it  in  a  cloth,  and  put 
it  on  a  board. 

3.  We  cut  the  foot  with  a  sharp  knife  across  the  first 
joint  and  down  between  the  hoofs,  and  chop  the  long  piece 
in  half. 

4.  We  put  these  pieces  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  cold- 
water  to  cover  them. 

5.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  just  bring  it  to 
the  boil. 


364     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

6.  We  then  take  the  pieces  out,  and  wash  them 
thoroughly  in  a  basin  of  cold  water. 

7.  We  empty  the  water  out  of  the  saucepan,  and  wash  it 
out  well. 

8.  We  put  the  pieces  of  foot  back  in  the  saucepan,  cover- 
ing them  well  with  cold  water  (about  two  quarts  will  be 
enough  for  a  moderate  sized  foot). 

9.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils 
we  should  move  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let  it  stew 
gently  for  six  hours. 

10.  We  must  watch  it  and  skim  it  carefully  with  a  spoon 
from  time  to  time. 

11.  After  that  time  we  strain  off  the  stock  into  a  basin, 
and  put  it  aside  to  cool. 

N.B. — The  foot  we  should  put  aside  until  required  for  use. 

12.  When  the  stock  is  quite  cold  we  take  an  iron  spoon, 
dip  it  in  hot  water,  and  carefully  skim  off  the  fat. 

13.  We  take  a  clean  cloth,  dip  it  in  hot  water,  and  wipe 
over  the  top  of  the  jelly,  so  as  to  remove  every  particle  of  fat. 

N.B. — Y or  Porter  Jelly,  see  below. 

14.  We  take  two  lemons,  wipe  them  with  a  cloth  to  be 
sure  that  they  are  quite  clean,  and  peel  them  very  thinly 
with  a  sharp  knife. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  in  peeling  the  lemons  not  to  cut  any  of  the  white 
skin,  as  it  would  make  the  jelly  bitter. 

15.  We  put  the  peel  of  one  lemon  into  the  stewpan  or 
saucepan. 

16.  We  cut  the  lemons  in  halves,  and  squeeze  the  juice 
of  the  two  into  the  saucepan. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  to  remove  all  the  pips. 

17.  We  take  one  egg,  put  the  yolk  in  one  basin  and  the 
white  in  another. 

18.  We  whip  up  the  white  of  the  egg  slightly. 

19.  We  put  the  whipped  white  of  the  egg  and  the  egg 
shell  into  the  saucepan. 

20.  We  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar,  half 
an  inch  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon,  four  cloves,  and  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  of  saffron. 


Lessons  qn  Making  Jellies. — Ox-foot  Jelly.  365 

21.  We  now  add  the  jelly  stock. 

22.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  stir  the  con- 
tents well  with  a  whisk  or  iron  spoon  until  it  boils. 

23.  We  now  put  the  lid  on  the  saucepan,  and  stand  it  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  for  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour. 

24.  If  there  is  no  jelly  bag  we  should  take  a  clean  cloth 
folded  over  cornerways,  and  sew  it  up  one  side,  making  it 
in  the  shape  of  a  jelly  bag. 

25.  We  place  two  chairs  back  to  back  in  front  of  the 
fire. 

26.  We  take  the  sewn  up  cloth,  hang  it  between  the  two 
chairs,  by  pinning  it  open  to  the  top  bar  of  each  chair. 

27.  We  must  place  a  basin  underneath  the  bag. 

28.  We  must  look  at  the  jelly  in  the  saucepan,  and 
when  there  is  a  good  crust  formed  over,  it  is  ready  to  be 
strained. 

29.  We  then  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire  and  pour  the 
jelly  carefully  into  the  bag  to  pass  into  the  basin. 

30.  We  repeat  this  two  or  three  times  until  the  jelly  runs 
through  quite  clear. 

N.B. — A  glass  of  wine  may  be  added  now  if  desired. 

31.  We  take  a  quart  basin  or  a  mould,  scald  it  with  hot 
water,  and  then  rinse  it  out  with  cold. 

32.  We  pour  the  jelly  into  the  basin  and  stand  it  aside 
to  cool  and  set  until  it  is  required  for  use. 

N.B. — If  porter  jelly  be  required  we  put  the  jelly-stock  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of lu?np  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spice, 
and  half  a  pint  of  porter ;  we  put  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  for  an  hour 
and  a  half,  stirring  occasionally  ;  we  then  strain  it  in  the  same  way  as 
for  the  lemon  jelly. 


2,66      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  stew  of  the  meat  of 
the  foot. 

1.  We  take  one  carrot,  wash  it,  scrape  it  clean,  and  cut  it 
in  slices  with  a  sharp  knife. 

2.  We  take  a  small  turnip  and  an  onion,  peel  them,  and 
cut  them  in  slices. 

3.  We  put  these  vegetables  into  a  saucepan  with  half  an 
ounce  of  clarified  dripping. 

4.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  let  the  vegetables 
fry  a  light  brown  ;  we  must  be  careful  they  do  not  burn. 

5.  We  cut  the  meat  off  the  bones  of  the  foot,  cut  it  up 
into  nice  pieces,  and  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt 
according  to  taste. 

6.  We  put  these  pieces  of  meat  into  the  saucepan  with 

the  vegetables. 

7.  We  then  pour  in  one  pint  of  cold  water,  just  bring  it  to 
the  boil,  and  remove  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to 
stew  gently  one  hour  or  till  the  vegetables  are  tender. 

8.  We  then  strain  off  the  liquor  and  put  the  vegetables 
and  meat  on  a  dish. 

9.  We  put  the  dish  near  the  fire  to  keep  warm. 

10.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  the  saucepan  and 
put  it  on  the  fire  to  melt. 

11.  When  the  butter  is  melted  we  add  half  an  ounce  of 
four,  and  mix  them  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

12.  We  stir  in  gradually  the  liquor,  and  stir  it  till  it  boils 
and  thickens. 

13.  We  then  remove  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire. 

N.B. — The  sauce  can  be  coloured  with  burnt  sugar  or  a  browned  onion. 

14.  We  now  place  in  the  meat  and  the  vegetables,  and 
let  them  just  warm  through. 

15.  We  serve  this  stew  on  a  hot  dish  with  boiled  potatoes  (see 
Vegetables,  Lesson  No.  i),  or  rice  (see  Rice,  Lesson  No,  i). 

N.B. — The  bones  of  the  foot  should  be  put  in  the  stock-pot. 


Lessons  on  Making  Jellies. — Apple  Jelly.    367 

JELLIES. 

Lesson  No.  6. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Average  cost  of  "  Apple  Jelly  "  {about  one  and  a  half  pint). 
INGREDIENTS. 

a. 

1  pound  of  apples     4 

1  lemon      !  1 

3  oz.  of  lump  sugar 1" 

1  oz.  of  gelatine    3 

2  a  teaspoonful  of  cochineal  1 


Kj.-'j 


Time  required,  about  one  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Apple  Jelly. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  apples,  peel  them  with  a  sharp 
knife,  cut  them  in  half,  take  out  the  core,  and  then  cut  the 
apples  in  small  pieces. 

2.  We  put  the  apples  in  a  stewpan  with  three  ounces  of 
lump  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water. 

3.  We  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  with  a  cloth. 

4.  We  take  a  grater  and  grate  the  rind  of  the  lemon  over 
the  apples. 

N.B. — We  should  be  very  careful  only  to  grate  the  yellow  peel  of  the  lemon, 
as  the  white  rind  is  very  bitter. 

5.  We  cut  the  lemon  in  half,  and  squeeze  the  juice  through 
a  strainer  on  the  apples. 

6.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil,  and  cook  the 
apples  quite  tender. 

7.  We  must  stir  the  apples  occasionally  to  prevent  it 
sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  burning. 

8.  We  put  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  gallipot  or  small 
saucepan  with  half  a  gill  (one  gill  is  a  quarter  of  a  pint)  of 
cold  water,  and  stand  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  dissolve. 


368      Nxtional  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  When  the  apples  are  cooked  to  a  pulp,  we  place  a  hair 
sieve  over  a  basin  and  rub  the  apples  through  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

10.  We  now  stir  the  melted  gelatine  into  the  apple. 

N.B. — We  must  be  very  careful  that  the  gelatine  is  quite  smoothly  dissolved, 
there  should  be  no  lumps. 

N.B. — If  liked,  part  of  the  apple  might  be  coloured  by  stirring  in  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cochineal. 

11.  We  take  a  pint  and  a  half  mould,  rinse  it  out  in 
boiling  water  and  then  in  cold  v/ater. 

12.  We  can  ornament  the  bottom  of  the  mould  with 
pistachio  nuts  cut  in  small  pieces,  or  preserved  cherries, 
according  to  taste. 

13.  We  now  pour  the  apple  in  the  mould,  and  if  part  of 
the  apple  is  coloured  we  should  fill  the  mould  with  alternate 
layers  of  coloured  and  plain  apple. 

14.  We  stand  the  mould  aside  in  a  cool  place  to  set  the 

apple. 

15.  For  serving  we  dip  the  mould  in  boiling  water  for  a 
second  and  then  turn  out  the  apple  jelly  carefully  on  to  a 
dish. 

N.B. — Half  a  pint  of 'dotible  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth  should  be  served 
with  the  apple  jelly,  either  put  round  the  edge  of  the  dish  or  in  the 
centre  of  the  mould. 


Lessons  on  Making  Creams.  —  Vanilla  Cream.    369 

CREAMS. 
Lesson  No.  i. 

VANILLA  CREAM. 

Average  cost  of  "  Vanilla  Cream  "  made  with  boiled  custard 
(about  a  pint  and  a  half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

3eSS5 o  3 

\  pint  of  milk    o  x\ 

1  ounce  of  best  gelatine o  3 

\  pint  of  double  cream    1  3 

i  tablespoonful  of  castor  sugar o  o\ 

\  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  Vanilla o  oj 

1  11 
Time  required  for  making,  about  three-quarters  of  a?i  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Vanilla  Cream. 

1.  We  take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  white,  put 
them  into  a  basin,  and  beat  them  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

2.  We  stir  in  half  a  pint  of  milk. 

3.  We  pour  this  mixture  into  a  jug. 

4.  We  take  a  saucepan  half  full  of  hot  water,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  boil. 

5.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  move  the  sauce- 
pan to  the  side  of  the  fire. 

6.  We  stand  the  jug  of  custard  in  the  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  and  stir  the  mixture  very  smoothly  until  it  thickens 
and  becomes  the  substance  of  cream. 

N.B. — We  must  stir  it  very  carefully  and  watch  it  continually  that  it  does 
not  curdle. 

7.  When  the  custard  is  sufficiently  thick,  we  take  the  jug 
out  of  the  water  and  stand  it  aside  to  cool. 

8.  We  put  one  ounce  of  the  best  gelatine  in  a  small  stew- 
pan,  with  two  tablespoonsftd  of  cold  water  to  soak  and  swell. 

A  A 


370     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  We  then  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  the 
gelatine  until  it  is  quite  melted. 

10.  We  pour  this  melted  gelatine  through  a  strainer  and 
stir  it  into  the  custard. 

11.  We  pour  half  a  pint  of  double  cream  into  a  basin,  and 
whisk  it  to  a  stiff  froth  with  the  whisk. 

12.  We  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  castor  sugar  and  halj 
a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  Vanilla. 

N.B. — If  any  other  flavouring  be  preferred,  it  should  be  now  added,  instead 
of  the  essence  of  Vanilla. 

13.  When  the  custard  is  sufficiently  cooled,  we  stir  it 
lightly  into  the  whipped  cream. 

14.  We  take  a  pint  and  a  half  mould,  scald  it  with  hoi 
water,  and  then  rinse  it  out  with  cold. 

15.  We  pour  the  cream  into  the  mould,  and  stand  it  in 
ice,  until  required  for  use. 

16.  For  serving,  we  should  dip  the  mould  into  boiling 
water  for  a  second,  shake  it  to  loosen  the  cream,  and  then 
turn  it  out  carefully  on  to  a  dish. 

N.B. — This  is  an  economical  recipe  for  making  cream,  but  if  made  entirely 
of  cream,  instead  of  cream  and  custard,  it  would  of  course  be  richer. 


Lessons  on  Making  Creams.  — Strazvberry  Cream.  371 

CREAMS. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

STRAWBERRY    CREAM. 

Average  cost  of  "  Strazvberry  Cream  "  {about  one  pint). 

INGREDIENTS.  s    d 

1  pint  of  fresh  strawberries o  6 

2 \  ozs.  of  castor  sugar    o  6\ 

\  of  an  oz.  of  the  best  gelatine o  2| 

The  juice  of  one  lemon   o  15 

\  pint  of  good  cream  1  3 

2     \\ 

Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Strawberry 
Cream. 

1.  We  take  a  pint  of  fresh  strazvberries,  and  put  them  on 
a  board. 

2.  We  must  pick  them  over,  and  put  aside  any  that  are 
not  quite  good. 

3.  We  must  stalk  them,  and  put  them  in  a  basin. 

4.  We  sprinkle  over  them  half  an  ounce  of  white  castor 
sugar,  which  will  help  to  draw  out  the  juice. 

5.  We  take  a  silk  sieve  and  place  it  over  a  basin. 

N.  B.  —A  hair  sieve  could  be  used  instead. 

6.  We  pass  the  fruit  through  the  sieve  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

7.  We  put  three-qtiarters  of  an  ounce  of  the  best  gelatine 
into  a  small  stewpan,  with  two  tablespoon sful  of  cold  water, 
to  soak  and  to  swell. 

8.  We  then  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  the 
gelatine  until  it  is  quite  melted. 

9.  We  add  two  otmces  of  castor  sugar,  and  squeeze  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  through  a  strainer  into  the  stewpan, 

A  A  2 


372      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

10.  We  pour  this  mixture  through  a  strainer,  and  stir  it 
into  the  strawberries  in  the  basin,  and  mix  them  well 
together. 

11.  We  pour  half  a  pint  of  good  cream  into  a  basin,  and 
whip  it  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  whisk. 

12.  We  now  add  this  cream  to  the  strawberries  in  the 
basin,  and  stir  them  lightly  together. 

13.  We  take  a  pint  mould,  scald  it  with  hot  water,  and 
then  rinse  it  out  with  cold. 

14.  We  pour  the  strawberry  cream  into  the  mould,  and 
stand  it  in  ice,  until  required  for  use. 

15.  For  serving,  we  should  dip  the  mould  into  boiling 
water  for  a  second,  shake  it  to  loosen  the  cream,  and  then 
turn  it  out  carefuliv  on  to  a  dish. 


essons  on  Making  Creams. — Charlotte  Russc.   373 

CREAMS. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

CHARLOTTE    RUSSE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Charlotte  Russc  "  {about  one  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

12  sponge  finger  biscuits o  6 

£  oz.  of  the  best  gelatine o  i| 

I  gill  of  milk o  o\ 


--> 


\  pint  of  double  cream     i 

i  dessertspoonful  of  sifted  sugar  o    oV 

30  drops  of  essence  of  Vanilla   o     1 

2    oh 

Time  required  for  making,  about  half an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Charlotte  Russe. 

1.  We  take  a  pint  tin,  and  line  it  inside  with  sponge  finger 
biscuits. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  to  fit  the  biscuits  close  to  each  other,  so  that  they 
form  a  wall  of  themselves. 

2.  We  take  a  knife  and  cut  off  the  tops  of  the  finger 
biscuits  that  stand  above  the  tin. 

3.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  the  best  gelatine  in  a  small 
stewpan,  with  one  gill  (a  quarter  of  a  pint)  of  cold  milk,  to 
soak  and  swell. 

4.  We  pour  half  a  pint  of  double  cream  into  a  basin,  and 
whip  it  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  whisk. 

5.  We  add  to  it  a  dessertspoonful  of  sifted  castor  sugar, 
and  thirty  drops  of  essence  of  vanilla. 

6.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  the  gelatine 
until  it  is  quite  melted. 

7.  We  stir  the  melted  gelatine  into  the  cream,  pouring  it 
through  a  strainer. 

8.  We  pour  this  cream  into  the  tin. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful,  in  pouring  in  the  cream,  not  to  disarrange  the 
finger  biscuits. 

9.  We  stand  this  tin  in  ice,  until  it  is  required  for  use. 

10.  For  serving,  we  dip  the  tin  into  hot  zuaterfor  a  second, 
shake  the  tin  to  loosen  the  cream,  and  turn  it  carefully  on 
to  a  dish. 

N.B. — A  more  economical  Charlotte  Russe  might  be  made  by  using  a  q'inrter 
of  a  pint  of  custard  to  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream  (as  in  "  Creams," 
Lesson  No.  1). 


374     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SOUFFLES. 
Lesson  No.   i. 

VANILLA   SOUFFLE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Vanilla  Souffle"    {about  one  and  a  half 
pint)  and  the  sauce  to  be  served  with  it. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

4  eggs 4 

i\  oz.  of  butter  at  is.  6d.  lb i| 

A  dessertspoonful  of  sugar  \ 

i  oz.  of  flour    f      j 

\  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  Vanilla I 

Salt    J 

i  gill  of  milk    of 

Time  required,  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
For   Wine  Sauce. 


d. 
i  oz.  of  sugar o\ 

i  tablespoonful  of  jam 2 

Wine  glass  of  sherry    6 

\  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice     i 

~li 

Time  required,  about  ten  minutes. 


For  Custard  Sauce. 

d. 
i  egg i 

Sugar  and  6  drops  of  Vanilla      02 
1  gill  of  milk    of 

~\ 

Time  required,  about  ten  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Steamed  Vanilla 
Souffle  Pudding. 

1.  We  must  prepare  the  tin  for  the  souffle  pudding. 

2.  We  take  a  pint  and  a  half  tin  and  butter  it  well  inside, 
using  our  fingers  for  that  purpose. 

3.  We  take  a  piece  of  paper  and  fold  it  so  as  to  make  a 
band  round  the  tin,  allowing  about  two  inches  of  paper  to 
stand  up  above  the  tin. 

4.  We  butter  the  part  of  the  paper  above  the  tin  with  a 
knife. 

5.  We  put  the  paper  round  the  outside  of  the  tin  and  tie 
it  on  with  string. 


Lessons  on  making  Souffles.  —  Vanilla  Souffle.      375 

6.  We  take  a  stewpan  and  just  melt  one  ounce  of  butter 
in  it  over  the  fire. 

7.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  and  stand  it  on  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

8.  We  add  one  ounce  of  flour  to  the  melted  butter,  and 
mix  them  both  well  together. 

9.  We  then  add  rather  more  than  a  dessertspoonful  of 
pounded  sugar. 

10.  We  add  one  gill  of  milk  (a  gill  is  a  quarter  of  a  pint). 

11.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  smoothly 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  thickens. 

12.  We  then  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  again. 

13.  We  add  to  the  mixture  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  at 
a  time,  and  beat  all  well  together. 

14.  We  take  the  three  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  put  them 
in  a  basin  with  one  more  white  to  make  four,  adding  half  a 
saltspoonfid  of  salt,  and  then  whip  the  whites  quite  stiff. 

15.  We  add  the  whites  to  the  above  mixture  and  stir  it 
lightly. 

16.  We  now  add  the  flavouring — half  a  teaspoonfid  of 
Vanilla  essence. 

N.B. — If  the  essence  is  very  strong,  or  the  bottle  newly  opened,  so  much  is 
not  required. 

17.  We  mix  all  together  and  pour  it  into  the  buttered 
tin. 

18.  We  have  ready  a  saucepan  half  filled  with  hot  water, 
and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

19.  When  the  water  boils  we  stand  the  tin  in  it,  but  we 
must  be  careful  that  the  water  does  not  reach  the  paper 
round  the  tin,  for  it  is  only  the  steam  which  cooks  the  pudding. 

20.  We  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and 
let  the  pudding  steam  from  twenty  to  thirty  7nimttes. 

21.  We  must  watch  it,  not  letting  the  water  boil  too 
fast,  or  the  saucepan  will  get  dry  and  thepudding  will  burn. 


37  6     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

22.  When  it  is  sufficiently  steamed,  we  take  the  tin  out 
of  the  saucepan  of  water. 

N.B. — To  test  if  the  pudding  be  done,  we  should  touch  the  centre  of  the 
pudding  with  our  finger  ;  it  should  feel  firm. 

23.  We  shake  the  tin  and  turn  the  Souffle  Pudding  out 
on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  round  it,  which  we  must 
prepare  while  the  souffle  is  being  steamed. 

N.B. — If  a  baked  Vanilla  Souffle'  Pudding  is  required,  we  put  the  tin  in  a 
quick  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  to 
bake  for  half  an  hour,  instead  of  putting  it  in  the  boiling  water.  No 
sauce  is  then  wanted. 


Now  we  will  make  the  sauce  for  the  Steamed  Vanilla 
Souffle-  Pudding. 

For  Wine  Sauce. 

1.  We  take  a  small  saucepan  and  put  in  it  one  ounce  of 
loaf  sugar  and  one  gill  (or  quarter  pint)  of  cold  water. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  the  sugar 
and  water  with  a  spoon  until  the  sugar  has  quite  melted, 
and  it  has  become  a  smooth  syrup  reduced  in  quantity. 

3.  We  put  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  apricot  jam-. 

4.  We  stir  it  all  together  over  the  fire  to  melt  the  jam. 

5.  We  add  a  wineglassfid  of  sherry  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice.     We  stir  it  all  again. 

6.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire  and  pour  the  sauce 
round  the  soufflet pudding. 

N.B.     We  must  pour  the  sauce  round  the  pudding  very  carefully,  so  as  not 
to  drop  any  of  it  on  the  side  of  it. 


We  can  make  a  Custard  Sauce  if  preferred  : 

1.  We  break  a  whole  egg  in  a  basin  and  whip  it  well. 

2.  We  add  half  a  teaspoonfid  of  pounded  sugar. 

3.  We  add  one  gill  (quarter  pint)  of  milk,  and  six  drops 
of  Vanilla  essence. 

4.  We  pour  all  the  mixture  into  a  jug  or  gallipot. 

5.  We  get  a  large  saucepan  of  hot  water  and  put  it  on 
the  fire. 


Lessons  on  Making  Souffles. —  Vanilla  Souffle.    2)11 

6.  We  stand  the  gallipot  in  a  saucepan. 

N.B. — The  water  must  only  come  halfway  up  the  gallipot. 

7.  We  stir  the  mixture  in   the  gallipot  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

8.  As  soon   as  the  mixture  has  thickened   we  take  the 
gallipot  out  of  the  saucepan. 

9.  We  pour  the  custard  round  the  Souffle  Pudding,  and 
it  is  ready  for  serving. 


yS       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


/ 


SOUFFLES. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

CHEESE    SOUFFLi. 

Average  cost  of  "  Cheese  Soufflet." 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  oz.  of  butter  and  \  oz.  of  flour ij 

1  teaspoonful  of  mignonette  pepper 0.7 

Salt  and  pepper,  and  cayenne  pepper  o\ 

1  gill  of  milk    of 

2  eggs   2 

3  oz.  of  Parmesan  cheese 4J 

ji 

Time  required,  about  forty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Cheese  Souffle, 

1.  We  take  a  stewpan,  and  put  into  it  one  ounce  of  butter. 

2.  We  add  one  teaspoonful  of  mignonette  pepper. 

3.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  let  the  pepper  fry   \ 
Im  the  butter  (to  extract  the  flavour  of  the  pepper)  for  two  or 
three  minutes. 

4.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  strain  the  butter 
into  a  basin  ;  as  the  pepper  is  only  for  flavouring,  the  grains 
must  not  be  left  in  the  butter. 

5.  We  wash  out  the  stewpan  to  prevent  any  of  the  grains 
remaining. 

6.  We  pour  the  flavoured  butter  back  in  the  stewpan. 

7.  We  add  half  an  ounce  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  cayenne  pepper  (about 
as  much  as  would  thinly  cover  half  the  top  of  a  threepenny 
piece)  according  to  taste ;  and  stir  well  together  with  a 
wooden  spoon. 

8.  We  add  one  gill  (or  quarter  of  a  pint)  of  milk. 

9.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  the  mixture 
smooth  until  it  thickens. 


Lessons  on  Making  Souffle's. — Cheese  Souffle.     379 

10.  We  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  stand  it  on  a 
piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

11.  We  add  one  by  one  the  yolks  of  tzvo  eggs,  and  beat 
them  well  together. 

12.  We  take  three  ounces  of  Parmesan  cheese. 

13.  We  grate  the  cheese  with  a  grater  on  to  a  plate  or 
piece  of  paper. 

14.  We  add  the  three  ounces  of  grated  cheese  to  the  above 
mixture  in  the  stewpan,  and  mix  it  all  well  together. 

15.  We  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  a  little  salt  in  a 
basin  quite  stiff. 

16.  We  add  the  whites  to  the  above  mixture,  and  stir  it 
lightly. 

17.  We  take  a  plain  tin  pint  mould,  and  prepare  it  in 
the  same  way  as  we  did  for  the  Vanilla  Souffle  Pudding. 
(See  Souffles,   Lesson  No.  1.) 

18.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  the  buttered  tin  mould. 

N.B. — This  same  mixture,  if  poured  into  Ramaquin  papers  and  baked,  will 
make  cheese  Ramaquins. 

19.  We  put  the  tin  in  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  to  bake  from  twenty  minutes 
to  half  an  hour.  We  must  look  at  it  once  or  twice  to  see 
it  does  not  burn,  but  the  door  of  the  oven  should  not  be 
opened  too  often  while  the  souffle'  is  inside,  lest  it  should 
check  the  souffle  from  rising  properly. 

N.B. — To  serve  a  baked  souffle  it  should  be  kept  in  its  tin,  the  buttered 
paper  taken  off,  and  a  clean  napkin  folded  round  the  tin.  It  can  also 
be  baked  in  a  mould  which  slips  inside  a  plated  or  silver  dish  sold  for 
the  purpose.     This  is  the  more  elegant  way  of  serving  a  souffle   or  fondu. 


380     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SOUFFLES. 
Lesson  No.  3. 

POTATO    SOUFFI_£. 

Average  cost  of  "  Potato  Souffle? 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

4  potatoes     i| 

1  oz.  of  butter i 

2  tablespoonsful  of  milk o\ 

4  eggs   , .' 4 

Seasoning o| 

li 

Time  required,  about  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Potato  Souffle. 

1.  We  take  four  good  sized  potatoes,  wash  and  scrub  them 
with  a  scrubbing  brush  in  a  basin  of  cold  water. 

2.  We  take  them  out  of  the  water,  and  dry  them  with  a 
cloth. 

3.  We  put  them  in  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2300)  to  bake  ;  they  will  take  from 
half  an  hour  to  three  qitarters  of  an  hour,  according  to  the 
heat  of  the  oven,  and  the  size  of  the  potatoes. 

4.  We  take  a  skewer,  and  stick  it  into  the  potatoes  to  see 
if  they  are  done.     They  must  be  soft  inside. 

N.B. — This  should  be  carefully  done  so  as  not  to  spoil  the  potato  skins. 

5.  When  they  are  done  we  take  them  out  and  cut  them 
(with  a  sharp  knife)  in  half — so  that  each  half  of  the  potato 
will  stand — because  we  shall  want  to  use  the  skins  to  put 
the  potato  into  them  again. 

6.  We  take  a  small  spoon  and  scoop  out  carefully  all 
the  inside  of  the  potatoes.  We  must  take  care  not  to  make 
holes  or  spoil  the  skins  in  any  way. 

7.  We  take  a  wire  sieve  and  put  it  over  a  plate,  and  take 
the  inside  of  the  potatoes  and  rub  it  through  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 


Lessons  on  Making  Soitffles.— Potato  Souffle.     381 

8.  We  put  one  ounce  of  butter  and  two  tablespoonsful  oj 
milk  in  a  stewpan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

9.  We  add  salt  and  pepper  according  to  taste. 

10.  We  then  add  three  ounces  of  the  sifted  potatoes,  and 
stir  it  smoothly. 

11.  We  must  now  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  stand 
it  on  a  piece  of  paper  or  wooden  trivet,  on  the  table. 

12.  We  take  three  eggs,  and  add,  one  by  one,  only  the 
yolks,  beating  all  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

13.  We  take  the  three  whites,  and  add  another  white  to 
make  four,  and  put  them  in  a  basin  ;  we  add  a  quarter  of  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt  to  them,  and  whip  them  to  a  stiff  froth. 

14.  We  add  the  wJiites  to  the  above  mixture,  and  stir  the 
whole  lightly. 

15.  We  now  stand  the  eight  half -potato  skins  on  a  baking 
sheet. 

16.  We  pour  the  mixture  carefully  into  each  potato  skin 
(they  should  be  only  half  full). 

17.  We  put  the  sheet  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  for  ten  minutes,  until  they 
have  risen  well,  and  become  a  pale  brown  colour. 

18.  We  should  fold  a  table  napkin,  and  arrange  them  on 
it  for  serving. 


382       National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

. . 

SOUFFLES. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

OMELETTE    SOUFFLEE. 

Average  cost  of  an  Omelette  Souffle'e  {in  a  half -pint  dish). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

6  eggs , 6 

\  oz.  of  flour o\ 

\  oz.  of  butter    o| 

3  ozs.  castor  sugar i 

Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  an  Omelette  Soufflee. 

1.  We  take  six  eggs,  put  four  yolks  in  a  basin  (the  other 
two  yolks  are  not  required  for  present  use),  and  put  the 
whites  of  the  six  eggs  in  another  basin. 

2.  We  add  three  ounces  of  castor  sugar  to  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  and  beat  them  up  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  for  ten 
minutes. 

3.  We  now  stir  in  smoothly  half  an  ounce  of  flour. 

N.B. — If  the  soufflee  is  to  be  flavoured,  the  flavouring  should  now  be  added, 
about  fifteen  drops  of  vanilla,  or  any  other  essence  preferred. 

4.  We  take  a  whisk,  and  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  then  stir  them  lightly  into  the  contents,  in 
the  other  basin. 

5.  We  take  half  an  ounce  of  butter  and  butter  the  inside 
of  a  half  pint  pie  dish  or  soufflee  tin  ;  we  then  pour  in  the 
mixture. 

N.B.—  If  jam  is  added  it  must  be  put  in  the  centre  of  the  soufflde,  before  it 
is  baked. 

6.  We  put  it  in  a  quick  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
door  of  the  oven  marking  2400)  to  bake  for  ten  minutes. 

7.  We  must  serve  the  soufflee  as  soon  as  it  is  baked,  or  it 
will  fall. 


Lesson  on  Making  Sweet  Omelettes,         383 
SWEET   OMELETTE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Sweet  Omelette!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  eggs   2 

\  oz.  of  butter  at  is.  6d.  a  lb of 

Jam    1 

Sugar  and  salt    o\ 

1  teaspoonful  of  orange  flower  water i 

IT 

Time  required,  about  teyi  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Sweet  Omelette  of 
two  eggs. 

1.  We  break  two  eggs ;  we  put  the  whites  in  one  basin 
and  the  yolks  in  another. 

2.  We  put  one  teaspoonful  of orange  flower  water,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  castor  sugar  into  a  stewpan. 

3.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  quickly 
for  three  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 

4.  We  then  pour  it  into  a  cup  to  cool ;  add  to  it  the  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  beat  them  to  a  cream. 

5.  We  add  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  to  the  zvhites 
of  egg,  and  whip  them  to  a  stiff  froth. 

6.  We  add  the  whites  to  the  mixture  in  the  basin,  and 
mix  them  together  very  lightly. 

7.  We  put  half  an  ottnce  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan. 

8.  We  put  the  pan  on  the  fire,  and  let  the  butter  get  quite 
hot,  but  not  burn. 

9.  When  the  butter  is  quite  hot  we  must  pour  in  the 
mixture. 

10.  We  may  let  it  stay  on  a  slow  fire  for  two,  but  not 
more  than  three-  mifiutes. 

11.  We  must  then  take  the  pan  off  the  fire  and  put  it  in 
the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to 
240°). 


384     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

12.  We  let  it  stay  for  about  three  or  four  minutes  in  the 
oven. 

13.  We  take  rather  more  than  a  dessertspoonful  of  jam. 

14.  We  put  the  jam  into  a  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir 
it  until  it  has  melted. 

15.  We  take  the  pan  out  of  the  oven. 

16.  We  take  a  knife  and  pass  it  round  the  edge  of  the 
omelette,  to  ease  it  from  the  pan. 

17.  We  give  the  pan  a  shake  to  loosen  the  omelette. 

18.  We  turn  the  omelette  on  to  a  hot  dish. 

19.  We  spread  the  jam  on  the  omelette,  and  fold  it  over 
like  a  sandwich. 

20.  We  sprinkle  about  a  teaspoonful  of  white  castor  sugar 
over  it,  and  it  is  ready  for  serving, 


Lesson  on  Making  Savoury  Omelette.       385 


SAVOURY    OMELETTE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Savoury  Omelette" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  eggs  at  id.  each 2 

Salt,  pepper,  and  parsley oj 

I  oz.  butter i£ 

4 
Time  required,  about  four  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Savoury  Omelette 
of  two  eggs. 

1.  We  break  tzvo  eggs  into  a  basin. 

2.  We  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

3.  We  take  a  sprig  of  parsley,  wash  it,  dry  it,  and  chop  it 
up  finely  on  a  board  (there  should  be  about  a  teaspoonfid). 

4.  We  add  the  chopped  parsley  to  the  eggs. 

5.  We  beat  the  eggs  lightly  for  two  seconds  with  a  fork. 

N.B.— The  omelette  could  be  flavoured  with  chopped  herbs  or  mushrooms, 
with  bacon  or  kid?iey  cut  in  small  pieces,  or  with  grated  cheese,  according 
to  taste. 

6.  We  take  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  put  it  in  an  omelette 
or  frying  pan. 

7.  We  put  the  pan  on  the  fire  to  melt  the  butter. 

N.B. — The  fire  should  be  bright  and  clear. 

8.  We  wait  till  the  bittter  is  quite  hot,  taking  care  that  it 
does  not  burn. 

9.  We  pour  the  mixture  of  the  egg  into  the  pan. 

10.  We  stir  the  mixture  quickly  with  a  spoon. 

11.  We  must  not  let  it  burn  or  stick  to  the  pan.  We 
must  shake  the  pan  to  prevent  the  omelette  sticking  or 
burning. 

12.  We  turn  it  quickly  towards  the  handle  of  the  pan 
and  with  the  spoon,  turn  it  over  for  a  second,  and  then  on 
to  a  hot  dish,  and  it  is  ready  for  serving. 


B  B 


386      ATational  Training  School  for  Cookery. 
MACCARONI. 

Lesson  No,  I. 

Average  cost  of  "  Maccaroni  with  Milk  "  and  "  Maccaroni 
with  Cheese? 

INGREDIENTS 

d. 

\  lb.  of  Maccaroni )    , 

Salt j25 

1  quart  of  skimmed  milk i\ 

2  oz.  of  cheese 2" 

1  oz.  of  butter 1 

Salt  and  pepper,  and  cayenne  pepper    05 


Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  three-quarters. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  Maccaroni. 

1.  We  put  a  saucepan  of  hot  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni,  and  put  it  in  the 
saucepan  of  boiling  water,  with  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and 
Jet  it  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour. 

3.  After  that  time  we  pour  the  water  out  of  the  sauce- 
pan. 

4.  We  put  one  quart  of  skimmed  milk  into  the  saucepan. 

5.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  just  bring  it  to  the 
boil,  and  then  move  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  for  one  hour. 

6.  When  the  maccaroni  is  sufficiently  cooked  and  quite 
tender,  we  turn  it  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  it  can  be  eaten 
with  sugar  or  treacle. 

N.B. — If  liked,  maccaroni  and  cheese  can  be  made  of  it. 

7.  For  maccaroni  and  cheese,  we  take  two  ounces  of  cheese, 
and  grate  it  with  a  grater  on  to  a  piece  of  paper. 

8.  We  take  a  dish  or  a  tin  and  grease  it  well  inside  with 
a  piece  of  dripping  or  butter. 

9.  When  the  maccaroni  is  sufficiently  cooked  (as  above) 
we  turn  it  out  of  the  saucepan  on  to  the  greased  dish. 


Lessons  an  Cooking  Maccaroni.  3S7 

10.  We  sprinkle  over  it  pepper  and  salt  and  two  or  three 
grains  of  cayenne  pepper,  according  to  taste  ;  or3  about  half  a 
teaspoonfu I  of  mustard  might  be  mixed  with  it. 

11.  We  stir  part  of  the  grated  cheese  into  the  maccaroni 
and  the  remainder  we  sprinkle  over  the  top. 

12.  We  take  one  ounce  of  butter,  cut  it  in  small  pieces, 
and  put  these  pieces  of  butter  about  on  the  top  of  the 
maccaroni. 

13.  We  put  the  dish  in  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400),  or  in  a  Dutch  oven 
before  the  fire  for  ten  minutes ;  it  should  become  a  pale 
brown. 

14.  It  will  then  be  ready  for  serving. 


388     National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 


o 


STEWED    MACCARONI. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

Average  cost  of  "  Maccaroni  Stewed  in  Stock" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  maccaroni *.»... q.\ 

Salt  and  pepper ,  * ) 

1  pint  of  stock    }     4 

Time  required,  about  forty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  stew  Maccaroni. 

1.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni  and  put  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  plenty  of  hot  water  and  a  dessertspoonful  of 

salt. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  bring  it  to  the  boil, 
and  let  it  boil  gently  for  ten  minutes. 

3.  After  that  time  we  put  the  maccaroni  into  a  colander, 
take  it  to  the  tap,  and  turn  some  cold  zvater  on  it. 

4.  We  now  let  the  maccaroni  drain  in  the  colander. 

5.  We  then  turn  it  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  up  in  pieces. 

6.  We  put  one  pint  of  stock  into  a  saucepan. 

7.  We  put  the  maccaroni  into  the  stocky  and  season  it 
with  pepper  and  salt,  according  to  taste. 

8.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  just  bring  it  to  the 
boil,  and  then  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and 
let  it  simmer  gently  for  twenty  minutes. 

N.B. — The  lid  should  be  on  the  saucepan. 

9.  For  serving,  we  turn  the  maccaroni  out  on  a  hot  dish. 


Lesson  on  Making  Cheese  Straws.  389 


CHEESE    STRAWS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Ingredients  "  for  "  Cheese  Straws 
(about  three  dozen). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  oz.  of  butter z\ 

2  oz.  of  flour    oh 

2  oz.  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese 3" 

1  oz.  of  Cheddar  cheese 1^ 

1  egg 1 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper o| 


Time  required,  about  twenty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Cheese  Straws. 

1.  We  put  two  ounces  offloitr  on  a  board,  and  mix  into  it 
half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of 
cayenne  pepper. 

2.  We  take  two  ounces  of  Parmesan  cheese  and  one  ounce  of 
Cheddar  or  some  strong  cheese,  and  grate  them  on  a  grater. 

3.  We  rub  the  cheese  and  two  ounces  of  butter  into  the 
flour. 

4.  We  now  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  into  a  smooth  stiff 'paste. 

5.  We  flour  the  board  and  the  rolling  pin,  and  roll  out 
the  paste  into  a  strip  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and 
five  inches  wide  (the  length  the  cheese  straws  are  to  be). 

6.  We  now  take  a  sharp  knife,  dip  it  in  flour,  and  cut  the 
paste  into  strips  one-eighth  of  an  inch  wide,  so  that  they  will 
he  five  inches  long  and  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 

7.  We  take  two  round  cutters,  dip  them  in  flour,  and  cut 
little  rings  of  paste. 

8.  We  take  a  baking  sheet,  and  grease  it  with  butter. 

9.  We  put  the  cheese  straws  and  the  rings  on  the  baking 
sheet,  and  put  it  into  a  hot  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  for  ten  minutes. 


390      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

10.  We  must  look  at  the  cheese  straws  occasionally,  and 
see  that  they  do  not  burn  ;  they  should  be  of  a  pale  brown 
colour  when  done. 

11.  For  serving,  we  take  the  cheese  straws  off  the  baking 
sheet,  and  put  them  through  the  rings  of  paste  like  a  bundle 
of  sticks. 


Lesson  on  Pickling  Cabbage.  391 


PICKLED    CABBAGE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Pickled  Cabbage!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

A  red  cabbage  o  3 

A  gallon  of  vinegar 1  4 

Mace,  cloves,  allspice,  whole  pepper    o  x\ 

Salt  and  ginger , o  o| 

1     9 
Time  required,  about  three  days. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  Pickle  a  Cabbage. 

1.  We  take  a  red  cabbage,  cut  it  in  half,  and  cut  out  the  stalk, 
and  wash  it  well  in  salt  and  cold  water. 

N.B. — A  white-heart  cabbage  will  do  to  pickle,  but  g)'een  cabbages  cannot  be  used. 

2.  We  put  it  on  a  board,  and  cut  it  in  thin  slices. 

3.  We  lay  the  slices  in  a  large  pan,  sprinkle  a  handful  of 
salt  over  each  layer  of  slices,  cover  the  top  well  with  salt, 
and  leave  them  for  tzuo  days. 

N.B. — We  must  turn  the  slices  every  morning  and  evening,  and  sprinkle  a 
handful  of  salt  over  the  layers  each  time  we  turn  them. 

4.  We  then  drain  the  slices  on  a  hair  sieve  for  one  day. 

5.  We  put  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  two  blades  of  mace,  twenty- 
four  cloves,  twenty -four  allspice  berries,  and  twenty- four 
peppercorns  into  a  saucepan,  with  three  pieces  of  ginger  an 
inch  long. 

6.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  up. 

7.  We  then  turn  the  vinegar  and  spices  out  of  the  sauce- 
pan into  a  broad  pan  to  cool. 

N.B. — They  must  on  no  account  be  allowed  to  cool  in  the  saucepan. 

8.  We  put  the  cabbage  into  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  the 
vinegar  and  spices  over  it. 

9.  The  cabbage  must  be  quite  covered  with  vinegar,  and 
as  it  soaks  it  up  more  vinegar  must  be  poured  over  it 

N.B. — This  quantity  of  vinegar  is  sufficient  for  a  large  cabbage;  a  smaller 
one  will  take  less. 

10.  We  tie  the  jar  over  with  wash  leather,  brown  paper, 
or  a  bladder.     The  Pickle  is  now  ready  for  use. 


392     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 
PICKLE    FOR    MEAT. 

Average  cost  of"  Pickle  for  Meat"  (about  one  gallon). 

INGREDIENTS. 

it 

i  lb.  of  salt o\ 

6  oz.  brown  sugar l 

ik  oz.  saltpetre    o; 

i  gallon  water 

Time  required,  about  half  an  hour  to  make. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Pickle  for  Meat. 

1.  We  put  one  pound  of  salt,  six  ounces  of  brown  sugar, 
one  ounce  and  a  half  of  saltpetre,  and  one  gallon  of  zvater 
into  a  large  saucepan. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  bring  it  to  the 
boil,  and  then  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes.  We  must  keep  it 
well  skimmed. 

3.  We  then  strain  it  into  a  tub  or  large  basin. 

4.  When  the  pickle  is  quite  cold,  meat  can  be  put  into  it. 

N.B. — The  meat  should  be  kept  well  covered  with  the  pickle  9  days. 

N.B. — This  fickle  will  keep  for  3  weeks  in  summer  and  3  months  in  winter. 

N.B. — When  the  pickle  is  required  again  after  it  has  once  been  used,  it 
should  be  boiled  up  again,  skimmed,  strained,  and  allowed  to  get  cold 
before  the  fresh  meat  is  put  into  it. 

\.B. — If  used  for  pig's  head  the  pickle  should  be  thrown  away  and  not  used 
again. 


Lessons  on  Making  Cakes.   -Sultana  Cake.    39 

CAKES. 

Lesson  No.  i. 

SULTANA    CAKE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Sultana  Cake" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

\  lb.  of  flour o  x\ 

\  lb.  of  butter    o  4 

£  lb.  of  sugar o  1 

{  lb.  of  sultana  raisins o  i£ 

1  oz.  of  candied  peel    o  1 

2  eggs o  2 

1  teaspoon ful  of  baking  powder    o  o\ 

Two  tablespoonsful  of  milk o  o| 

1  lemon o  2 


x     A 


Time  required,  about  one  hoiir  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Sultana  Cake. 

1.  We  put  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin. 

2.  We  rub  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  the  flour 
with  our  hands. 

3.  We  now  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  castor  sugar,  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder \  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sultana  raisins. 

4.  We  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  in  a  cloth,  and  grate 
the  find  of  it  into  the  basin. 

5.  We  cut  up  one  ounce  of  candied  peel  into  small  pieces, 
and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients. 

6.  We  put  two  tablespoonsful  of  milk  into  a  small  basin, 
and  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  (The  whites  we  put  on 
a  plate.) 

7.  We  stir  the  milk  and  the  eggs  together,  and  then 
pour  it  into  the  other  ingredients,  and  mix  all  together. 

8.  We  butter  a  cake  tin. 


394      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


9.  We  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  a  stiff  froth  with  a 
knife,  and  stir  it  lightly  into  the  mixture, 

10.  We  now  pour  it  into  the  tin,  and  put  it  into  the 
oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to 
2400)  to  bake  for  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 

11.  After  that  time  we  turn  the  cake  out  of  the  tin  and 
stand  it  on  its  side,  or  on  a  sieve  to  cool.  It  is  then  ready 
for  serving. 

N.B — This  will  prevent  it  getting  heavy. 


Lessons  on  Making  Cakes. — German  Pound.     395 

CAKES. 
Lesson  No.  2. 

GERMAN    POUND    CAKE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  German  Pound  Cake" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  a. 

10  oz.  of  flour o  2 

8  oz.  of  fresh  butter    o  10 

8  oz.  of  castor  sugar o  3 

2  oz.  of  candied  peel o  \h, 

I  lemon o  2" 

\  lb.  of  sultana  raisins  o  i| 

4  eggs   o  4 


2    o 


Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  German  Pound 
Cake. 

1.  We  stand  a  wire  sieve  over  a  plate  and  rub  through  it 
ten  ounces  of  flour. 

2.  We  put  eight  ounces  of  fresh  butter  into  a  basin,  and 
work  it  to  a  cream  with  our  hand. 

3.  We  add  a  tablespoonful  of  the  sifted  flour,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  castor  sugar,  and  one  egg,  and  mix  them  well  into 
the  butter. 

4.  We  continue  to  mix  in  by  degrees  the  flour,  siigar, 
and  eggs  until  they  are  all  used  up. 

5.  We  take  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  in  a  cloth,  and  grate 
the  rind  of  it  into  the  basin. 

6.  We  also  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sultana  raisins, 
and  two  ounces  of  candied  peel  (cut  up  in  small  pieces). 

7.  We  stir  all  the  ingredients  together  with  a  spoon. 

8.  We  line  a  cake  tin  with  buttered  foolscap  paper,  and 
put  three  rounds  of  buttered  paper  at  the  bottom  of  the 
tin. 


396     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  the  tin,  and  put  it  into  the 
oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400) 
to  bake  for  two  hours. 

10.  After  that  time  we  turn  the  cake  out  of  the  tin,  and 
stand  it  on  its  side,  or  on  a  sieve  to  cool.  It  is  then  ready 
for  serving. 

N.R. — This  will  prevent  it  getting  heavy. 


Lessons  on  Making  Cakes. — Plain  Cake.     397 

CAKES. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

PLAIN    CAKE. 

Average  cost  of  this  "  Cake  "  {about  1  pound). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  lb.  of  flour    2^ 

3  oz.  of  dripping     2 

Baking  powder,  allspice,  and  salt of 

\  lb.  of  currants i± 

I  pint  of  milk i|- 

\  lb.  of  sugar 1 

Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Plain  Cake. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  flour  and  put  it  in  a  pan  or  large 
basin. 

2.  We  mix  into  the  flour  a  teaspoonful  of  baking poivder 
and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

3.  We  take  fozir  ounces  of  clarified  dripping,  rub  it  wrell 
into  the  flour  with  our  fingers  until  there  are  no  lumps 
remaining. 

4.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants,  put  them  in 
a  cloth,  and  rub  them  clean. 

5.  We  add  the  currants  to  the  flour,  also  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  ground  allspice,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown 
sugar. 

6.  We  mix  these  ingredients  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

7.  We  now  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  mix  it  all 

well  together. 

8.  We  take  a  pound  tin  and  grease  it  inside  with  a  piece 
of  dripping. 

9.  We  pour  this  mixture  into  the  tin. 


398     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

10.  We  put  the  tin  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  to  bake  for  one  hour. 

11.  After  that  time  we  take  the  tin  out  of  the  oven. 

12.  We  turn  the  cake  out  of  the  tin  and  stand  it  on  its 
side  to  cool.      It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — This  will  prevent  it  getting  heavy. 


Lessons  on  Making  Cakes. — Seed  Cake.       399 

CAKES. 

Lesson   No.  4. 

SEED    CAKE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "  Seed  Cake." 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

10  oz.  of  flour l\ 

2  oz.  of  sugar oh 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder (  l 

1  teaspoonful  of  carraway  seeds J  °z 

2  oz.  of  clarified  dripping i 

Two  tablespoonsful  of  milk o\ 

Salt    ]     x 

7Y/«£  required,  one  hour  a?id  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Seed  Cake. 

1.  We  take  ten  ounces  of  flour  and  put  it  in  a  basin. 

2.  We  mix  into  the  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  and  half  a  saltspoonfid  of  salt. 

3.  We  take  tzvo  ounces  of  clarified  dripping  and  rub  it 
well  into  the  flour  with  our  hands,  until  there  are  no  lumps 
remaining. 

4.  We  add  two  oimces  of  crushed  loaf  sugar  and  one  tea- 
spoonfiil  of  carraway  seeds. 

5.  We  mix  these  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

6.  We  break  one  egg  into  a  cup  and  beat  it  up  with  two 

tablespoonsful  of  milk. 

7.  We  pour  this  into  the  basin  and  mix  all  quickly- 
together  into  a  stiff  paste,  stiff  enough  to  allow  a  spoon  to 
stand  up  in  it. 

8.  We  take  a  cake  tin  and  grease  it  inside  with  a  piece 
of  dripping. 

9.  W7e  pour  the  mixture  into  the  tin  and  put  it  at  once  in 
the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to 
2 40°)  to  bake  for  one  hour. 


4-00     National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

10.  To  know  when  the  cake  is  sufficiently  baked,  we  run 
a  clean  knife  into  it,  if  it  comes  out  perfectly  bright  and 
undimmed  by  steam,  the  cake  is  done. 

11.  We  turn  the  cake  out  of  the  tin  and  stand  it  on  its 
side  to  cool.     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 


Lessons  on  Making  Cakes. — Plum  Cake.     401 

CAKES. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

PLUM    CAKE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "Plum  Cake  "  (about  one  and  a  half  pound), 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  lb.  of  flour i\ 

\  lb.  of  fruit  (plums  or  currants) zk 

3  oz.  of  dripping 2 

\  lb.  of  sugar   1 

1  egg 1 

Two  tablespoonsful  of  milk o| 

A  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder |        x 

Salt    .. )  °* 

2  oz.  of  candied  peel 1 


10 


Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Plum  Cake. 

1.  We  put  one  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

2.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  clarified  dripping  and 
rub  it  well  into  the  flour  with  our  hands  until  there  are  no 
lumps  remaining. 

3.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  plums  or  currants  or  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  each  and  add  them  to  the  flour. 

N.B. — If  currants  are  used  they  should  be  well  washed  and  dried  in  a  cloth 
and  picked  over  to  see  there  are  no  stones  in  them.  Large  plums  should 
be  stoned  before  they  are  used. 

4.  We  take  two  ounces  of  candied  peely  cut  it  in  small 
pieces  and  put  it  in  the  basin.  We  also  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar. 

N.B. — If  peel  is  disliked  it  may  be  omitted. 

5.  We  break  one  egg  into  a  basin  and  add  to  it  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  milk,  and  beat  them  up. 

6.  We  stir  this  into  the  ingredients  in  the  basin,  mixing 
them  all  well  together. 


4-02      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

7.  We  take  a  tin  and  grease  it  inside  with  dripping. 

8.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  the  tin  and  put  it  into  the 
oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to 
2400)  to  bake  for  about  an  hour. 

9.  After  that  time  we  turn  the  cake  out  of  the  tin  and 
stand  it  on  its  side  slanting  against  a  plate  till  it  is  cold. 
It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — Tbv  will  prevent  it  getting  heavy. 


Lessons  on  Making  Cakes. — Cornflour  Cake.   403 

CAKES. 

Lesson   No.  6. 

CORNFLOUR    CAKE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "Cornflour  Cake"  (about  half  a  pound). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour I 

\  lb.  of  cornflour    j     2 

\  lb.  of  loaf  sugar  , i 

2  oz.  of  butter 2 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder o\ 

2  eggs    2 


7* 


Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to   make  a  Cornflour  Cake. 

1.  We  put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  basin,  and  beat  it 
to  a  cream. 

2.  We  add  to  the  butter  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  poitnded 
loaf  sugar \  and  mix  it  well. 

3.  We  break  in  tzvo  eggs  and  beat  all  well  together. 

4.  We  now  stir  lightly  into  the  mixture  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  comfloitr,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder,  and  beat  it  well  together  for  five  minutes. 

5.  We  grease  a  cake  tin  inside  with  butter  or  dripping. 

6.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  the  tin  and  put  it  imme- 
diately into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  dooi 
should  rise  to  2400)  to  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

7.  After  that  time  we  turn  the  cake  out  of  the  tin  and 
slant  it  against  a  plate  until  it  is  cold.  (This  will  prevent 
its  getting  heavy.)     It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — If  preferred,  the  mixture  could  be  baked  in  small  tins  instead  of  one 
large  one,  in  which  case  it  would  only  take  fifteen  minutes  to  bake. 

C  C   2 


404     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

CAKES. 

Lesson  No.   7. 

DOUGH    CAKE. 

Average  cost  of  a  "Dough   Cake*  (about  two  pounds  arid 

■  a  half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  a  quartern  of  dough    4 

1  egg     1 

\  lb.  of  sugar 1 

\  lb.  of  currants 1 

2  oz.  of  butter 2 

1  oz.  of  candied  peel 1 

10 

Time  required,  abozit  an  hour  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Dough  Cake. 

1.  We  put  half  a  quartern  of  dough  (made  as  for  bread, 
see  "Bread,"  Lesson  No.  i)  into  a  basin. 

2.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants,  wash  them, 
dry  them  in  a  cloth,  and  pick  them  over  to  see  there  are  no 
stones  mixed  with  them. 

3.  We  add  the  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  moist 
sugar,  and  one  ounce  of  candied  peel  chopped  finely,  to 
the  dough. 

N.B. — If  liked,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spice  might  be  added. 

4.  We  now  break  one  egg  into  the  basin,  add  two  ounces  of 
butter,  and  beat  all  the  ingredients  well  together. 

5.  We  take  a  tin,  and  grease  it  well  inside  with  dripping. 

6.  We  turn  the  mixture  into  the  greased  tin. 

7.  We  put  the  tin  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  until  the  cake  is  sufficiently 
baked  ;  it  will  take  about  forty  miiiutes. 

N.B. — To  test  if  the  cake  is  done,  we  should  run  a  clean  knife  into  it,  and  if 
it  comes  out  clean,  the  cake  is  sufficiently  baked. 

8.  We  then  turn  the  cake  out  of  the  tin,  and  place  it  on  its 
side,  leaning  against  a  plate  until  it  is  cold.  It  is  then  ready 
for  serving. 

N.B. — This  will  prevent  it  getting  heavy. 


Lesson  on  Making  Shrewsbury  Cakes.      405 
SHREWSBURY    CAKES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Shrewsbury    Cakes"  (about  half  a  pound). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  butter 4 

\  lb.  of  castor  sugar   x\ 

6  oz.  of  flour    x 

1  teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon  rind q\ 

1  egg i 

Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Shrewsbury  Cakes. 

1.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  castor  sugar  into  a  basin,  and  beat  them  together 
till  the  mixture  is  of  the  same  consistency  as  cream. 

N.B. — If  the  butter  is  very  hard,  it  might  be  beaten  over  hot  water. 

2.  We  add  to  the  mixture  one  egg  and  about  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  grated  lemon  rind,  and  beat  all  well  together. 

3.  We  now  stir  in  smoothly  by  degrees  six  ounces  of 
flour. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful  not  to  let  it  get  lumpy. 

4.  We  flour  a  board  and  turn  the  paste  out  on  it. 

5.  We  take  a  rolling-pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the  paste  as 
thin  as  possible. 

6.  We  dip  a  cutter  or  wine-glass  in  flour,  and  cut  the 
paste  into  biscuits  or  cakes. 

7.  We  grease  a  baking  tin  with  dripping  or  butter,  and 
put  the  cakes  on  it. 

8.  We  put  the  tin  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  to  bake  for  about  twenty 
minutes  ;  they  should  be  a  light  brown  when  baked. 

9.  The  cakes  are  then  ready  for  use. 


406     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 
ROCK    CAKES. 

Average  cost  of  "Rock  Cakes"  (about  one  pound). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  flour ±\ 

|  lb.  of  currants i\ 

\  lb.  of  sugar   i 

i  oz.  of  candied  peel i 

i  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder o \ 

i  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg  or  ginger o\ 

3  oz.  of  clarified  dripping 2 

1  egg 1 

About  1  tablespoonful  of  milk o\ 

Time  required,  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Rock  Cakes. 

1.  We  put  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin. 

2.  We  stir  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  pozvder  into  the 
flour. 

3.  We  take  three  ounces  of  clarified  dripping,  and  rub  it 
well  into  the  flour  with  our  hands,  untrl  there  are  no  lumps 
remaining. 

4.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants,  put  them  in 
a  cloth,  rub  them  clean,  and  pick  them  over  to  see  that 
there  are  no  stones  with  them. 

5.  We  add  the  currants  to  the  flour,  also  one  teaspoonful 
of  ground  ginger  ox  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  quarter. of  a  pound 
of  crushed  loaf  sugar. 

6.  We  take  o?ie  ounce  of  candied  peel,  cut  it  in  pieces,  and 
add  it  to  the  other  ingredients. 

7.  We  mix  all  these  ingredients  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

8.  We  break  one  egg  into  a  cup,  and  beat  it  up  with 
about  one  tablespoonful  of  milk.. 

9.  We  pour  this  into  the  basin,  and  mix  all  well  together 
into  a  very  stiff  paste. 


Lesson  on  Making  Rock  Cakes.  407 

10.  We  take  a  tin,  and  grease  it  with  dripping. 

11.  We  divide  the  paste  into  small  portions  with  two 
forks,  and  lay  them  in  rough  heaps  on  the  tin. 

12.  We  put  them  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  to  bake  for  about  fifteen 
minutes. 

13.  After  that  time  we  take  them  out  of  the  oven,  and 
the  cakes  are  then  ready  for  use. 


408     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


BUNS. 

Average  cost  of  u  Buns  "  (this  quantity  will  make  about 

twenty-seven). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  oz.  of  German  yeast   i 

i|  lb.  of  flour . 3.1 

3  gills  of  milk „ i| 

1  oz.  of  butter 1 

\  lb.  of  moist  sugar    1 

\  lb.  of  sultana  raisins  or  currants ii 

Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Buns. 

1.  We  put  one  gill  and  a  half  (one  gill  is  a  quarter  of  a 
pint)  of  milk  into  a  saucepan  and  put  it  on  the  fire. 

2.  We  put  one  ounce  of  German  yeast  into  a  basin. 

3.  When  the  milk  is  just  warm,  we  pour  it  by  degrees  on 
to  the  yeast,  mixing  them  well  together  with  a  spoon. 

4.  We  put  one  pound  of  flour  into  a  large  basin  and  stir 
into  it  the  milk  and  yeast,  mixing  it  into  a  dough. 

5.  We  cover  the  basin  with  a  cloth,  and  stand  it  on  the 
fender,  and  let  it  rise  for  about  one  hour. 

6.  We  put  one  gill  and  a  half  of  milk  into  a  saucepan, 
with  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  warm. 

7.  We  put  half a  pound  of 'flour -into  a  basin  and  stir  into 
it  the  milk  and  butter. 

8.  When  the  dough  is  sufficiently  risen,  we  turn  it  into 
this  mixture,  and  work  them  well  together. 

9.  We  now  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sultana  raisins  or 
currants  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  and  mix 
all  well  together. 

N.B. — If  currants  are  used  they  should  be  well  washed,  dried  in  a  cloth,  and 
carefully  picked  over  to  see  if  there  are  any  stones  mixed  with  them. 

10.  We  cover  the  basin  with  a  cloth  and  stand  it  near 
the  fire  to  rise  aeain  for  one  hour. 


Lesson  on  Making  Buns.  409 


11.  After  that  time  we  take  a  tin  and  grease  it  with 
dripping  or  butter. 

N.  B.  —If  there  is  no  tin,  the  shelf  from  the  oven  should  be  greased  and  used 
instead. 

12.  We  flour  a  paste  board  and  turn  the  dough  out  on  it. 

13.  We  take  a  knife,  dip  it  in  flour,  and  cut  the  dough 
into  pieces. 

14.  We  flour  our  hands,  and  form  the  dough  into  balls. 

N.B. — This  quantity  of  dough  will  make  about  twenty-seven  ordinary  sized 
buns. 

15.  We  put  the  buns  on  the  tin. 

16.  We  put  the  tin  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  to  bake  the  buns  for 
about  half  an  hour. 

17.  When  they  are  half  done,  we  take  the  tin  out  of  the 
oven,  brush  the  buns  over  with  water,  and  sprinkle  white 
sugar  over  them. 

18.  We  now  put  the  tin  back  in  the  oven. 

19.  When  the  buns  are  sufficiently  baked,  we  take  them 
off  the  tin  and  slant  them  against  a  plate  until  they  are 
cold.      They  are  then  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — This  will  prevent  their  getting  heavy. 


410      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 
RICE    BUNS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Rice  Buns"  (about  eight  or  ten). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  tablespoonful  of  flour „ i  k 

5  lb.  of  ground  rice    : f  *2 

J  lb.  of  sugar  i 

2  oz.  of  butter 2 

2  eggs 2 

|  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder ,  o| 

7Y»z<?  reqtrired,  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Rice  Buns. 

1.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  rice  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  into  a  basin,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder. 

2.  We  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pounded  loaf  sugar ; 
and  two  ounces  of  butter ',  and  mix  all  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

3.  We  break  in  two  eggs  and  beat  all  lightly  together. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  to  see  that  the  eggs  are  good  before  adding  them 
to  the  mixture. 

4.  We  take  some  small  tins  or  patty  pans,  and  grease 
them  well  with  a  piece  of  dripping  or  butter. 

5.  We  fill  these  tins  tzvo-thirds  full  with  the  mixtitre. 

N.B. — This  quantity  will  make  about  eight  or  ten  buns. 

N.B. — If  there  are  no  small  tins,  the  mixture  could  be  put  into  a  cake  tin, 
which  should  be  previously  greased  inside. 

6.  We  put  the  tins  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  240°)  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 

7.  After  that  time,  we  turn  the  buns  out  of  the  tins,  and 
lean  them  against  a  plate  until  they  are  cold.  They  are 
then  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — This  will  prevent  their  getting  heavy. 


Lesson  on  Making  Ginger-Bread  Nuts.      4 1 1 
GINGER-BREAD    NUTS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Ginger-bread  Nuts  "  (?.bout  twenty-four), 

INGREDIENTS- 

d. 

1  lb.  of  flour 2j 

\  lb.  of  treacle 2 

4  oz.  of  butter 4 

\  an  oz.  of  ground  ginger o? 

Allspice 1 

1  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda '      o\ 

Salt    ! 

3  oz.  of  moist  sugar   . . .  | 

Two  tablespoonsful  of  milk j      x 

10 

Time  required,  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Ginger-bread  Nuts. 

1.  We  put  one  pound  of  floitr  into  a  basin  with  about  half 
a  saltspoonfid  of  salt. 

2.  We  also  add  half  an  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  three 
ounces  of  moist  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda, 
and  allspice  (about  as  much  as  will  cover  a  threepenny  piece). 

3.  We  put  half  a  pound  of  treacle  and  four  ounces  of 
butter  into  a  saucepan,  and  melt  them  together  over  the  fire. 

4.  We  mix  the  ingredients  together  with  two  tablespoons- 
ful of  milk,  and  then  add  the  melted  treacle  and  the  four 
ounces  of  butter,  and  mix  all  well  together  into  a  firm  paste. 

N.B. — We  should  be  very  careful  that  all  the  ingredients  are  well  mixed  and 
that  there  are  no  lumps  left. 

5.  We  flour  a  board  and  turn  the  paste  out  on  to  it. 

6.  We  should  flour  our  hands  and  knead  the  paste. 

7.  We  now  divide  the  paste  into  about  twenty -f  our  pieces. 

8.  We  roll  each  piece  into  a  ball,  like  a  walnut,  and  put 
them  two  inches  apart  on  a  greased  tin. 

9.  We  put  them  in  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  for  fifteen  minutes. 

10.  After  that  time  we  turn  the  ginger-bread  nuts  off  the 
tin  and  set  them  aside  to  cool.  They  are  then  ready  for 
serving. 


4T2     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 
MILK    BISCUITS. 

Average  cost  of  "  Milk  Biscuits  "  (about  two  dozen). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  gill  ( \  pint)  of  milk ot 

i  oz.  of  butter i~ 

\  lb.  of  flour i| 

i  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder ot 

3 

Time  required,  about  half  an  kour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Milk  Biscuits. 

1.  We  put  one  gill  (a  quarter  of  a  pint)  of  milk  into 
a  saucepan  ;  we  add  to  it  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  put  it  on 
the  fire  to  warm. 

2.  We   put  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin  with  a 

teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

3.  When  the  milk  is  hot,  we  pour  it  into  the  flour  and 
stir  it  carefully  into  a  smooth,  stiff  paste. 

4.  We  flour  a  board  and  turn  the  paste  out  on  it. 

5.  We  take  a  rolling  pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  the  paste  out 
into  as  thin  a  sheet  as  possible. 

6.  We  flour  a  docker  or  a  tumbler  and  cut  the  paste  out 
into  rounds,  about  the  size  of  the  top  of  a  teacup. 

7.  We  grease  a  tin  with  dripping  or  butter,  and  place  the 
biscuits  on  it. 

8.  We  put  the  tin  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

9.  After  that  time  we  turn  the  biscuits  off  the  tin,  and 
set  them  aside  to  cool.     They  are  then  ready  for  serving. 


JLesson  on  Making  Oatmeal  Biscuits.       413 
OATMEAL    BISCUITS. 

Average  cost  of  " Oatmeal  Biscuits"  (about  half  a  pound). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

7  oz.  of  flour    1^ 

3  oz.  of  oatmeal o.^ 

3  oz.  of  castor  sugar of 

3  oz.  of  lard  or  butter 3 

\  of  a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda o\ 

1  egg 1 


Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Oatmeal  Biscuits. 

1.  We  put  three  ounces  of  lard  or  butter  into  a  saucepan, 
and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  melt  and  warm. 

2.  We  put  seven  ounces  of  flour into  a  basin  with  three 
ounces  of  oatmeal,  tJiree  ounces  of  castor  sugar,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  and  mix  all  toge- 
ther with  a  spoon. 

3.  We  now  stir  in  the  melted  lard. 

4.  We  put  about  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  into  a  tea 
cup  ;  we  break  one  egg  into  the  water  and  beat  them 
slightly  together. 

5.  We  add  this  to  the  mixture  in  the  basin,  and  mix  all 
well  and  smoothly  together  with  a  spoon. 

6.  We  flour  a  board  and  turn  the  paste  out  on  it. 

7.  We  take  a  rolling  pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the  paste 
as  thin  as  possible. 

8.  We  flour  a  tumbler  and  cut  the  paste  into  biscuits 
according  to  taste. 

9.  We  grease  a  baking  tin  with  dripping  or  buttery  and 
place  the  biscuits  on  it. 

10.  We  put  the  tin  into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the 
oven  door  should  rise  to  240°)  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

11.  After  that  time  we  turn  the  biscuits  off  the  tin,  and 
set  them  aside  to  cool  ;  they  are  then  ready  for  serving. 


414      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


SCONES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Scones  "  (about  eight). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1  lb.  of  flour    2.\ 

\  pint  of  milk \\ 

3  oz.  of  butter 3 

\  oz.  of  cream  of  tartar , 

\  oz.  of  carbonate  of  soda J>      1 

1  oz.  of  sugar , 


Time  required,  about  forty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Scones. 

1.  We  put  one  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin  and  mix  into 
it  half  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
carbonate  of  soda,  and  07ie  ounce  of  sugar. 

2.  We  take  three  ounces  of  butter,  and  rub  it  well  into 
the  flour  with  our  hands. 

3.  We  turn  it  out  on  to  a  floured  board. 

4.  We  mix  it  into  a  smooth  paste  with  half  a  pint  of  milk. 

5.  We  flour  a  rolling  pin  and  roll  it  out  to  make  sure 
that  the  butter  is  well  mixed  in  the  flour. 

6.  We  flour  the  rolling  pin  and  roll  out  the  paste  to  a 
thin  sheet,  about  one-third  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 

7.  We  take  a  knife,  dip  it  in  flour,  and  cut  the  paste  into 
triangular  pieces,  each  side  about  four  inches  long. 

8.  We  flour  a  tin,  put  the  scones  on  it,  and  bake  them 
directly  in  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door 
should  rise  to  240°)  for  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 

9.  When  the  scones  are  half  done,  we  should  brush  them 
over  with  milk, 

N.B. — Scones  should  be  served  hot. 


Lesson  on  Making  Short-Bread.  415 

SHORT-BREAD. 

Average  cost  of  "  Short-Bread? 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  of  flour of 

2  oz.  of  butter 2 

1  oz.  of  castor  sugar o\ 

3 
Time  required,  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  S  J  tort-Bread. 

1.  We  put  two  oitnces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  melt  and  warm. 

2.  We  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  basin  with 
one  ounce  of  castor  (pounded  lump)  sugar,  and  the  melted 
butter. 

3.  We  mix  these  ingredients  well  together. 

4.  We  flour  a  board  and  turn  the  paste  out  on  it. 

5.  We  flour  our  hands  and  knead  the  paste  well. 

6.  We  take  a  rolling  pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the  paste 
to  about  one-tJtird  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 

7.  We  flour  a  knife  and  cut  the  paste  into  oval  shapes. 

8.  We  grease  a  baking  tin  with  dripping  or  butter. 

9.  We  put  the  short-bread  on  the  tin,  and  put  it  in  the 
oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400) 
to  bake  till  a  pale  brown.  We  should  then  take  out  the  tin 
and  set  the  short-bread  aside  to  cool  ;  it  is  then  ready  for 
serving. 


41 6     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 
MILK    ROLLS. 

Average  cost  of  "Milk  Rolls"  (about  twelve). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  lb.  of  self-raising  flour 3 

2  oz.  of  butter 2 

Milk    1 

6 

Titne  required,  abotit  half  an  hour. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Milk  Rolls. 

1.  We  put  one  pound  of self-raising flour 'into  a  basin  and 
rub  two  ounces  of  butter  into  it  with  our  hands. 

2.  We  add  sufficient  milk  to  make  it  into  a  lithe  firm 
dough. 

3.  We  sprinkle  flour  over  a  board,  and  turn  the  dough 
out  on  it. 

4.  We  take  a  knife,  dip  it  in  flour,  and  cut  the  dough  into 
twelve  pieces. 

N.B.— We  should  keep  our  hands  floured  to  prevent  the  dough  from  sticking 
to  them. 

5.  We  form  each  piece  into  a  small  roll. 

6.  We  flour  a  baking  tin. 

7.  We  put  these  roils  on  to  the  tin  and  put  the  tin  in  the 
oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400) 
to  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

8.  The  milk  rolls  will  then  be  ready  for  use. 


On  Making  Yorkshire  Tea  Cakes.         417 
YORKSHIRE    TEA    CAKES. 

Average  cost  of  "  Yorkshire  Tea  Cakes  "  (about  two). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

§  of  a  lb.  of  flour    - i| 

i|  gill  of  milk  . . , of 

I  oz.  of  butter , i 

*egg 1 

£  an  oz.  of  German  yeast ot 

5 
Time  required,  about  one  hozcr  and  a  half. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Yorkshire  Tea 
Cakes. 

1.  We  put  one  gill  and  a  half  (one  gill  is  a  quarter  of  a 
pint)  of  milk  into  a  small  saucepan  and  put  it  on  the  fire. 

2.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  Gennan  yeast  into  a  basin, 
and  when  the  milk  is  just  warm  we  pour  it  on  to  the  yeast. 

3.  We  put  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  large 
basin,  and  rub  into  it  one  ounce  of  butter. 

4.  We  beat  up  one  egg  in  a  cup,  and  then  add  it  to  the 
flour. 

5.  We  now  pour  the  yeast  and  milk  through  a  strainer 
into  the  basin,  and  mix  all  well  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

6.  We  flour  a  board  and  turn  the  dough  out  on  it. 

7.  We  flour  our  hands  and  knead  the  dough  for  a  minute 
or  two. 

8.  We  take  a  knife,  dip  it  in  flour,  and  divide  the  dough 
into  cakes. 

9.  We  take  some  cake  tins  (as  many  as  are  required), 
and  grease  them  inside  with  dripping. 

10.  We  put  the  cakes  into  the  tins. 

N.B. — The  tins  should  be  only  three-quarters  full,  so  as  to  allow  for  the 
cakes  to  rise. 

D  D 


4 1 8      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

11.  We  stand  the  tins  near  the  fire,  and  allow  the  cakes 
to  rise  for  one  hour. 

12.  After  that  time  we  put  the  tins  into  the  oven  (the 
thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise  to  2400)  to  bake 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

13.  We  then  turn  the  cakes  out  of  the  tins,  and  place 
them  on  a  sieve,  or  on  the  seat  of  a  cane  chair,  to  cool. 
They  are  then  ready  for  serving. 

N.  B. — This  will  prevent  them  from  getting  heavy. 


Lessons  on  Making  Bread.  419 


BREAD. 

Average  cost  of  "Bread"  {about  a  quartern), 


INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

3!  lbs.  flour  (ands)  at  2s.  \d.  the  peck 7 

1  oz.  German  yeast ) 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt     / 


Time  required,  quarter  of  an  hour  for  making,  two  or  three  hours  for  rising, 
and  one  hour  and  a  half  for  baking. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Bread. 

1.  We  take  three  pounds  and  a  half  of  seconds  flour,  put 
three  pounds  of  it  into  a  large  pan,  and  make  a  hole  or  well 
in  the  centre  of  the  flour. 

N.B. — Half  a  pound  is  reserved  to  work  the  bread  up  with. 

2.  We  put  one  ounce  of  German  yeast  into  a  basin. 

3.  We  add  about  a  gill  of  tepid  water,  and  stir  the  yeast 
into  a  stiff  paste. 

4.  We  then  fill  the  basin  with  hike-warm  water,  and  stir 
the  yeast  smoothly,  making  in  all  about  07ie  pint  and  three 
gills. 

5.  We  add  to  the  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  then 
pour  in  by  degrees  the  yeast,  mixing  the  flour  lightly  into  a 
dough  with  our  hands. 

6.  We  should  add  more  lukewarm  water  if  the  dough  is 
too  stiff. 

N.  B. — We  must  be  sure  to  mix  up  all  the  flour  into  dough. 

7.  We  sprinkle  about  a  tablespoonful  of  dry  flour  over 
the  dough,  and  cover  the  pan  with  a  cloth. 

8.  We  place  the  pan  near  the  fire  for  at  least  two  hours 
to  let  the  dough  rise. 

9.  When  the  dough  has  risen  sufficiently,  we  take  up  the 

D    D    2 


42 o     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

pan  and  work  in  more  flour,  if  necessary,  to  make   the 
dough  stiff  enough  to  turn  out  of  the  pan. 

N.B. — We  must  keep  our  hands  well  floured  all  through  the  process  of 
bread  making. 

10.  We  turn  the  dough  out  on  a  well-floured  board,  and 
knead  it  well,  using  up  a  good  deal  more  flour. 

11.  We  divide  the  dough  into  six  equal  pieces,  knead  each 
piece  separately,  and  make  into  a  loaf. 

N.B. — If  the  bread  is  to  be  baked  in  tins  we  form  each  loaf  into  a  dumpling 
or  ball  (with  a  smooth  surface  and  no  cracks  in  it),  either  long  or  round 
according  to  the  shape  of  the  tin. 

12.  We  put  the  bread  into  the  tins,  which  should  be  well 
floured. 

13.  We  cut  a  slit  in  the  top  of  the  dough,  or  prick  it  with 
a  fork. 

N.B. — If  the  bread  is  to  be  made  into  cottage  loaves, — 

14.  We  divide  each  piece  into  two,  one  rather  larger 
than  the  other. 

15.  We  make  each  into  a  ball,  put  the  smaller  one  on  the 
top  of  the  other,  and  press  our  forefinger  into  the  middle  of 
the  top. 

N.B. — Cottage  loaves  are  baked  on  floured  tins. 

N.B. — If  there  are  no  tins  the  oven  shelf  should  be  washed  and  floured,  and 
a  tin  is  not  then  necessary. 

16.  We  let  the  loaves  rise  half  an  hour  in  a  warm  place 
before  we  put  them  in  the  oven. 

17.  We  then  put  them  in  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at 
the  oven  door  should  rise' to  2800,  and  after  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  be  reduced  to  2200)  for  about  one  hour  and  a  half 

N.B. — To  test  if  the  bread  is  sufficiently  baked  we  should  run  a  clean  knife 
into  the  loaves,  and  if  it  comes  out  perfectly  bright  the  bread  is  done. 

18.  When  we  take  the  bread  out  of  the  oven  we  stand 
each  loaf  up  on  its  side  to  cool.     It  is  then  ready  for  use. 


Sick-Room  Cookery. — Chicken  Panada.     4.21 
SICK-ROOM    COOKERY 

Lesson  No.  i. 

CHICKEN    PANADA. 

Average  cost  of  "  Chicken  Panada? 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

\  a  chicken 1  6 

A  tablespoonful  of  cream    o  i| 


1  ri 


Time  required,  about  two  hours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Chicken  Panada. 

1.  We  take  a  chicken  and  clean  it  in  the  same  way  that 
we  do  for  roasting  a  fowl  (see  "Trussing  a  Fowl  for 
Roasting  "). 

2.  We  cut  the  chicken  in  half,  dividing  it  down  the 
middle  of  the  back  with  a  sharp  knife. 

3.  We  take  all  the  flesh  off  the  bones  of  half  the  chicken, 
and  cut  it  into  small  pieces  with  a  sharp  knife. 

4.  We  put  the  pieces  of  chicken  into  a  gallipot,  and 
sprinkle  over  them  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

5.  We  take  a  piece  of  paper  and  tie  it  over  the  top  of 
the  gallipot. 

6.  We  take  a  saucepan  half  full  of  boiling  water,  and  put 
it  on  the  fire. 

7.  We  stand  the  gallipot  in  the  saucepan,  and  let  it 
simmer  for  two  hours.  The  water  must  not  cover  the 
gallipot. 

8.  After  that  time  we  take  the  gallipot  out  of  the 
saucepan. 

9.  We  take  the  pieces  of  chicken  out  with  a  spoon,  We 
must  not  lose  any  of  the  liquor. 

10.  We  take  the  pieces  of  chicken,  and  put  them  into  a 
mortar  and  pound  them  well  to  a  pulp. 


422      National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

11.  We  take  a  tammy  sieve  and  stand  it  over  a  basin. 

12.  We  take  the  pounded  chicken  and  pass  it  through  the 
sieve,  rubbing  it  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

13.  We  pour  a  little  of  the  chicken  liquor  into  the  pulp 
on  the  sieve  to  make  it  pass  through  more  easily. 

14.  When  all  the  chicken  pulp  has  been  passed  through 
into  the  basin,  we  stir  in  one  tablespotnful  of  cream,. 

15.  When  the  Panada  is  required,  it  should  be  warmed, 
but  great  care  should  be  taken  not  to  let  it  boil  or  the 
cream  will  curdle. 


We  use  the  bones  for  Chicken  Broth. 

1.  We  take  the  chicken  bones  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  pint  of  cold  water. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  two  hours. 

3.  We  must  watch  it,  and  skim  it  occasionally. 

4.  When  required  for  use,  we  take  a  strainer  and  strain 
the  chicken  broth  into  a  basin. 

5.  We  flavour  it  with  pepper  and  salt  according  to  the 
taste  oi  the  patient. 


Sick- Room  Cookery. — Beef  Essence.  423 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  2. 

BEEF    ESSENCE. 

Average  cost  of  "  Beef  Essence? 

INGREDIENT. 

1  lb.  of  gravy  beef gd. 

Time  required,  about  two  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Beef  Essence. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  gravy  beef,  and  cut  off  all  fat 
And  gristle  with  a  sharp  knife. 

2.  We  cut  the  lean  up  into  small  pieces,  and  put  them 
into  ajar. 

3.  We  put  the  cover  over  the  jar  and  tie  a  piece  of  paper 
over  it. 

4.  We  take  a  saucepan  half  full  of  boiling  water,  and 
stand  it  on  the  fire. 

5.  We  stand  the  jar  in  the  saucepan  of  boiling  water  to 
steam  for  two  hours.     The  water  must  not  cover  the  jar. 

6.  When  it  is  done  we  take  a  strainer  and  put  it  over 
a  basin. 

7.  We  strain  off  the  liquor  into  the  basin,  and  flavour  it 
with  pepper  and  salt  according  to  the  patient's  complaint. 

N.B. — The  meat  can  be  put  aside  and  used  again  for  second  stock. 


4     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  3. 

CREAM    OF    BARLEY. 

Average  cost  of  "  Cream  of  Barley." 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\  lb.  veal  cutlet   7! 

I  oz.  of  barley Oj 

\  gill  of  cream 3 


10I 
Time  required,  about  two  /tours  and  a  half. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Cream  of  Barley, 

1.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  veal  cutlet,  and  cut  off  all  the 
fat  with  a  sharp  knife. 

2.  We  cut  the  lean  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  in  a 

saucepan  with  one  pint  of  cold  water. 

3.  We  add  half  an  ounce  of  barley,  (previously  well  washed 
and  soaked  an  hour  in  cold  water),  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt. 

4.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently 
for  two  hours. 

5.  We  strain  off  the  liquor  into  a  basin,  and  put  the  meat 
and  barley  in  a  mortar  and  pound  them  together. 

6.  We  take  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  it  over  a  basin. 

7.  We  turn  the  pounded  meat  and  barley  on  to  the  sieve, 
and  rub  them  through  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

8.  We  pour  the  liquor  on  to  the  sieve  to  help  the  pulp  to 
pass  through. 

9.  When  it  has  all  passed  through  the  sieve  into  the 
basin,  we  stir  in  smoothly  two  table  spoonsful  of  cream. 

10.  When  the  Cream  of  Barley  is  required,  it  should  be 
warmed,  but  great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  let  it  boil  or 
the  cream  will  curdle. 


Lessons  on  Sick-Room,  Cookery. — Arrowroot.     425 
SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  4. 

A   CUP   OF   ARROWROOT    AND    ARROW- 
ROOT   PUDDING. 

Average  cost  of  "  Cup  of  Arrowroot"  and  'Arrowroot 
Pudding" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
A  dessertspoonful  of  arrowroot    o\ 

1  a  pint  of  milk  )      ri 

Castor  sugar    , j       4 

~^r 

2  eggs . 2 

Time  required,  about  half  an  Iwur. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  a  Cup  of  Arrowroot. 

1.  We  take  a  dessertspoonful  of  A  rrowroot,  and  put  it  into 
a  small  basin. 

2.  We   add  a  dessertspoonful  of  cold  milk,   and   stir   it 
smoothly  into  a  paste  with  a  spoon. 

3.  We  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  castor  sugar,  according 
to  taste. 

4.  We  take  a  small  saucepan,  and  put  in  it  half  a  pint  of 
cold  milk. 

5.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  watch  the  milk 
carefully  until  it  boils. 

6.  When  it  is  quite  boiling,  we  pour  it  on  to  the  arrowroot 
paste,  stirring  all  the  time  to  get  it  quite  smooth. 

N.B. — If  the  patient  prefers  an  Arrowroot  Pudding: — 

7.  We  add  to  the  mixture  described  above,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  whipping  it  all  well  together. 

N.B. — The  eggs  should  not  be  added  till  the  mixture  has  cooled  a  little,  or 
they  would  curdle. 


426      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


8.  We  put  the  whites  of  the  same  eggs  into  another 
basin,  and  whisk  them  to  a  stiff  froth. 

9.  We  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  the  arrozvroot 
mixture,  stirring  them  lightly  together. 

10.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  put  it 
into  the  oven  (the  thermometer  at  the  oven  door  should  rise 
to  2400)  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  It  should  be  then  served 
at  once. 


Lessons  on  Sick- Room  Cookery. — Rice   Water.  427 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  5. 

RICE    WATER. 

Average  cost  of  "  Rice  Water." 
INGREDIENTS. 


d. 

3  oz.  of  Carolina  rice o| 

1  inch  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon  \ 

Sugar    ) 


OS 

1 
Time  reqtiired,  abozit  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Rice  Water. 

1.  We  take  three  ounces  of  Carolina  rice,  and  wash  it  well 
in  two  or  three  waters. 

2.  We  take  a  stewpan  with  one  quart  of  warm  water. 

3.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

4.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  put  in  the  rice, 
and  one  inch  of  the  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  let  it  boil  for  one 
hour,  until  the  rice  has  become  a  pulp. 

5.  We  then  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  strain  the 
rice  water  into  a  basin,  and  sweeten  it  according  to  taste. 

N.B. — When  cold  it  is  ready  for  use. 


428      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 
SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  6. 

BARLEY    WATER. 

Average  cost  of"  Clear  Barley  Water"  (about  half  a  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  oz.  of  pearl  barley o| 

The  rind  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon    o| 

2  lumps  of  loaf  sugar o\ 

1 

Time  required,  about  one  hour. 

For  Making  Thick  Barley  Water  (about  one  pi?it\. 

d. 

2  oz.  of  pearl  barley  o\ 

The  rind  of  half  a  lemon  o\ 

Sugar    o| 

Ji 
Time  required,  about  two  hours. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  two  kinds  of  Barley 
Water — Clear  Barley  Water  and  thick  Barley  Water. 

For  half  a  pint  of  clear  barley  water : — 

1.  We  take  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley y  and  wash  it  well 
in  two  or  three  waters. 

2.  We  put  a  kettle  of  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

3.  We  take  a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  in  a  cloth, 
and  peel  it  very  thinly. 

N.B. — We  must  be  careful,  in  peeling  the  lemon,  not  to  cut  any  of  the  white 
skin,  as  it  would  make  it  bitter. 

4.  We  put  the  washed  barley  into  a  jug. 

5.  We   put   in   the  lemon  peel,  and    two  lumps  of  loaf 
sugar. 

6.  When  the  water  in  the  kettle  is  quite  boiling,  we  pour 
one  pint  of  it  on  to  the  barley  in  the  jug. 


Lessons  on  Sick- Room  Cookery. — Barley  Water.  429 

7.  We  cover  over  the  top  of  the  jug,  and  let  it  stand  on 
ice  or  in  a  cool  place,  until  it  is  perfectly  cold. 

8.  We  then  strain  the  water  into  a  clean  jug  for  use. 

N.B. — The  barley  can  be  used  again  with  the  addition  of  one  ounce  of  fresh. 


For  one  pint  of  thick  Barley  Water : — 

1.  We  take  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley \  and  wash  it  well  in 
two  or  three  waters. 

2  We  put  the  barley  into  a  stewpan,  with  one  quart  of 
cold  water. 

3.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently 
for  two  hours. 

4-  We  take  half  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  in  a  cloth,  and 
peel  it  very  thinly. 

5-  We  put  the  lemon  peel  into  a  jug. 

6.  When  the  barley  water  is  sufficiently  boiled,  we  strain 
it  into  the  jug  over  the  lemon. 

7.  We  put  the  jug  into  a  cool  place,  and  when  it  is 
perfectly  cold,  we  take  out  the  lemon  peel,  and  sweeten  the 
water,  according  to  taste.     It  is  then  ready  for  use. 


BARLEY  WATER   FOR   INVALIDS. 

Time  required,  five  minutes. 

1.  We  take  one  ounce  of  Robinson  s  Patent  Barley,  mixed 
with  a  wine-glass  full  of  cold  water. 

2.  We  pour  this  into  a  stewpan  containing  one  quart  of 
boiling  water. 

3.  We  stir  this  over  the  fire  while  boiling  for  five 
minutes. 

4.  We  then  flavour  it  with  a  small  piece  of  lemon  peel 
or  cinnamon. 

5.  We  put  the  jug  into  a  cool  place,  and  when  it  is 
perfectly  cold  we  take  out  the  lemon  peel  and  sweeten  the 
water,  according  to  taste.     It  is  then  ready  for  use. 


43  o     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  7. 

APPLE    WATER. 

Average  cost  of  "Apple  Water  "  {one  quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

6  apples    5 

The  rind  of  half  a  lemon j        ± 

Sugar „.„..../       l 

j£ 

Time  required  for  making,  about  eight  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Apple  Water.   ' 

1.  We  take  six  apples,  peel  them,  and  cut  out  the  core. 

N.B.— When  the  apples  are  juicy,  six  will  be  sufficient,  but  more  may  be 
required  according  to  the  season  of  the  year. 

2.  We  put  a  kettle  of  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

3.  We  cut  the  apples  up  in  slices. 

4.  We  take  half  a  lemon,  wipe  it  clean  in  a  cloth,  and 
peel  it  very  thinly. 

5.  We  put  the  slices  of  apple  and  the  lemon  rind  into  a 
Jug- 

6.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  pour  one  quart  of 
it  on  to  the  apples  in  the  jug. 

7.  We  sweeten  it  according  to  taste. 

8.  We  stand  the  jug  of  apple  water  aside  to  cool. 

9.  When  the  water  is  quite  cold  we  strain  it  into  another 
jug,  and  it  is  then  ready  for  use. 


Lessons  on  Sick- Room  Cookery. — Lemonade,    431 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  8. 

LEMONADE. 

Average  cost  oi"  Lemonade"  {one  pint  ixnd  a  half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  lemons   3 

Loaf  sugar  o\ 

~K 

Time  required,  about  one  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Lemonade. 

1.  We  put  a  kettle  of  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  take  two  lemons,  wipe  them  clean  in  a  cloth,  and 
peel  them  very  thinly. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful,  in  peeling  the  lemons,  not  to  cut  any  of  the 
pith,  or  white  skin,  as  it  would  make  the  lemonade  bitter. 

3.  We  now  cut  off  all  the  pith. 

4.  We  cut  up  the  lemons  into  thin  slices,  take  out  all  the 
pips,  and  put  the  slices  and  half  the  rind  of  the  lemons  into 
a  jug. 

5.  We  add  loaf  sugar,  according  to  taste,  about  one 
ounce. 

6.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  pour  one  pint 
a7id  a  half  on  to  the  lemons  in  the  jug. 

7.  We  cover  over  the  jug,  and  stand  it  aside  to  cool. 

8.  When  the  lemonade  is  quite  cold,  we  strain  it  into 
another  jug,  and  it  is  then  ready  for  use. 


43 2     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 
SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  9. 

TOAST   AND    WATER. 

A  verage  cost  of  "  Toast  and  Water  "  {one  quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

1  crust  of  bread \d. 

1  quart  of  cold  water. 

Time,  required,  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Toast  and  Water. 

1.  We  take  a  crust  of  bread  and  toast  it  quite  brown  on 
all  sides  in  front  of  the  fire. 

N.B. — Crumb  should  not  be  used  as  it  would  turn  sour. 

2.  We  put  the  toasted  crust  of 'bread 'into  a  jug,  and  pour 
on  it  one  quart  of  cold  water. 

3.  We  cover  the  jug  over  with  a  cloth,  and  stand  it  aside 
for  half  an  hour.     It  is  then  ready  for  use. 

N.B. — This  is  a  pleasant  drink,  and  considered  more  refreshing  than  when 
made  with  boiling  water. 


Lessons  on  Sick-Room  Cookery. — Gruel.      433 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  10. 

GRUEL. 

Average  cost  of  "  Gruel"  {one pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2  dessertspoonsful  of  patent  groats     o\ 

Sugar    o| 

\  oz.  of  fresh  butter oh 

\  gill  (2  tablespoonsful)  of  rum  3 

4 
Time  reqtcired,  about  fifteen  vnnutes. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Gruel. 

1.  We  put  a  stew-pan  with  one  pint  of  zvatet  on  the  fire 
to  boil. 

2.  We  take  two  dessertspoonsful  of  patent  groats,  and  put 
them  in  a  basin. 

3.  We  add  by  degrees  two  tablespoonsful  of  cold  water  to 
the  groats y  and  stir  it  into  a  smooth  paste. 

4.  When  the  water  in  the  stew-pan  is  quite  boiling,  we 
pour  in  the  mixed  gruel,  and  stir  it  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  until  it  has  boiled  for  ten  minutes  (it  must  not  be 
lumpy),  we  then  pour  it  into  a  basin. 

5.  Now  it  is  ready  for  use. 

N.B.-=-If  the  gruel  be  required  for  a  cold — 

6.  We  stir  in  \  oz.  of  fresh  butter,  and  sweeten  it 
according  to  taste. 

7.  We  also  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  rum. 

N.B. — If  the  patient  is  feverish,  spirits  should  not  be  added, 


E  E 


434     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 
Lesson  No.  ii. 

WHITE   WINE    WHEY,  OR    TREACLE 
POSSET. 

Average  cost  of  "  White  Wine  Whey"  or  "  Treacle  Posset  " 
{half  a  pint). 


For  White  Wine  Whey. 

d. 

\  pint  of  milk i 

4  lumps  of  sugar o\ 

i  wineglassful  of  wine    3 


INGREDIENTS. 

For  Treacle  Posset. 


d. 

I  pint  of  milk x 

\  a  gill  of  treacle  t 


t3  — 

Time  required,  about  ten  minutes. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  White  Wine  Whey. 

1.  We  put  half  a  pint  of  milk  into  a  saucepan  and  four 
lumps  of  sugar. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

3.  When    it   boils  we  pour  in   a  wineglassful  of  wine 
{sherry  or  cowslip)  according  to  taste. 

N.B. — If  the  milk  is  not  quite  boiling  the  wine  will  not  curdle  it. 

4.  We  move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let 
it  stand  for  about  one  minute. 

5.  We  then  strain  the  whey  into  a  glass  and  it  is  ready 
for  serving  at  once. 

N.B. — The  curds  are  not  digestible. 

N.B. — Treacle  posset  is  made  in  the  same  way,  except  that  no  sugar  should 
be  added  to  the  milk,  and  the  same  quantity  of  treacle  is  used  instead  of 
wine. 


Lessons  on  Sick-Room  Cookery. — Bran  Tea.     435 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  12. 

BRAN    TEA. 

Average  cost  of  "  Bran  Tea  "  (one  quart), 

INGREDIENTS. 

3  tablespoonsful  of  bran.  )  A  , 
Sugar  or  honey.  J  4  " 

Time  required,  about  twenty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Bran  Tea. 

1.  We  put  a  kettle  of  warm  water  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

2.  We  take  three  tablespoonsful  of  bran  (not  too  coarse, 
for  that  is  greasy)  and  put  it  into  a  large  jug. 

N.B. — Bran  is  the  husk  of  the  grain  which  is  sifted  from  the  flour  after  the 
wheat  is  ground  by  the  miller. 

3.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  pour  one  quart 
into  the  jug. 

4.  We  cover  the  jug  and  let  it  stand  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  draw. 

5.  When  it  is  drawn,  we  strain  off  the  tea  through  a  piece 
of  muslin,  and  sweeten  it  according  to  taste  with  either 
sugar  or  honey.     It  is  then  ready  for  use. 

N.B.— When  wine  is  good  for  the  patient  it  may  be  added  to  the  tea,  or 
lemon  juice,  but  it  is  very  good  without. 

N.B. — This  is  an  invaluable  drink  for  softening  the  throat. 


43 6     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  13. 

MUTTON    BROTH. 

Average  cost  of  "  Mutton  Broth  "  [two  quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.  d. 

4  lbs.  of  the  scrag  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton  .     2  8 

2  knuckles  from  the  legs  of  mutter 1  o 

A  saltspoonful  of  salt    ....  I  1 

2  oz.  of  Patna  rice »      °  2 

Time  required  for  making, — the  stock  should  be  made  the  day  before,  ana 
then  the  broth  can  be  finished  iii  about  half  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  two  quarts  of  Mutton 
Broth. 

1.  We  take  four  pounds  of  the  scrag  end  of  the  neck  of 
mutton ,  wash  it  well,  put  it  on  a  board,  cut  away  all  the  fat, 
and  chop  it  up  in  large  pieces. 

2.  We  put  these  pieces  into  a  stewpan,  with  two  knuckle- 
bones from  the  legs  of  mutton. 

3.  We  pour  in  five  pints  of  cold  water  and  add  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt. 

4.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  just  bring  it  to  the 
boil,  and  then  let  it  simmer  iorfour  hours. 

5.  We  must  watch  it  and  skim  it  very  often. 

6.  After  that  time  we  strain  the  stock  into  a  basin,  and 
put  it  aside  until  it  is  quite  cold  and  in  a  stiff  jelly. 

7.  We  then  take  the  stock  and  remove  all  the  fat  from 
the  top  with  a  spoon. 

8.  We  take  a  clean  cloth  and  dip  it  in  hot  water,  and 
dab  over  the  top  of  the  stock  so  as  to  remove  every  particle 
of  grease. 

9.  We  must  now  take  a  clean  dry  cloth  and  wipe  the  top 
of  the  stock  dry. 


Lessons  on  Sick- Room  Cookery. — Mutton  Broth.  437 

10.  We  take  two  ounces  of  Paina  rice,  and  wash  it  well 
in  two  or  three  waters. 

11.  We  put  the  stock  into  a  stewpan. 

12.  We  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

13.  When  the  stock  is  quite  boiling  we  stir  in  the  rice, 
and  let  it  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes  to  cook  the  rice. 

N.B. — We  should  feel  that  the  rice  is  quite  tender. 

14.  We  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  according  to  the 
patient's  complaint. 

15.  For  serving,  we  pour  the  broth  into  a  basin. 

N.B. — The  bones  should  be  put  in  the  stock  poL 


438     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  14. 

MUTTON    BROTH. 

Average  cost  of  this  dish,  &#.,  about  one  quart  of  mutton 
broth  and  a  dish  of  boiled  mutton  with  parsley  sauce — 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 

2  lbs.  of  the  scrag  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton     i    4 
1  oz.  of  pearl  barley  or  rice 


\  a  saltspoonful 

A  r>7     nf  hnttpr 


of  salt °    °5 


oz.  of  butter ,     o 


\  oz.  of  flour (  1 

2  sprigs  of  parsley    j     °    °% 

7Y;/z£  required,  about  two  hours  and  forty  minutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Mutton  Broth. 

1.  We  take  two  pounds  of  the  scrag  end  of  the  neck  of 
mutton,  and  wash  it  well  until  it  is  quite  clean. 

2.  We  put  the  meat  into  a  large  saucepan  with  three 
pints  of  cold  water,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  boil. 

3.  We  take  one  ounce  of  pearl  barley  or  rice,  and  wash  it 
well  in  cold  water. 

4.  When  the  water  boils  we  put  in  the  pearl  barley  or 
rice  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  to  help  the  scum  to 
rise. 

6.  We  now  draw  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and 
let  it  simmer  gently  for  two  hours  and  a  half. 

6.  We  must  watch  it  and  skim  it  occasionally  with  a 
spoon. 

7.  If  the  meat  is  required  for  immediate  use  we  should 
make  sauce  to  pour  over  it. 

8.  We  take  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  wash  it  and  wring 
it  in  a  cloth,  put  it  on  a  board,  and  chop  it  up  finely  with  a 
knife. 


Lessons  on  Sick- Room  Cookery. — Mutton  Broth.  439 

9.  We  put  half  an  ounce  of  bittter  into  a  saucepan  ana 
put  it  on  the  fire. 

10.  When  the  butter  is  melted  we  stir  in  smoothly  half 
an  ounce  offloitr  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

11.  We  take  one  gill  (quarter  pint)  of  broth  from  the 
muttoit,  pour  it  on  to  the  butter  and  flour,  and  stir  smoothly 
until  it  boils  and  thickens. 

12.  We  now  add  the  chopped  parsley  to  the  sauce,  and 
move  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep  warm  till 
required  for  use. 

13.  When  the  mutton  is  sufficiently  cooked,  we  take  out 
the  meat  and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish. 

14.  We  pour  the  parsley  saicce  all  over  the  mutton. 

15.  We  pour  the  broth  into  a  basin  to  cool. 

16.  When  it  is  cold  we  should  remove  all  the  fat  before 
warming  it  up  for  use. 

N.B. — If  the  broth  is  required  for  immediate  use  we  can  remove  the  grease 
with  blotting  paper  or  whitey -brown  paper. 


44°      National,  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.   15. 

BEEF   TEA. 

Average  cost  of  "  Beef  Tea  M  (one  pint  and  a  half), 

INGREDIENTS. 
1  lb.  of  gravy  beef c .     gd. 

Time  required,  about  one  hour  and  ten  mi?iutes. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Beef  Tea. 

1.  We  take  one  pound  of  gravy  beef  put  it  on  a  board 
and  cut  it  up  very  fine,  removing  all  the  skin  and  fat. 

2.  We  put  the  meat  into  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of 
cold  water,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  or  three  pep- 
percorns, if  allowed. 

3.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  just  bring  it  to 
the  boil. 

4.  We  then  move  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer 
gently  for  one  hour. 

N.  B. — The  lid  should  be  on  the  saucepan. 

5.  After  that  time  we  pour  off  the  beef  tea  and  let  it  get 
cold. 

6.  We  should  remove  all  fat  from  the  beef  tea  before 
warming  it  up  for  use. 

N.B. — Fat  can  be  taken  off  hot  beef  tea  with  blotting  paper  or  vvhitey-brown 

paper. 
N.B. — It  is  better  not  to  strain  beef  tea,  as  it  removes  all  the  little  brown 

particles  which  are  most  nutritious. 


Lessons  on  Sick- Room  Cookery. — Beef  Tea.     441 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  l6. 

BEEF   TEA. 

(made  with  equal  quantities  of  beef  and  water.; 
Average  cost  of  "  Beef  Tea  "  (half  a  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

J  lb.  of  gravy  beef $\d. 

Time  required,  about  three  hours  and  a  quarter. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Beef  Tea. 

1.  We  take  half  a  poimd  of  gravy  beef  put  it  on  a 
board,  and  cut  it  up  very  finely,  removing  all  the  skin  and 
fat. 

2.  We  put  the  meat  into  a  stone  jar,  with  half  a  pint  of 
water. 

N.B. — In  making  this  beef  tea  the  quantity  of  meat  and  water  should  be  of 
equal  weight,  i.e.,  one  pint  to  one  pound. 

3.  We  put  the  lid  on  the  jar,  and  tie  a  piece  of  paper 
over  it. 

4.  We  stand  the  jar  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  on 
the  hob  for  three  hours,  or  in  the  oven  for  one  hour  and  a 
half 

N.B.—  If  the  jar  is  put  into  the  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  we  should  be 
careful  that  the  water  does  not  cover  the  jar,  or  it  would  get  inside. 

5.  After  that  time  we  take  out  the  jar,  and  pour  off  the 
beef  tea  into  a  cup. 

N.B. — If  allowed,  we  add  salt  according  to  taste. 


442     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.  17. 

QUICK    BEEF   TEA. 

Average  cost  of  "  Beef  Tea  "  {half  a  pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

£  lb.  gravy  beef  $\d. 

Time  required,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Quick  Beef  Tea. 

1.  We  take  half  a  pound  of  gravy  beef  put  it  on  a  board, 
and  cut  it  up  very  fine,  removing  all  the  skin  and  fat. 

2.  We  put  it  in    a  saucepan  with  its  equal  weight  in 
water,  i.e.,  half  a  pint. 

3.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  bring  it  quickly 
to  the  boil. 

4.  We  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes,  and  then  pour  it  off 
into  a  cup  and  it  is  ready  for  serving. 

N.B. — We  should  be  careful  to  remove  any  particles  of  fat,  with  blotting- 
paper,  or  whitey-brown  paper  floated  on  the  top  of  the  beef  tea,  and 
it  will  absorb  the  fat. 


Sick- Room  Cookery, — Savoury  Custard.     443 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

Lesson  No.   18. 

SAVOURY    CUSTARD. 

Average  cost  of  "  Savoury  Custard"  {one  gill). 
INGREDIENTS. 

a. 


1  egg j. 

Salt 

1  gill  of  beef  tea 2  J 


3i 


Time  required,  about  twenty  minutes. 

Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Savoury  Custard. 

1.  We  take  one  egg  and  break  it  into  a  small  basin. 

2.  We  add  one  gill  of  beef  tea,  and  a  quarter  of  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt. 

3.  We  whisk  up  the  egg  and  the  beef  tea  well  together. 

4.  We  take  a  small  gallipot  and  butter  it  inside. 

5.  We  pour  the  mixture  into  the  gallipot. 

6.  We  take  a  piece  of  whitey-brown  paper  and  butter  it. 

7.  We  put  this  buttered  paper  over  the  top  of  the  gallipot, 
and  tie  it  on  with  a  piece  of  string. 

8.  We  take  a  saucepan  of  hot  water  and  put  it  on  the 
fire. 

9.  When  the  water  is  quite  boiling,  we  stand  the  little 
gallipot  in  it. 

N.B. — The  water  must  not  quite  reach  the  paper  with  which  the  gallipot  is 
covered. 

10.  We  draw  this  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and 
let  it  simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

N.B. — It  must  not  boil,  or  the  custard  will  be  spoiled. 

11.  We  take  the  gallipot  out  of  the  saucepan,  take  off 
the  buttered  paper,  turn  the  custard  out  on  to  a  hot  dish, 
it  is  ready  for  serving. 


APPENDIX. 


LIST   OF    RECIPES. 

i.    ORDINARY  SALAD. 

2.  TOMATES  FARCIE  AU  GRATIN. 

3.  SICK-ROOM  COOKERY— SCOLLOPED  OYSTERS. 

4.  ,,  ,,  FRIED  SWEETBREAD. 


Appendix — Ordinary  Salad.  447 


ORDINARY    SALAD. 

Average  cost  of 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i  Cos  or  long  lettuce,  or  two  cabbage  lettuces     . .     i\ 

2  tablespoon sful  of  best  salad  oil 3 

1  dessertspoonful  of  common  vinegar,  or  1  tea-   ~| 

spoonful  of  tarragon  and  one  teaspoonful    >     1 

of  common  vinegar J 

1  saltspoon  of  salt )        1 

f  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper )        4 

I  a  teaspoonful  of  ready-made  mustard \        3 

k  a  small  onion,  or  two  or  three  spring  onions   j        * 


Time  required,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  dress  an  " ordinary  salad" 

N.B. — A  salad  can  be  made  with  watercress,  mustard  and  cress,  endive,  beet- 
root, cucumber,  celery,  and  any  cold  boiled  vegetable,  such  as,  potato, 
carrot,  turnip,  parsnip,  the  flower  of  cauliflower,  and  cabbage,  according  to 
taste.  They  can  be  dressed  as  an  ordinary  salad,  or  with  a  mayonnaise 
sauce.     (See  Sauces,  Lesson  No.  3.) 

1.  We  take  the  lettuce,  wash  it  well  in  cold  water,  and 
pull  off  each  leaf  separately,  so  as  to  get  them  quite  free 
from  dirt  or  grit. 

2.  We  put  the  lettuce  into  a  clean  cloth,  hold  the  cloth  up 
by  the  corners,  and  shake  the  lettuce  well,  so  as  to  get  it 
quite  dry. 

3.  We  break  up  the  leaves  of  the  lettuce  into  small  pieces, 
and  put  them  into  a  salad  bowl. 

N.B. — A  lettuce  should  never  be  cut  with  a  knife.  If  the  flavour  of  onion  is 
liked,  the  dish  could  be  rubbed  round  with  half  an  onion,  or  two  or  three 
spring  onions  (washed  and  the  green  tops  cut  oft)  can  be  put  in  the  salad. 

4.  We  take  a  bottle  of  salad  oil  and  pour  two  tablespoonsful 
of  oil  over  the  lettuce,  and  mix  it  up  well  with  a  spoon  and  fork. 

5.  We  take  the  tablespoon,  put  in  it  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ready- 
made  mustard  (if  liked),  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  common  or 
tarragon  vinegar,  or  half  and  half,  according  to  taste  ;  mix 
all  up  together,  and  then  pour  it  over  the  lettuce ;  mix  up 
the  lettuce  well. 

6.  The  salad  is  now  ready  for  serving. 


448      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


TOMATES   FARCIE   AU   GRATIN. 


Average  cost  of 


INGREDIENTS. 

s.   d. 

7  tomatoes,  3^.  each    1   9 

2  shalots ) 

1  small  onion j 

6  mushrooms 3 

2  oz.  chopped  ham    i| 

2  oz.  butter,  at  is.  4<f.  a  lb 2 

1  tablespoon  ful  of  chopped  parsley )  x 

Nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt j 

1  tablespoonful  of  grated  bread-crumbs   . .  \ 
1  tablespoonful  of  grated  Parmasan  cheese  J 

2     7 

Time  required,  about  half-an-hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  cook  "  Tomates  Farcies  au 
gratin." 

1.  We  take  the  shalots  and  the  onion,  peel  them,  and 
chop  them  up  finely  on  a  board. 

2.  We  take  the  mushrooms,  cut  off  the  ends  of  the 
stalks,  wash  them  in  cold  water,  peel  them,  and  chop  them 
up  finely. 

3.  We  take  two  ounces  of  ham,  and  chop  it  up  finely. 

4.  We  take  the  parsley,  wash  it,  dry  it,  and  chop  it  up 

finely. 

5.  We  take  some  crumb  of  bread  and  rub  it  through  a 
wire  sieve  on  to  a  plate ;  there  should  be  a  tablespoonful  of 
crumbs. 

6.  We  put  the  crumbs  on  a  tin  in  the  oven  to  brown  ; 
we  must  watch  them,  and  not  let  them  burn  ;  when  they 
are  brown  enough  we  take  the  tin  out  and  turn  the  crumbs 
on  to  a  plate. 

7.  We  put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  we  also 
add  the  chopped  ham,  and  vegetables  ;  put  the  stewpan 
over  the  fire,  and  stir  the  contents  well  for  ten  minutes  ; 


Appendix — Tomates  Farcie  an  Gratin.      449 

after  that  time  we  take  the  stewpan  off  the  fire,  and  stand 
it  on  a  piece  of  paper  on  the  table. 

8.  We  take  seven  tomatoes  (they  should  be  of  equal 
sizes  if  possible),  cut  off  the  tops  of  them  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  carefully  scoop  out  the  inside. 

9.  We  take  an  ounce  of  Parmasan  cheese,  and  grate  it 
with  a  grater  over  the  browned  bread-crumbs  on  the  plate. 

10.  We  fill  each  tomato  with  the  mixture  in  the  stewpan, 
and  sprinkle  the  bread-crumbs  and  cheese  over  the  top  of 
each  one. 

11.  We  put  the  stuffed  tomatoes  on  to  a  tin,  and  put 
them  in  the  oven  to  warm. 

12.  For  serving,  we  arrange  them  nicely  on  a  hot  dish. 


*  t 


45°     National  Training  School  for  Cookery 

SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 

SCOLLOPED    OYSTERS. 

Average  cost   {for  four  scollop  shells). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s.    d. 
2  doz.  cooking  oysters,  is.  6d.  or  2s.  per  doz. . .     40 

Bread-crumbs 2 

2  oz.  of  butter 2J 


4    4i 


Time  required,  about  half-an-hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  "  scollop  oysters? 

1.  We  put  two  dozen  oysters,  and  the  liquor  that  is  with 
them,  into  a  small  saucepan. 

2.  We  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  bring  them  to 
the  boil ;  this  is  to  blanch  the  oysters. 

3.  We  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire  as  soon  as  it  boils, 
and  pour  the  liquor  through  a  strainer  into  a  basin. 

4.  We  place  the  oysters  on  a  plate,  and  take  off  the 
beards  and  all  the  hard  parts  of  the  oysters. 

5.  We  put  a  wire  sieve  over  a  plate,  and  rub  through  it 
some  crumb  of  stale  bread. 

6.  We  take  four  scollop  shells,  and  grease  them  well 
inside  with  butter. 

7.  We  sprinkle  about  a  teaspoonful  of  bread-crumbs  into 
each  scollop  shell. 

8.  We  then  put  in  the  oysters,  six  in  each  shell,  and 
sprinkle  in  with  them  a  dessertspoonful  of  bread-crumbs, 
and  three  or  four  tiny  bits  of  butter,  about  the  size  of  dice. 

9.  We  should  mix  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  salt 
together,  and  sprinkle  it  over  the  oysters,  then  pour  in  the 


Sick-room  Cookery. — Scolloped   Oysters.     451 

oyster  liquor,  and  fill  up  the  shells  with  a  smooth  layer  of 
bread-crumbs,  and  two  or  three  little  bits  of  butter  on  the 
top. 

10.  We  put  the  shells  on  a  tin,  put  it  in  a  brisk  oven  to 
bake  for  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  :  the  scollops  should  be 
a  pale  brown. 

11.  For  serving,  we  fold  a  napkin  neatly,  and  put  it  on  a 
hot  dish,  and  place  the  scollops  on  it. 


?F2 


45 2     National   Training  School  for  Cookery. 


SICK-ROOM    COOKERY. 
FRIED    SWEETBREADS. 


Average  cost  of 


INGREDIENTS. 

s.     d. 

Sweetbreads,  from  4s.  to  $s.  each 5    o 

1  egg 1 

Bread-crumbs   1 

2  or  3  sprigs  of  parsley    j  z 

Lard,  or  clarified  dripping  for  frying  


5     2 
Time  required,  about  half-an-hour. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  fry  sweetbreads. 

N.B. — Calves'  heart,  or  throat  sweetbreads  are  what  are  ordinarily  sold,  lambs' 
sweetbreads  are  more  tender  and  delicate. 

1.  We  take  the  sweetbreads  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  luke-warm  water  enough  to  cover  them  ;  put  the 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  just  bring  it  to  the  boil. 

N.B. — This  is  to  blanch  them,  and  should  be  done  as  soon  as  the  sweetbreads 
arrive,  in  order  to  prevent  their  turning  sour. 

2.  We  take  the  sweetbreads  out  of  the  saucepan,  lay 
them  in  a  cloth,  and  gently  wipe  them ;  then  put  them  on 
a  board,  and  cut  them  in  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick. 

N.B. —If  the  sweetbread  is  small  it  can  be  fried  whole.     Lambs'  sweetbread 
need  not  be  cut  up. 

3.  We  proceed  with  the  szveetbreads  as  described  in 
"Fish,  Lesson  No.  7,"  from  note  27  to  end,  excluding 
Notes  32,  33,  and  40. 

They  are  then  ready  for  serving. 


Appendix — Aspic  Jelly. 


453 


ASPIC   JELLY. 

ONE   QUART. 
Average  cost  of 

INGREDIENTS. 


2  calves'  feet      

Salt  

30  peppercorns  ... 

2  blades  of  mace  

1  clove  of  garlic 

2  shalots  

1  sprig  of  thyme  

I  small  bunch  of  parsley 

1  onion,  stuck  with  4  cloves   ... 

1  leek 

\  a  head  of  celery         

2  carrots 

1  turnip 

1  sprig  of  tarragon       

1  sprig  of  chervil  

2  bay  leaves 

The  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon 

The  whites  of  2  eggs 

£  gill  of  common  vinegar 

1  tablespoonful  chili  vinegar  ... 

\  gill  of  tarragon  vinegar 

1  gill  of  sherry  

2  quarts  of  water 


s.    d. 
1     6 


\     1    o 


J 


3    4 


Time  required,  about  seven  hours. 


Now  we  will  show  you  how  to  make  Aspic  Jelly. 

1.  We  take  two  calves'  feet  and  put  them  on  a  board. 

2.  We  chop  them  in  eight  pieces  with  a  chopper. 

3.  We  wash  them  well  in  cold  water. 

4.  We  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  sufficient  cold  water 
to  cover  them,  and  let  them  boil  up  on  the  fire  to  blanch 
them,  then  pour  the  water  off  and  wash  them  again  in  cold 
water. 

5.  We  wash  the  stewpan  and  put  back  the  pieces  of  feet 
into  it,  with  two  quarts  of 'water \  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  just 
bring  it  to  the  boil,  watch  it  and  skim  it  occasionally. 


454      National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

6.  We  now  add  half  a  teaspoonfiil  of  salt  and  all  the  other 
ingredients  except  the  lemon,  the  eggs,  and  the  vinegars. 

N.B. — The  vegetables  should  be  washed,  scraped,  and  peeled  before  use. 

7.  We  let  all  boil  gently  for  five  hours. 

8.  We  then  strain  it  off  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  basin, 
and  let  stand  until  perfectly  cold  ;  skim  off  the  fat  from  the 
top,  and  wipe  it  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  hot  water,  to  remove 
every  particle  of  grease. 

9.  We  put  the  stock  into  a  clean  stewpan,  peel  the  lemon 
very  thinly,  and  add  the  peel,  and  juice,  to  the  stock,  also 
add  the  whipped  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  the  shells,  the 
vinegars,  and  salt  to  taste,  whisk  all  over  the  fire  until  it 
boils  ;  then  put  the  stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let 
it  stand  for  half-an-hour,  to  form  a  crust. 

10.  We  take  a  clean  soup  cloth,  and  fix  it  on  the  stand. 

11.  We  pour  the  contents  into  the  cloth,  and  let  it  all 
run  through  into  a  basin  placed  underneath. 

12.  We  let  it  pass  a  second  time  slowly,  into  the  basin. 

13.  We  scald  a  mould  with  boiling  water,  then  rinse  it 
in  cold  water  before  pouring  the  jelly  into  it. 

14.  We  garnish  the  mould,  with  fish,  or  vegetables, 
according  to  taste,  and  stand  it  aside  until  cold. 

15.  When  the  jelly  is  required,  we  should  dip  the  mould 
into  a  basin  of  hot  water,  for  about  a  second,  shake  the 
mould  to  loosen  the  jelly,  place  a  dish  over  the  top  of  the 
mould,  and  turn  the  jelly  carefully  out,  it  is  then  ready  for 
serving. 


National  Training  School  for  Cookery.     455 


REGULATIONS    AND    FEES 

OF    THE 

NATIONAL    TRAINING     SCHOOL     FOR     COOKERY, 
SOUTH    KENSINGTON 


The  National  Training  School  for  Cookery  was  established  in 
the  year  1874. 

The  chief  object  of  the  school  was  to  train  teachers  who  should 
become  instructors  of  cookery  in  training  schools,  board  schools, 
and  similar  institutions. 

The  courses  of  instruction  in  the  school  are  : — 

1.  For  educated  persons  who  wish  to  qualify  themselves  to 
become  teachers  of  cookery. 

2.  For  students  and  cooks. 

3.  For  those  who  wish  to  be  able  to  practise  cookery  in  their 
homes. 

The  course  of  instruction  for  a  Teacher  of  cookery  has  been 
drawn  up  by  Mrs.  C.  Clarke,  the  Lady  Superintendent,  and  is  as 
follows  : — 

Teachers  of  Cookery  can  now  pass  through  a  full  course  of 
20  weeks'  training  in  Cookery,  and  practice  in  teaching  at  the 
National  Training  School  for  Cookery,  South  Kensington.  The 
fee  is  ;£2i.  Teachers  of  Plain  Cookery  only  can  now  pass 
through  a  course  lasting  10  weeks.     The  fee  is  £6  6s. 

Twenty    Weeks'    Course.      Fee,    £2t. 

MORNING.  AFTERNOON. 

i st  Week  Scullery,  Learning  H.  C.  Demonstration. 

2nd    „  Scullery,  Teaching  n 

3rd     ,,  Plain  Cookery  Demonstration  „ 

4th     ,,  .,  „  „ 


45  ^      National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 


5th' 

Wee 

6th 

>' 

7  th 

» 

8th 

» 

9th 

5> 

ioth 

»> 

nth 

JJ 

1 2th 

>? 

13th 

>J 

14th 

?> 

15th 

>5 

1 6th 

5> 

17th 

» 

1 8th 

•>•> 

19th 

J) 

20th 

Plain  Cookery  Practice  Kitchen 


Plain  Cookery  Practice  Kitchen 


High  Class  Practice  Kitchen 


High  Class  Practice  Kitchen 
Demonstration,   Public. 

>>  if 

Demonstration 

Theoretical  Examination. 


Learning. 

» 
Teaching. 

?» 
Learning. 

» 
Teaching. 


Ten  Weeks'   Plain  Cookery  Teachers'   Course. 
Fee,  £6  6s. 


1  st  Week- 

—Demonstration,  10  to  12. 

Scullery  learning,  2  to  4 

2nd    „ 

»> 

?> 

Scullery  teaching,      „ 

3rd     » 

Practice, 

10  to  3, 

4th     „ 

»> 

5> 

5th     „ 

»> 

?> 

6th     „ 

5> 

>> 

7  th     „ 

Teaching 

>» 

8th     „ 

» 

5» 

9th     „ 

Demonstration,  10  to  12. 

ioth  „ 

j> 

91 

Theoretical  Examination. 


National  Training  School  for  Cookery.      45  7 

Students  in  training  are  expected  to  attend  an  Evening  Class 
held  by  a  Staff  Teacher  once  a  week. 

A  Student  in  training  for  20  weeks  for  a  Teacher  first  passes 
through  the  Scullery  and  Demonstration  Classes  for  four  weeks. 
She  then  spends  four  weeks  learning  in  the  Plain  Cookery  Practice 
Kitchen,  and  a  fortnight  teaching.  She  next  goes  into  the  High 
Class  Practice  Kitchen,  and  spends  four  weeks  learning,  and  a 
fortnight  teaching.  The  last  month  is  devoted  to  Practice  in 
Demonstrating  in  public,  for  which  the  Lady  Superintendent  has 
drawn  up  careful  and  full  rules ;  these  are  hung  up  close  to  where 
the  Student  stands  to  give  her  demonstration. 

During  her  course  of  training  at  the  School,  the  Student  can,  if 
she  likes,  dine  with  the  other  Pupils  for  6d.  or  is. 

When  the  Staff  Teachers  are  all  employed,  a  few  extra  teachers 
are  taken  on  as  improvers,  at^"i  a  week,  as  this  fits  them  to  fill 
good  appointments  in  the  Provinces,  when  they  offer.  These 
engagements  are  terminable  by  a  week's  notice  on  either  side,  but 
employment  is  not  compulsory  nor  is  it  guaranteed. 

The  work  of  Teachers  on  the  Staff  varies  somewhat  according 
to  the  nature  of  their  appointment.  If  employed  in  the  School 
itself  she  will  have  to  be  in  her  kitchen  by  9. 30  a.m.  to  see  that 
her  kitchen-maid  has  everything  in  proper  order  for  the  Pupils  to 
begin  work  at  10  a.m. ;  the  Teacher  would  in  most  cases  be  able 
to  leave  the  School  at  5  p.m. 


If  a  Staff  Teacher  be  sent  to  the  Provinces  the  hours  of  work 
in  that  case  depend  greatly  upon  the  Local  Committee,  who  for 
the  time  being  employ  her,  but  the  number  of  hours  of  work  are 
limited  to  24  in  the  week,  to  be  distributed  by  arrangement  with 
the  Local  Committee  and  the  Teacher. 

Students  will  be  admitted  either  by  payment  of  fees,  or  by  sub- 
scribers' votes. 

If  by  voles,  the  Candidate  must  not  be  under  18  or  exceed  35  years  of  age. 
She  must  be  sufficiently  educated  to  be  able  to  perform  the  duties  of 
an  instructor  after  the  special  training  in  Cookery. 

The  diplomas  of  Teachers  are  of  tvvo  classes. 

A  Candidate  is  to  understand  that  she  will  be  required  to  be  proficient 
in  Pronunciation,  Enunciation,  Common  Arithmetic,  and  Writing  and 
Spelling  correctly,  which  proficiency  will  be  tested  at  the  final  examin- 
ation ;  and  no  diploma  can  be  given  unless  she  possesses  these  qualifi- 
cations in  addition  to  the  knowledge  requisite  for  a  Teacher  of  Cookery 
itself. 


458    National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

The  conditions  of  admission  are — 

(a)     That   the  Student    agrees  to   obey  all  the  Rules  of  the  School  laid 

down  by  the  Executive  Committee. 
(&)     That  for  any  infraction  of  the  Rules,  the  Student  may  be  discharged 

at  a  day's  notice,  without  having  a  claim  of  any  kind  upon  the  School. 
(c)     That  it  be  clearly  understood  that  the  Committee  are  not  responsible 

for  finding  any  paid  employment  for  the  Students  while  in  the  School 

or  afterwards,  the  employment  of  Teachers,  certified  by  the  School, 

resting  wholly  with  the  public. 

At  the  end  of  the  Pupil's  course  of  training  in  the  School,  she 
will  be  expected,  before  receiving  any  diploma,  to  pass  a 
Theoretical  Examination ;  specimens  of  the  questions  which 
have  been  asked  can  be  obtained  in  the  School  from  the  Secre- 
tary for  id.  The  whole  fee  of  ^"21  when  the  Candidate  has  no 
vote,  or  so  much  of  the  fee  as  remains  due  when  she  has  any 
votes,  to  be  paid  in  three  equal  instalments,  each  in  advance. 
The  course  of  instruction  is  as  follows — 

Practice  in  scullery  work  and  cleaning,  and  practice  in  teaching  the  same. 
The  best  way  of  lighting  and  managing  a  fire,  of  cleaning  a  fire-place, 
regulating  flues,  the  management  of  the  oven,  etc.,  or  of  patent  fire- 
places in  general  use  for  cooking,  the  difference  between   a  close 
range  and  an  open  one,  etc. 
The  proper  and  highest  degree  of  cleanliness  to  be  obtained  in  pots 
and  pans,  the  best  method  of  cleaning  such  articles,  of  removing 
stains  from  enamel,  burnishing  copper,  etc. 
Practice  in  Plain  Cookery  and  teaching  the  same. 
Practice  in  High  Class  Cookery  and  teaching  the  same. 
Teaching  both  kinds  of  Cookery  by  Public  Demonstration. 

N.B. — Any  person  may  attend  the  Cookery  Classes,  and  Demonstrations  at 
the  usual  Fees  without  passing  any  Examination. 

Teachers,  wrhile  on  the  Staff,  and  employed  in  the  School,  are 
not  free  to  take  any  engagement  without  leave  of  the  Committee 
in  writing  ;  when  their  services  are  not  required,  they  will  receive 
one  month's  notice.  Teachers  holding  diplomas  not  on  the  Staff 
are  free  to  make  any  engagement  for  teaching  they  may  think  fit, 
and  may  refer  to  the  Lady  Superintendent,  who  will  give  additional 
information  as  to  their  qualifications  when  requested  to  do  so. 


INSTRUCTION  BY  DEMONSTRATION  AND  PRACTICE 
FOR  LEARNERS. 

Courses  of  Teaching  by  Demonstration,  and  Courses  of  Practice  in 
Cookery  and  Cleaning  are  now  being  regularly  held  at  the  National 
Training  School  of  Cookery,  Exhibition  Road,  South  Kensington. 
Persons  desirous  of  joining  the  Courses  should  apply  personally,  or  by 
letter  enclosing  3  stamps  to  the  Lady  Superintendent,  at  the  School. 
Pupils  can  enter  for  the  Courses  on  any  Monday. 


National  Training  School  for   Cookery.     459 

£  *■  d. 

Scullery  cleaning  (five  lessons) 10  a.m.  to  12  noon  10    6 

Ten  Plain  Cookery  Demonstrations    10  a.m.  to  12  noon  4    6 

Ten  High  Class  Demonstrations 2  p.m.  to    4  p.m.  10    6 

Ten  Plain  Cookery  Practice  lessons    10  a.m.  to    3  p.m.  220 

Ten  High  Class  Practice  lessons 10  a.m.  to    3  p.m.  330 

Single  lessons  from  6d.  to  xos.  6d. 

If  the  Scullery  work  be  omitted,  the  High  Class  Practice  Kitchen 
fee  will  be  ^4  4s.,  and  the  Plain  Cookery  Practice  Kitchen  £$  35-. 
Fees  to  be  paid  on  entry. 

The  following  is  an  outline  of  the  Practice  in  Scullery  work, 
and  Cleaning: — 

The  best  way  of  Lighting  and  Managing  a  Fire — Of  Cleaning 
a  Fire-place — Regulating  Flues — The  Management  of  the  Oven, 
and  of  Fire-places  in  general  use  for  Cooking — The  Difference 
between  a  Close  Range  and  an  Open  one,  &c. 

The  proper  and  highest  degree  of  Cleanliness  to  be  obtained 
in  Pots  and  Pans  ;  the  best  method  of  cleaning  such  articles — 
Of  removing  Stains  from  Enamel — Burnishing  Copper,  &c. 


THE  LESSONS  REPEAT  THEMSELVES  EVERY  FORTNIGHT. 

PLAIN    COOKERY    DEMONSTRATION. 
Morning  from  10  to  12. 

Fee,  4s.  6oJ.  the  Course.     Single  Lessons,  6d. 
FIRST   WEEK. 

Monday...     Sheep's    Head,    Milk   Soup    Maigre,    Macaroni,    Stewed    Liver   and 

Bacon,  Sea  Pie. 
Tuesday...     Irish  Stew,  Bone  Soup,  Breast  of  Veal,  Baked  Plum  Pudding,  Ragout 

of  Rabbit. 
Wednesday   Meat   Pie,    Toad   in   the    Hole,    Pea  Soup,    Cornish   Pasties,    Fruit 

Turnovers,  Pot  au  Feu. 
Thursday...  Rissoles,  Mulligatawny  Soup,  Sausage  Rolls,  Croquettes,    Pancakes, 

Pork  Pie. 
Friday..,       Baked  Haddock,  Plaice  fried,  Mackerel  stuffed,  Fish  Pudding,  Broiled 

Fish,  Fish  Soup. 


460     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 


SECOND   WEEK. 

Monday  ...     Bread,   Roast  Joint,   Boiled   Suet  Pudding,   Baked   Meat,  Yorkshire 

Pudding,    Boiled  Meat,    Haricot  Pur£e,    Stewed  Knuckle  of  Veal 

and  Melted  Butter. 
Tuesday  ...     Cold  Meat — Hash,  Balls  of  Meat,  Patties,  Shepherd's  Pie,  Gateau 

of  Cold  Meat,  Boudinettes  of  Meat,  Apple  Dumplings,  Tripe  and 

Onions. 
Wednesday    Roast  Heart,   Mutton  Broth,    Beefsteak  Pudding,    Piquante  Sauce, 

Marmalade  Pudding. 
Thursday      Curry  of  Cold   Meat,  Cabbage   Soup,    Mince,   Gingerbread,  Apple 

Pudding,  Cakes. 
Friday    ...     Sick-room  Cookery. 


HIGH  CLASS  COOKERY  DEMONSTRATION. 

Afternoon,  from  2  to  4. 
Fee,  10s.  6d.  the  Course.     Single  Lessons,  is.  6d. 


FIRST   WEEK. 

Monday...     Braising,  Trussing,  Boning, 

Stewing. 
Tuesday...    Soups  and  Purees. 
Wednesday  Vegetables,       Salads      and 

Savouries. 
Thursday     Entrees. 
Friday  ...     Entries. 


SECOND   WEEK. 

Monday...     Omelettes  and  Souffle's,  etc. 

Vienna  Bread. 
Tuesday...    Pastry  various. 
Wednesday  Puddings  various. 
Thursday     Jellies    and    Creams,    etc. 

Meringues. 
Friday  ...     Fish  Entries. 


The  School  is  on  view  every  day  from  2  to  4  p.m.  (Saturdays 
excepted),  and  Dishes  made  in  the  School  are  for  sale  at  cost  price 
after  3  o'clock. 

Lessons  given  in  all  branches  of  Cookery. 


HIGH  CLASS  COOKERY  PRACTICE  KITCHEN. 

A  high  class  "  Practice  Kitchen  "  is  now  open  where  a  Student 
may  go  through  a  course  of  Practice  in  Cookery,  for  which  a  fee 
of  ^4  45.  will  be  charged,  but  this  is  reduced  to  ^3  3s.  if  the 
Student  has  attended  the  "  scullery "  course  at  10s.  6d.  The 
course  in  this  Practice  Kitchen  occupies  2  weeks  from  to  to  4 
daily.  A  limited  number  of  daily  Pupils  are  now  admitted  in  the 
Practice  Kitchen  at  a  fee  of  jos.  6d.  for  each  day's  instruction  to 
new  Pupils,  and  6s.  6d.  to  old  Pupils. 

An  Appointment  must  be  made  for  single  lessons. 

Pupils  are  requested  each  to  bring  a  large  bib-apron  with  them, 
marked  with  their  names. 


National  Training  School  for   Cookery.     461 


FIRST   WEEK. 

Monday  ...  Bread  and  Cakes,  Vegetables  and  Savouries. 

Tuesday  ...  Soups  and  Purees,  Braising  and  Stewing. 

Wednesday  ...  Entries  and  Sauces,  Vegetables  and  Savouries. 

Thursday  ...  Entries  and  Sauces,  Braising  and  Stewing. 

Friday  ...  Soups  and  Purees,  Bread  and  Cakes. 


SECOND   WEEK. 

Monday  ...  Omelets  and  Souffles  and  Pastry. 

Tuesday  ...  Puddings  and  Fish. 

Wednesday  ...  Jellies  and  Creams,  Pastry. 

Thursday  ...  Jellies  and  Creams,  Omelets  and  Souffle^s. 

Friday  ...  Fish  and  Puddings. 

Single  Lessons  in  the  Newest  Entries,  &c,  10s.  6d. 
the  Day 


PLAIN  COOKERY  PRACTICE  KITCHEN. 

The  fee  for  joining  this  class  is  ^3  3^.,  unless  the  Student  has 
already  been  through  the  Scullery  Class  at  105.  6d.,  in  which  case 
it  is  reduced  to  £2  2s.  The  instruction  in  this  kitchen  comprises 
both  French  and  English  Plain  Cookery.  A  single  day's  in- 
struction in  this  kitchen  can  be  attended  at  a  charge  of  6s.  6d.  for 
new  Pupils  and  4s.  6d.  for  old  Pupils. 


FIRST   WEEK. 


Monday  ...  Milk  Soup,  Irish  Stew,  Beefsteak  Pie,  Treacle  Pudding,  Semolina 
Pudding,  Toad  in  the  Hole,  Potatoes,  a  Vegetable,  Pig's  Head, 
Pot  au  Feu,  Rock  Cakes,  Gingerbread,  Herring,  Toast  Sandwich, 
Beef  Teas  (various),  Gruel,  Stewed  Brisket  of  Beef,  Lemon  Pudding, 
Spotted  Dick,  Ragout  of  Rabbit. 

Tuesday  ...  Pot  au  Feu,  Brisket  of  Beef,  Fish  (boiled),  Sea  Pie,  Lentil  Soup,  Batter 
Pudding,  Apple  Pudding,  Potatoes  and  Vegetables,  Mutton  Broth, 
Fish  Cakes,  Blancmange,  Lemonade,  etc.,  Fig  Pudding,  etc., 
Pickle  for  Meat,  Silver  Side  of  Beef  to  Salt. 


462     National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

Wednesday  Mutton  Broth,  Semolina  Soup,  Fried  Fish,  Roast  Rabbit,  Brazilian 
Stew,  Baked  Apple  Dumplings,  Haricot  Beans,  Potatoes,  Sausage 
Rolls,  Milk  Jelly  from  Cowheel,  Pickle  for  Vegetables,  Plum  Cake, 
Scones,  Oatmeal  Biscuits. 

Thursday  Haricot  Purde,  Baked  Fish,  Ox-cheek  Stew,  Potatoes,  Rice  Cutlets, 
Shin  of  Beef  Stewed,  Suet  Pudding,  Roly  Poly  Pudding,  Breast  of 
Veal,  Roast  Joint,  Pork  Pie,  Brawn,  Marmalade  Pudding,  Seed 
Cake,  Milk  Biscuits,  Boudinettes,  Tripe  and  Onions. 

Friday  ...  Render  down  and  clarify  61bs.  of  Fat,  Maccaroni  Soup,  Hash,  Mince, 
Rissoles,  Shepherd's  Pie,  Potatoes,  Lentils,  Bread  Pudding,  Gateau 
of  Cold  Meat,  Arrowroot,  Short-bread,  Dough  Cake,  Maccaroni 
Cheese,  Swiss  Roll,  Tea  Cakes,  etc. 


SECOND   WEEK. 

Monday  ...  Cabbage  Soup,  Rabbit  Pie,  Bullock's  Heart,  Potatoes,  Suet  Pudding, 
Treacle  and  Plum  Puddings,  Rice  Pudding,  Gingerbread,  Yorkshire 
Pudding,  Marmalade  Pudding,  Rice  Buns,  Rock  Cakes,  Mulliga- 
tawny Soup,  Lemon  Sponge,  Cornflour  Cake,  Meat  Pudding. 

Tuesday ...  Spring  Soup  Maigre,  Bread,  A  Pudding,  Mulligatawny  Soup,  Fish 
(fried),  Tripe,  Maccaroni  Sweet,  Apple  Amber  Pudding,  Potatoes, 
Vegetables,  Curried  Rabbit,  Sheep's  Head  (boiled),  Kedgeree,  Plum 
Pudding,  Tea  Cakes,  Apple  Jelly,  Buns. 

Wednesday  Fish  Cakes,  Boiled  Rabbit,  Liver  and  Bacon,  Pea  Soup,  Haricot 
Mutton,  Potatoes,  Cornish  Pasties,  Stewed  Knuckle  of  Veal,  Veal 
Tea,  A  Pudding,  Prepare  Giblets,  Arrowroot  Pudding. 

Thursday  Stewed  Knuckle  of  Veal,  Parsley  and  Butter  Sauce,  Giblet  Pie,  Scotch 
Scallops,  Goblet  Pie,  Boiled  Pork  and  Peas  Pudding,  Pancakes, 
Bread  and  Butter  Pudding,  Potatoes,  Fritters,  Brandy  Wafers, 
Barley  Water,  Shrewsbury  Cakes,  Potted  Fish,  Ox-foot  Jelly. 

Friday  ...  Fish  Soup,  61bs.  of  Fat  to  clarify,  Fish  (fried),  Boil  the  Silver  Side, 
Dumplings,  Jelly,  Ragout  of  Mutton,  Potato  Salad,  Curried  Eggs, 
Poached  Eggs,  Biscuits,  Apple  Charlotte,  Toast  and  Eggs,  Porridge, 
Hominy  Blancmange,  Savoury  Custard,  Eggs  sur  le  plat. 

Single  Recipes  are  sold  at  the  School  at  id.  each.  Lists  on 
application,  price  id. 

A  certain  number  of  marks,  proportionate  to  merit,  will  be 
awarded  daily  for  the  execution  of  each  day's  work  of  the  practice 
in  Cookery  and  Scullery. 


National  Training  School  for  Cookery.     463 

Post-Office  Orders  and  Cheques  should  be  made  payable  to  the 
Lady  Superintendent  of  the  School,  Mrs.  Charles  Clarke,  at 
the  South  Kensington  Post  Office,  Exhibition  Road,  S.W. 

Subscriptions  and  Donations  to  be  paid  to  Miss  Incledon, 
Secretary,  at  the  National  Training  School. 


TERMS  ON  WHICH  THE  COMMITTEE  WILL 
OPEN  COUNTRY  AND  SUBURBAN  CLASSES:- 

The  Lady  Superintendent  is  authorised  by  the  Committee  to 
open  Demonstration  Cookery  Classes  where  she  can  hire  a  suit- 
able room,  and  dispose  of  forty  tickets  at  4/6  each  (transferable), 
for  a  course  of  Ten  Lessons  in  Plain  Cookery,  and  thirty  tickets 
at  1  os.  6d.  each  (transferable),  for  a  course  of  Ten  Lessons  in 
High  Class  Cookery. 

For  the  Plain  Cookery,  after  the  sale  of  40  Tickets  at  4s.  6d., 
school  children  and  poor  children  are  admitted  at  is.  the  Ten 
Lessons,  or  2d.  each  Lesson. 

The  Committee  will  then  undertake  the  entire  arrangement  of 
the  Classes,  supplying  all  the  stoves,  utensils,  and  materials  need- 
ful, and  bearing  all  other  needful  outlay. 

Single  Admission  at  the  door,  1*.  6d.  to  the  High  Class 
Cookery,  and  6d.  to  the  Plain  Cookery ;  School  Children,  Boys  or 
Girls,  admitted  at  a  considerable  reduction. 


Classes  for  Practice  in  Cookery  to  follow  these  Demonstration 
Lessons  will  be  formed  (for  not  less  than  Ten  Pupils)  on  the 
following  terms : — 

For  a  course  of  Ten  Lessons  in  Plain  Cookery,  or  in  High 
Class  Cookery,  of  three  hours  each  lesson,  £l  is.  Each  pupil  to 
find  her  own  materials. 

The  School  cannot  be  held  responsible  for  the  Teachers  unless 
sent  direct  from  this  School,  or  specially  recommended  by  the 
Lady  Superintendent  in  writing. 


464     National  Training  School  for  Cookery, 

Conditions  on  which  the  Committee  will  send  out  Staff 
Teachers   to  give  Instruction    in  Cookery,  in  localities 

WHERE  THE  LOCAL  COMMITTEE  PREFER  TO  TAKE  THE  MONEY 
RISK  AND  THE  ARRANGEMENT  OF  THE  CLASSES  ON  THEM- 
SELVES : — 

Terms,  for  Weekly  Engagements,  with  board  and  lodging,  £3  $s. , 
and  travelling  expenses  extra  (Second  Class). 

Not  more  than  Twelve  Demonstration  or  Practice  Lessons  of 
two  hours  each  are  to  be  given  in  one  week. 

A  suitable  room  with  the  requisite  seats,  tables,  stoves,  utensils, 
fuel  and  provisions,  together  with  a  Kitchen-maid,  must  be  pro- 
vided by  those  engaging  the  Teacher. 

The  arrangements  of  the  Lessons,  the  charges  for  admission, 
inserting  reports  and  notices  in  the  local  papers,  will  be  left 
entirely  in  their  hands. 

Terms  for  engagements  for  one  day  only  (for  distances  beyond 
20  miles  of  London),  for  One  Lesson  in  the  day  (whether  High 
Class  or  Plain  Cookery)  155-.;  and  215.  for  two  Lessons,  one 
High  Class  and  one  Plain  Cookery.  Travelling  expenses  extra 
(Second  Class). 

In  London  and  its  immediate  neighbourhood,  \os.  6d.  a  Lesson. 

Hire  of  stove  and  utensils  for  course  of  Ten  Demonstration 
Lessons,  £2  2s.  and  carriage. 

For  Elementary  Schools  and  Training  Colleges,  the  fee  is  js.  6d. 
a  Lesson. 


National  Training  School  for  Cookery.     465 
RULES 

FOR  THE   GUIDANCE  of  LOCAL   COMMITTEES  AND 
TEACHERS  SENT  BY  SOUTH  KENSINGTON 

1.  The  hours  of  teaching  are  limited  to  twenty-four  in  a  week  when  held  in 
the  same  town,  but  when  held  in  different  localities  the  hours  of  Lessons  are 
limited  to  20,  to  be  distributed  by  arrangement  between  the  Local  Committee 
and  the  Teacher. 

2.  The  Teacher  is  to  be  provided  with  a  Kitchen-maid,  who  is  to  be  her 
servant,  and  for  whose  work  the  Teacher  is  responsible. 

3.  The  Teacher's  time  (within  the  above  limits)  and  services  are  to  be  at 
the  disposal  of  the  Local  Committee,  and  any  cause  of  complaint  on  either 
side  should  be  referred  to  the  Lady  Superintendent.  No  private  Lessons  are  to 
be  given  by  the  Teacher. 

4.  The  Teacher  will  give  in  writing  her  orders  for  materials,  and  some  of 
the  Local  Committee  are  expected  to  sign  these  orders  and  see  that  they  are 
executed,  the  Teacher's  responsibility  ceasing  when  these  orders  are  given. 

5.  No  testimonials  or  gratuities,  monetary  or  otherwise,  are  to  be  received 
by  Teachers,  nor  any  commission  or  bonus,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  from 
Tradesmen  or  Committees. 

6.  The  Teacher  is  to  reside  within  reasonable  distance  of  her  place  of  work, 
and  not  to  make  any  charges  for  travelling,  except  when  sent  out  in  the  service 
of  the  Local  Committee. 

7.  The  Teacher  is  to  order  nothing  except  on  forms  authorised  or  counter- 
signed by  the  Committee  or  their  representative. 

8.  To  prevent  confusion,  the  Teachers  are  to  cook  by  the  recipes  printed 
and  provided  by  the  National  Training  School  for  Cookery. 

9.  Courses  of  systematic  Lessons  have  been  prepared  for  the  Teachers  ; 
these,  modified  to  suit  the  requirements  of  particular  localities,  are  recom- 
mended as  models  for  Local  Committees. 

10.  The  number  of  Pupils  at  a  Demonstration  Lesson  is  practically  unlimited  ; 
the  number  of  Pupils  at  a  Practice  Lesson  is  limited  to  ten. 

1 1 .  The  sale  of  the  dishes  cooked  should  be  under  the  management  of  the 
Local  Committee. 

12.  It  must  be  always  borne  in  mind  that  the  sale  of  food  and  the  taking  0/ 
orders  for  dishes  must  be  subordinate  to  the  great  object  of  the  School,  i.e.. 
the  giving  a  thorough  and  efficient  practical  Lesson. 

13.  The  Teacher  is  allowed  Second  Class  Railway  Fare,  and  the  actual 
expenses  incurred  in  the  journey  upon  her  certifying  to  them. 

14.  The  Teacher  to  be  allowed  her  dinner  at  the  Local  School,  on  the  days 
when  she  teaches  there. 


For  further  particulars,  apply  to  the  Lady  Superintendent  at  the 

School. 


G   G 


INDEX. 


GG  2 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

A-la-mode  Beef — Stews 86 

A.-la-mode  Beef — Soups  190 

Alexandra  pudding — Puddings  ...  313 

Amber  pudding — Puddings   307 

Anchovy  sauce — Fish..,.. 223 

Apple  amber  pudding — Puddings  347 

—  charlotte — Puddings    296 

—  jelly— Jellies 367 

—  turnovers  and  dumplings  of 

short  crust — Pastry 287 

—  water — Sick-room  cookery  430 
Apples  and  tapioca — Puddings  ...  330 
Arrowroot,     cup    of — Sick-room 

cookery 425 

—  pudding  —  Sick  -  room 

cookery 425 

Aspic  jelly  from  calf's  feet — Jellies  355 
Australian  meat — 

—  mince    51 

—  mulligatawny    40 

~         Pie 44 

—  rissoles 46 

—  sausage  rolls 42 

—  savoury  hash 49 

Bacon,  rolls  of— Entrees 68 

Baked  batter  pudding  with  fruit 

—Puddings  335 

—  fish  in  vinegar 236 

■ —     lemon  pudding — Puddings  294 

—  mackerel  or  herring — Fish  232 

—  plum    pudding — Puddings  349 

—  potatoes — Vegetables 249 

—  stuffed  haddock — Fish  ...  234 
Baking  meat 22 


Barley  water   (clear) — Sick-room 

cookery 428 

—  water  (thick) — Sick-room 

cookery 429 

Batter  pudding  with  fruit,  baked 

—Puddings  335 

—  pudding,  boiled — Puddings  316 

—  pudding,   in  a  cup — Pud- 

dings   320 

Beans,  haricot — Vegetables    262 

Beef,  a-la-mode — Stews 86 

—  —        — Soups 190 

—  braised  fillets  of — Entrees...  60 

—  essence — Sick-room  cookery  423 

—  olives — Entrees 73 

—  steak  pie 123 

—  steak  pudding 125 

—  —        —    Pastry 284 

—  stewed  brisket  of — Stews  ...  92 

—  tea,    Liebig's   quick — Sick- 

room cookery  442 

—  —    Sick-room  cookery   440,  441 
Biscuits,  milk  412 

—  oatmeal 413 

Blanc-mange — Puddings 315 

Boiled  batter — Puddings 316 

—  cauliflower — Vegetables  ...  257 

—  cod — Fish 228 

—  custard — Creams 369 

—  fish 239 

—  fowl   162 

—  lemon  pudding — Puddings  332 

—  mutton  and  parsley  sauce 

— Sick-room  cookery  ...  438 

—  new  potatoes — Vegetables  246 


Index. 


460 


Boiled  pig's  head,  salted    134 

—  potatoes — Vegetables 245 

—  rice    84 

—  rice — Tripe  103 

—  sheep's  head 137 

—  tripe,  with  milk  and  onions 

—Tripe 104 

—  turbot— Fish 211 

Boiling  meat 20 

Bonne  femme — Soups 176 

Brain  cakes  153 

Braised  fillet  of  veal    109 

—  fillet  of  beef— Entrees 60 

—  liver  155 

Bran  tea — Sick-room  cookery    ...  435 

Brawn — boiled  pig's  head  135 

Brazilian  stew — Stews 88 

Bread    4*9 

Bread  and  butter  pudding — Pud- 
dings    346 

—  pudding — Puddings 324 

—  sauce — Roast  fowl  169 

Breast,  or  neck  of  lamb  stewed — 

Stews 98 

Brisket  of  beef  (cold)  stewed — 

Stews 92 

Broth— Mutton    T47 

—  mutton — Sick-room  cook- 

ery   436 

—  mutton — Sick-room  cook- 

ery   438 

—  fromsheep'shead — Sheep's 

head  137 

Brown  bread  pudding — Puddings  309 

—  sauce — Sauces 268 

—  stock 207 

Browned  sheep's  head 139 

Brussels  sprouts — Vegetables 254 

Bubble  and  squeak 146 

Bullock's  heart,  stuffed  and  roasted  1 1 1 

Butter,  clarifying — Frying 25 

Butter  sauce  (melted) — Sauces  ...  274 

Buns 408 

—  rice 410 

Cabbage,  pickled  391 


Cabbage  soup — Soups    197 

Cabinet  pudding — Puddings  292 

—  —     (cold) — Puddings 337 

Cakes— Brain 153 

—  corn-flour  cake 403 

—  dough  cake    404 

—  German  pound  cake 395 

—  plain  cake 397 

—  plum  cake 401 

—  rock 406 

—  seed  cake  399 

—  Shrewsbury  405 

—  Sultana  cake 393 

Calf 's  head,  rolled  and  stuffed  ...  158 

Carrots — Vegetables    265 

Carrots  and  turnips — Vegetables  255 

Carrot  pudding — Puddings    311 

Cauliflower  au  gratin — Vegetables  258 

—  boiled — Vegetables 257 

Charlotte  russe — Creams    373 

Chaudfroid  of  chicken — Entrees  .  64 

Cheese  with  maccaroni  387 

—  souffle — Souffles  378 

—  straws    389 

Chicken  broth — Sick-room  cook- 
ery   422 

—  chaudfroid  of — Entrees  ...  64 

—  croquettes  or  rissoles  of — 

Entrees 79 

—  fricassee  of — Entrees   69 

—  panada — Sick-room  cook- 

ery   421 

Clarifying  butter — Frying  25 

—  dripping — Frying     25 

—  fat — Frying  25 

Cleaning  a  close  kitchen  range  ...  15 

—  a  copper  stewpan     16 

—  a  gas  stove    15 

—  an  enamelled  stewpan 16 

—  an  iron  saucepan 16 

—  an  open  kitchen  range    ...  13 

Clear  soup — Soups 170 

Cod,  boiled — Fish 228 

Cold  cabinet  pudding — Puddings  337 

—  chicken,      fricassee      of  — 

Entrees 71 


xyo 


Index. 


PAGE 

Cold  meat — curry    33 

—  —      fried  rissoles  37 

—  —      goblet  pie  31 

—  —      hashed  meat  26 

—  —      meat  fritters  29 

—  —      minced  meat 39 

—  —      shepherd's  pie    35 

Cooked  meat — curry  33 

—  —       fried  rissoles 37 

—  —        goblet  pie  31 

—  —        hashed  meat 26 

—  —        meat  fritters  29 

—  —       minced  meat 39 

—  —        shepherd's  pie  ...  35 
Corn-flour  cake — Cakes 403 

—  pudding— Puddings 321 

—  —    in  a  cup — Puddings...  318 

Cornish  pasties 1 15 

Cow-heel  milk  jelly— Jellies  361 

—  stewed,  with  onion  sauce — 

Jellies    362 

Cream     of    barley  —  Sick  -  room 

cookery 424 

Creams — charlotte  russe 373 

—  Strawberry  cream    371 

—  vanilla  cream    369 

Croquettes     of    potato  —  Vege- 
tables 252 

—  or    rissoles    of    chicken — 

Entrees 79 

Cup  of   arrowroot  —  Sick-room 

cookery 425 

Curate's  pudding — P  uddings 323 

Curried  rabbit  or  veal — Entrees ..  82 

Curry,  of  cold  meat 33 

—  of  tripe — Tripe     102 

—  (Indian) — Entrees    53 

Custard,  boiled — Creams    369 

—  pudding,  baked — Puddings  301 

—  sauce — Souffles 376 

Cutlets,  lobster — Fish 224 

—  mutton — Entrees 62 

—  veal — Entrees  66 

Dough  cake — Cakes 404 

Dripping,  clarifying — Frying 25 


PAGE 

Drinks  —  Apple    water  —  Sick- 
room cookery   430 

—  barley  water  (clear) — Sick- 

room cookery  428 

—  barley  water  (thick) — Sick- 

room cookery  429 

—  bran  tea  —Sick-room  cook- 

ery   435 

—  lemonade  —  Sick -room 

cookery ,.  431 

—  rice     water  —  Sick  -  room 

cookery -..  427 

—  toast    and    water  —  Sick- 

room cookery 432 

—  treacle  posset—  Sick-room 

cookery 434 

—  white  wine  whey — Sick- 

room cookery  434 

Dutch  sauce— Sauces 272 

Dumplings— Norfolk 350 

Eels,  stewed— Fish   241 

Egg  sauce— Boiled  fowl 164 

—  —      Fish 216 

Entrees — beef  olives 73 

—  braised  fillets  of  beef  60 

—  chaudfroid  of  chicken 64 

—  croquettes    or    rissoles    of 

chicken 79 

—  curried  rabbit  or  veal 82 

—  curry  (Indian)  53 

—  fricassee  of  chicken 69 

—  fricassee  of  cold  chicken...  71 

—  haricot  mutton 77 

—  Irish  stew 75 

—  mutton  cutlets 62 

—  quenelles  of  veal 57 

—  veal  cutlets    66 

Essence     of    beef — Sick-room 

cookery...^, 423 

Fat,  clarifying — Frying 25 

Fig  pudding — Puddings 341 

Fillet  of  veal,  braised 109 

Fillets  of  beef,  braised— Entrees .  60 


Index. 


471 


Fillets  of  sole  a  la  maitre  d'hotel 
—Fish  

—  of  sole,  fried — Fish 

Fire,  to  lay  a    

Fish,  baked  in  vinegar   

—  baked  mackerel  or  herring 

—  baked  stuffed  haddock    ... 

—  boiled    

—  boiled  cod 

—  boiled  turbot    

—  fillets  of  sole  a.  la  maitre 

d'hotel  

—  fish  pudding 

—  fried  fillets  of  sole    

—  fried  plaice    

—  grilled  salmon  

—  kedgeree    

—  lobster  cutlets  

—  sole  au  gratin    

—  stewed  eels    

—  whitebait  

Flaky  crust  (for  pies  and  tarts) — 

Pastry    

Fowl,  boiled 

—  for  boiling,  trussing  a 

—  for  roasting,  trussing  a 

—  roasted  

Fricassee  of  chicken — Entrees  . . . 

—  of  cold  chicken — Entrees 
Fried  fillets  of  sole — Fish  

—  plaice — Fish 

—  potato-chips — Vegetables. . 

—  rissoles  of  cold  meat    

—  slices    of    potato — Vege- 

tables  

Fruit  tart  of  short  crust — Pastry 
Frying  , 


Genoese  pastry — Pastry  ... 
German  pound-cake — Cakes 

—  sauce — Puddings 

Giblet  soup — Soups    

Ginger-bread  nuts    

—  pudding — Puddings... 
Goblet  pie — Cooked  meat ... 
Grilled  salmon — Fish 


220 
222 

14 
236 
232 
234 
239 
228 
211 

220 
214 
222 

237 
230 

243 
224 
218 
241 
217 

290 
162 
162 
166 
166 
69 
7i 
222 

237 
250 

37 

251 

278 

24 

280 

395 
310 

183 
411 

345 

3i 

230 


Grilled  Steak    141 

Gruel — Sick-room  cookery 433 

Haddock,  baked  and  stuffed — 

Fish  ...  234 

Haricot  beans — Vegetables    262 

—  mutton — Entrees 77 

—  -           157 

—  puree — Soups  204 

Hash,  savoury,  of  Australian  meat  49 

Hashed  meat — Cooked  meat 26 

Herringor  mackerel,  baked — Fish  232 

Iceland  moss  jelly — Jellies 359 

Irish  stew — Entrees  75 

—  —    Stews 90 

jAM-roly-poly — Pastry    284 

Jam  tart — Pastry 291 

Jellies — Apple  jelly 367 

—  aspic  jelly  from  calf's  feet  355 

—  Iceland  moss  jelly  359 

—  milkjelly  from  cow-heel...  361 

—  ox-foot  jelly 363 

—  porter  jelly    365 

—  wine  jelly  from  calf's  feet  352 

Kedgeree — Fish   243 

Knuckle  of  veal  stewed — Stews. . .  100 

Lamb,  stewed,  breast  or  neck  of 

—  Stews 98 

Lemon  pudding,  baked  —  Pud- 
dings    294 

—  pudding,  boiled — Puddings  332 
Lemonade — Sick-room  cookery...  431 

Lentil  puree — Soups  202 

Lentils,  stewed — Vegetables 266 

Liver  and  bacon 151 

—  braised 155 

Liebig's  quick  beef-tea  —  Sick- 
room cookery  442 

List  of  cleaning  materials  and 
utensils    required    in    a 

kitchen \Z 


472 


Ijzdex. 


PAGE 

List  of  utensils  required  for  a  high- 
class  cookery  demon- 
stration    lesson     (local 

classes)  5 

—  utensils  required  for  a  plain 

class     cookery     demon- 
stration     lesson     (local 

classes)    7 

—  utensils  required  in  a  kit- 

chen    9 

Lobster  cutlets — Fish 224 

—  sauce — Fish 212 

MACCARONI  in  milk — Maccaroni  386 

—  with  cheese               —  386 

—  soup — Soups    200 

—  stewed  in  stock    388 

Mackerel  or  herring,  baked — Fish  232 

Marmalade     pudding — Puddings  343 

Mashed  potatoes— Vegetables    ...  248 

—  turnips — Vegetables  263 

Mayonnaise — Sauces  270 

Meat,  Australian. 

—  —           mince 51 

—  —           mulligatawny  40 

—  —           pie  44 

—  —          rissoles    46 

—  —           sausage  rolls  ...  42 

—  —          savoury  hash ...  49 

—  baking    22 

—  boiling    20 

—  fritters — Cooked  meat 29 

—  hashed — Cooked  meat 26 

—  minced — Cooked  meat    ...  39 

—  pie,  of  Australian  meat    ...  44 

—  pie,  beef-steak  123 

—  pudding,  beef-steak 125 

—  re-cooked — Curry 33 

—  re-cooked — Fried  rissoles  .  37 

—  re-cooked — Goblet  pie     ...  31 

—  re-cooked — Hashed  meat  .  26 

—  re-cooked — Meat  fritters    .  29 

—  re-cooked — Minced  meat  .  39 

—  re-cooked — Shepherd's  pie  35 

—  roasting 17 

Melted  butter  sauce — Sauces 2  74 


PAGE 

Milk  biscuits     412 

—  jelly     from     cow  -  heel — 

Jellies    361 

—  rolls    416 

—  soup — Soups 195 

Mince,  of  Australian  meat 51 

Minced  meat — Cooked  meat 39 

Mock-turtle — Soups 185 

Mutton,  boiled,  with  parsley  sauce 

— Sick-room  cookery    ...  438 

—  broth 147 

—  —     Sick-room    cookery  436 

—  —     Sick-room    cookery  438 

—  cutlets — Entrees   62 

—  haricot — Entrees  77 

—  haricot    157 

Mulligatawny,  of  Australian  meat  40 

New     potatoes     boiled  —  Vege- 
tables      246 

Norfolk  dumplings 351 

Oatmeal  biscuits   ,.  413 

Omelette,  savoury    385 

—  sweet 383 

—  soufflee — souffles  382 

Onion  sauce — Boiled  pig's  head  .  134 

Ox-cheek  soup — Stews  97 

—  stewed — Stews 96 

Ox-foot  jelly — Jellies 363 

Ox-tail  soup — Soups    191 

Oyster  sauce — Fish 229 

Pancakes — Puddings    298 

Pastry — beef-steak  pie    123 

—  beef-steak  pudding  125,  284 

—  Cornish  pasties  115 

—  flaky  crusts,  for  pies  and  tarts  290 

—  fruit  tart  of  short  crust     ...  278 

—  Genoese  pastry 280 

—  patty  cases  of  puff  paste  ...  277 

—  pie — Australian  meat    44 

—  pork  pie 130 

—  puffpaste 27c 

—  rabbit  pie I2T 

—  rissoles  of  Australian  meat  54 


Index. 


473 


PAGE 

Pastry — rissoles  of  chicken — Entrees   79 

—  roly-poly  pudding  . 284 

—  rough  puff  paste,  for  pies, 

tarts,  and  tartlets   282 

—  sausage  rolls 117 

—  —       rolls  of   Australian 
meat    46 

—  short  crust 278 

—  —    crust  for  apple  turn- 

overs and  dumplings      ...  287 

—  tartlets  of  puff  paste 276 

—  veal  and  ham  pie 119 

Patty  cases  of  puff  paste — Pastry  277 

Pea  soup — Soups 198 

Peas — Vegetables    261 

Pickle  for  meat    ,  392 

Pickled  cabbage  391 

Pie — Australian  meat 44 

—  beefsteak  123 

—  pork    130 

—  sea  132 

—  shepherd's,  of  cold  meat  ...  35 

—  rabbit 121 

—  veal  and  ham 119 

Pig's  head,  salted  and  boiled 134 

—  fry — Poor  man's  goose 128 

Piquante  sauce — Sauces. 271 

—  —     Sheep's  trotters...  160 

Plaice,  fried — Fish 237 

Plain  cake — Cakes 397 

Plum  cake — Cakes 401 

—  pudding, boiled — Puddings  302,328 

—  puddings,   baked — Puddings  349 

Poor  man's  goose — Pig's  fry 1 28 

Pork  pie   130 

Porter  jelly — fellies 365 

Potato  chips,  fried — Vegetables. . .  250 

—  croquettes — Vegetables     ..  252 

—  fried  slices  of — Vegetables  251 

—  souffle —Souffles  380 

Potatoes,  baked — Vegetables 249 

—  boiled — Vegetables  245 

—  mashed — Vegetables    248 

—  new,  boiled — Vegetables...  246 

—  puree  of — Soups  178 

—  saute — Vegetables    249 


PAGE 

Potatoes,  steamed — Vegetables...  246 

Pot-au-feu,  or  soup — Soups  188 

Pudding,  fish — Fish    214 

—  roly  poly — Pastry 284 

Puddings — Alexandra  pudding...  313 

—  amber  pudding  307 

—  apple  amber  pudding   347 

—  —     charlotte 296 

—  arrowroot  —  Sick  -  room 

cookery  425 

—  baked  batter  and  fruit 335 

—  baked  lemon 294 

—  baked  plum  pudding 349 

—  batter  pudding  in  a  cup  ...  320 

—  beef-steak  125 

—  beef-steak — Pastry   284 

—  blanc-mange 315 

—  boiled  batter 316 

--       —     lemon  pudding 332 

—  bread  and  butter  pudding  .  346 

—  bread-pudding  324 

—  brown  bread  pudding 309 

—  cabinet  pudding    292 

—  carrot  pudding 311 

—  cold  cabinet  pudding   337 

—  corn-flour  pudding    321 

—  corn-flour  pudding  in  a  cup  318 

—  curate's  pudding   323 

—  custard  pudding    301 

—  fig  pudding    341 

—  ginger  pudding 345 

—  marmalade  pudding 343 

—  pancakes    298 

—  plum  pudding   302 

—  —    puddings 328 

—  rice  pudding 300 

—  rice  pudding  (with  egg)    ...  322 

—  semolina  pudding 334 

—  suet  pudding 339 

—  tapioca  and  apples    330 

—  treacle  pudding     326 

—  Vennoise  pudding 305 

—  Yorkshire  pudding    340 

Puff  paste — Pastry  , 275 

—  rough,     for      pies,     tarts, 

and  tartlets — Pastry 282 


474 


Index. 


PAGE 

Puree,  haricot — Soups    204 

—  lentil — Soups    202 

—  potato — Soups 178 

—  vegetable — Soups 205 

Quenelles  of  veal— Entrees    ...  57 

Rabbit,  curry  of— Entrees    82 

—  pie 121 

—  stewed — Stews 94 

—  stuffed  and  roasted  149 

Regulations,  rules,   and   fees,    of 

the  National  Training  School  for 

Cookery    444 

Rice,  boiled 84 

—  —    Tripe 103 

—  buns   410 

—  water — Sick-room  cookery  427 

—  pudding       (with       egg) — 

Puddings     322 

—  pudding 300 

Rissoles,  fried — Cooked  meat    ...  37 

—  of  Australian  meat    46 

—  or  croquettes  of  chicken — 

Entrees  79 

Roast  rabbit  stuffed 149 

Roasting  meat 17 

Rock  cakes  406 

Rolls  of  bacon — Entrees    68 

Roly-poly  pudding — Pastry    284 

Rough  puff  paste,  for  pies,  tarts, 

and  tartlets— Pastry 282 

Salmon,  grilled— Fish  230 

Sauce,  anchovy — Fish     223 

—  bread 169 

—  brown — Sauces 268 

—  custard — Soumets     376 

—  Dutch — Sauces 272 

—  egg 146 

—  egg — Fish 216 

—  German — Puddings 310 

—  lobster— Fish    212 

—  mayonnaise — Sauces    270 

—  melted  butter — Sauces    ...  274 

—  oyster — Fish 229 


PAGE 

Sauce,  piquante — Sauces    271 

—  piquante — Sheep's  trotters  160 

—  Tartare — Fish 231 

—  tomato — Sauces    '..  273 

—  white— Sheep's  trotters  ...  160 

—  white — Sauces 267 

—  wine — Soumets 376 

—  wine  or  brandy — Puddings  304 
Sausage  rolls 117 

—  of  Australian  meat 42 

Saute  potatoes — Vegetables 249 

Savoury  custard — Clear  soup 172 

—  —     Sick-room  cookery  ...  443 

—  hash  of  Australian  meat...  49 

—  omelet   385 

Scones 414 

Sea  pie 132 

Seedcake — Cakes   399 

Semolina  pudding — Puddings    .  .  334 

—  soup — Soups     194 

Sheep's  head,  boiled 137 

—  —     broth 137 

—  —    browned    139 

—  trotters  160 

Shepherd's  pie — Cooked  meat  ...  35 

Short-bread  415 

Short  crust — Pastry 278 

—  for  apple   dumplings   and 

turnovers — Pastry    287 

Sick-room  cookery — apple  water  430 

—  —     arrowroot  pudding  425 

—  —     barley  water  (clear)  428 

—  —    barley  water  (thick)  429 

—  —    beef  essence 423 

—  —      —   tea 440)  441 

—  —     boiled  mutton,  with 

parsley  sauce 438 

—  —     bran  tea 435 

—  —     chicken  panada    ...  421 

—  —     cream  of  barley    ...  424 

—  —     cup  of  arrowroot  ...  425 

—  -     gruel  433 

—  —     lemonade  431 

—  —     Liebeg's  quick  beef 

tea 442 

—  —     mutton  broth       436,  438 


Index. 


475 


PAGE 

Sick-room  cookery — rice  water  ..  427 

—  —     savoury  custard    ...  443 

—  —    toast  and  water     ...  432 

—  —    treacle  posset    434 

—  —     white  wine  whey  ...  434 
Sole  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  fillets  of 

—Fish  220 

—  au  gratin — Fish    218 

—  fried  fillets  of— Fish 222 

Souffle  cheese — Souffles     378 

Souffles —omelette  soufflee    382 

—  potato — Souffles   380 

—  vanilla — Souffles  374 

Soup— ox- cheek — Stews 97 

Soups — bonne  femme  soup 176 

—  cabbage  soup    197 

—  clear  soup 170 

—  giblet  soup    183 

—  haricot  puree    204 

—  lentil  puree    » 202 

—  maccaroni  soup     200 

-—    milk  soup 195 

—  mock  turtle  soup  1 85 

—  mulligatawny  soup — Aus- 

tralian meat 40 

—  ox-tail  soup  191 

—  pea  soup    198 

—  pot-au-feu 1S8 

—  puree  of  potatoes 17& 

—  semolina  soup  104 

—  spring  vegetable  soup 180 

—  tapioca  cream  174 

—  vegetable  puree    205 

Spinach — Vegetables  259 

Spring  vegetable  soup — Soups  ...  180 

Strawberry  cream — Creams   371 

Steak,  grilled    141 

—  stewed   143 

Steamed  potatoes — Vegetables  ...  246 

Stock,  brown    207 

—  made  with  vegetables 209 

—  white 207 

Stew,  Irish — Entrees  75 

Stewed    beef  or   ox-cheek,    with 

vegetables  —  Pot  -  au- 

feu 188 


Stewed  breast  or  neck  of  lamb — 

Stews 98 

—  cow-heel,  with  onion  sauce 

— Jellies    362 

—  eels — Fish 241 

—  knuckle  of  veal — Stews...  100 

—  lentils— Vegetables 266 

—  maccaroni 388 

—  ox-cheek — Stews 96 

—  ox-foot — Jellies    366 

—  steak 143 

—  rabbit — Stews  94 

Stews — a-la-mode  beef   86 

—  Brazilian  stew  88 

—  Irish  stew 90 

—  stewed  breast  or  neck  of 

lamb 98 

—  —    brisket  of  beef  (cold)  92 

—  -—    knuckle  of  veal     ...  100 

—  —     ox-cheek    96 

—  —    rabbit     94 

Suet  crust — Pastry  284 

—  pudding — Puddings 339 

Sultana  cake — Cakes  393 

Tapioca  and  apples — Puddings  330 

—  cream — Soups  174 

Tart,  jam — Pastry   291 

—  fruit — Pastry 287 

—  -         -     278 

Tartare  sauce — Fish    231 

Tartlets  of  puff  paste — Pastry 276 

Toad-in-the-hole 145 

Toast    and    water  —  Sick  -  room 

cookery 432 

Tomato  sauce — Sauces    273 

Treacle  posset — Sick-room  cook- 
er   435 

—  pudding — Puddings 326 

Tripe  a  la  Coutance — Tripe    106 

—  boiled,  with  milk  and  onions  104 

—  curried  tripe 102 

Trussing  a  fowl  for  boiling 162 

—  a  fowl  for  roasting    166 

Turbot,  boiled — Fish 211 

Turnips  and  carrots— Vegetables  255 


476 


Index. 


PAGE 

Turnips,  mashed — Vegetables   ...  263 

Turnovers,  apple — Pastry  287 

Vanilla  cream— Creams  369 

—  souffle  — Souffles      374 

Veal,  curry  of — Entrees 82 

—  cutlets — Entrees  66 

—  fillet  of,  braised    109 

—  and  ham  pie 119 

—  stewed  knuckle  of — Stews  ico 

—  quenelles  of — Entries 57 

Vegetable  puree — Soups 205 

—  stock  209 

—  baked  potatoes 249 

—  boiled  cauliflower 257 

—  —    new  potatoes 246 

—  —    potatoes 245 

—  brussels  sprouts 254 

—  carrots   265 

—  —    and  turnips  255 

—  cauliflower  au  gratfn    258 

—  fried  potato  chips 250 

—  —    slices  of  potato 251 


PAGfl 

Vegetable  puree,  haricot  beans  ...  262 

—  mashed  potatoes  248 

—  —     turnips  263 

—  peas    261 

■ —    potato  croquettes 252 

—  saute  potatoes  , 249 

—  spinach 259 

—  steamed  potatoes 246 

—  stewed  lentils   266 

Vennoise  pudding — Puddings    ...  305 

White  sauce— Sauces    267 

—  —    sheep's  trotters 160 

—  stock 183 

—  wine    whey  —  Sick  -  room 

cookery 434 

Whitebait — Fish 217 

Wine  jelly  from  calf's  feet — Jellies  352 

—  or  brandy  sauce — Puddings  304 

—  sauce — Soufflets  376 

Yorkshire  pudding — Puddings  340 

—         tea  cakes  417 


THE    END. 


Richard  Clay  &  Sons,  Limited,  London  &>  Bungay. 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


"THE  SANITARY 


55 


55 


(Perkins'  Patent) 

"SEAMLESS  STEEL 

Sauce-pans,    Stew-pans,    Saute-pans, 

Fry-pans,      Bain-Marie-pans,     Stock 

Pots,  &c. 

Silver  /Ifeefcal,  Ibealtberies. 

Strong,  Durable,  Cleanly,  Planished,  &  Burnished. 

No  Verdigris. 
No  Enamel  Arsenic — No  Copper  Contamination — No  Brazing.     Coated  with  Pure 

Kenned  Tin. 

These  Goods  possess  all  the  Advantages,  but  none  of  the  Drawbacks  of  Copper  or  Enamel. 

SAME  THICKNESS  AND  WEIGHT  AS  THE  ORDINARY  COPPER  PANS. 

USED,  APPROVED,  AND  RECOMMENDED  BY  THE  NATIONAL  TRAIN 
ING  SCHOOL  FOR  COOKERY,  AND  REFRESHMENT  DEPARTMENTS 
OF    THE     HEALTH,    INVENTIONS,    COLONIAL,     INDIAN,     AND     HOME 

EXHIBITIONS,   &c. 

These  Utensils  are  thickly  coated  inside  and  out  with  Pure  Tin.  They  can  easily  be  re-tinned, 
but  the  bodies,  being  bright  steel,  are  equally  healthy,  cleanly,  and  uninjurious  to  food,  thus 
rendenhg'thehi  far  superior  to  copper.  Their  strength  and  ""thickness,  and  being  Seamless  Steel, 
make  them  practically  indestructible  and  not  liable  to  burn  their  contents.  Their  cost  being 
considerably  less  than  wr ought-iron,  and  about  one-third  the  price  of  copper,  they  should  be  used 
in  every  Household,  Cooking  School,  Restaurant,  Club,  &c.  Made  also  to  nest,  for  shipping,  and 
with  loose  handles  for  camp  use. 

Obtainable  from  all  Ironmongers,  Stores,  &e. 

WRITE    FOR    ILLUSTRATED    LIST. 

THE    PRINCESS    HAIR-DRYER   AND 
BURNISHER. 


Simpson's  Patent 


The  Size  of  an 
Ordinary  Hair-Brush. 


When  filled  with  boiling 
water,  dries  the  longest 
and  thickest  hair  after 
washing  in  ten  to  twelve 
minutes,  leaving  it 
glossy,  flexible,  clean, 
and  free  from  knots. 


(PATENTED   IN  EUROPE  AND  AMERICA.) 

As  Advertised,  f  Polished  Nickel  Silver,  in  box      7s.  6d. 
Post  Free.    \  Sterling*  Silver,  in  case        ...    55s.  Od. 

Used  by  the  Members  of  the  English  and  Russian  Royal  Families. 

SIMPSON'S    DEPOT    (ROOM    8),    42    SNOW    HILL, 

Write  for  Press  Opinions. 


MANUFACTURES  S 


B.  PERKINS  &  SON,  133  Bermondsey  St.,  S.E.,  &  42  Snow  Hill,  E.C. 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


AN  ENTIRELY  NEW  AND  ORIGINAL  COOKERY  BOOK. 

HILDA'S  'WHERE  IS  IT?'  OF  RECIPES. 

Containing  many  old  CAPE,  INDIAN,  and  MALAY  DISHES,  and 
PRESERVES  ;  also  directions  for  Polishing  Furniture,  Cleaning  Silk, 
&c. ;  and  a  Collection  of  Home  Remedies  in  Case  of  Sickness. 

By  Hildagonda  J.  Duckitt. 
FIFTH  THOUSAND. 
Interleaved  with  "White  Paper  for  adding  Recipes.     Crown  8vo.  45.  6d. 

The  Morning  Post  says: — "'Hilda's  "Where  is  it?"  of  Recipes'  may  be  recom" 
mended  as  containing  clear  directions  for  the  preparation  of  many  delicacies  for  the 
table.  The  recipes  include  Cape,  Indian  and  Malay  dishes  and  preserves,  some  of 
which  are  as  good  as  they  are  rare.  Space  has  also  been  found  for  other  matters 
besides  eatables,  and  the  possessors  of  this  small  volume  will  find  themselves  pro- 
vided with  directions  for  polishing  furniture,  cleaning  materials,  and  administering 
homely  remedies  to  the  sick." 

The  Princess  says  : — "  A  book  of  novel  arrangement.  .  .  .  There  are  instructions  in 
this  book  that,  I  suppose,  it  would  be  a  thousand  chances  one  would  ever  meet  else- 
where, some  of  them  as  old  as  a  century,  and  it  should  certainly  be  added  to  the 
collections  of  every  housewife." 

The  Saturday  Review  says : — "  A  capital  book  ...  a  most  interesting  collec- 
tion.   .    .    .    much  is  new,  and  what  is  not  is  often  newly  put." 

Vanity  Fair  says  : — "  The  author  lives  at  the  Cape,  and  has  collected  from  various 
sources — the  majority  of  them  the  archives  of  her  own  family — valuable  old  recipes, 
owned  and  practised  by  the  Malay,  Indian,  and  French  cooks,  whom  it  was  the 
custom  of  Cape  families  of  Dutch  descent  to  employ.  Attached  to  the  book  is  a, 
pencil,  intended  to  do  duty  on  the  blank  pages  left  for  the  purpose  of  memoranda 
writing,  where  recipes  from  other  sources  may  be  committed  to  paper." 

FIFTH  EDITION. 

THE  PYTCHLEY  BOOK  OF 

REFINED  COOKERY  AND  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

By  Major  L*****.     Large  Crown  8vo,  8s. 

"  The  author  has  done  his  work  in  the  proper  way.  He  begins  on  the  right  prin- 
ciple by  giving  a  gross  of  bills  of  fare.  They  supply  an  aim,  and  his  introductions  and 
general  rules  are  written  with  an  energy  which  can  hardly  fail  to  inspire  the  indis- 
pensable enthusiasm.     .     .     .     The   great  merit   of  Major   L 's  recipes  is,  that 

among  the  five  hundred  and  fifty-four  that  he  gives,  a  very  lai-ge  proportion  are  really 
possible  for  small  households." — Pall  Mall  Gazette. 

"The  author  has  arranged  his  volume  with  evident  care,  and  a  number  of  menus 
suitable  for  each  month  of  the  year  are  given  in  French  and  English.  They  are  dis- 
tinguished by  variety  and  economy,  and  are  manifestly  the  compilation  of  one  who 
knows  well  how  to  appreciate  a  good  dinner  well  served.  .  .  .  The  volume  cannot 
fail  to  prove  of  service  to  all  who  care  to  live  well,  and  at  the  same  time  to  study 
reasonable  economy." — Society. 

"This  is  a  volume  which  will  be  found  particularly  useful  during  the  approaching 
hunting  season,  and  to  those  who  are  in  the  habit  of  giving  hunt  breakfasts  or  similar 
parties  it  will  be  invaluable.  The  author  deals  with  the  subject  of  cookery  in  a  lucid 
and  exhaustive  manner,  a  special  feature  in  the  publication  being  a  collection  of  4  bills 
of  fare,'  which  comprises  twelve  for  each  month  of  the  year.  '  Wines  and  their  service ' 
are  also  dealt  with." — Sportsman. 

"  '  The  Pytchley  Book  of  Refined  Cookery  and  Bills  of  Fare,'  by  Major  L.,  is  evi- 
dently the  production  of  a  man  who  has  studied  the  gastronomic  art  with  great 
interest.  The  book  opens  with  a  number  of  menus  in  French  and  in  English,  twelve 
for  each  month,  and  then  goes  on  to  give,  shortly  and  clearly,  the  recipes  for  cooking 
the  dishes  which  have  been  set  out ;  and  it  leaves  nothing  to  be  desired.  It  is  hand- 
somely got  up,  and  beyond  doubt  will  have  a  considerable  popularity." — Scotsman. 

"  Contains  a  large  number  of  excellent  menus  and  a  good  deal  of  valuable  advice."— 
Athenceum, 


LONDON:  CHAPMAN  AND  HALL,  Limited. 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


in 


SAVES    TIMEf    TROUBLE    AND    EXPENSE  I 


WZ&M 


x  __SKPENNrPACKETWEMaKElaUARTOP 

lSMILLLLYT JELLY 

MO  BOILING  OR  S0AK1NC  RrODlEED.TQ  BltiAUDFfllLCRQCre 


S1NGLA.SSINE  is  confidently  recommended  for  preparing  all  Table  Jellies,  Blanc 
tange,  Creams,  etc.,  on  account  of  its  purity,  simplicity  in  use  and  economy.  It  contains 
lost  of  the  properties  of  the  purest  and  most  expensive  Isinglass,  and  will  be  found  to 
nswer  the  same  purpose  at  about  one-third  the  cost.  It  does  not  require  soaking  to 
repare  it,  the  simple  addition  of  boiling  water  rendering  it  ready  for  use  in  the  various 
ways  mentioned  in  the  directions  inclosed  in  each  packet. 


:r  ^ti?:^^:^ 'r^TzroEz?^:  mgg^^g^g  i  ^^^^^^g  w" 


&wm# 


Patent 

—  OUR   BEST  QUALITY  — ■ 


For  Home^^vBakinc 


Brown  &Polson' 
paisley  Flour 


A  New  Preparation  of 

Brown  6c  Poison's  Corn  F/our^ 

For  Howe  Baking. 

Makes  Bread  Digestible 
even  when  new. 

Write  for  a  Sample,  mentioning  this  Paper  to  th^nj^ 
at  941,  Queen  Victoria  Street,  LqndQd,  M» 


4 


ms^i^^w^m^^m^^mr^^r^r^i^^r^r^i^r^r^^^ 


.AAAAAAA-raS 


t 


iv  ADVERTISEMENTS. 


NINTH  THOUSAND. 

BREAKFAST  AND  SAVOURY  DISHES. 

By  It.  O.  C, 

Compiler  of  the  "  Official  Handbook  for  the  National  Training  School  for 


Cookery."    Crown  8vo,  Is. 


From  "THE  TIMES." 

"  The  success  which  has  attended  the  publication  of  the  '  Official  Handbook  of  the 
National  Training  School  for  Cookery  ' — a  collection  of  recipes,  indeed,  rather  than  a 
handbook  in  the  accepted  sense  of  the  title — has  encouraged  the  compiler,  R.  O.  C, 
to  issue  a  shilling  pamphlet  entitled  '  Breakfast  and  Savoury  Dishes,'  for  the  prepar- 
ation of  which  forty-three  recipes  have  been  drawn  up  with  careful  detail.  Loose 
phraseology  of  the  old  cookery  books,  such  as  take  a  '  little '  or  a  '  pinch '  or  a '  spoon- 
ful,' and  so  forth,  is  discarded,  and  precise  terms  and  quantities  are  used  instead.  At 
the  head  of  each  recipe  the  quantity  of  ingredients  required  for  carrying  out  the 
recipe,  and  the  cost  thereof,  are  given.  Of  the  forty-three  recipes  three  are  allotted 
to  the  preparation  of  potables  in  ordinary  use  at  the  British  breakfast-table.  A  warn- 
ing note  is  sounded  against  allowing  tea  to  stand  longer  than  five  minutes,  after  which 
the  decoction  becomes  charged  with  an  unwholesome  amount  of  tannin.  Deliberate 
operations  are  insisted  upon  for  the  making  of  good  coffee,  and  the  use  and  re-use  of 
cocoa-nibs  are  expounded.  Then  follow  ten  methods  of  making  breads,  scones, 
galettesr  muffins,  crumpets,  oat-cakes,  short-bread,  milk-rolls,  and  Yorkshire  tea-cakes. 
Somersetshire  girdle  (or  gridiron)  cake  might  very  well  have  been  added  to  this  list. 
A  daintier  and  not  more  costly  way  of  cooking  ceufs  au  beurre  noir  is  by  treating  each 
egg  separately,  and  serving  it  in  a  little  pipkin  or  cocote  ;  and  a  few  more  than  three 
recipes  for  various  savoury  omelettes  might  have  been  given  in  place  of  those  for 
potted  meats,  which  do  not  recommend  themselves  to  small  households  while  endless 
tins  of  potted  meats  are  procurable  at  any  grocer's.  Then  useful  recipes  for  cooking 
fish— including  a  succulent  arrangement  of  lobster  au  gratin  (at  a  cost  of  3s.  9d.)—- 
follow  next ;  and  the  series  concludes  with  recipes  for  grilled  and  devilled  chicken 
or  turkey,  and  for  pigeon  pie,  in  the  completion  of  which  the  necessity  of  following 
the  sound  practice  of  pouring  flavoursome  gravy  through  the  hole  in  the  crust  of  the 
baked  pie  is  enforced. 

"This  little  book,  as  will  be  seen,  is  intended  for  the  ready  and  managing  house- 
keeper.   But  a  Vatel  may  not  find  many  of  its  suggestions  beneath  his  notice." 


THE  ROYAL  CONFECTIONER:  English  and  Foreign. 
A  Practical  Treatise.  By  C.  E.  FRANCATELLI.  With  numerous 
Illustrations.     Sixth  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 


BREAKFASTS,  LUNCHEONS,  AND  BALL  SUPPERS. 

By  Major  L .     Crown  8vo,  45. 


SEVENTH  THOUSAND. 

HOW  TO  COOK  FISH.     A  Series  of  Lessons  in  Cookery, 

from  the  Official  Handbook  to  the  National  Training  School  for 
Cookery,  South  Kensington.     Compiled  by  "  R.  0.  C."     Crown  8vo, 

sewed,  '3d. 


THIRD  THOUSAND. 

SICK-ROOM  COOKERY.     From  the  Official  Handbook  to 

the  National  School  for  Cookery,  South  Kensington.     Compiled  by 
"  R.  0.  C."     Crown  8vo,  sewed,  6d. 


THE      KINGSWOOD     COOKERY     BOOK.      By    H.    F. 
WICKEN.     Crown  8vo,  2s. 


LONDON  :  CHAPMAN  AND  HALL,  Limited. 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


Odourless,  Smokeless,  Portable,  Safe,  and  Cleanly. 

RIPPINGILLE'S 
PATENT  PRIZE    MEDAL   g\ 

OIL-COOKING    OTOVES. 

Can  be  lighted  or  extinguished  in  a  moment. 
Superior  to  all  others  for  Roasting,  Baking", 

Boiling,   Stewing,   Steaming,    Frying, 

Toasting,  &C.,  in  the  most  economical  and 
successful  manner.  They  are  fitted  with  the 
MOST  POWERFUL  burners  ever  made. 
Three  meals  a  dav  can  be  cooked  at  the  cost  of 
One  Penny.  SAVE  KEEPING  A  FIRE  IN 
HOT  WEATHER.  Have  received  the  Highest 
Awards  wherever  Exhibited. 

THE  BEST  OIL  STOVES  IN  THE  WORLD. 

Of  all  Respectable  Ironmongers. 

Ask    for    RIPPINGILLE'S    PATENT 

STOVES,  and  see  the  name   in  full  is  upon    the  same.     Do   not   be   deceived  by 

WORTHLESS   IMITATIONS. 

Full  Illustrated  Catalogue  and  name  of  nearest  Agent,  together  with  a  Guide  to  Cookery, 
will  be  sent  free  on  application  to  the  Sole  Manufacturers, 

THE  ALBION  LAMP  CO.,  BIRMINGHAM. 

RIPPINGILLE'S. 

ADAMS  &  SON, 

MANUFACTURING  &  FURNISHING  IRONMONGERS, 

Electro-Platers    and    Cutlers, 

By  Appointment  to  Her  Majesty  the  Queen  and  H.R.H.  the  Prince  of  Wales, 

srr    hca.yihar,:k.:e:t,    s.w. 


Stockpot  Bain-marie.  Stewpan. 

BEST    HOUSE    IN  THE    TRADE    FOR 

KITCHEN  REQUISITES,  MOULDS,  and  all  the  latest  PARISIAN  NOVELTIES 

and  SPECIALITIES  for  the  CUISINE. 

Special  attention  being  given  to  this  Department. 

DEPOT  FOR  CAPTAIN  WARREN'S  PATENT  COOKING  POTS. 


lO  PER  CENT.  DISCOUNT  ALLOWED  FOR  CASH. 
Illustrated.    Catalogue    forwarded    on    application. 

3"7     IX^YJ&EA.K.JECET,      S.^OT. 


VI 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


George  Meredith's  Works. 


Uniform  Edition. 

One  of  our  Conquerors. 

Diana  of  the  Crossways. 

Evan  Harrington. 

The  Ordeal  of  Richard  Feverel. 

The  Adventures  of  Harry  Richmond. 

Sandra  Belloni. 


Crown  8vo,  3s.  6d.  each. 

Yittoria. 

Rhoda  Fleming. 

Beauchamp's  Career. 

The  Egoist. 

The  Shaving  of  Shagpat  and  Farina. 


The  6s.  Edition  is  still  to  be  had. 


Charles  Dickens's  Works. 

THE       ONLY      COMPLETE       COPYRIGHT       EDITIONS 

THE   HALF-GROWN   EDITION. 

This  Edition  contains  the  whole  of  Dickens's  Works,  with  all  the  Original  Illustrations,  is  com- 
plete in  21  crown  8vo  vols.,  and  is  printed  from  the  Edition  that  was  carefully  corrected  by 
the  Author  in  1867  and  1868.    Price  2s.  6d,  each. 

The  Pickwick  Papers.    With  43  Illustrations  by 

Seymour  and  "  Phiz." 
Barnab^  Rudge :   a  Tale  of  the  Riots  of  '80. 

With  76  Illustrations  by  George  Catterinole  and 

H.  K.  Browne. 
Oliver  Twist.    With  24  Illustrations  by  George 

Cruikshank. 
The  Old  Curiosity  Shop.    With  75  Illustrations 

by  George  Cattermole  and  H.  K.  Browne. 
David   Copperfield.     With  40  Illustrations  by 


Phiz. 
Nicholas  Nickleby. 

"Phiz." 
Martin  Chuzzlewit. 

"Phiz." 
Dombev  and  Son. 

"Phiz." 
Sketches  by  "Boz." 

George  Cruikshank. 
Christmas  Books. 


With  40  Illustrations  by 

With  40  Illustrations  by 

With  40  Illustrations  by 

With  40  Illustrations  by 

With    63   Illustrations  by 


Landseer,  Doyle,  Maclise,  Leech,  &c. 


Bleak  House.    With  40  Illustrations  by  "  Phiz." 

Little  Dorrit.    With  40  Illustrations  by  "Phiz." 

Christmas  Stories  from  "  Household  Words." 
With  14  Illustrations  by  Dalziel,  Green,  Ma- 
honey,  &c. 

American  Notes  and  Reprinted  Pieces.  With 
8  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone  and  F.  Walker. 

Hard  Times  and  Pictures  from  Italy.  With 
8  Illustrations  by  F.  Walker  and  Marcus  Stone. 

A  Child's  History  of  England.  With  8  Illustra- 
tions by  Marcus  Stone. 

Great  Expectations.  With  8  Illustrations  by 
Marcus  Stone. 

A  Tale  of  Two  Cities.  With  16  Illustrations  by 
"Phiz." 

Uncommercial  Traveller.  With  8  Illustrations 
by  Marcus  Stone. 

Our  Mutual  Friend.  With  40  Illustrations  by 
Marcus  Stone. 

Edwin  Drood,  and  other  Stories.     With  12 

Illustrations  by  Luke  Fildes. 


THE  OTHER  EDITIONS  OF  DICKENS'S  WORKS  ARE:— 

THE     ILLUSTRATED     LIBRARY    EDITION. 

With  the  Original  Illustrations.    Complete  in  30  Volumes.    Demy  8vo,  10s.  each. 

THE     LIBRARY    EDITION. 

With  the  Original  Illustrations.    Complete  in  30  Volumes.    Post  8vo,  red  cloth,  8s.  each. 

THE    CROWN     EDITION. 

Complete  in  17  Volumes.    Containing  all  the  Original  Illustrations  ;  and  the  Letterpress  printed  from 

Type  especially  cast  for  this  Edition.    Large  Crown  8vo,  5s.  each. 

THE    PICTORIAL     EDITION. 

Containing  upwards  of  Nine  Hundred  Engravings.    Complete  in  17  Volumes.    Royal  8vo,  3s.  6d.  each. 

THE    CABINET     EDITION. 

In  32  Volumes,  small  fcap.  8vo,  Marble  Paper  Sides,  Cloth  Backs,  with  uncut  edges,  Is.  6d.  each.    Each 

Volume  contains  Eight  Illustrations  reproduced  from  the  Originals.    In  sets  only,  bound  in  blue  or 

red  cloth,  with  cut  edges,  £2  8s. 


CHAPMAN    &    HALL,     Limited,     LONDON. 


ADVERTISEMENTS.  vii 


INDEX     TO     ADVERTISERS 

IN   THE 

ELEVENTH  EDITION   OF    THE    OFFICIAL    HANDBOOK 


NATIONAL   TRAINING   SCHOOL   FOR   COOKERY. 


PAGE 

Adams  &  Son— "Kitchen  Requisites"     v. 

Borwick  &  Sons — "  Baking  Powder  " Second  Page  of  Cover 

Brown  &  Polson—"  Corn  Flour" iii. 

Chapman  &  Hall— "Publishers" ii.,  iv.,  vi.,  viii. 

Florador Second  Page  of  Cover 

Gridley  &  Co.— "Isinglassine" iii. 

Keen,  Robinson  &  Co. — "Mustard" Facing  Second  Page  of  Cover 

Liebig's  Extract  of  Meat  Co.— "  Extract  of  Meat  " Facing  Title  Page 

Lovelock,  J.  F.—" Mincing  and  Sausage-Making  Machines" vii. 

Marshall,  James—  "Farola" Facing  Third  Page  of  Cover 

Menier—  "Chocolat-Menier" Third  Page  of  Cover 

Perkins,  B.,  &  Son— "Sanitary  Seamless  Steel  Kitchen  Requisites" i. 

Rippingille—  "Oil  Cooking  Stoves" v. 


LOVELOCKS 

IMPROVED 

MINCING  AND  SAUSAGE-MAKING  MACHINES  AND 
COFFEE  MILLS  FOR  DOMESTIC  USE. 


They  are  unrivalled  for  simplicity  and  efficiency,  and  for  promoting  domestic  economy 
are  invaluable  in  every  household.  Can  be  obtained  of  Ironmongers  and  Dealers  in  all 
parts  of  the  World.  ^Purchasers  are  cautioned  against  imitations. 

I  F.  LOVELOCK,  Broadway  Works,  201  Mare  Street,  Hackney,  London. 

ESTABLISHED  1856. 


Vlll 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


CHAPMAN'S   MAGAZINE   OF   FICTION 

Edited  by    OSWALD    CRAWFURD. 

PRICE    SIXPENCE,    MONTHLY. 


A  NON-ILLUSTRATED  MONTHLY  PERIODICAL  AT  THE  PRICE  OF  6d., 

DEVOTED   TO   FICTION   ONLY, 

CHAPMAN'S    MAGAZINE, 

is  in  size,  shape,  and  literary  quality,  a  counterpart  in  regard  to  fiction,  of  what  the 
FORTNIGHTLY  REVIEW  is  in  regard  to  political  and  social  essay  writing. 

The  following  Authors  are  among  the  Contributors  to  Chapman's  .Magazine,  and 
every  effort  is  made  to  bring  forward  the  work  of  new  and  promising  writers  of  fiction. 


GRANT  ALLEN. 
HAMILTON  AIDE. 
E.  F.  BENSON, 
WALTER  BESANT. 
Mrs.  CLIFFORD. 
S.  R.  CROCKETT. 
GEORGE  GISSING. 
THOMAS  HARDY. 
BEATRICE   HARRADEN. 
BRET  HARTE. 
JOHN  OLIVER  HOBBES. 
ANTHONY  HOPE. 


E.  W.  HORNUNG. 
VIOLET  HUNT. 
HENRY  JAMES.      . 
J.  K.  JEROME. 
RUDYARD  KIPLING. 
Mrs.  LYNN  LINTON. 
IAN  MACLAREN. 
FRANKFORT  MOORE. 
GEORGE  MOORE. 
BARRY  PAIN. 
GILBERT  PARKER. 
JAMES  PAYN. 


F.  C.  PHILIPS. 
RICHARD  PRYCE. 
W.  E.  NORRIS. 
EDEN  PHILLPOTTS. 
MORLEY  ROBERTS. 
W.  CLARK  RUSSELL. 
Mrs.  F.  A.  STEELE. 
FLORENCE  WARDEN. 
MARRIOTT  WATSON. 
STANLEY  WEYMAN. 
I.  ZANGWILL. 


Chapman's  Magazine  represents  a  new  departure  in  the  publication  of  fiction.  In 
their  Magazine,  Messrs.  Chapman  &  Hall  are  offering,  at  the  price  of  6d.,  a  monthly 
volume  equal  in  amount  of  reading  matter  to  an  ordinary  6s.  novel,  and  containing,  as 
will  be  evident  by  a  glance  at  the  above  list  of  contributors,  fiction  by  the  best  available 
writers  of  this  country  and  America.  In  the  course  of  a  twelvemonth  they  give  to  their 
subscribers,  for  6s.,  twelve  such  volumes  of  varied  fiction  of  the  highest  class. 


TERMS    OF    SUBSCRIPTION 


OF 

CHAPMAN'S   MAGAZINE, 

direct  from  the  Publishers,  or  any  of  the  Booksellers  and  Newsagents,  will  be,  for 
the  whole  year,  free  by  post  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom,  payable  in  advance, 
9s. 

The  price  of  the  volumes  (containing  four  numbers)  of  Chapman's  Magazine, 
bound  in  a  highly  decorative  cloth  case,  in  colours  and  gold,  and  gilt  top,  is  Four 
Shillings,  from  all  Booksellers  and  Newsagents ;  and  post  free  from  Messrs. 
Chapman  &  Hall,  4s.  6d. 

The  case  for  binding  can  be  had  separately  through  all  Booksellers  and  Newsagents 
for  Is.  6d.,  and  post  free  from  Messrs.  Chapman  &  Hall  for  Is.  9d. 


CHAPMAN  &  HALL,  Limited,  LONDON. 


April,  1896 


GENERAL     CATALOGUE 
OF    BOOKS 


PUBLISHED    BY 


CHAPMAN   AND    HALL,   Ld. 


LONDON 
n,   HENRIETTA   STREET,:  CO  VENT  GARDEN,  W.C 

AGENTS    FOR 

THE  SCIENCE  AND  ART  DEPARTMENT,  SOUTH  KENSINGTON,  and 

MESSRS.  JOHN  WILEY   &   SONS  of   NEW  YORK 

FOR  LIST  OF  DIFFERENT  CA  TA  LOG  WES  ISSUED,  SEE  FACE  47 


NOTICE. 


MESSRS.  CHAPMAN  6-  HAIL  NOW  HOLD  THE  EXCLU- 
SIVE AGENCY  FOR  THE  SALE  IN  ELLIS  COUNTRY,  ON 
THE  CONTINENT,  AND  IN  THE  COLONIES,  OF  THE 
LMPORTANT  SCLENTLF1C,  EDUCATLONAL,  AND  TECHNL- 
CAL  WORKS  PUBLLSHED  BY  MESSRS.  WILEY  &  SONS, 
OF  NEW  YORK,  AN  AGENCY  HITHERTO  DISTRIBUTED 
AMONG  SEVERAL  OF  THE  CHLEF  LONDON  PUBLISHERS. 
THE  VARIOUS  PUB  LLC  A  TIONS  OF  MESSRS.  WILE  Y  &>  SONS 
DEAL  WLTH  M/LLTARY  AND  NAVAL  ENGLNEERLNG, 
ASTRONOMY,  CHEMLSTRY,  ASSAYING,  CIVIL  AND 
MECHANICAL  ENGINEERING,  METALLURGY  AND 
MINERALOGY,   AND  PHYSICS. 

MESSRS.  CHAPMAN  &  LI  ALL  HAVE  A  SPACIOUS  AND 
WELL-APPOINTED  BOOK  ROOM  ON  THE  GROUND  FLOOR 
OF  THEIR  PREMISES  IN  HENRIETTA  STREET,  COVE  NT 
GARDEN,  WHERE  ANY  OF  THE  BOOKS  NAMED  IN  THIS 
CATALOGUE  CAN  BE  LNSPECTED,  AS  WELL  AS  THOSE 
PUBLLSLLED  BY  MESSRS.  JO  LIN  WILEY  £r=  SONS,  OF 
NEW  YORK,  TOGETHER  WITH  A  VARIED  DISPLAY  OF 
MODELS,  DL AGRA  MS,  DRAWLNG  EXAMPLES,  INSTRU- 
MENTS, MECHANICAL  AND  OTHER  APPARATUS,  &c,  &V. 

A  LLST  OF  SPECIAL  CATALOGUES  WILL  BE  FOUND  ON 
PAGE  47,  COPLES  OF  WHICH  WILL  BE  FORWARDED  TO 
ANY  ADDRESS  ON  APPLICATION. 


BOOKS 

PUBLISHED   BY 

CHAPMAN  &  HALL,  Limited. 


ABOUT  (Edmund).— HANDBOO K  OF  SOCIAL  ECONOMY; 
or,  The  Worker's  ABC.  From  the  French.  With  a  Biographical 
and  Critical  Introduction  by  W.  Fraser  Rae.  Second  Edition, 
revised.     Crown  8vo,  4x. 

ADAMS  (Henry),  M.I.C.E.,  Sec— MACHINE  CONSTRUC- 
TION AND  DRAWING:  A  Key  to  the  Examinations  of  the 
Science  and  Art  Department  (Subject  II.).  Elementary.  With 
numerous  Illustrations.     Crown  Svo,  2s.  Qd. 

Advanced.     With  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

BUILDING  CONSTRUCTION.    Key  to  Examinations 

of  Science    and   Art   Department    (Subject  III.).     With    Numerous 
Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  4j\ 

AFLALO  (F.  G.)  and  PASKE  (Surg.-Gen^.— THE  SEA 
AND  THE   ROD.     With  Illustrations.     Crown   8vo,  4*.  Qd. 

AGRICULTURAL  SCIENCE.— LECTURES  ON  AGRI- 
CULTURAL SCIENCE,  and  other  Proceedings  of  the  Institute  of 
Agriculture,  South  Kensington,  1883-4.         Crown  8vo,  sewed,  2s. 

AIDE  (Hamilton).— ELLZABETH'S  PRETENDERS.  A 
novel.     Second  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  Qs. 

ANDREWS  (T.  N.).—  A  COMPLETE  AND  COMPREHEN- 
SIVE COURSE  OF  SCALE  DRAWING.  For  Students,  Civil 
Engineers,  and  others.     Crown  4to,  Is.  Qd. 

ANGEL  (Henry).—  PRACTICAL  PLANE  AND  SOLLD 
GEOMETRY.  A  Key  to  the  Examinations  of  the  Science  and  Art 
Department  (Subject  I.).     Crown  8vo,  Ss.  Qd. 

ASHTON  (John).— IN  THE  DAYS  OF  WILLIAM' THE 
FOURTH.     With  Illustrations.     Crown  Svo. 

AVELING  (Edward),  D.Sc.—MECHANLCS  AND  EXPERL- 
MENTAL  SCIENCE.  As  required  for  the  Matriculation  Examina- 
tion of  the  University  of  London. 

MECHANICS.    With  numerous  Woodcuts.    Crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

Key  to  Problems  in  ditto,  crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 
CHEMISTR  Y.    With  numerous  Woodcuts.    Crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

Key  to  Problems  in  ditto,  crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 
MAGNETISM    AND    ELECTRICITY.       With    numerous 

Woodcuts.     Crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 
LIGHT  AND   HEAT.     With  numerous  Woodcuts.     Crown 
Svo,  2s.  Qd. 
Keys  to  the  last  two  vols,  together.     Crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

BAILEY     (Captain    H.).— CONGO    FREE    STATE    AND 
ITS     BIG     GAME    SHOOTING,     TRAVEL  AND   ADVEN- 
TURES.    Illustrated  from  the  Author's  sketches.     Demy  8vo,  14^. 
A   2 


4  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

BAILEY  (John  Burn).— FROM  SINNER  TO  SAINT;    or, 
Character  Transformations.      Crown  8vo,  6.r. 


■ MODERN METHUSELAHS ;  or,  Short  Biographical 

Sketches  of  a  few  advanced  Nonagenarians  or  actual  Centenarians. 
Demy  8vo,  10*.  Qd. 

BAKER  (W.  L.).—  THE  BEAM;  or,  Technical  Elements  of 
Girder  Construction.     Crown  8vo,  4.?. 

BEATTY-KINGSTOMT  (W.).  —  A  JOURNALISTS  JOT- 
TINGS.    2  vols.    Demy  8vo,  24j. 

A  WANDERERS  NOTES.     2  vols.    Demy  8vo,  24.$-. 

BELL  (James),  Ph.D.— THE  CHEMISTRY  OF  FOODS. 
With  Microscopic  Illustrations. 

Part   I.     TEA,    COFFEE,    COCOA,  SUGAR,   &c.     Large 

crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 
Part     II.       MILK,     BUTTER,     CHEESE,     CEREALS, 
PREPARED  STARCHES,  &c.     Large  crown  8vo,  3s. 

BENTLEY  (H.  Cumberland).— SONGS  AND  VERSES. 
Illustrated  by  Finch  Mason,  and  dedicated  to  J.  G.  Whyte 
Melville.     Crown  8vo,  4^. 

BINGHAM  (Capt.    the    Hon.  D.).— RECOLLECTIONS    OF 

PARIS.     2  vols.     Large  crown  8vo.  18j-. 
BILLINGTON     (Mary    Frances).  —  WO  MA  N    IN    INDIA. 

Dedicated  by  permission   to    H.R.H.   the   Duchess   of  Connaught. 

With  an  Introduction   by  the   Marchioness   of    Dufferin   and 

Ava,  C.I.,  and  numerous  Illustrations  by  Herbert  Johnson  and 

others.     Demy  8vo,  14.?. 

BIRDW00D  (Sir  Geo.),  C.S.I.— THE  INDUSTRIAL  ARTS 
OF  INDIA.  With  Map  and  174  Illustrations.  New  Edition. 
Demy  8vo,  14j. 

"BLACK  AND  WHITE,"   STORIES  FROM.      By   Grant 

Allen,  Mrs.  Lynn  Lynton,  J.  M.  Barrie,  Mrs.  Oliphant, 
W.  Clark  Russell,  Thomas  Hardy,  W.  E.  Norris,  and  James 
Payn.     With  numerous  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

BL00MFIELD  (Lord).— MEMOIR  OF  BENJAMIN  LORD 
BLOOMFIELDS  MISSION  TO  THE  COURT  OF  PER- 
NADOTTE.     With  Portraits.     2  vols.     Demy  8vo,  28.r. 

B0NVAL0T  (Gabriel).—  THROUGH  THE  HEART  OF 
ASIA  OVER  THE  PAMIR  TO  INDIA.  Translated  from  the 
French  by  C.  B.  Pitman.  With  250  Illustrations  by  Albert 
Peptn.     2  vols.     Royal  8vo,  32s. 

BOS  (Dr.  J.  Ritzema).  —  AGRICULTURAL  ZOOLOGY. 
Translated  by  Professor  J.  R.  Ainsworth  Davis,  B.A.,  F.C.P. 
With  an  Introduction  by  Miss  E.  A.  Ormerod,  F.R.Met.S., 
F.R.M.S.,  &c.      With  149  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

BOYLE  (Frederick).—  FROM  THE  FRONTIER;  Sketches 
and  Stories  ot  Savage  Life.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

ABOUT  ORCHIDS.  A  Chat.  With  Coloured  Illus- 
trations.    Large  crown  8vo,  fts. 

THE  PROPHET  JOHN.    A  Romance.     Cr.  8vo,  5s. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  5 

BOYLE  (F.)  and  RTJSSAN  (A.).  —  THE  ORCHID 
SEEKERS :  A  Story  of  Adventure  in  Borneo.  Illustrated  by 
Alfred  Hartley.     Crown  8vo,  7  s.  Qd. 

BRACKENBTJRY  (Col.  C.  B.).— FREDERICK  THE  GREAT. 
With  Maps  and  Portrait.     Large  crown  8vo,  4j. 

BRADLEY  (Thomas).— ELEMENTS  OF  GEOMETRICAL 
DRA  WING.  In  two  Tarts,  with  Sixty  Plates.  Oblong  folio,  half 
bound,  16.T.  each  Part. 

BREWER  (J.  J.).—CONJUGA  TIONS  OF  FRENCH  VERBS, 
A  UXIL1AR  Y  AND  REGULAR.     2d. 

■ CONJUGA  TJONS  OF  IRREGULAR  AND  DEFEC- 
TIVE FRENCH  VERBS.  Classified.  With  Notes.  Limp 
cloth,  Qd. 

BRIDGMAN  (F.  A.).— WINTERS  IN  ALGERIA.  With  62 
Illustrations.     Royal  8vo,  10s.  Qd. 

BROCK  (Dr.  J.  H.  E.).— ELEMENTS  OF  HUMAN  PHYSI- 
OLOGY FOR  THE  HYGIENE  EXAMINATIONS  OF  THE 
SCIENCE  AND  ART  DEPARTMENT.     Crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

BROMLEY-DAVENPORT  (W.).— SPORT :  Fox  Hunting, 
Salmon  Fishing,  Covert  Shooting,  Deer  Stalking.  With  Numerous 
Illustrations  by  General  Crealock,  C.B.  New  Cheap  Edition. 
Post.  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

BUCKLAND  (Frank).— LOG-BOOK  OF  A  FISHERMAN 
AND  ZOOLOGIST.  With  Illustrations.  Sixth  Thousand. 
Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

BUFFEN  (F.  F.).— MUSICAL  CELEBRITIES:  Portraits  and 
Biographies.     Second  Series.     Crown  4to,  21s. 

BURCHETT  (R.).— LINEAR  PERSPECTIVE,  for  the  Use  of 

Schools  of  Art.    New  Edition.    With  Illustrations.    Post  8vo,  cloth,  7s. 

PRACTICAL  GEOMETRY:  The  Course  of  Con- 
struction of  Plane  Geometrical  Figures.  With  137  Diagrams. 
Eighteenth  Edition.     Post  8vo,  cloth,  5s. 

BURTON  (Lady  Isabel).—  THE  LIFE  OF  SIR  RICHARD 
FRANCIS  BURTON.  With  Portraits,  numerous  Coloured  and 
other  Illustrations,  and  Maps.     2  vols,  demy  8vo,  0.2s. 

CARLYLE  (Thomas).— THOUGHTS  ON  LIFE.  Selected  by 
Robert  Duncan.  With  a  Photogravure  Portrait.  Crown  8vo, 
Is.  Qd.  ;  in  paper  covers,  Is. 

A  limited  edition  on  Hand-made  Paper,  5s. 

THE  CARLYLE   BIRTHDAY  BOOK.     Compiled 

by  C.  N.  Williamson.     Second  Edition.     Small  fcap.  8vo,  3s. 

*#*  For  detailed  list  of  the  different  editions  of  Carlyle's  Works, 
see  page  31. 

CARSTENSEN  (A.  Riis).— TWO  SUMMERS  IN  GREEN- 
LAND: An  Artist's  Adventures  among  Ice  and  Islands  in  Fjords 
and  Mountains.  With  numerous  Illustrations  by  the  Author.  Demy 
8vo,  14j. 


6  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hail,  Ltd. 

CERVANTES.— THE  LIFE  OF  MIGUEL  CERVANTES 
SAAVEDRA  :  A  Biographical,  Literary,  and  Historical  Study,  with 
a  Tentative  Bibliography  from  1585  to  1892,  and  an  Annotated 
Appendix  on  the  "  Canto  de  Caliope."  By  James  Fitzmaurice 
Kelly.     Demy  8vo,  16s. 

CHARACTER  IN  THE  FACE.  Physiognomical  Sketches. 
Our  Looks  and  what  they  mean.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

CHAPMAN'S  MAGAZINE  OF  FICTION.  Monthly.  Qd. 
Volumes  bound  in  decorative  cloth,  in  colours  and  gold,  gilt  top, 
4.?.     Cases  for  binding,  Is.  Qd.     See  page  48. 

CHAPMAN'S  STORY  SERIES.  A  Series  of  Short  Novels  of 
Adventure,  Action  and  Incident.  Each  Volume  contains  a  Frontis- 
piece and  will  be  of  about  216  pages  in  length.     Small  crown  8vo. 

1.  THE  LONG  ARM.      By   Mary   E.  Wilkins,   and   other 

Detective  Stories  by  Geo.  Ira  Brett,  Roy  Tellet  and 
Professor  Brander'  Matthews.  With  a  Frontispiece  by 
Adolph  Birkenruth.     Ss.  Qd.  in  cloth ;  2s.  Qd.  in  paper. 

2.  IN  A  HOLLO W  OF  THE  HILLS.      By  Bret  Harte, 

with  a  Frontispiece  by  St.  Mar  FitzGerald.  3s.  Qd.  in 
cloth  ;  2s.  Qd.  in  paper. 

3.  AT   THE   SIGN   OF    THE    OSTRICH      By  Charles 

James.  With  a  Frontispiece  by  Adolph  Birkenruth. 
Ss.  Qd.  in  cloth  ;  2s.  Qd.  in  paper. 

4.  THE     WHITE    FEATHER:     and    Other    Stories.       By 

Oswald    Crawfurd,    with   a    Frontispiece    by    Adolph 
Birkenruth.     2s.  Qd.  in  cloth  ;  2s.  in  paper. 
Other  Volumes  by  well-known  Writers  to  follow. 

CHARLOTTE  ELIZABETH.—  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF 
CHARLOTTE  ELIZABETH,  Princess  Palatine  and  Mother  of 
Philippe  d'Orleans,  Regent  of  France,  1652- 1722.  With  Portraits. 
Demy  8vo,  \0s.  Qd. 

CHURCH    (Prof.    A.    H.).—  FOOD    GRAINS    OF   INDIA. 

With  numerous  Woodcuts.     Small  4to,  3s. 
ENGLISH  PORCELAIN.    A  Handbook  to  the  China 

made  in  England  during  the  Eighteenth  Century.     With  numerous 

Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  3s. 

ENGLISH  EARTHENWARE.    A  Handbook  to  the 


Wares  made  in  England  during  the  17th  and  1 8th  Centuries.     With 
numerous  Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  3s. 

PLAIN   WORDS   ABOUT    WATER.     Illustrated. 


Revised  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  sewed,  Qd. 

FOOD :  Some  Account  of  its  Sources,  Constituents,  and 


Uses.     A  New  and  Revised  Edition.     Large  crown  8vo,  3s. 

PRECIOUS  STONES:  considered  in  their  Scientific 


and   Artistic    Relations.      With   a   Coloured    Plate    and   Woodcuts. 
Second  Edition.     Large  crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

COLLINS  (Wilkie)  and  DICKENS  (Charles).—  THE  LAZY 
TOUR  OF  TWO  I  DIE  APPRENTICES ;  NO  THOROUGH- 
FARE ;  and  THE  PERILS  OF  CERTAIN  ENGLISH 
PRISONERS.     With  8  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  5.y. 


Books  pub  lis  J  ted  by  Chapman  &  Ha//,  Ltd.  7 

COOKERY.— 

COOKERY  UP  TO  DATE.  By  Mrs  HUMPHRY 
("  Madge,"  of  Truth.)     Crown  Svo,  3s.  6,/. 

ST.   JAMES'S  COOKERY  HOOK.     By  Louisa   Roch- 

fort.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  6/. 
DINNERS  IN  MINIATURE.     By  .Mrs.    Earl.     Crown 

Svo,  2s.  6d. 

HILDA'S  "WHERE  IS  IT?"  OE  RECIPES.  Contain- 
ing many  old  CAPE,  INDIAN,  and  MALAY  DISHES  and 
PRESERVES  ;  also  Directions  (or  Polishing  Furniture,  Cleaning 
Silk,  &c.  ;  and  a  Collection  of  Home  Remedies  in  Case  of  Sick- 
ness. By  HlLDAGONDA  J.  DUCKITT.  Sixth  Thousand.  Crown 
8vo.  4:S.  6  J. 

THE  PYTCHLEY  BOOK  OF   REE  J NED  COOKERY 

AND  BILLS  OF  FARE.     By  Major  L .     Fifth  Edition. 

Large  crown  Svo,  Ss. 

BREA  KFA  S  TS,  L  UNCHEONS,  A  ND  BA  LL  S  UPPERS. 
By  Major  L .     Crown  Svo,  4j. 

OFFICIAL  HANDBOOK  OE  THE  ACTIONAL 
TRAINING  SCHOOL  FOR  COOKER  Y.  Containing  Lessons 
on  Cookery,  forming  the  Course  of  Instruction  in  the  School. 
Compiled  by  "  R.  O.  C."  A  New  and  Cheaper  Edition. 
(Twenty-fourth  Thousand.)      Large  crown  8vo,  3s.  6d. 

BREAKFAST  AND  SAVOURY  DISHES.  By"R.O.C." 
Ninth  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  Is. 

THE  ROYAL  CONFECTIONER:  English  and  Foreign. 
By  C.  E.  Francatelli.  With  Illustrations.  Sixth  Thousand. 
Crown  Svo,  5s. 

COOPER-KING  (Lt.-Col.)  —  GEORGE  WASHLNGTON. 
With  Portrait,  Maps,  and  Plans.     Large  crown  8vo,  6s. 

C0JJTLT-NJ2,Y(W.-L.),-M..A.,Ij-L.I).— STUDIES  ATLEISURE. 
Crown  Svo,  Qs. 

STUDIES  NEW  AND  OLD.     Crown  Svo,  6s. 

CONSTRUCTIVE:  ETHICS:   A   Review  of  Modern 

Philosophy   and  its  Three  Stages  of  Interpretation,  Criticism,  and 
Reconstruction.     A  New  and  Cheap  Edition.     Demy  Svo,  3s.  6d. 

CBAIK  (George  Lillie).— ENGLISH  OF  SHAKESPEARE. 

Illustrated  in  a  Philological  Commentary  on  "Julius  Caesar."     Eighth 
Edition.     Post  Svo,  cloth,  5s. 

OUTLINES     OF     THE    HISTORY    OF     THE 

ENGLISH   LANGUAGE.      Eleventh   Edition.     Post   8vo,    cloth, 
2s.  6d. 

CRAWFURD  (Oswald).  —  L  YRICAL  VERSE  FROM 
ELIZABETH  TO  VICTORIA.  Edited  by  Oswald  Crawfurd. 
With  Copious  Notes,  Index  of  Writers,  and  Index  of  First  Lines. 
Small  crown  8vo,  cloth,  gilt  top,  3s.  6d.  net. 

A  limited  edition  of  50  copies,  on  large  paper,  numbered,  levant 
morocco,  gilt  top,  £1  Is. 


8  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

CRAWFURD   (Oswald),  cont.—THE   WHITE  FEATHER: 
and  Other  Stories.     Chapman's  Story  Series. 

DIALOGUES  OF  THE  DAY.    Edited  by  Oswald 

Crawfurd,  and  written  by  Anthony  Hope,  Violet  Hunt, 
Marion  Hepworth  Dixon,  and  others.  With  20  full-page  Illustra- 
tions.    Crown  4to,  5s. 

A  YEAR  OF  SPORT  AND  NATURAL  HISTORY. 

Shooting,  Hunting,  Coursing,  Falconry,  and  Fishing.  With  Chapters 
on  Birds  of  Prey,  the  Nidification  of  Birds,  and  the  Habits  of  British 
Wild  Birds  and  Animals.  Edited  by  Oswald  Crawfurd.  With 
numerous  Illustrations  by  Frank  Feller,  Cecil  Aldin,  Stanley 
Berkeley,  G.  E.  Lodge,  etc.     Demy  4to,  21s.  net. 

ROUND     THE    CALENDAR    IN   PORTUGAL. 


With  numerous  Illustrations.     Royal  8vo,  18j. 

CRIPPS  (Wilfred  Joseph),  M.A.,  F.S. A.— COLLEGE  AND 
CORPORATION  PLATE.  A  Hand-book  for  the  Reproduction 
of  Silver  Plate.  With  numerous  Illustrations.  Large  crown  8vo, 
cloth,  2s.  6d. 

CUMBERLAND  (Stuart):—  WHAT* I  THINK  OF  SOUTH 
AFRICA,  ITS  PEOPLE  AND  ITS  POLITICS.  With  Portraits 
and  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

DAIRY  FARMING— 

DAIRY  FARMING.  To  which  is  added  a  Description  of 
the  Chief  Continental  Systems.  With  numerous  Illustrations. 
By  James  Long.     Crown  8vo,  9s. 

DAIRY  FARMING,  MANAGEMENT  OF  COWS,  &c. 
By  Arthur  Rowland.  Edited  by  William  Ablett.  Crown 
8vo,  5s. 

DALY  (J.  B.),  LL.D.— LRELAND  IN  THE  DAYS  OF 
DEAN  SWIFT.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

DAS  (Devendra  N.).— SKETCHES  OF  HINDOO  LLFE. 
Crown  8vo,  5s. 

DAUBOURG  (lb.).— INTERIOR  ARCHITECTURE.  Doors, 
Vestibules,  Staircases,  Anterooms,  Drawing,  Dining,  and  Bed  Rooms, 
Libraries,  Bank  and  Newspaper  Offices,  Shop  Fronts  and  Interiors. 
Half-imperial,  cloth,  £2  12s.  6d. 

DAWSON   (B.,    B.A.).— JULIUS    CAESAR    (The    University 

Shakespere  Series).     With  Notes,  Introduction  and  Glossary.     Cloth 

limp,  round  corners,  Is. 
DAWSON    (William    Harbutt).— GERMANY  AND    THE 

GERMANS:   Social  Life,  Culture,  Religious  Life,  &c,  &c.     In  2 

vols.     Demy  8vo,  26s. 
DAY     (William).— THE    RACEHORSE    IN    TRAINING. 

With  Hints  on  Racing  and  Racing  Reform.     Fifth  Thousand.     Demy 

8vo,  9s. 
D'ORLEANS   (Prince   Henry).—  AROUND    TONKIN  AND 

SI  AM.    Translated  by  C.  B.  Pitman.     With  28  Illustrations.     Demy 

8vo,  14*. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 


DE  BO  VET  (Madame).—  THREE  MONTHS'  TOUR  IN 
IRELAND.  Translated  and  Condensed  by  Mrs.  Arthur  Walter. 
With  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

DE  CHAMPEAUX  (Alfred).— TAPESTRY.  With  numerous 
Woodcuts.     Cloth,  2s.  6d. 

DEFALLOUX  (The  Count).—  MEMOIRS  OF  A  ROYALIST. 
Edited  by  C.  B.  Pitman.     2  vols.     With  Portraits.     Demy  8vo,  32j. 

DE  KONINCK  (L.  L.)  and  DIETZ  (E.).).—  PRACTICAL 
MANUAL  OF  CHEMICAL  ASSAYING,  as  applied  to  the 
Manufacture  of  Iron.  Edited,  with  notes,  by  Robert  Mallet. 
Post  8vo,  cloth,  6.r. 

DELILLE  (Edward).— SOME  FRENCH  WRITERS.  Crown 
8vo,  5s. 

DE  WINDT  (H.).— SIBERIA  AS  IT  IS.  With  numerous 
Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  18s. 

FROM  PEKIN    TO   CALAIS  BY   LAND.    With 

numerous  Illustrations  by  C.  E.  Fripp  from  Sketches  by  the  Author. 
New  and  Cheaper  Edition.     Is.  Qd. 

A    RIDE    TO    INDIA    ACROSS    PERSIA    AND 

BELUCHISTAN.     With  numerous  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  16s. 

DICKENS  (Charles).— THE  ADVENTURES  OF  OLIVER 
I' WIST;  or,  The  Parish  Boy's  Progress.  An  Edition  de  Luxe. 
With  Twenty-six  Watercolour  Drawings  by  George  Cruikshank. 
Royal  8vo,  4:2s.  net. 

THE  CHARLES  DICKENS  BIRTHDA  Y  BOOK. 


With  Five  Illustrations.     In  a  handsome  fcap.  4to  volume,  12s. 


THE    DICKENS    DICTIONARY.     A   Key  to   the 

Characters  and  Principal  Incidents  in  the  Tales  of  Charles  Dickens. 
New  Edition.     Large  crown  8vo,  5s. 

and  COLLINS  (Wilkie).—  THE  LAZY  TOUR  OF 


TWO  IDLE  APPRENTICES;  NO  THOROUGHFARE  ;  THE 
PERILS  OF  CERTAIN  ENGLISH  PRISONERS.  A  New 
Edition.     With  fresh  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

*#*  For  detailed  list  of  the  various  editions  of  Dickens's  Works, 
see  page  33. 

DICKENS    (Mary    A.).  —  CROSS    CURRENTS.      A    Novel. 
Third  Thousand.     Crown  3s.  6d.     In  boards,  2s. 

DILKE  (Sir   Chas.),  Bart.—  THE  BRITISH  ARMY.     Demy 
8vo,  12s. 

THE    PRESENT   POSITION    OF   EUROPEAN 


POLITICS.     Demy  8vo,  12s. 

DILKE  (Lady).— ART  IN  THE  MODERN  STATE.     W7ith 
Facsimile.     Demy  8vo,  9s. 


io  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

DIXON  (Charles).  —  THE  MIGRATION  OF  BRITISH 
BIRDS.  Including  their  Post-Glacial  Emigration  as  traced  by  the 
application  of  a  new  Law  of  Dispersal ;  being  a  contribution  to  the 
study  of  Migration,  Geographical  Distribution,  and  Insular  Faunas. 
With  six  Maps.     Crown  8vo,  7  s.  6d. 

THE  NESTS  AND  EGGS  OF  NON-INDIGENO  US 

BRITISH  BIRDS,  or  such  species  that  do  not  Breed  within  the 
British  Archipelego.     With  Coloured  Frontispiece.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

THE  NESTS  AND  EGGS  OF  BRITISH  BIRDS: 


When  and  Where  to  Find  Them.     Being  a  Handbook  to  the  Oology 
of  the  British  Islands.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

Large  Paper  Edition,  with  157  Coloured  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo, 
15s.  net. 

JOTTINGS     ABOUT     BIRDS.      With      Coloured 

Frontispiece  by  J.  Smit.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

THE  GAME  BIRDS  AND  WILD  FO  WL  OF  THE 


BRITISH  ISLANDS.     With  Coloured  Illustrations  by  A.  T.  Elwes. 
Demy  8vo,  18.T. 

THE  MIGRATION  OF   BIRDS:    An   Attempt   to 


Reduce  the  Avian  Season-flight  to  Law.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

THE  BIRDS  OF  OUR  RAMBLES;  A  Companion 


for  the  Country.     With  Illustrations  by  A.  T.  Elwes.     Large  Crown 
8vo,  7s.  6d. 

LDLE  HOURS    WITH   NATURE.    With   Frontis- 


piece.    Crown  8vo,  6s. 

ANNALS  OF  BLRD  LIFE:  A  Year-Book  of  British 


Ornithology.     With  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  7s.  6d. 

DOUGLAS  (John).— SKETCH  OF  THE  FIRST  PRINCI- 
PLES OF  PHYSIOGRAPHY.  With  Maps  and  numerous 
Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

DRAYSON  (Major-General  A.  W.).—  THIRTY  THOUSAND 
YEARS  OF  THE  EARTH'S  PAST  HISTORY.  Large  Crown 
8vo,  5s. 

-  EXPERIENCES  OF  A  WOOLWLCH  PROFESSOR 

during  Fifteen  Years  at  the  Royal  Military  Academy.     Demy  8vo,  8s. 

DUCKITT  (Hildagonda  J.).— HILDAS  "WHERE  IS  IT?" 
OF  RECIPES.  Containing  many  old  CAPE,  INDIAN,  and 
MALAY  DISHES  and  PRESERVES  ;  also  Directions  for  Polishing 
Furniture,  Cleaning  silk,  etc.      Sixth  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  4j.  6d. 

DUCOUDRAY  (Gustave).— THE  HISTORY  OF  ANCIENT 
CIVILIZATION.  A  Handbook  based  upon  M.  Gustave  Ducou- 
dray's  "  Histoire  Sommaire  de  la  Civilisation."  Edited  by  Rev.  J. 
VERSCHOYLE,  M.A.      With  Illustrations.     Large  crown  8vo,  6s. 

THE  HISTORY  OF  MODERN  CIVILIZATION. 

With  Illustrations.     Large  crown  8vo,  9s. 

DUNCAN  (Robert).— THOUGHTS  ON  LIFE.     By  Thomas 
Carlyle.     Selected  by  Robert  Duncan.     With  a  Photogravure 
Portrait  of  Carlyle.     Crown  8vo,  Is.  6d.  ;  in  paper  covers,  Is. 
A  Limited  Edition  on  Hand-made  paper,  5s. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  1 1 

DYCE  (William),  R.A.  —  DRA  WING-BOOK  OF  1  HE 
GOVERNMENT  SCHOOL  OF  DESIGN.  Fifty  selected  Plates. 
Folio,  sewed,  5.9.  net ;  mounted,  18a.  net. 

ELEMENTARY  OUTLINES   OF    ORNAMENT. 

Plates  I.  to  XXII.,  containing  97  Examples,  adapted  for  Practice  of 
Standards  I.  to  IV.     Small  folio,  sewed,  2s.  Qd.  net. 

SELECTION  FROM  DYCES  DRA  WING-BOOK, 


15  Plates,  sewed,  Is.  Qd.  net  ;  mounted  on  cardboard,  Qs.  Qd.  net. 
TEXT  TO  ABOVE.     Crown  8vo,  sewed,  Qd. 


EARL    (Mrs.).- DINNERS  IN  MINIATURE.     Crown  8vo, 

2s.  6d. 
ELLIOT  (Frances  Minto).— OLD  COURT  LIFE  IN  SPAIN. 

2  vols.     Demy  8vo,  24^. 

ELLIS  (A.  B.).—  THE  YORUBA-SPEAKING  PEOPLES 
OF  THE  SLA  VE  COAST  OF  WEST  AFRICA  :  their  Religion, 
Manners,  Customs,  Laws,  Language,  &c.  With  an  Appendix  and 
Map.     Demy  8vo,  10.T.  Qd. 

HISTORY  OF  THE    GOLD   COAST  OF  WEST 

AFRICA.     Demy  8vo,  \0s  Qd. 

■  SOUTH  AFRICAN  SKETCHES.     Crown  Svo,  6^. 


ENGEL(Carl).— MUSICAL  INSTRUMENTS.  With  numerous 
Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

ESCOTT  (T.  H.  S.).— POLITICS  AND  LETTERS.     Demy 

8vo,  9s. 
ENGLAND :    Its  People,  Polity,  and  Pursuits.     New 

and  Revised  Edition.     Eighth  Thousand.     Demy  Svo,  Ss.  Qd. 
FANE  (Violet).— ,4  UTUMN  SONGS.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

THE  STORY  OF  HELEN  DAVENANT.     Crown 

8vo,  3^.  Qd.     In  boards,  2s. 
FISHER  (W.  E.  Garret).— THE  TRANSVAAL  AND  THE 

BOERS:  a  Brief  History.     Crown  8vo. 

FISKE  (John).— LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  EDWARD 
LIVINGSTONE  YOUMANS.  Comprising  Correspondence  with 
Spencer,  Huxley,  Tyndall.  and  others.     Crown  8vo,  8s. 

FITZGERALD  (Percy),  F.S.A.— HENRY  IRVING :  A  Record 
of  Twenty  Years  at  the  Lyceum.     With  Portrait.     Demy  8vo,  14j\ 

CHRONICLES     OF    BOW    STREET    POLICE 

OFFICE.     New  and  Cheaper  Edition. 

THE  HISTORY  OF  PICKWICK.     An  Account  of 


its  Characters,  Localities,  Allusions  and  Illustrations.  With  a 
Bibliography.     Demy  8vo,  8j\ 

FLEMING  (George),  F.R.C.S.  —  ANIMAL  PLAGUES: 
Their  History,  Nature,  and  Prevention.     8vo.  cloth,  15.T. 

■  PRACTICAL  HORSE-SHOEING.  With  37  Illus- 
trations.    Fifth  Edition,  enlarged.     8vo,  sewed,  2s. 

RABIES   AND    HYDROPHOBIA  :    Their    History 

Nature,  Causes,  Symptoms,  and  Prevention.  With  8  Illustrations. 
8vo,  cloth,  15s. 


12         Books  pub  lis  J  led  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

FORSTER  (The  Rt.  Hon.  W.  E.).— THE  LIFE  OF  THE 
RIGHT  BON.  W.  E.  FORSTER.  By  Sir  T.  Wemyss  Reid. 
With  Portraits.     Sixth  Edition,  with  Gilt  Edges.     Demy  8vo,  6s. 

FORSTER  (John).—  WALTER  SAVAGE  LANDOR:  A 
Biography.     A  New  Edition,  with  Portraits.     Demy  8vo,  7s.  Qd. 

THE  LIFE  OF  CHARLES  DICKENS. 

Uniform  with  the   Illustrated   Library  Edition  of  Dickens's 
Works.     2  vols.     Demy  8vo,  20s. 

Uniform  with  the  "  C.  D."  Edition.     With  Numerous  Illustra- 
trations.     2  vols.     Is. 

Uniform  with  the  Crown  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

Uniform  with  the  Household  Edition.     With  Illustrations  by 
F.  Barnard.     Crown  4to,  cloth,  5s. 

Uniform  with  the  Pictorial  Edition.     With  40  Illustrations  by 
F.  Barnard  and  others.     Royal  8vo,  Ss.  Qd. 

FORTNIGHTLY  REVIEW  (The).     Published  Monthly,  2s.  Qd. 

See  page  48. 

FORTNUM(C.  D.  E.),  F.S  A.—MAIOLICA.  With  numerous 
Woodcuts.     Large  crown,  8vo,  cloth,  2s.  Qd. 

BRONZES.     With  numerous  Woodcuts.     Large  crown 

8vo,  cloth,  2s.  Qd. 

FOSTER  (A.  J.),  M.A.— ROUND  ABOUT  THE  CROOKED 
SPIRE.     With  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

FOUaUE  (De  la  Motte).—  UNDINE:  a  Romance  translated 
from  the  German.  With  an  Introduction  by  Julia  Cartwright. 
Illustrated  by  Heywood  Sumner.     Crown  4to,  5s. 

FRANCATELLI  (C.  K.).—  THE  ROYAL  CONFECTIONER: 
English  and  Foreign.  A  Practical  Treatise.  With  Illustrations. 
Sixth  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

FRANKS  (A.  W.).—/APAN£SE  TOTTER  Y.  Being  a  Native 
Report,  with  an  Introduction  and  Catalogue.  With  Numerous 
Illustrations  and  Marks.     Large  Crown  8vo,  cloth,  2s.  Qd. 

FROBEL  (Friedrich).—  A  SHORT  SKETCH  OF  THE  LIFE 
OF  FRIEDRICH  FROBEL.  Together  with  a  Notice  of  Madame 
von  Marenholtz  Billow's  Personal  Recollections  of  F.  Frobel.  A 
New  Edition,  including  Frobel's  Letters  from  Dresden  and  Leipzig  to 
his  Wife,  now  first  Translated  into  Englbh.  By  Emily  Shirreff. 
Crown  8vo,  2s. 

FYLER  (Colonel).—  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  50th  {THE 
QUEEN'S  OWN')  REGIMENT.  From  the  Earliest  Date  to  the 
Year  1881.  With  Coloured  Illustrations,  Maps,  and  Plans.  Crown 
4to,  \5s.  net. 

GARDNER  (J.  Starkie).— IRONWORK.  From  the  Earliest 
Time  to  the  End  of  the  Mediaeval  Period.  With  57  Illustrations. 
Large  Crown  8vo,  3s. 

GASNATJLT  (P.) and  GARNIER  (E.)  —FRENCH POTTER  Y 
With  Illustrations  and  Marks.     Large  crown  8vo,  3^. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  13 

GILLMORE  (Parker).— THE  HUNTER'S  ARCADIA.  With 
numerous  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  XOs.  Qd. 

GINGELL  (Julia  'Si.).  —  A  P  HO  RIS  M  S  FROM  THE 
WRITINGS  OF  HERBERT  SPENCER.  Second  Edition, 
revised,  with  Photogravure  Portrait  of  Herbert  Spencer.     Cr.  8vo,  3s. 

GONNER  (E  C.  K.,)  M.A..— POLITICAL  ECONOMY. 
Crown  8vo,  2s. 

GORDON  (General).—  LETTERS  FROM  THE  CRIMEA, 
THE  DANUBE,  AND  ARMENIA.  Fdited  by  Demetrius  C. 
Boulger.     Second  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

GORE  (J.  E.,)  F.R.A.S.—  PLANETARY  AND  STELLAR 
STUDIES.     Illustrated.     Crown  8vo,  5.\ 

THE   SCENERY    OF    THE    HEAVENS.      New 


Edition.  With  many  very  beautiful  Illustrations,  Photographs,  &c, 
of  Star  Clusters  and  Nebuloe,  from  the  Original  Photographs,  taken 
at  the  Paris  Observatory.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

ASTRONOMICAL     LESSONS.      Profusely     Illus- 


trated.   Cloth,  2s. 

GORST  (Sir  J.  K),  Q,C— AN  ELECTION  MANUAL.  Con- 
taining  the  Parliamentary  Elections  (Corrupt  and  Illegal  Practices) 
Act,  1883,  with  Notes.     Third  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

GOWER  (A.  R.).— AN  ELEMENTARY  TEXTBOOK  OF 
PRACTICAL  METALLURGY.  With  Illustrations.  Crown 8vo,  3s. 

GRESWELL  (W.),  M.A.—OUR  SOUTH  AFRICAN  EMPIRE. 
With  Map.     2  vols.     Crown  8vo,  21s. 

GREVILLE-NUGENT  (Hon. Mrs.).— A  LAND  OFMOSOUES 
AND  MARABOUTS.     Illustrated.     Demy  8vo,  14x. 

GRIFFIN  (Sir  Lepel).— THE  GREAT  REPUBLIC.  Second 
Edition.     Crown  8vo,  4.s.  Qd. 

GRIFFITHS  (Major  Arthur).  —  CRIMINALS  I  HA  VE 
KNOWN.     With  Illustrations  by  G.  Gulich.     Crown  8vo,  Qs. 

CHRONICLES  OF  NEWGATE.  A  New  and  Re- 
vised Edition.     With  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  Qs. 

SECRETS    OF    THE    PRISON  HOUSE.      With 


Illustrations  by  G.  D.  Rowlandson.     2  vols.     Demy  8vo,  30s. 

FRENCH      REVOLUTIONARY     GENERALS. 


Large  crown  8vo,  Qs. 

GRINNELL  (G.  B.).—  THE  STORY  OF  THE  INDIAN. 
With  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  Qs. 

GUNDRY  (R.  S.).— CHINA,  PRESENT  AND  PAST. 
Foreign  Intercourse,  Progress  and  Resources,  the  Missionary  Ques- 
tion, &c,  &c.     With  Map.     Demy  8vo,  10s.  Qd. 

HALL    (Sidney).— .4     TRAVELLING    ATLAS     OF    THE 
ENGLISH  COUNTIES.     Fifty   Maps,    coloured.      New   Edition 
including  the  Railways.     Demy  8vo,  in  roan  tuck,  10s.  Qd. 
A   3 


14  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

HARPER  (Charles  G.).—THE  DOVER  ROAD:  Annals  of 
an  Ancient  Turnpike.  With  numerous  Illustrations  from  Drawings 
by  the  Author,  and  from  old-time  Prints.     Demy  8vo,  16s. 

THE  PORTSMOUTH  ROAD  AND  ITS  TRLBU- 

7 "ARIES  TO-DA  Y  AND  IN  DA  YS  OF  OLD.  With  85  Illustra- 
tions from  Drawings  by  the  Author  and  from  old-time  prints. 
Demy  8vo,  16j. 

THE  MARCHES  OF  WALES:  Notes  and  Impres- 


sions on  the  Welsh  Borders,  from  the  Severn  Sea  to  the  Sands  o'  Dee. 
With  114  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  16j\ 

A    PRACTICAL    HANDBOOK    OF  DRAWL NG, 


for  modern  methods  of  Reproduction,  with  many  Illustrations  showing 
comparative  results.     Crown  8vo,  Is.  6d. 
HARRISON  (John).—  THE  DECORATLON  OF  METALS, 
CHASING,   REPOUSSE  AND  SAW  PIERCING.     With    180 
Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  6d. 

HARTE  (Bret).  —  IN  A  HOLLOW  OF  THE  HILLS. 
Chapman's  Story  Series. 

HARTINGTON  (E.).—THE  NEW  ACADEME :  An  Educa- 
tional Romance.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

HASTINGS  (Warren).  —  THE  LLFE  OF  WARREN 
HASTINGS.  First  Governor-General  of  India.  By  Colonel  G. 
B.  Malleson,  C.S.I.     With  Portrait.     Demy  8vo,  18s. 

HATTON  (R.  G.).— GUIDE  TO  THE  ESTABLISHMENT 
AND  EQUIPMENT  OF  ART  CLASSES  AND  SCHOOLS 
OF  ART.    With  Estimates  of  probable  Cost,  &c.     Paper  Wrapper,  Is. 

—     FIGURE     DRAWING    AND     COMPOSITION: 

Being  a  number  of  hints  for  the  student  and  designer  upon  the  treat- 
ment of  the  human  figure.  With  numerous  Illustrations.  Large 
crown  8vo,  Qs. 

ELEMENTARY  DESLGN:  being  a  Theoretical  and 


Practical  Introduction  in  the  Art  of  Decoration.     With  no  Illustra- 
tions.    Second  Edition  Enlarged.     Crown  8vo,  2s.  6d. 

HAY  (Rev.  James).— SWLFT :  The  Mystery  of  his  Life  and 
Love.     Crown  8vo,  6s 

HENRY  (Re).— QUEEN  OF  BEAUTY:  or,  The  Adventures 
of  Prince  Elfreston.     Illustrated  by  John  Jellicoe.     Square  8vo,  6s. 

HILDEBRAND  (Hans).— INDUSTRIAL  ARTS  OF  SCAN- 
DIN  A  VIA  IN  THE  PAGAN  TIME.  With  numerous  Woodcuts. 
Large  crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

HOLBEIN.  —  TWELVE  HEADS  AFTER  HOLBELN. 
Selected  from  Drawings  in  Her  Majesty's  Collection  at  Windsor. 
Reproduced  in  Autotype,  in  portfolio.     £1  16s.  net. 

HOLMES  (G.  C.  V.).— NAVAL  ARCHLTECTURE  AND 
SHIPB  UILDLNG.  { In  the  Press . 

MARINE    ENGINES    AND    ROLLERS.      With 

Sixty-nine  Woodcuts.      Large  crown  8vo,  3s. 
HOPE  (Andree).— THE   VYVYANS ;  or,  The   Murder  in  the 

Rue  Beliechasse.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Ha/l,  Ltd.  15 

HOPE  (Anthony)  and  others.— DIALOGUES  OF  THE  DA  Y. 
Edited  by  Oswald  CRAWFURD,  and  written  by  Anthony  Hope, 
Violet  Hunt,  Clara  Saville  Clarke,  Marion  Wepworth 
Dixon,  Squire  Sprigge,  Mrs.  Crackanthorpe,  Mrs.  Ernest 
Leverson,  Gertrude  Kingston,  the  Editor,  and  others.  With 
20  Full-page  Illustrations.     Crown  4to,  5s. 

HOUSSAYE  (Arsene).— BEHIND  THE  SCENES  OF  THE 
COMEDIE  FRANCAISE,  AND  OTHER  RECOLLECTIONS. 
Translated  from  the  French.     Demy  8vo,  14j. 

HOVELACaUE  (Abel).—  THE  SCIENCE  OF  LANGUAGE: 
Linguistics,  Philology,  and  Etymology.  With  Maps.  Large  crown 
8vo,  cloth,  3s.  6d. 

HOZIER  (H.  ?K.).—  TURENNE.  With  Portrait  and  Two 
Maps.     Large  crown  8vo,  4j. 

HUDSON  (W.  H.),  C.M.Z.S.— BLRDS  IN  A  VILLAGE. 
Square  Crown  8vo,  7s.  6d. 

LDLE  DAYS  LN   PATAGONIA.     With   numerous 

Illustrations  by  J.  Smit  and  A.  Hartley.     Demy  8vo,  14j\ 

THE    NATURALIST    IN    LA     PLATA.      With 


Humerous  Illustrations  by  J.  Smit.     Third  Edition.     Demy  8vo,  8s. 

HUDSON  (Prof.  W.  "H..).—  THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  HER- 
BERT SPENCER.  (An  Introduction  to).  With  a  Biographical 
Sketch.     Second  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

HUEFFER  (P.).— HALF  A  CENTURY  OF  MUSIC  IN 
ENGLAND.     1837— 1887.     Demy  8vo,  8s. 

HUGHES  (W.  H.).—A  WEEK'S  TRAMP  IN  DICKENS- 
LAND.  With  upwards  of  100  Illustrations  by  F.  G.  KlTTON, 
Herbert  Railton,  and  others.  Second  Edition.  Demy  8vo, 
Is.  6d. 

HUMPHRY  (Mrs.).— COOKERY  UP  TO  DATE.  Crown 
8vo,  3s.  6d. 

HUNT  (Violet).— A  HARD  WOMAN.  A  Story  in  Scenes. 
Second  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

—  THE    MAIDENS     PROGRESS:      A      Novel     in 

Dialogue.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

HUNTLY  (Marquis  of).  —  TEA  VELS,  SPORTS,  AND 
POLLTLCS  LN  THE  EAST  OF  EUROPE.  With  Illustrations. 
Large  crown  8vo,  12s. 

HUTCHINSON  (Rev.  H.  N.).— CREATURES  OF  OTHER 
DAYS.  With  a  Preface  by  Sir  W.  H.  Flower,  K.C.B.,  F.R.S., 
and  numerous  Illustrations  by  J.  Smit  and  others.  A  Cheaper 
Edition.     Large  crown  8vo,  6s. 

■    EXTINCT  MONSTERS.      A   Popular  Account   of 

some  of  the  larger  forms  of  Ancient  Animal  Life.  With  numerous 
Illustrations  by  J.  Smit  and  others.  A  Cheaper  Edition.  Revised 
and  Enlarged.     Large  crown  8vo,  6s. 

INDUSTRIAL  ARTS:  Historical  Sketches.  With  numerous 
Illustrations.     Large  crown  8vo,  3s. 

A   4 


1 6  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hal/,  Ltd. 

IRVING  (Henry).— A  RECORD  OF  TWENTY  YEARS  A  T 
THE  LYCEUM.  By  Percy  Fitzgerald,  M.A.,  F.S.A.  With 
Portrait*     Demy  8vo,  14.r. 

JACKSON  (F.  G.).  —  THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF 
DESIGN:  An  Advanced  Text  Book  on  Decorative  Art.  With  700 
Illustrations.     Large  crown  8vo,  9s. 

DECORATIVE    DESIGN.      An    Elementary    Text 

Book   of  Principles    and   Practice.      With  numerous    Illustrations. 
Fourth  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  7  s.  Qd. 

JAMES  (Charles).— AT  THE  SIGN  OF  THE  OSTRICH. 
Chapman's  Story  Series. 

JAMES  (H.  A.).— HANDBOOK  TO  PERSPECTIVE.  Crown 
8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

PERSPECTIVE  CHARTS,  for  Use  in  Class  Teaching. 

2s. 

JEAFF&ESON  (J.  Cordy).  —  MIDDLESEX  COUNTY 
RECORDS.  Indictments,  Recognisances,  Coroners'  Inquisitions 
Post  Mortem,  Orders,  Memoranda,  and  Certificates  of  Convictors  of 
Conventiclers,  temp.  19  Charles  II.  to  4  James  II.  With  Portraits, 
Illustrations,  and  Facsimiles.     4  vols.     Demy  8vo,  25.r.  each. 

JEANS  (W.  T.).— CREATORS  OF  THE  AGE  OF  STEEL. 
Memoirs  of  Sir  W.  Siemens,  Sir  H.  Bessemer,  Sir  J.  WThitworth,  Sir 
J.  Brown,  and  other  Inventors.     Second  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  7s.  Qd. 

JOKAI  (Maurusj  — PRETTY  MICHAL.  Translated  by  R. 
Nisbet  Bain.     Crown  8vo,  3j-.  Qd.     In  boards,  2s. 

■ 'MIDST  THE  WILD  CARPATHIANS.    Translated 

by  R.  Nisbet  Bain.     Crown  8vo,  Ss.  Qd. 

JOPLING  (Louise).— HINTS  TO  AMATEURS.  A  Hand- 
book on  Art.     With  Diagrams.     Crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

JUNKER  (Dr.  Wm.).  —  TRA  VELS  IN  AFRICA.  Translated 
from  the  German  by  Professor  Keane. 

DURING  THE  YEARS  1879  to  1883.  Containing  numerous 
Full-page  Plates,  and  Illustrations  in  the  Text  and  Map. 
Demy  8vo,  21s. 

DURING  THE  YEARS  1882  to  1886.  Containing  numerous 
Full-page  Plates  and  Illustrations  in  the  Text  and  Maps. 
Demy  8vo,  21s. 

KELLY  (J.F.).— THE  LIFE  OF  MTGUEL  DE  CERVANTES 
SAA  VEDRA  :  A  Biographical,  Literary,  and  Historical  Study,  with 
a  Tentative  Bibliography  from  1585  :©  1892,  and  an  Annotated 
Appendix  on  the  "  Canto  de  Caliope."     Demy  8vo,  IQs. 

KEMPT  (B..).— CONVIVIAL  CALEDONIA  :  Inns  and  Taverns 
of  Scotland,  and  some  Famous  People  who  have  frequented  them. 
Crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

KENNARD  (H.  Marty n).—THE  VEIL  LIFTED:  A  New 
Light  on  the  World's  History.     With  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  ij 

LACORDAIRE  (Pere).  —  JESUS  CHRIST;  GOD;  AND 
GOD  AND  MAN.  Conferences  delivered  at  Notre  Dame  in  Paris. 
Eighth  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

LAING  (S.j.— HUMAN  ORIGINS :  Evidence  from  History  and 
Science.  With  Illustrations.   Fourteenth  1'housand.   Demy  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

PROBLEMS  OF  THE  FUTURE  AND  ESSA  YS. 

Thirteenth  Thousand.     Demy  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

MODERN  SCIENCE  AND  MODERN  THOUGHT. 


Twenty-first  Thousand.     Demy  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

A    MODERN  ZOROASTRIAN     Ninth  Thousand. 


Demy  8vo,  3.r.  Qd. 

LAMENNAIS  (F.).— WORDS  OF  A  BELIEVER,  AND 
THE  PAST  AND  FUTURE  OF  THE  PEOPLE.  Translated 
from  the  French  by  L.  E.  Martineau.  With  a  Memoir  of  Lamen- 
nais.     Crown  8vo,  4.r. 

LANDOR.- WALTER  SAVAGE  LANDOR :  a  Biography. 
By  John  Forster.     New  Edition,  with  Portraits.    Demy  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

LANIN  (E.  B.).— RUSSIAN  CHARACTERISTICS.  Re- 
printed, with  Revisions,  from  The  Fomightly  Review.  Demy  8vo, 
14^. 

LAVELEYE  (Emile  de).—  THE  ELEMENTS  OF  POLITI- 
CAL ECONOMY.  Translated  by  W.  Pollard,  B.  A.,  St.  John's 
College,  Oxford.     Crown  8vo,  Qs. 

LE  CONTE  (Professor  J.).— EVOLUTION :  Its  Nature,  its 
Evidences,  and  its  Relations  to  Religious  Thought.  A  New  and 
Revised  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  Qs. 

LEE  (Fitzhugh).  —  GENERAL  LEE  OF  THE  CON- 
FEDERATE ARMY.     With  Portrait.     Crown  8vo,  Qs. 

LEFEVRE  (Andre).— PHILOSOPHY,  Historical  and  Critical. 
Translated,  with  an  Introduction,  by  A.  W.  Keane,  B.A.  Large 
crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

LE  ROUX  (H.).— ACROBATS  AND  MOUNTEBANKS. 
With  over  200  Illustrations  by  J.  Garnier.     Royal  8vo,  IQs. 

LEROY-BEAULIEU  {A.).— PAPACY,  SOCIALISM,  AND 
DEMOCRACY.  Translated  by  Professor  B.  L.  O'Donnell.  Crown 
8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

LESLIE  (R.  C.).—A  WATER  BIOGRAPHY.  With  Illustra- 
tions by  the  Author.     Large  crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

THE  SEA  BOA  T:  How  to  Build,  Rig,  and  Sail  Her. 

With  numerous  Illustrations  by  the  Author.     Crown  8vo,  4.y.  Qd. 

LIFE   ABOARD   A    BRITISH  PRIVATEER   IN 


THE  TIME  OF  QUEEN  ANNE.  Being  the  Journals  of  Captain 
Woodes  Rogers,  Master  Mariner.  With  Notes  and  Illustrations  by 
Robert  C.  Leslie.  A  New  and  Cheaper  Edition.  Large  crown 
8vo,  3.y.  Qd. 


1 8  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

LETOURNEAU  (Charles).  —  SOCIOLOGY.  Based  upon 
Ethnology.     Large  crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

BIOLOGY.    With  83   Illustrations.     A  New   Edition. 

Demy  8vo,  Ss.  Qd. 

LILLEY  (A.  E.  V.)  and  MIDGLEY  (W.).—A  BOOK  OF 
STUDIES  IN  PLANT  FORM ■;  With  some  Suggestions  for  their 
Application  to  Design.  Containing  nearly  200  Illustrations.  Large 
crown  8vo,  4.r. 

LILLY  (W.  S.).—  THE  CLALMS  OF  CHRISTIANITY. 
Demy  8vo,  12s. 

ON  SHIBBOLETHS.     Demy  8vo,  12s. 

ON  RIGHT  AND  WRONG.    Second  Edition.    Demy 

8vo,  12s. 

A  CENTURY  OF REVOLUTLON.     Second  Edition. 


Demy  8vo,  12s. 

CHAPTERS  ON  EUROPEAN  HISTORY.    With 


an  Introductory   Dialogue   on   the   Philosophy   of  History.     2  vols. 
Demy  8vo,  21s. 

ANCIENT RELLGION  &>  MODERN  THOUGHT. 


Second  Edition.     Demy  8vo,  12s. 

LINEHAM  (Ray  S.).  —  A  DIRECTORY  OF  SCIENCE, 
ART,  AND  TECHNICAL  COLLEGES,  SCHOOLS,  AND 
IE  AC  HERS  IN  THE  UNITED  KINGDOM.  Including  a 
brief  Review  of  Educational  Movements  from  1835  to  1895.  Demy 
8vo,  2s.  Qd.  net. 

THE    STREET    OF   HUMAN   HABITATIONS. 

Fully  Illustrated.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

LINEHAM  (W.  J.).— A  TEXT-BOOH  OF  MECHANICAL 
ENGINEERING.  With  700  Illustrations  and  18  Folding  Plates. 
Second  Edition.     Revised.     Crown  8vo,  10s.  Qd.  net. 

LITTLE  (Canon  Knox).  —  THE  WAIF  FROM  THE 
WA  VES :  A  Story  of  Three  Lives,  touching  this  World  and  another. 
Fifth  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd.  and  Is.  Qd.  ;  boards,  Is. 

THE  CHILD  OF  STAFFERTON :  A  Chapter  from 

a  Family  Chronicle.     Twelfth  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  boards,  Is.  ; 
cloth,  Is.  Qd. 

THE  BROKEN  VOW.  .  A  Story  of  Here  and  Here- 


after.    Eighteenth  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  boards,  Is. ;  cloth,  Is.  Qd. 

LLOYD  (W.  W.).—ON  ACTIVE  SERVICE.  Printed  in 
Colours.     Oblong  4to,  5s. 

■     SKETCHES    OF    INDIAN    LIFE.      Printed    in 

Colours.     4to,  Qs. 

LONG  (James).— DAIRY  FARMING.  To  which  is  added 
a  Description  of  the  Chief  Continental  Systems.  With  numerous 
Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  9s. 

LOW  (William).—  TABLE  DECORATION.  With  19  Full- 
page  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  Qs. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  19 

LUTZOW  (Francis,  Count).— BO  HE Ml A  :  An  Historical 
Sketch.     With  Maps.     Crown  8vo. 

MACDONALD  (A.  T.)~OUR  OCEAN  RAILWAYS ;  or,  The 
Rise,  Progress,  and  Development  of  Ocean  Steam  Navigation,  &c. , 
&c.     With  Maps  and  Illustrations.     Large  crown  8vo,  6s. 

McCOAN  (J.  C.).— EGYPT  UNDER  ISMAIL:  a  Romance 
of  History.  With  Portrait  and  Appendix  of  Official  Documents. 
Crown  8vo,  7  s.  6d. 

MAITLAND  (Ella  Fuller).— PAGES  FROM  THE  DAY- 
BOOK OF  BETHIA  HARDACRE.  Fourth  Edition.  Crown 
8vo,  5s. 

MALLESON  (Col.  G.  B.),  C.S.I.—  THE  LIFE  OF  WARREN 
HASTINGS,  FIRST  GOVERNOR-GEAERAL  OF  INDIA. 
With  Portrait.     Demy  8vo,  18j. 

PRINCE    EUGENE    OF   SAVOY.     With    Portrait 

and  Maps.      Large  crown  8vo,  6s. 

LOUDON.     A  Sketch  of  the  Military  Life  of  Gideon 

Ernest,  Freicherr  von  Loudon.      With  Portrait  and  Maps.      Large 
crown  8vo,  4j\ 

MALLOCK  (W.  -H..).—  THE  HEART  OF  LIFE.  Fifth 
Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  6j. 

A  HUMAN  DOCUMENT.   Eighth  Thousand.    Crown 

8vo,  3s.  6d. 

MARCEAU  (Sergent).— REMINISCENCES  OF  A  REGI- 
CIDE. Edited  from  the  Original  MSS.  of  Sergent  Marceau, 
Member  of  the  Convention,  and  Administrator  of  Police  in  the  French 
Revolution  of  1789.  By  M.  C.  M.  Simpson.  With  Illustrations  and 
Portraits.     Demy  8vo,  14j\ 

MARMERY  (V.).—  THE  PROGRESS  OF  SCIENCE:  Its 
Origin,  Course,  Promoters,  and  Results.  With  an  Introduction  by 
Samuel  Laing.     Demy  8vo,  7s.  6d. 

MASKELL  (Alfred).—  RUSSIAN  ART  AND  ART  OBJECTS 
IN  RUSSIA.  A  Handbook  to  the  Reproduction  of  Goldsmiths' 
Work  and  other  Art  Treasures.  With  Illustrations.  Large  crown 
8vo,  4.r.  6d. 

MASKELL  (William).— IVORIES :  Ancient  and  Mediseval. 
With  numerous  Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  2s.  6d. 

HANDBOOK   TO    THE  DYCE  AND  POPSTER 

COLLECTIONS.     With  Illustrations.     Large  crown  8vo,  2s.  6d. 

MASPERO  {G.).—LIFE  IN  ANCIENT  EGYPT  AND 
ASSYRIA.  Translated  by  A.  P.  Morton.  With  188  Illustrations. 
Third  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  5^. 

MAUDE,  (Col.  F.  C),  V.C.,  C.B.—  FIVE  YEARS  IN  MADA- 
GASCAR. With  a  Frontispiece  Portrait  of  Queen  Ranavalona  III. 
Crown  8vo,  5.r. 


20  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

MEREDITH  (George).  —  LORD  ORMONT  AND  HIS 
AMINTA.    Crown  8vo,  6*. 

A   Uniform  Edition.      Crown  8vo.,  Ss.   Qd.  each. 

ONE  OF  OUR  CONQUERORS. 

DIANA  OF  THE  CROSS  WAYS. 

EVAN  HARRINGTON. 

THE  ORDEAL  OF  RICHARD  FEVEREL. 

THE  ADVENTURES  OF  HARRY  RICHMOND. 

SANDRA  BELLONI. 

VITTORIA. 

RHODA  FLEMING. 

BE AUCH AMP'S  CAREER. 

THE  EGOIST. 

THE  SHAVING  OF  SHAG  PAT ;    and  FARINA. 

The  Qs.  Edition  is  also  to  be  had  of  above. 

MIDGLEY  (W.)  and  LILLEY  (A.  E.  V.).—A  BOOK  OF 
STUDIES  IN  PLANT  FORM:  With  some  Suggestions  for  their 
Application  to  Design.  Containing  nearly  200  Illustrations.  Large 
crown  8vo,  4.r. 

MILLS  (John).— ADVANCED PHYSIOGRAPHY{PHYSIO- 
GRAPHIC  ASTRONOMY).  Designed  to  meet  the  Requirements 
of  Students  preparing  for  the  Elementary  and  Advanced  Stages  of 
Physiography  in  the  Science  and  Art  Department  Examinations,  and 
as  an  Introduction  to  Physical  Astronomy.     Crown  8vo,  4j.  6d. 

ELEMENTARY     PHYSIOGRAPHIC     ASTRO- 


NOMY.    Crown  8vo,  Is.  6d. 


ALTERNATIVE     ELEMENTARY    PHYSICS. 

Crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

MILLS  (J.)  andNORTH(B.).— Q  UANTITA  LIVE  ANAL  YSJS 
{INTRODUCTORY LESSONS  ON).  With  numerous  Woodcuts. 
Crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

HANDBOOK  OF  QUANTITATIVE  ANALYSIS. 


Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

MITRE  (Gen.  Don  B.).—  THE  EMANCIPA  TION  OF  SO  UTH 
AMERICA.  Being  a  Condensed  Translation,  by  William  Pilling, 
of  "  The  History  of  San  Martin."     Demy  8vo,  with  Maps,  12s. 

MOLTKE  (Count  Von).— POLAND :  An  Historical  Sketch. 
With  Biographical  Notice  by  E.  S.  Buchheim.  Crown  8vo,  4j.  Qd. ; 
in  Paper,  Is, 

MUDDOCK  (J.  E.).— THE  STAR  OF  FORTUNE  :  A  Story 
of  the  Indian  Mutiny.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

MTJNTZ  (^ugene).^RAPHAEL :  His  Life,  Works,  and 
Times.  A  New  Edition  Revised,  corrected,  and  condensed  from  the 
large  original  work,  containing  108  illustrations.      Royal  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  21 

MURRAY  (Andrew).  — ECONOMLC  ENTOMOLOGY, 
APTERA.      With  numerous  Illustrations.     Large  crown  8vo,  3s.  6d. 

NECKER  (Madame).  —  THE  SALON  OF  MADAME 
NECKER.     By  Vicomte  d'Haussonville.     2  vols.     Cr.  8vo,  18j. 

NELSON  (W.).—  WOOD-  WORKING  POSITIONS.  12  Illus- 
trations by  Herbert  Cole.  Royal  4to,  2s.  6d.  net  Large  size, 
6s.  net. 

NESBITT  (Alexander).— GLA  SS.  With  numerous  Woodcuts- 
Large  crown  8vo,    2s.  6d. 

NEWEY  (H.  F.).— ELEMENTARY  DRAWING:  A  Few 
Suggestions  for  Students  and  Teachers.     Illustrated.     Cr.  8vo,  2s. Gd. 

NORMAN  (C.  B.).— TONKIN:  or,  France  in  the  Far  East. 
With  Maps.     Demy  8vo,  14j\ 

O'CONNOR  (T.  V.).—SOME  OLD  LOVE  STORIES.  With 
a  Portrait  of  the  Author.     Third  Thousand.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

OLIVER  (D.),  F.R.S.,  &c.— ILLUSTRATIONS  OF  THE 
PRINCIPAL  NATURAL  ORDERS  OF  THE  VEGETABLE 
KLNGDOM,  prepared  for  the  Science  and  Art  Department,  South 
Kensington.  New  Edition,  revised  by  Author.  With  109  Plates. 
Coloured,  royal  8vo,  16s. 

OLIVER  (E.  E.).— ACROSS  THE  BORDER:  or,  Path  an  and 
Biloch.  With  numerous  Illustrations  by  J.  L.  Kipling,  CLE. 
Demy  8vo,  14j\ 

OTWAY  (Sir  Arthur).  —  A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  AND 
JOURNALS  OF  LORD  CLARENCE  E.  PAGET,  G.C B. 
With  Portraits  and  other  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  16.r. 

PAGET  (Lord  Clarence).  —  AUTOBLOGRAPHY  AND 
JOURNALS  OF  LORD  CLARENCE  E.  PAGET,  G.C.B. 
Edited  by  Sir  Arthur  Otway,  Bart.  With  Portraits  and  other 
Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  16s. 

PEEK  CHedley). — NEMA  :  and  other  Stories.  Illustrated  by 
C.  E.  Brock.     Crown  8vo,  6s. 

A  Limited  Large  Paper  Edition  with  Photogravure  Illustra- 
tions.    Demy  410,  21s.  net. 

PERROT  (G.)  and  CHIPIEZ  (C.).—A   HLSTORY  OF  ART 

IN     PRIMITIVE      GREECE     (MYC^ENIAN).       With     553 
Illustrations  and  20  Coloured  Plates.     2  vols.     Imperial  8vo,  42j. 

A  HISTORY  OF  ANCIENT  ART  IN  PERSIA. 

With  254  Illustrations,  and  12  Steel  and  Coloured  Plates.     Imperial 
8vo,  21s. 

— A  HISTORY  OF  ANCIENT  ART  IN  PHRYGIA, 

LYDLA,  CARIA  and  LYCLA.       With  280  Illustrations.     Imperial 
8vo,  15^. 


22         Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

PERROT  (G.)  and  CHIPIEZ  (C.)  ,  cont.—A  HISTORY  OF 
ANCIENT  ART  IN  SARDINIA,  JUDAEA,  SYRIA,  and 
ASIA  MINOR.    With  395  Illustrations.    2  vols.    Imperial  8vo,  36s. 

A  HISTORY OF  ANCIENT ART  IN PHCENICIA 


AND  ITS  DEPENDENCIES.     With  654  Illustrations.     2  vols. 
Imperial  8vo,  4:2s. 

A    HISTORY    OF   ART  IN   CHALDMA    AND 


ASSYRIA.     With  452  Illustrations.     2  vols.     Imperial  8vo,  42s. 
A   HISTORY  OF  ART  IN  ANCIENT  EGYPT. 


With  600  Illustrations.     2  vols.     Imperial  8vo,  4:2s. 

PETERBOROUGH  (Earl  of).—  THE  EARL  OF  PETER- 
BOROUGH AND  MONMOUTH  (Charles  Mordaunt)  :  A  Memoir. 
By  Colonel  Frank  Russell,  Royal  Dragoons.  With  Illustrations. 
2  vols.     Demy  8vo,  32s. 

PILLING  (Wm.).-L4  ND  TENURE  BY  REGISTRATION. 
Third  Edition.     Revised.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

POLLEN  (J.  13..).— GOLD  AND  SILVER  SMITH'S  WORK. 
With  numerous  Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  2s.  6d. 

ANCIENT  AND  MODERN  FURNITURE  AND 

WOODWORK.      With   numerous   Woodcuts.      Large  crown   8vo, 
2s.  6d. 

POLLOK  (Colonel).— INCIDENTS  OF  FOREIGN  SPORT 
AND  TRAVEL.     With  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  \6s. 

POOLE  (Stanley  Lane).—  THE  ART  OF  THE  SARACENS 
IN  EGYPT.  Published  for  the  Committee  of  Council  on  Education. 
With  108  Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  4s. 

POYNTER  (E.  J.),  "EL.A..—  TEN  LECTURES  ON  ART. 
Third  Edition.     Large  crown  8vo,  9s. 

PRATT  (Robert).— SCIOGRAPHY;  or,  Parallel  and  Radial 
Projection  of  Shadows.  Being  a  Course  of  Exercises  for  the  use  of 
Students  in  Architectural  and  Engineering  Drawing,  and  for  Candi- 
dates preparing  for  the  Examinations  in  this  subject  and  in  Third 
Grade  Perspective  conducted  by  the  Science  and  Art  Department. 
Oblong  quarto,  7s.  6d. 

PTJCKETT  (R.  C.).— SCIOGRAPHY :  or  Radical  Projection  of 
Shadows.     Third  Edition.     Illustrated. "   Crown  8vo,  6s. 

PUSHKIN  (A.  S.).—  THE  QUEEN  OF  SPADES,  and  Other 
Stories.  Translated  from  the  Russian.  With  a  Biography  by  Mrs. 
Sutherland  Edwards.  Illustrated.  Crown  8vo,  3s.  6d. ;  in 
boards,  2s. 

RAE  (W.  Fraser).  —  A  USTRIAN  HEALTH  RESORTS 
THROUGHOUT  THE  YEAR.  A  New  and  Enlarged  Edition. 
Crown  8vo.  5s. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  23 


RAMSDEN  (Lady).— A  BIRTHDA  Y  BOOK.  Containing  46 
Illustrations  from  Original  Drawings.      Royal  8vo,  2\s. 

RAPHAEL:  His  Life,  Works,  and  Times.  By  EUGENE 
Muntz.  A  New  Edition,  revised,  corrected,  and  condensed  from  the 
large  original  work,  containing  108  Illustrations.      Royal  8vo,  7s.  Qd. 

PORTFOLIO  OF  TWENTY  SELECTED  COLLO- 
TYPE REPRODUCTIONS  OF  DRAWINGS  AXD  CAR. 
TOONS  OF  RAPHAEL  SANZIO.     5s.  net. 

REDGRAVE  (R.),  R.A.— MANUAL  OF  DESIGN.  With 
Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

ELEMENTARY  MANUAL   OF  COLOUR,  with  a 

Catechism  on  Colour.     241110,  cloth,  9c/. 

REDGRAVE  (Samuel).— ,4  DESCRIPTIVE  CATALOGUE 
OF  THE  HISTORICAL  COLLECTION  OF  IP  A  TER-COIOUR 
PAINTINGS  IN  THE  SOUTH  KENSINGTON  MUSEUM. 
With  numerous  Chromo-lithographs  and  other  Illustrations.  Royal 
8vo,  £1  Is. 

REID  (G.  A.).— THE  PRESENT  EVOLUTION  OF  MAN. 
Crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

REID  (Sir  T.  Wemyss).—  TI/E  LLFE  OF  THE  RIGHT 
HON.  W.  E.  FORSTER.  Sixth  Edition,  in  one  volume,  gilt  edges, 
with  new  Portrait.     Demy  8vo,  6j-. 

RENAN  (Ernest).— RECOLLECTIONS  OF  MY  YOUTH. 
Translated  from  the  French,  and  revised  by  Madame  Renan.  Second 
Edition.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

RIANO  (Juan  F.).—  THE  INDUSTRIAL  ARTS  IN  SPAIN. 
With  numerous  Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  4j-. 

RIBTON-TURNER  (C.  J.).— A  HISTORY  OF  VAGRANTS 
AND  VAGRANCY  AND  BEGGARS  AND  BEGGING.  With 
Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  2\s. 

ROBERTS  (Morley).  —  IN  LOW  RELIEF:  A  Bohemian 
Transcript.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  €d.     In  boards,  2s. 

ROBINSON  (J.  F.).— BRITISH  BEE-FARMING.  Its  Profits 
and  Pleasures.     Large  crown  8vo,  5.r. 

ROBINSON  (J.  C.).— ITALIAN  SCULPTURE  OF  THE 
MIDDLE  AGES  AND  PERIOD  OF  THE  REVIVAL  OF 
ART.     With  20  Engravings.     Royal  8vo,  cloth,  Is.  Qd. 

ROBSON  (George).  —  ELEMENTARY  BUILDING  CON- 
STRUCTION. Illustrated  by  a  Design  for  an  Entrance  Lodge  and 
Gate.     15  Plates.     Oblong  folio,  sewed,  Ss. 

ROCK  (Rev.  Canon).— TEXTILE  FABRICS.  With  numerous 
Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 


24         Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

ROLAND    (Arthur).— FARMING  FOR  PLEASURE  AND 
PROFIT.     Edited  by  W.  Ablett.     8  vols.     Crown  8vo,  5s.  each. 
DAIRY-FARMING,  MANAGEMENT  OF  COWS,  &c. 
PO  UL  TR  Y- KEEPING. 

TREE-PLANTING,  FOR  ORNAMENTATION  OR  PROFIT. 
STOCK- KEEPING  AND  CATTLE-REARING 
DRAINAGE  OF  LAND,  IRRIGATION,  MANURES,  &c. 
ROOT-GROWING,  HOPS,  &c. 
MANAGEMENT    OF    GRASS    LANDS,    LAYING    DOWN 

GRASS,  ARTIFICIAL  GRASSES,  &c. 
MARKET   GARDENING,    HUSBANDRY  FOR   FARMERS 
AND  GENERAL  CULTIVATORS. 

ROOSEVELT  (Blanche).— ELIZABETH  OF  ROUMANIA  : 
A  Study.  With  Two  Tales  from  the  German  of  Carmen  Sylva,  Her 
Majesty  Queen  of  Roumania.  With  Two  Portraits  and  Illustration. 
Demy  8vo,  \2s. 

ROSS  (Mrs.  Janet).—  EARLY  DAYS  RECALLED.  With 
Illustrations  and  Portrait.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

RUSSELL  (W.  Clark).— MISS  PARSON'S  ADVENTURE: 
and  other  Stories  by  W.  E.  Norms,  Julian  Hawthorne,  Mrs.  L. 
B.  Walford,  J.  M.  Barrie,  F.  C.  Philips,  Mrs.  Alexander, 
and  William  Westall.  With  16  Illustrations.  One  volume. 
Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

RYAN  (Charles).— EG YPTIAN  ART.  An  Elementary  Hand- 
book for  the  use  of  Students.  With  56  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo, 
2s.  Qd. 

SANDEMAN  (Fraser).— ANGLING  TRAVELS  IN  NOR- 
WA  Y.  With  numerous  Illustrations  from  Drawings  and  Photographs 
by  the  Author,  and  Coloured  Plates  of  Salmon  Flies.  Demy  8vo, 
price  16s. 

Large  Paper  Edition,  with  an  extra  Plate  of  Salmon  Flies. 
30s.  net. 

SANDERS  (Amanda).—  BENT  IRONWORK  FOR  BE- 
GINNERS AND  PROFICIENTS,  With  55  Illustrations  by  the 
Author.     Crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd.  ;  in  paper  wrapper,  Is.  Qd. 

SCHEUERMANN  (F.  I*.).— WOOD-CARVING  IN  PRAC- 
TICE AND  THEORY,  AS  APPLIED  TO  HOME  ARTS. 
With  Notes  on  Designs  having  special  application  to  Carved  Wood  in 
different  styles.  Containing  124  Illustrations.  Second  Edition. 
Large  crown  8vo,  5s. 

SCOTT  (John).  —  THE  REPUBLIC  AS  A  FORM  OF 
GOVERNMENT;  or,  The  Evolution  of  Democracy  in  America. 
Crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

SEEMANN  (0.).—  THE  MYTHOLOGY  OF  GREECE  AND 
ROME,  with  Special  Reference  to  its  Use  in  Art.  From  the 
German.  Edited  by  G.  H.  Bianchi.  64  Illustrations.  New 
Edition.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

SETON-KARR  (H.  W.).  —  BEAR  HUNTING  IN  THE 
WHITE  MOUNTAINS;  or,  Alaska  and  British  Columbia  Revisited. 
Illustrated.     Large  crown,  4.s.  Qd. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  25 


SETON-KARR  (H.  W.),  continued.— TEN  YEARS'  TRA  VEL 
AND  SPORT  IN  FOREIGN  E4NDS ;  or,  Travels  in  the 
Eighties.  Second  Edition,  with  additions  and  Portrait  of  Author. 
Large  crown  8vo,  5s. 

SEXTON  (A.  -BL.).—  THE  FIRST  TECHNICAL  COLLEGE: 
a  Sketch  of  the  History  of  "The  Andersonian,"  and  the  Institutions 
descended  from  it  1796- 1894.  With  Portraits  and  Illustrations. 
Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

HOME    WORK  IN  INORGANIC  CHEMISTRY: 


A  Series    of   Exercises  with    Explanations    and  Worked    Examples. 
Third  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  Is. 

SHIRREFF  (Emily).  —  A  SHORT  SKETCH  OF  THE 
LIFE  OF  FRIED  RICH  FROBEL  ;  a  New  Edition,  including 
Frobel's  Letters  from  Dresden  and  Leipzig  to  his  Wife,  now  first 
Translated  into  English.     Crown  8vo,  2s. 

HOME  EDUCATION  IN  RELATION   TO    THE 


KINDERGARTEN.     Two, Lectures.     Crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

SIMKIN  (R  ).—LLFE  IN  THE  ARMY:  E very-day  Incidents 
in  Camp,  Field,  and  Quarters.     Printed  in  Colours.     Oblong  4to,  5s. 

SIMMONDS  (T.  T,.).— ANIMAL  PRODUCTS:  Their  Prepara- 
tion, Commercial  Uses  and  Value.  With  numerous  Illustrations. 
Large  crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

SINNETT  (A.  V.).— ESOTERIC  BUDDHISM.  Annotated 
and  enlarged  by  the  Author.     Seventh  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  Ss.  Qd. 

KARMA.     A  Novel.     New  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  Ss. 

SMITH  (Major  R.  M.),  RE  —  PERSIAN  ART.  With  Map 
and  Woodcuts.     Second  Edition.     Large  crown  8vo,  2s. 

SNAFFJj-E.— GUN,  RIFLE,  AND  HOUND,  IN  EAST  AND 
WEST.     With  Illustrations  by  H.  Dixon.     Demy  8vo,  14*. 

SON  OF  THE  MARSHES.—  WILD  FOWL  AND  SEA 
FOWL  OF  GREAT  BRITAIN.  With  Illustrations  by  Bryan 
Hook.     Large  crown  8vo,  14x. 

SOUTH  KENSINGTON  MUSEUM,  SCIENCE  AND  ART 
HANDBOOKS  OF.     For  detailed  List,  see  page  29. 

SPALDING  (Lieut.-Col.).—  LLFE  OF  SUVOROFF.  Crown 
8vo,  Qs. 

SPENCER  (Herbert).  —  AN  INTRODUCTLON  TO  THE 
PHILOSOPHY  OF  HERBERP  SPENCER.  By  Professor  W. 
H.  Hudson.     With  a  Biographical  Sketch.     Crown  8vo,  5j\ 

APHORLSMS     FROM     THE     WRITINGS     OF 

HERBERT  SPENCER.  Selected  and  arranged  by  Julia  Ray- 
mond Gingell.  With  a  Photogravure  Portrait  of  Herbert  Spencer. 
Second  Edition,  revised.     Crown  8vo,  Ss. 


26         Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

STANLEY  (H.  M.)  :  His  Life,  Works,  and  Explorations.  By 
the  Rev.  H.  W.  Little.     Demy  8vo,  IOj-.  Qd. 

STATHAM  (H.  H.).— ARCHITECTURE  FOR  GENERAL 
READERS :  A  Short  Treatise  on  the  Principles  and  Motives  of 
Architectural  Design.  With  a  Historical  Sketch.  With  250  Illustra- 
tions drawn  by  the  Author.  Second  Edition.  Revised.  Large  crown 
8vo,  12.r. 

■ FORM  AND  DESIGN  IN  MUSIC:  A  Brief  Out- 
line of  the  /Esthetic  Conditions  of  the  Art,  addressed  to  General 
Readers.     With  Musical  Examples.     Demy  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

MY  THOUGHTS  ON  MUSIC  AND  MUSICIANS. 


Illustrated  with  Frontispiece  of  the  Entrance-front  of  Handel's  Opera 
House,  and  Musical  Examples.     Demy  8vo,  IBs. 

STEELE  (Anna  C.).— CLOVE  PINK :  A  Study  from  Memory. 
Second  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 

STODDARD  (C.  A.) .  —  ACROSS  RUSSIA  FROM  THE 
BALTIC  TO  THE  DANUBE.  With  numerous  Illustrations. 
Large  crown  8vo,  7  s.  Qd.  « 

STOKES  (Margaret).  —  EARL  Y  CHRISTIAN  ART  IN 
IRELAND.     With  106  Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  4x. 

STORY  (W.  W.)  —  CASTLE  ST.  ANGELO.  With  Illustrations. 
Crown  8vo,  10s.  Qd. 

STJTCLIFFE  (John).  —  THE  SCULPTOR  AND  ART 
STUDENTS  GUIDE  to  the  Proportions  of  the  Human  Form,  with 
Measurements  in  feet  and  inches  of  Full-Grown  Figures  of  Both  Sexes 
and  of  Various  Ages.  By  Dr.  G.  Schadow.  Plates  reproduced  by 
J.  Sutcliffe.     Oblong  folio,  31s.  Qd. 

TANNER  (Prof.),  F.C.S.- HOLT  CASTLE;  or,  Threefold 
Interest  in  Land.     Crown  8vo,  4x.  Qd. 

JACK'S  EDUCATION;  or,  How  He  Learnt  Farming. 

Second  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  Ss.  Qd. 

TAYLOR  (E.  ^.-ELEMENTARY  ART  TEACHING:  An 
Educational  and  Technical  Guide  for  Teachers  and  Learners,  including 
Infant  School-work ;  The  work  of  the  Standards ;  Freehand ; 
Geometry  ;  Model  Drawing ;  Nature  Drawing  ;  Colours ;  Light  and 
Shade ;  Modelling  and  Design.  With  over  600  Diagrams  and 
Illustrations.     8vo,  10s.  Qd. 

TEMPLE  (Sir  Richard),  Bt.— COSMOPOLITAN  ESSA  YS. 
With  Maps.     Demy  8vo,  IQs. 

THOMSON  (D.  C).  —  THE  BARBIZON  SCHOOL  OF 
PAINTERS :  Corot,  Rousseau,  Diaz,  Millet,  and  Daubigny.  With 
130  Illustrations,  including  36  Full-page  Plates,  of  which  18  are 
Etchings.     4to,  cloth,  42x. 

THRTJPP  (G.  A.)  and  FARR  (W.).— COACH  TRIMMING. 
With  60  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  2s.  Qd. 

TOPINARD  (Paul).—  ANTHROPOLOG  Y  With  a  Preface  by 
Professor  Paul  Broca.     With  49  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  3s.  Qd. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  2~ 

TOVEYCLieut.-Col.),'R.E.—MA/?T/ALLA  WAND  CUSTOM 
OF  WAR;  or,  Military  Law  and  Jurisdiction  in  Troublous  Times. 
Crown  8vo,  6*. 

TRAHERNE  (Major).—  THE  HABITS  OF  THE  SALMON. 
Crown  8vo,  3s.  Gd. 

TROLLOPE  (Anthony).  —  THE  CHRONICLES  OF  B AR- 
SE TSHIRE.  A  Uniform  Edition,  in  8  vols.,  large  crown  8vo, 
handsomely  printed,  each  vol.  containing  Frontispiece.     6s.  each. 

THE   WARDEN  and  BARCHESTER  TOWERS.      2  vols. 
DR.   THORNE. 
FRAMLE  Y  PARSON  A  GE. 

THE  SMALL  HOUSE  AT  ALLINGTON.     2  vols. 
LAST  CHRONICLES  OF  BARSET.     2  vols. 

UNDERHILL(G.  F.)andSWEETLAND(H.  S.).—  THROUGH 
A  FIELD  GLASS.  With  Illustrations  by  L.  Thacker  y.  Crown 
8vo,  3s.  6d.     Picture  boards,  2s. 

VANDAM  (Albert  D.).— FRENCH  MEN  AND  FRENCH 
MANNERS.  With  an  Introduction,  "  Paris  and  Its  Inhabitants." 
Large  crown  8vo,  10s.  Gd. 

AN  ENGLISHMAN  IN  PARIS:  Notes  and  Recollec- 


tions during  the  Reign  of  Louis  Philippe  and  the  Empire.     Eighth 
Thousand.     Large  crown  8vo,  7s.  Gd. 

THE  MYSTERY  OF  THE  PATRICIAN  CLUB. 


Crown  8vo,  3s.  Gd. 

VERON  (Eugene).— ^ESTHETICS.  Translated  by  W.  H. 
Armstrong.    Large  crown  8vo,  3s.  Gd. 

VON  PLENER  (Ernst).  —  THE  ENGLISH  FACTORY 
LEGISLATION  FROM  1802  TILL  THE  PRESENT  TIME. 
Authorized  Translation  by  F.  L.  Weinmann.  With  an  Introduction 
by  the  Right  Hon.  A.  J.  Mundella,  M.P.  Second  Edition.  Crown 
8vo,  3s. 

WALFORD  (Major),  R.A.—  PARLIAMENTARY  GENE- 
RALS OF  THE  GREAT  CIVIL  WAR.  With  Maps.  Large 
crown  8vo,  4j\ 

WALKER  (Mrs. )—  UNTRODDEN  PA  THS  IN  RO  U MANIA . 
With  77  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  10*.  Gd. 

■ EASTERN  LIFE  AND  SCENER  Y.— With  Excur- 
sions to  Asia  Minor,  Mitylene,  Crete,  and  Roumania.  2  vols.,  with 
Frontispiece  to  each  vol.     Crown  8vo,  21*. 

WARD  (James).  —  ELEMENTARY  PRINCIPLES  OF 
ORNAMENT.     With  122  Illustrations.     Large  crown  8vo,  5*. 

THE  PRINCIPLES  OF  ORNAMENT.     Edited  by 

George    Aitchinson.    A.R.A.       A    New    Edition,    revised    and 
enlarged.     Large  crown  8vo,  7*.  Gd. 


28  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd 

WATSON  (A.  E.  T.).— SKETCHES  IN  THE  HUNTING 
FIELD.  A  New  Edition,  with  numerous  Illustrations  by  John 
Sturgess.     Crown  8vo,  Ss.  Qd. 

WATSON  (John).— POACHERS  AND  POACHING.  With 
Frontispiece.     Crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd. 

SKETCHES  OF  BRITISH  SPORTING  FISHES. 


With  Frontispiece.     Crown  8vo,  Ss.  6d 

WEGG-PROSSER  (F.  B.).— GALILEO  AND  HLS  JUDGES. 
Demy  8vo,  5.r. 

WHITMAN  (Sidney).—  TEUTON  STUDLES ;  Personal  Re- 
miniscenses  of  Count  Von  Moltke,  Prince  Bismarck,  &c.     Crown  8vo, 

6s. 

WIEL  (Hon.  Mrs.).— DESLGNS  FOR  CHURCH  EMBROI- 
DERY. By  A.  R.  Letterpress  by  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Wiel.  With 
numerous  Illustrations.     4X0,  12^.  net. 

WILKINS  (Mary  E.).—THE  LONG  ARM,  and  other  Detective 
Stories  by  other  writers.     Chapman's  Story  Series. 

WILLIAMSON  (C.  N.).—  THE  CARLYLE  BLRTHD AY- 
BOOK.     Second  Edition.     Small  Fcap.  8vo,  3s. 

WOLVERTON  (Lord).  —  FIVE  MONTHS  SPORT  IN 
SOMALI  LAND.     With  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo,  7s.  6d. 

WOOD   (Gen.  Sir  Evelyn),  G.C.B.,  Sec— THE   CRLMEA  IN 

1854  AND  1894.  With  numerous  Illustrations  from  Sketches  made 
during  the  Campaign  by  Col.  the  Hon.  W.  J.  Colville,  C.B.,  and 
Portraits  and  Plans.     Demy  8vo,  16s. 

WOODGATE  (W.  B.).—  A  MODERN  LA  YMANS  FALTH 
CONCERNING  THE  CREED  AND  THE  BREED  OF  THE 
1 '  THOR O  UGHBRED  MAN."     Demy  8vo,  14j. 

WORNUM  (R.  N.).—ANALYSLS  OF  ORNAMENT:  The 
Characteristics  of  Styles.  An  Introduction  to  the  History  of  Orna- 
mental Art.  With  many  Illustrations.  Ninth  Edition.  Royal  8vo, 
cloth,  8s. 

WORSAAE  (J.  J.  A).—LNE>USTRLAL  ARTS  OF  DEN- 
MARK, from  the  Earliest  Times  to  the  Danish  Conquest  of  England. 
With  Maps  and  Woodcuts.     Large  crown  8vo,  Ss.  Qd. 

WRIGHTSON  (Prof.  J.).— PRINCIPLES  OF  AGRLCUL- 
TURAL  PRACTICE  AS  AN  INSTRUCTIONAL  SUBJECT. 
With  Geological  Map.     Second  Edition.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 

FALLO  W  AND  FODDER  CROPS.     Crown  8vo,  5s. 


YOUNGE  (C.  D.).— PARALLEL  LLVES  OF  ANCLENT  AND 
MODERN  HEROES.     New  Edition.     i2mo,  cloth,  £s.  6d. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  29 

SOUTH    KENSINGTON    MUSEUM    SCIENCE 
AND  ART  HANDBOOKS. 

Handsomely    printed    in    Large    Crown    8vo. 

Published  for  the  Committee  of  the  Council  on  Education. 

ANIMAL  PRODUCTS  :  their  Preparation,  Commercial  Uses, 
and  Value.     By  T.  L.  SlMMONDS.     With  Illustrations.     Ss.  Qd. 

BRONZES.  By  C  Drury  E.  Fortnum,  F.S.A.  With  numerous 
Woodcuts.     2s.  6d. 

COLLEGE  AND  CORPORATION  PLATE.  A  Handbook  to 
the  Reproductions  of  Silver  Plate  in  the  South  Kensington  Museum 
from  Celebrated  English  Collections.  By  Wilfred  Joseph 
Cripps,  M.A.,  F.S.A.     With  Illustrations.     2s.  Qd. 

DANISH  ARTS.— INDUSTRIAL  ARTS  OF  DENMARK. 
From  the  Earliest  Times  to  the  Danish  Conquest  of  England.  By  J. 
J.  A.  Worsaae,  Hon.  F.S.A.,  &c.    With  Map  and  Woodcuts.  Ss.  Qd. 

DESIGN.— MANUAL  OF  DESIGN.  By  Richard  Red- 
grave,  R.A.    By  Gilbert  R.  Redgrave.   With  Woodcuts.   2s.  Qd. 

DYCE  AND  FORSTER  — HANDBOOK  TO  THE  DYCE 
AND  FORSTER  COLLECTIONS  in  the  South  Kensington 
Museum.     With  Portraits  and  Facsimiles.     2s.  Qd. 

EARTHENWARE.  —  ENGLISH  EARTHENWARE  i  A 
Handbook  to  the  Wares  made  in  England  during  the  17th  and  18th 
Centuries.     By  Prof.  A.  II.  Church,  M.A.     With  Woodcuts.     3s. 

ENTOMOLOGY.— ECONOMIC  ENTOMOLOGY.  By  An- 
drew Murray,  F.L.S.    Aptera.     With  Illustrations.     Ss.  Qd. 

FOOD  GRAINS  OF  IJNDIA.  By  Prof.  A.  H.  Church,  M.A., 
F.C.S.,  F.I.C.     With  numerous  Woodcuts.     Small  4to,  Qs. 

FOOD  :  Some  Account  of  its  Sources,  Constituents,  and  Uses. 
By  Prof.  A.  H.  Church,  M.A.     New  and  Revised  Edition.     Ss. 

■ THE  CHEMISTR  Y  OF  FOODS.     With  Microscopic 

Illustrations.     By  J.  Bell,  Ph.D.,  &c,  Somerset  House  Laboratory. 

Part  1. — Tea,  Coffee,  Cocoa,  Sugar,  &c.     2s.  Qd. 

Part  11. — Milk,  Butter,  Cheese,  Cereals,  Prepared  Starches,  &c.     Ss. 

FURNITURE  AND  WOODWORK.  —  ANCIENT  AND 
MODERN  FURNITURE  AND  WOODWORK.  By  John 
Hungerford  Pollen,  M.A.     With  numerous  Woodcuts.    2s.  Qd. 

GLASS.     By  Alex.  Nesbitt.   With  numerous  Woodcuts.   2s.  Qd. 

GOLD  AND  SILVER.— GOLD  AND  SILVER  SMITHS' 
WORK.   By  J.  H.  Pollen,  M.A.    With  numerous  Woodcuts.  2s.  Qd. 

INDIAN  ARTS.— INDUSTRIAL  ARTS  OF  INDIA.  By 
Sir  George  C.  M.  Birdwood,  C.S.I.,  &c.  With  Map  and  Wood- 
cuts.    Demy  8vo,  14j. 

INDUSTRIAL  ARTS:  Historical  Sketches.  With  numerous 
Illustrations.     Ss. 

IRISH  A-RT.— EARLY  CHRISTIAN  ART  IN  IRELAND. 
By  Margaret  Stokes.     WTith  106  Woodcuts.     4^. 


30  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

IRONWORK  :    From   the   Earliest   Times   to   the   End  of  the 

Mediaeval  Period.     By  J.  Starkie  Gardner.     With  57  Illustrations. 
Crown  8vo,  3s. 

IVORIES  — ANCIENT  AND  MEDIEVAL  IVORIES.  By 
William  Maskell.     With  numerous  Woodcuts.     2s.  Qd. 

JAPANESE  POTTERY.  Being  a  Native  Report.  With  an 
Introduction  and  Catalogue  by  A.  W.  Franks,  M.A.,  F.R.S.,  F.S.A. 
With  Illustrations  and  Marks.     2s.  Qd. 

JONES  COLLECTION  IN  THE  SOUTH  KENSINGTON 
MUSEUM.     With  Portrait  and  Woodcuts.     2s.  Qd. 

MAIOLICA  By  C.  Drury  E.  Fortnum,  F.S.A.  With 
numerous  Woodcuts.     2s.  Qd. 

MARINE    ENGINES   AND   BOILERS.     By    GEORGE   C.  V. 

Holmes,  Secretary  of  the  Institution  of  Naval  Architects,  Whitworth 
Scholar.     With  69  Woodcuts.     3s. 

MUSICAL  INSTRUMENTS.  By  Carl  Engel.  With  nu- 
merous Woodcuts.     2s.  Qd. 

PERSIAN  ART.  By  Major  R.  Murdock  Smith,  R.E. 
With  Map  and  Woodcuts      Second  Edition,  enlarged.     2s. 

PORCELAIN,-- ENGLISH  PORCELAIN:  A  Handbook  to 
the  China  made  in  England  during  the  18th  Century.  By  Prof.  A. 
II.  Church,  M.A.     With  numerous  Woodcuts.     3^. 

POTTERY.— FRENCH  POTTERY.  By  Paul  Gasnault 
and  Edouard  Garnier.     With  Illustrations  and  Marks.     3s. 

PRECIOUS  STONES :  Considered  in  their  Scientific  and 
Artistic  relations.  By  Prof.  A.  H.  Church,  M.A.  With  a  Coloured 
Plate  and  Woodcuts.     2s.  Qd. 

RUSSIAN   ART   AND    ART    OBJECTS    IN    RUSSIA:     A 

Handbook  to  the  reproduction  of  Goldsmiths'  work  and  other  Art 
Treasures.     By  Alfred  Maskell.     With  Illustrations.     4.r.  Qd. 

SARACENIC  ART.- THE  ART  OF  THE  SARACENS  IN 
EGYPT.  By  Stanley  Lane  Poole,  B.A.,  M.A.R.S.  With  108 
Woodcuts.     4j-. 

SCANDINAVIAN  ARTS.  —  INDUSTRIAL  ARTS  OF 
SCANDINAVIA  IN  THE  PAGAN  TIME.  By  Hans  Hilde- 
brand,  Royal  Antiquary  of  Sweden.     With  Woodcuts.     2s.  Qd. 

SPANISH  ARTS.— INDUSTRIAL  ARTS  IN  SPAIN.  By 
Juan  F.  Riano.     With  numerous  Woodcuts.     4.r. 

SPECIAL  LOAN  COLLECTION.—  HANDBOOK  TO  THE 
SPECIAL  LOAN  COLLECTION  OF  SCIENTIFIC  APPARA- 
TUS.    3s. 

TAPESTRY.     By  A.  de  Champeaux.     With  Woodcuts.    2s.  Qd. 

TEXTILE  FABRICS.  By  the  Very  Rev.  Daniel  Rock,  D.D. 
With  numerous  Woodcuts.     2s.  Qd. 

WATER.— PLAIN  WORDS  ABOUT  WATER.  By  A.  H. 
Church,  M.A.,  Oxon.     With  Illustrations.     Sewed,  Qd. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  3 1 


THOMAS    CARLYLE'S    WORKS. 

THE  LIBRARY  EDITION. 

In  34  volumes ;  deny  Svo,  red  cloth,  £16  3s. 
Separate  volumes  9s.   each,  except  otherwise  marked 

Sartor  Resartus.     With  Portrait.     7^.  Qd. 

The  French  "Revolution.     3  vols. 

Life  of  Schiller  and  Examination  of  His  Works.      With  Portra 

and  Plates. 
Critical  and  Miscellaneous  Essays.     With  Portrait.     6  vols. 
On  Heroes,   Hero   Worship,  and  the  Heroic  in  History.     7  s.  Qd. 
Past  and  Present. 

Oliver  Cromwell's  Letters  and  Speeches.     With  Portraits.     5  vols. 
Latter-Day  Pamphlets. 
Life  of  John  Sterling-.      With  Portrait. 

History  of  Frederick  the  Second.     With  Portraits  and  Maps.     10  vols. 
Translations  from  the  German.      3  vols. 
Early    Kings    of    Norway;      Essay    on    the    Portraits    of    John 

Knox  ;  and  General  Index.     With  Portraits. 


THE    ASHBURTON    EDITION. 

In  20  volumes,  demy  Svo,  blue  cloth,  £8.     Separate  volumes  8s.  each. 

French  Revolution  and  Past  and  Present.     With  Portrait.     2  vols. 
Sartor  Resartus  :  Heroes  and  Hero  Worship. 
Lives  of  John  Sterling-  and  Schiller.     With  Portraits  and  Plates. 
Latter-Day     Pamphlets — Early    Kings    of     Norway— Essay    on 

the  Portraits  of  John  Knox.     With  Portraits. 
Letters    and    Speeches    of    Oliver   Cromwell.     With   Portraits  and 

Plates.     3  vols. 
History  of  Frederick  the  Great.     With  Portraits  and  Maps.     6  vols. 
Critical  and  Miscellaneous  Essays.     With  Portrait.     3  vols. 
Translations  from  the  German.     3  vols. 


THE    HALF-CROWN    EDITION. 

In  20  volumes,  crow 71  Svo,  green  cloth,  £2  10s. 
Separate  volumes  2s.  Qd.  each. 

Sartor  Resartus  and  Latter-Day  Pamphlets.     With  Portrait. 
Past  and  Present  and  on  Heroes  and  Hero  Worship. 
Lives  of  John  Sterling  and  Schiller.     With  Portraits. 
Critical    and    Miscellaneous    Essays,  Early    Kings    of    Norway, 
and  Essay  on  the  Portraits  of  Knox.     With  Portraits.     4  vols. 
French  Revolution  ;    a  History.     2  vols. 

Oliver  Cromwell's  Letters  and  Speeches.     With  Portrait.     3  vols. 
History  of  Frederick  the  Great.     With  Maps.     5  vols. 
Wilhelm  Meister.     2  vols. 
Translations  from  Museeus,  Tiek,  and  Richter. 


32  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

THOMAS  CARLYLE'S  WOKKS. —Continued. 
THE    PEOPLE'S    EDITION. 

In  37  volumes,  small  crown  Svo,  red  cloth,  W7s.     Separate  volumes, 
Is.  each.     In  sets  of  37  volumes  bound  in  18,  37j\ 

Sartor  Resartus.     With  Portrait. 

French  Revolution.     3  vols. 

Oliver    Cromwell's    Letters    and    Speeches.      5   vols.      With 

Portrait. 
On  Heroes,  Hero  Worship,  and  the  Heroic  in  History. 
Past  and  Present. 

Critical  and  Miscellaneous  Essays.     7  vols. 
The  Life  of  Schiller,  and  Examination  of  his  Works.    With 

Portrait. 
Latter-Day  Pamphlets. 
Wilhelm  Meister.     3  vols. 
Life  of  John  Sterling.     With  Portrait. 
History  of  Frederick  the  Great.     With  Maps.     10  vols. 
Translations  from  Musseus,  Tieck,  and  Richter.     2  vols. 
The  Early  Kings  of  Norway ;   Essay  on  the  Portraits  of  Knox 

and  General  Index  to  Carlyle's  Works.      With  Portraits. 


CHEAP    ISSUE. 

In  crown  Svo  volumes,  bound  in  blue  cloth. 

The  French  Revolution.     With  Portrait.     2s. 

Sartor    Resartus,    Heroes    and    Hero    Worship,    Past    and 

Present,  and  Chartism.     With  Portrait.     2s. 
Oliver    Cromwell's    Letters    and    Speeches.      With   Portrait. 

2s.  Gd. 
Critical  and  Miscellaneous  Essays.     2  vols.     4j. 
Wilhelm  Meister.     2s. 
Lives  of  Schiller  and  Sterling.     With  Portraits.     2s. 


SIXPENNY    EDITION. 

Afto,  sewed. 
Heroes  and  Hero  Worship. 
Essays:  Burns,  Johnson,  Scott,  The  Diamond  Necklace. 

The  above  three  books,  botind  in  one  cloth  volume,  2s.  Gd. 


Thoughts  on  Life.  By  Thomas  Carlyle.  Selected  by  Robert 
Dunxan.  With  a  Photogravure  Portrait.  Crown  8vo,  Is.  Qd.  ;  in 
paper  covers,  Is. 

A  limited  edition  on  Hand-made  Paper,  5s. 


The  Carlyle  Birthday  Book.     Compiled  by  C.  N.  Williamson. 
Second  Edition.     Small  fcap.  Svo,  3s. 


Books  publisJicd  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  33 

CHARLES   DICKENS'S  WORKS. 

REPRINTS  OF  THE  ORIGINAL  EDITIONS. 

/;/  demy  Svo,  uniform  green  cloth. 
The  Mystery  of  Edwin  Drood.     With  Illustrations  by  S.  L.  Funics, 

and  a  Portrait  engraved  by  Baker.     7.S.  Qd- 
Our  Mutual  Friend.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone.     21s. 
The  Pickwick  Papers.     With  43  Illusts.  by  Seymour  and  Phiz.     21s. 
Nicholas  Nickleby.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     21s. 
Sketches  by  "Boz."     With  40  Illusts.  by  GEORGE  CRUIKSHANK.     21s. 
Martin  Chuzzlewit.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     21s. 
Dombey  and  Son.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     21s. 
David  Copperfield.     WTith  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     21s. 
Bleak  House.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     21s. 
Little  Dorrit.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     21s. 
The  Old  Curiosity  Shop.     With  75  Illustrations  by  George  CATTER- 

mole  and  H.  K.  Browne.     21s. 
Barnaby  Rudg-e  :  a  Tale  of  the  Riots  of  'Eighty.     With  78  Illustrations 

by  George  Cattermole  and  H.  K.  Browne.     21s. 
Christmas  Books.      With  all  the  original  Illustrations.     12s. 
Oliver  Twist.     With  24  Illustrations  by  George  Cruikshank.     lis. 
A  Tale  of  Two  Cities.     With  16  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     9s. 
Oliver  Twist  and  Tale  of  Two  Cities.     In  one  volume.     21s. 
***   'The  remainder  of  Dickens's  Works  were  not  originally  printed  in  demy  1>vo. 


THE    ILLUSTRATED    LIBRARY    EDITION. 

In  30  volumes,  de?ny  Svo,  green  cloth,  zoilh   Original  Illustrations,  £15. 
Separate  volumes,  10s.  each. 

Pickwick  Papers.     With  42  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     2  vols. 

Nicholas  Nickleby.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     2  vols. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop  and  Reprinted   Pieces.     With    Illustrations  by 
Cattermole,  &c.    2  vols. 

Barnaby  Budge  and  Hard   Times.     With  Illustrations  by  Catter- 
mole, &c.     2  vols. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     2  vols. 

Dombey  and  Son.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz      2  vols. 

David  Copperfield.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     2  vols. 

Bleak  House.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     2  vols. 

Little  Dorrit.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz.     2  vols. 

Our  Mutual  Friend.    With  40  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone,    2  vols. 

A  Tale  of  Two  Cities.     With  16  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 

The  "Uncommercial  Traveller.     With  8  Illusts.  by  Marcus  Stone. 

Great  Expectations.     With  8  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone. 

Oliver  Twist.     With  24  Illustrations  by  Cruikshank. 

Sketches  by  uBoz."     With  40  Illustrations  by  George  Cruikshank. 

Christmas  Books.     With  17  Illustrations  by  Landseer,  Maclise,  &c. 

American  Notes  and  Pictures  from  Italy.     With  8  Illustrations. 

A  Child's  History  of  England.     With  8  Illusts.  by  Marcus  Stone. 

Christmas  Stories.     With  14  Illustrations. 

Edwin  Drood  and  Other  Stories.     With    12    Illustrations   by   S.   L. 
Fildes. 

Uniform  with  above. 

Life    of    Charles    Dickens.      By  John    Forster.     With    Portraits. 
2  vols. 


34  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

CHARLES   DICKENS'S   WORKS.— Continued. 
THE    LIBRARY    EDITION. 

In  30  volumes,  post  8vo,  red  cloth,  with  all  the  Original  Illustrations ,  £12. 

Separate  vohimes  8s.  each. 
Pickwick  Papers.     With  43  Illustrations.     2  vols. 
Nicholas  Nickleby.     With  39  Illustrations.     2  vols. 
Martin  Chuzzlewit.     With  40  Illustrations.     2  vols.  [2  vols. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop  and  Reprinted  Pieces.     With  36   Illustrations. 
Barnaby  B-udg-e  and  Hard  Times.     With  36  Illustrations.     2  vols. 
Bleak  House.     With  40  Illustrations.     2  vols. 
Little  Dorrit.     With  40  Illustrations.     2  vols. 
Dombey  and  Son.     With  38  Illustrations.     2  vols. 
David  Copperfield.     With  38  Illustrations.     2  vols. 
Our  Mutual  Friend.     With  40  Illustrations.     2  vols. 
Sketches  by  "Boz."     With  39  Illustrations. 
Oliver  Twist.     With  24  Illustrations. 
Christmas  Books.     With  17  Illustrations. 
A  Tale  of  Two  Cities.     With  16  Illustrations. 
Great  Expectations.     With  8  Illustrations. 

Pictures  from  Italy  and  American  Notes.     With  8  Illustrations. 
Uncommercial  Traveller.     With  8  Illustrations. 
A  Child's  History  of  England.     With  8  Illustrations. 
Edwin  Drood  and  Miscellanies.     With  12  Illustrations. 
Christmas  Stories.     With  14  Illustrations. 

Uniform  with  the  above,  10s.  Qd. 
The  Life  of  Charles  Dickens.     By  John  Forster.     With  Illustrations. 


THE    "CHARLES    DICKENS"    EDITION. 

In  21  volumes,  crown  8vo,  red  cloth,  with  Illustrations,  £3  16s. 
Pickwick  Papers.     With  8  Illustrations.     4j-. 
Martin  Chuzzlewit.     With  8  Illustrations.     4.y. 
Dombey  and  Son.     With  8  Illustrations.     4j. 
Nicholas  Nickleby.     With  8  Illustrations.     4^. 
David  Copperfield.     With  8  Illustrations.     4x. 
Bleak  House.     With  8  Illustrations.     4j\ 
Little  Dorrit.     With  8  Illustrations.     4:s. 
Our  Mutual  Friend.     With  8  Illustrations.     4j-. 
Barnaby  Budge.     With  8  Illustrations.     3^.  Qd. 
Old  Curiosity  Shop.     With  8  Illustrations.     3s.  6d. 
A  Child's  History  of  England.      With  4  Illustrations.     3s.  Qd. 
Edwin  Drood  and  Other  Stories.     With  8  Illustrations.     3s.  Qd. 
Christmas  Stories.     From  Household  Words.     With  8  Illusts.     3s.  Qd. 
Sketches  by  "Boz."     With  8  Illustrations.     3s.  Qd. 
American  Notes  and  Reprinted  Pieces.    With  8  Illustrations.     3s.  Qd. 
Christmas  Boobs.     With  8  Illustrations.     3s.  Qd. 
Oliver  Twist.     With  8  Illustrations.     3*.  Qd. 
Great  Expectations.     With  8  Illustrations.     3s.  Qd. 
A  Tale  of  Two  Cities.     With  8  Illustrations.     3s. 
Hard  Times  and  Pictures  from  Italy.     With  8  Illustrations.     3s. 
Uncommercial  Traveller.      With  4  Illustrations.     3s. 

Uniform  with  the  above. 
The  Life  of  Charles  Dickens.     With  Illustrations.     2  vols.     Is. 
The  Letters  of  Charles  Dickens.     With  Illustrations.     2  vols.     7s. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  35 


CHARLES    DICKENS'S   WORKS.— Continued. 


THE    CROWN    EDITION. 

In  17  volumes,  large  crown  Szv,  maroon  cloth,  0>  iginal  Illustrations,  £0.  5s. 
Separate  volumes,  5s.  each, 

Pickwick  Papers.     With  43  Illustrations  by  SEYMOUR  and  Phiz. 

Nicholas  Nickleby.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 

Dornbey  and  Son.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Pniz. 

David  Copperfield.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 

Sketches  by  "Boz."     With  40  Illusts.  by  Geo.  Cruikshank. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop.  With  75  Illustrations  by  George  Catter- 
mole  and  II.  K.  Browne. 

Barnaby  Budge.     With  78   Illustrations  by  GEORGE  CATTER- 

MOLE  and  II.  K.  BROWNE. 

Oliver  Twist  and  A  Tale  of  Two  Cities.  With  24  Illustra- 
tions by  Cruikshank  and  16  by  Phiz. 

Bleak  House.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 

Little  Dorrit.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 

Our  Mutual  Friend.    With  40  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone. 

American  Notes  ;  Pictures  from  Italy  ;  and  A  Child's  History 
of  England.     With  16  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone. 

Christmas  Books  and  Hard  Times.  With  Illustrations  by 
Landseer,  Maclise,  Stanfield,  Leech,  Doyle,  F.  Walker,  &c. 

Christmas  Stories  and  Other  Stories,  including  Humphrey's 
Clock.  With  Illustrations  by  Dalziel,  Charles  Green,  Ma- 
honey,  Phiz,  Cattermole,  etc. 

Great  Expectations  and  Uncommercial  Traveller.  With  16 
Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone. 

Edwin  Drood  and  Reprinted  Pieces.  With  16  Illustrations 
by  Luke  Fildes  and  F.  Walker. 

Uniform  with  the  above. 

The  Life  of  Charles  Dickens.  By  John  Forster.  With 
Portraits  and  Illustrations. 

The  Dickens  Dictionary.  A  Key  to  the  Characters  and  Principal 
Incidents  in  the  Tales  of  Charles  Dickens.  By  Gilbert  Pierce, 
with  additions  by  William  A.  Wheeler. 

The  Lazy  Tour  of  Two  Idle  Apprentices  ;  No  Thoroughfare  ; 
The  Perils  of  Certain  English  Prisoners.  By  Charles 
Dickens  and  Wilkie  Collins.     With  Illustrations. 

***   These  Stories  are  now  reprinted  in  complete  form  for  the  first  time. 


36  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

CHARLES   DICKENS'S   WORKS.— Continued. 
THE    HALF-CROWN    EDITION. 

In  21  volumes,  crown  Svo,  blue  cloth,  Original  Illustrations,  £2  12s.   Qd. 

Separate  volumes,  2s.  Qd.  each. 
The  Pickwick  Papers.     With  43  Illustrations  by  Seymour  and  Phiz. 
Barnaby  Budge.     With  j6  Illustrations  by  Cattermole  and  Phiz. 
Oliver  Twist.     WTith  24  Illustrations  by  Cruikshank. 
The  Old  Curiosity  Shop.     With  75  Illustrations  by  Cattermole,  &c. 
David  Copperfield.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 
Nicholas  Nickleby.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 
Martin  Chuzzlewit.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 
Dombey  and  Son.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 
Sketches  by  "Boz."     With  40  Illustrations  by  George  Cruikshank. 
Christmas  Books.     With  64  Illustrations  by  LandseeRj  Doyle,  &c. 
Bleak  House.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 
Little  Dorrit.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 

Christmas  Stories.     With  14  Illustrations  by  Dalziel,  Green,  &c. 
American    Notes    and    Reprinted  Pieces.      With  8  Illustrations  by 

Marcus  Stone  and  F.  Walker. 
Hard  Times  and   Pictures  from  Italy.     With  8  Illustrations  by  F. 

Walker  and  Marcus  Stone. 
A  Child's  History  of  England.     With  8  Illusts.  by  Marcus  Stone. 
Great  Expectations.     With  8  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone. 
Tale  of  Two  Cities.     With  16  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 
Uncommercial  Traveller.     With  8  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone. 
Our  Mutual  Eriend.     With  40  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone. 
Edwin  Drood  and  Other  Stories.     With  12  Illustrations  by  Fildes. 


THE    PICTORIAL    EDITION. 

In  17  volumes,  with  over  goo  Illustrations,  royal  Svo,  red  cloth,  £2  19 s.  Qd. 
Separate  volumes,  3s.  Qd.  each. 

Dombey  and  Son.     With  62  Illustrations  by  F.  Barnard. 

David  Copperfield.     With  61  Illustrations  by  F.  Barnard. 

Nicholas  Nickleby.     With  59  Illustrations  by  F.  Barnard. 

Barnaby  Budge.     With  46  Illustrations  by  F.  Barnard. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop.    With  39  Illustrations  by  Charles  Green. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit.     With  59  Illustrations  by  F.  Barnard. 

Oliver  Twist  and  a  Tale  of  Two  Cities.  With  53  Illustrations  by 
J.  Mahoney  and  F.  Barnard. 

Our  Mutual  Eriend.     With  58  Illustrations  by  J.  Mahoney. 

Bleak  House.     With  61  Illustrations  by  F.  Barnard. 

Pickwick  Papers.     With  57  Illustrations  by  Phiz. 

Little  Dorrit.     With  58  Illustrations  by  J.  Mahoney. 

Great  Expectations  and  Hard  Times.  With  50  Illustrations  by 
J.  A.  Fraser  and  H.  French. 

American  Notes,  Pictures  from  Italy,  and  A  Child's  History  of 
England.     With  33  Illustrations  by  Frost,  Goedon,  &c. 

Sketches  by  "Boz"  and  Christmas  Books.  With  62  Illustrations 
by  F.  Barnard. 

Christmas  Stories  and  Uncommercial  Traveller.  With  49 
Illustrations  by  E.  G.  Dalziel. 

Edwin  Drood,  and  other  Stories.     With  30  Illusts.  by  L.  Fildes,  &c. 

The  Life  of  Charles  Dickens.  By  John  Forster.  With  40  Illus- 
trations by  F.  Barnard  and  others. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd.  37 

CHARLES  DICKENS'S  WORKS.— Continued. 
THE    HOUSEHOLD    EDITION. 

In  22  volumes,  including  the  "LIFE"  crown  \to,  green  cloth,  £4.  8s.  6d. 
Martin  Chuzzlewit.     With  59  Illustrations.     5s. 
David  Copperneld.     With  60  Illustrations  and  a  Portrait.     5s. 
Bleak  House.     With  61  Illustrations.     5s. 
Little  Dorrit.     With  58  Illustrations.     5s. 
Pickwick  Papers.     With  56  Illustrations.     5s. 
Our  Mutual  Friend.     With  58  Illustrations.     5s. 
Nicholas  Nickleby.     With  59  Illustrations.     5s. 
Dombey  and  Son.     With  61  Illustrations.     5s.  [Illusts.     5s. 

Edwin  Drood  ;  Reprinted  Pieces  ;  and  other  Stories.     With  30 
Barnaby  Budge.     With  46  Illustrations.     4j-. 
Old  Curiosity  Shop.     With  32  Illustrations.     4j. 
Christmas  Stories.     With  23  Illustrations.     4j. 
Oliver  Twist.     With  28  Illustrations.     3s. 
Great  Expectations.     With  26  Illustrations.     3s. 
Sketches  by  "  Boz."     With  36  Illustrations.     3s. 
Uncommercial  Traveller.     With  26  Illustrations.     3s. 
Christmas  Books.     With  28  Illustrations.     3s. 
The  History  of  England.     With  15  Illustrations.     3s. 
American  Notes  and  Pictures  from  Italy.    With  18  Illusts.  3s. 
A  Tale  of  Two  Cities.     With  25  Illustrations.     3s. 
Hard  Times.     With  20  Illustrations.     2s.  Qd. 
The  Life  of  Dickens.     By  John  Forster.     With  40  Illusts.    5s. 
The  Illustrations  in  this  Edition  are  by  the  same  artists  as  in  the  Pictorial 
Edition.     See  page  36. 


THE    CHRISTMAS     BOOKS. 

REPRINTED  F  ROM  THE  ORIGINAL  PLATES. 
Illustrated  by  John  Leech,  D.  Maclise,  R.A.,  R.  Doyle,  &c. 
Fcap.  Svo,  red  cloth,  Is.  each.      The  five  volumes,  complete  in  a  case,  5s. 
A  Christmas  Carol  in  Prose. 
The  Chimes  :  A  Goblin  Story. 

The  Cricket  on  the  Hearth  :  A  Fairy  Tale  of  Home. 
The  Battle  of  Life  :  A  Love  Story. 
The  Haunted  Man  and  the  Ghost's  Story. 


SIXPENNY    EDITION. 

Bleak  House.    With  18  Illustrations  by  F.  Barnard. 
Sketches  by  "  Boz."     With  Illustrations  by  F.  Barnard. 
American  Notes  and  Italy.    With  Illustrations  by  A.  B.  FROST. 
Oliver  Twist.     With  Illustrations  by  J.  Mahoney. 
Readings  from  the  Works  of  Charles  Dickens.     As  selected 
and  read  by  himself  and  now  published  for  the  first  time.    Illustrated. 
A  Christmas  Carol  and  the  Haunted  Man.     Illustrated. 
The  Chimes  and  the  Cricket  on  the  Hearth.     Illustrated. 

Hunted  Down ;  a  Holiday  Romance.     Illus. 


38  Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 

CHARLES   DICKENS'S   WORKS.— Continued. 
THE    CABINET   EDITION. 

In  32  volumes,  small  /cap.  Svo,  Marble  Paper  Sides,  uncut  edges,  £2  8s. 

Separate  volumes  Is.  Qd.  each. 

In  Sets  only,  bound  in  decorative  blue  cloth,  cut  edges  and  gilt  tops,  complete 

in  cloth  box,    £2  10s. 

Christmas  Books.     With  8  Illustrations. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit.     With  16  Illustrations.     2  vols. 

David  Copperfield.     With  16  Illustrations.     2  vols. 

Oliver  Twist.     With  8  Illustrations. 

Great  Expectations.     With  8  Illustrations. 

Nicholas  Nickleby.     With  16  Illustrations.     2  vols. 

Sketches  by  "Boz."     With  8  Illustrations. 

Christmas  Stories.     With  8  Illustrations. 

The  Pickwick  Papers.     With  16  Illustrations.     2  vols. 

Barnaby  Rudge.     With  16  Illustrations.     2  vols. 

Bleak  House.     With  16  Illustrations.     2  vols. 

American  Notes  and  Pictures  from  Italy.    With  8  Illustrations. 

Edwin  Drood  ;  and  Other  Stories.     With  8  Illustrations. 

The  Old  Curiosity  Shop.     With  16  Illustrations.     2  vols. 

A  Child's  History  of  England.     With  8  Illustrations. 

Dombey  and  Son.     With  16  Illustrations.     2  vols. 

A  Tale  of  Two  Cities.     With  8  Illustrations. 

Little  Dorrit.     With  16  Illustrations.     2  vols. 

Our  Mutual  Friend.     With  16  Illustrations.     2  vols. 

Hard  Times.     With  8  Illustrations. 

Uncommercial  Traveller.     With  8  Illustrations. 

Reprinted  Pieces.     With  8  Illustrations. 

THE    TWO    SHILLING    EDITION. 

I11  21  volumes,  each  with  a  frontispiece,  crown  Svo,  red  cloth,  £2  2s. 
Separate  volumes,  2s.  each. 


Dombey  and  Son. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit. 

The  Pickwick  Papers. 

Bleak  House. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop. 

Barnaby  Rudge. 

David  Copperfield. 

Nicholas  Nickleby. 

Christmas  Stories. 

American  Notes.  [Italy. 

Hard  Times  &  Pictures  from 


Great  Expectations. 
Our  Mutual  Friend. 
Christmas  Books. 
Oliver  Twist. 
Little  Dorrit. 
Tale  of  Two  Cities. 
Uncommercial  Traveller. 
Sketches  by  "Boz"     [land. 
A    Child's    History  of  Eng- 
Edwin     Drood     and     Other 
Stories. 


CHARLES  DICKENS'S  READINGS. 

Fcap.  Svo,  sewed,  Is.  each. 


Christmas  Carol  in  Prose. 
Cricket  on  the  Hearth. 
Chimes  :  A  Goblin  Story. 


Story  of  Little  Dombey. 
Poor  Traveller,  Boots  at  the 

Holly-Tree  Inn,  and  Mrs. 

Gamp . 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 


39 


CHAPMAN  &  HALL'S  PUBLICATIONS. 


ARRANGED   ACCORDING    TO    THEIR,    PRICES. 


52s.  6d. 

Daubourg's  Interior  Architecture. 

42s.  net. 
Dickens's  Oliver  Twist.    Coloured  Plates. 

425. 

Burton's  (Sir  Richard)  Life.     2  vols. 

1  errot  A  Chipiez's  Phoenician  Art.    2  vols. 

Chaldean  Art.    2  vols. 

Egyptian  Art.     2  vols. 

Primitive  Greece.  2  vols 

Thomson's  Barbizon  School  of  Painters. 

36s.  net. 
Twelve  Heads  after  Holbein. 

36s. 

Perrot  &  Chipiez's  Sardinian  Art.    2  vols. 

32s. 

Bonvalot's  Through  Heart  of  Asia.    2  vols. 
De  Falloux's  Memoirs.     2  vols. 
Peterborough  (Earl  of),  Memoirs.    2  vols. 

31s.  6d 

Sutcliffe's  Art  Student's  Guide. 

30s.  net. 
Sandeman's  Angling  in  Norway.    L.P. 

30s. 

Griffiths'  Secrets  of  Prison  House.     2  vols. 

28s. 
Bloomfield's  Memoir.    2  vols. 

26s. 

Dawson's  Germany  and  Germans.    2  vols. 

25s.  net.  each. 
Jeaffreson's  Middlesex  Records.    4  vols. 


24s. 

Beatty-Kingston's "Wanderer's  Notes.  2  vis. 

Journalist's  Jottings.  2  vis. 

Elliot's  Old  Court  Life  in  Spain.    2  vols. 

21s.  net. 

Crawfurd's  A  Year  of  Sport. 

Lyrical  Verse. 

Peek's  Nema.    Large  Paper  Edition. 

21s. 

Buffen's  Musical  Celebrities. 

DICKENS'S  (CHARLES)  WORKS. 
Original  Edition 

Our  Mutual  Friend. 

The  Pickwick  Papers. 

Nicholas  Nickleby. 

Sketches  by  "  Boz." 

Martin  Chuzzlewit. 

Dombey  and  Son. 

David  Copperfield. 

Bleak  House. 

Little  Dorrit. 

The  Old  Curiosity  Shop. 

Barnaby  Rudge. 

Christmas  Books. 

Oliver  Twist  and  Two  Cities.    1  vol. 
Greswell's  South  African  Empire.    2  vols. 
Junker's  Travels  in  Africa.     1879—83. 

1832—86. 

Lilly's  European  History.    2  vols. 
Perrot  &  Chipiez's  Persian  Art. 
Ramsden's  Birthday  Book. 
Redgrave's  "Water  Colour  Paintings. 
Ribton-Turner's  Vagrants  and  Vagrancy. 
Walker's  Eastern  Life  and  Scenery.     2  vols. 

18s.  net. 
Dyce's  Drawing  Book  (Mounted) 


40 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 


18s. 

12s. 

Bingham's  Recollections  of  Paris.    2  vols. 

Dickens'  Birthday  Book. 

Crawford's  Round  Calendar  in  Portugal. 

Dilke's  British  Army. 

De  Windt's  Siberia  as  it  is. 

; European  Politics. 

Malleson's  Warren  Hastings. 

Huntley's  Travels,  Sports,  and  Politics. 

D'Haussonville's  Madame  Necker.    2  vols. 

Lilly's  Claims  of  Christianity. 

r\~   ei-u,"ui,„'!,..i.-u„ 

Stafcham's  Music  and  Musicians. 

\jix  onioooieins. 

On  Right  and  Wrong. 

16s. 

■  Ancient  xtengion. 

Bradley's  Geometry.    2  vols. 

Mitre's  Emancipation  of  S.  America 

De  Windt's  Ride  to  India. 

Norman's  Tonkin. 

Harper's  The  Dover  Road. 

Roosevelt's  Elizabeth  of  Roumania 

mVirt    "D^-w+nwi  Anfli     "D*~kOrl 

Statham's  Architecture. 

Marches  of  Wales. 

Kelly's  Life  of  Cervantes. 

lis. 

Le  Roux's  Acrobats  and  Mountebanks. 

Dickens's  Oliver  Twist.    Original  ed. 

Oliver's  Vegetable  Kingdom. 

Paget' s  (Lord  Clarence)  Autobiography. 

10s.  6d.  net. 

Pollok's  Sport  and  Travel. 

Sandeman's  Angling  in  Norway. 

Lineham's  Mechanical  Engineering. 

Temple's  Cosmopolitan  Essays. 

10*.  6d. 

Wood's  Crimea  in  1854  and  1894. 

Bailey's  Modern  Methuselahs. 

15s.  net. 

Bridgeman's  Winters  in  Algeria. 

Charlotte  Elizabeth's  Letters  and  Life. 

Dixon's  Nests  and  Eggs  of  Birds.    Col.  illus. 

Ellis's  Toruba  Speaking  People. 

Pyler's  The  50th  Regiment. 

TT^tn««    ~4?    f°i~TA     /~1««,>,4. 

15s. 

Forster's  Life  of  Dickens. 

Gillmore's  Hunter's  Arcadia. 

Fleming's  Animal  Plagues. 

Gundry's  China  Present  and  Past. 

Rabies  and  Hydrophobia. 

Hall's  Travelling  Atlas. 

Perrot  &  Chipiez's  Phrygian  Art. 

Stanley's  (H.  M.)  Life  and  Work. 

14s. 

Story's  Castle  St.  Angelo. 

Taylor's  Elementary  Art  Teaching. 

Bailey's  Congo  Free  State. 

Vandam's  French  Men  and  Manners. 

Billington's  Woman  in  India. 

Walker's  Roumania. 

Birdwood's  Indian  Art. 

Carstensen's  Two  Summers  in  Greenland. 

10s. 

D'Orleans'  Tonkin  and  Siam. 

DICKENS'S  (CHARLES)  WORKS. 

Fitzgerald's  Henry  Irving. 

The  Illustrated  Library  Edition. 

Greville-Nugent's  Mosques  and  Marabouts. 

Sketches  by  "  Boz." 

Houssaye's  Com^die  Francaise. 

Pickwick  Papers.    2  vols.  ^ 

Hudson's  Idle  Days  in  Patagonia. 

Oliver  Twist. 

Lanin's  Russian  Characteristics. 

Nicholas  Nickleby.    2  vols. 

Marceau's  Reminiscences  of  a  Regicide. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop,  Ac.    2  vols. 

Oliver's  Across  the  Border. 

Barnaby  Rudge,  &c.    2  vols. 

Snaffle's  Gun,  Rifle,  and  Hound. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit.    2  vols. 

Son  of  the  Marshes'  Wild  Fowl  &  Sea  Fowl 

American  Notes. 

Woodgate's  Modern  Layman's  Faith. 

Dombey  and  Son.     2  vols. 

12s.  net. 

David  Copperfleld.    2  vols. 

Bleak  House.    2  vols. 

Wiel's  Church  Embroidery. 

Little  Dorrit-     2  vols. 

Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 


41 


10s.  (continued). 

Tale  of  Two  Cities. 

Uncommercial  Traveller. 

Great  Expectations. 

Our  Mutual  Friend.    2  vols. 

Christmas  Books. 

History  of  England. 

Christmas  Stories. 

Edwin  Drood,  Ac. 

Life  of  Charles  Dickens.    2  vols. 

9s. 

CARLYLE'S  (THOMAS)  WORKS. 
Library  Edition. 

The  French  Revolution.    3  vols.,  each  9*. 

Life  of  Schiller. 

Critical  Essays.    6  vols.,  each  9«. 

Past  and  Present. 

Cromwell's  Letters.    5  vols.,  each  9*. 

Latter-Day  Pamphlets. 

Life  of  John  Sterling. 

Frederick  the  Great.     10  vols.,  each  9*. 

Translations  from  the  German.    3  vols, 
each  9s. 

Early  Kings  of  Norway,  Ac. 
Day's  Racehorse  in  Training. 
Dickens's  Tale  of  Two  Cities.    Original  ed. 
Dilke's  Art  in  Modern  State. 
Ducoudray's  Modern  Civilization. 
Escott's  Politics  and  Letters. 
Hatton's  Figure  Drawing  and  Composition. 
Jackson's  Theory  and  Practice  of  Design. 
Long's  Dairy  Farming. 
Poynter's  Lectures  on  Art. 

8s. 

Boyle's  About  Orchids. 

CARLYLE'S  (THOMA.S)  WORKS. 

The  Ashburton  Edition. 
Demy  8vo,  8*.  each  volume. 
French  Revolution  and  Past  and  Present. 

2  vols. 
Sartor  Resartus  and  Heroes.     1  vol. 
Lives  of  Sterling  and  Schiller.    1  voi. 
Latter-Day  Pamphlets  and  Early  Kings 

of  Norway,  &c.    1  vol. 
Cromwell's  Letters.     3  vols. 
Frederick  the  Great.    6  vols. 
Critical  Essays.    3  vols. 
Translations  from  the  German.    3  vols. 


8s.  {continued). 

DICKENS'S  (CHARLES)  WORKS. 

Library  Edition.     8*.  each  volume. 

Pickwick  Papers.     2  vols. 

Nicholas  Nickleby.    2  vols. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit.    2  vols. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop,  Ac.     2  vols. 

Barnaby  Rudge  and  Hard  Times.    2  vols. 

Bleak  House.    2  vols. 

Little  Dorrit.    2  vols. 

Dombey  and  Son.    2  vols. 

David  Copperfield.     2  vols. 

Our  Mutual  Friend.    2  vols. 

Sketches  by  "  Boz." 

Oliver  Twist. 

Christmas  Books. 

A  Tale  of  Two  Cities. 

Great  Expectations. 

Pictures  from  Italy,  Ac. 

Uncommercial  Traveller. 

Child's  England. 

Edwin  Drood,  Ac. 

Christmas  Stories,  Ac. 
Drayson's  Woolwich  Professor. 
Fiske's  Life  of  E.  L.  Youmans. 
Fitzgerald's  History  of  Pickwick. 
Hudson's  Naturalist  in  La  Plata. 
Hueffer's  Half  a  Century  of  Music. 
Pytchley  Book  of  Refined  Cookery. 
Robson's  Building  Construction. 
Wornum's  Analysis  of  Ornament. 

7s.  6d. 

Andrew's  Course  of  Scale  Drawing. 
Boyle's  Orchid  Seekers  in  Borneo. 
Carlyle's  Sartor  Resartus.   Library  Edition . 

Heroes.    Library  Edition. 

De  Lisle's  Memoir. 

De  Windt's  Pekin  to  Calais. 

Dickens's  Edwin  Drood.    Original  edition. 

Dixon's  Migration  of  British  Birds. 

Birds  of  our  Rambles. 

Annals  of  Bird  Life. 

Forster's  Life  of  Landor. 

Harper's  Drawing  for  Reproduction. 

Hudson's  Birds  in  a  Village. 

Hughes'  A  Week's  Tramp  in  Dickens'  Land. 

Jackson's  Decorative  Design. 

Jean's  Creators  of  the  Age  of  Steel. 

Leroy-Beaulieu's  Papacy,  Socialism,  Ac. 

Leslie's  A  Water  Biography. 

McCoan's  Egypt  under  Ismael. 


.2 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 


7s.  6d.  (continued). 

6s.  (continued). 

farmery's  Progress  of  Science. 

Hutchinson's  Creatures  of  Other  Days. 

luntz's  Eaphael. 

•ratt's  Sciography. 

Lavelaye's  Political  Economy. 

Leid's  Present  Evolution  of  Man. 

Le  Conte's  Evolution. 

tobinson's  Italian  Sculpture. 

Lee's  Life  of  General  Lee. 

cott's  Republic  as  a  Form  of  Government. 

Lineham's  Street  of  Human  Habitations. 

toddart's  Across  Russia. 

Lloyd's  Sketches  of  Indian  Life. 

randam's  Englishman  in  Paris. 

Low's  Table  Decoration. 

Pard's  Principles  of  Ornament. 

Macdonald's  Ocean  Railways. 

Vatson's  Poachers  and  Poaching. 

Malleson's  Prince  Eugene  of  Savoy.    . 

Volverton's  Sport  in  Somaliland. 

Mallock's  The  Heart  of  Life. 

Meredith's  Lord  Ormont. 

7s. 

One  of  our  Conquerors. 

juiana  oi  toe  urosbways. 

Jurchett's  Linear  Perspective. 

Evan  Harrington. 

Richard  Feverel. 

6s.  Qd.  net. 

Hairy  Richmond. 

oauura  xseiioni. 

)yce's  Drawing  Book  (Selection  mtd.) 

Vittoria. 

TM    r    1        Tjl|«         ' 

6s.  net. 

■n            .              >      rt 

xseaucnamp  s  career. 

Egoist. 

lelson's  Wcod Working  Positions.   (Large.) 

all._„f          -,  -n 

Peek's  Nema  and  Other  Stories. 

6s. 

Pilling's  Land  Tenure. 

Puckett's  Sciography. 

iide's  Elizabeth's  Pretenders. 

Spalding's  Life  of  SuvorofF. 

Jailey's  From  Sinner  to  Saint. 

Reid's  Life  of  W.  E.  Forster. 

5os's  Agricultural  Zoology. 

Swift,  his  Life  and  Love. 

hurch's  Food  Grains  of  India. 

Tovey's  Martial  Law.                          [2  vols. 

'ooper-King's  George  Washington. 

Trollope's  Warden  and  Barchester  Towers. 

Jourtney's  Studies  at  Leisure. 

Dr.  Thome. 

wLUUltiQ  iioW  aHU  ^Flu. 

J?  i  diiiiioy  it iti  JsucagG. 

)e  Bovet's  Three  Months  in  Ireland. 

Q           ,,    tt         „_     AIT      «•*/-.              O       „1 

)e  Koninck's  Chemical  Assaying  (Iron). 

)ixon's  Nests  &  Eggs  British  Birds.    Vol.  1. 

Whitman's  Teuton  Studies. 

Ditto.                Yol.  2. 

Jottings  about  Birds. 

5s.  net. 

Migration  of  Birds. 

Idle  Hours  with  Nature. 

Dyce's  Drawing  Book. 

)ouglas's  Physiography. 

Raphael's  Cartoons  and  Drawings. 

)ucoudray's  Ancient  Civilization. 

Ellis's  South  African  Sketches. 

5s. 

■"ane's  Autumn  Songs. 

J-ore's  The  Scenery  of  the  Heavens. 

Boyle's  The  Prophet  John. 

mffith's  Criminals  I  have  known. 

Burchett's  Practical  Geometry. 

Character  in  the  Face. 

French  Revolutionary  Generals. 

Carlyle's  Thoughts  on  Life. 

JrinneH's  Story  of  the  Indian. 

Craik's  English  of  Shakespeare. 

lenry's  Queen  of  Beauty. 

Crawfurd's  Dialogues  of  the  Day.    . 

lunt's  A  Hard  Woman. 

Cumberland's  South  Africa. 

The  Maiden's  Progress. 

Daly's  Ireland  in  the  Days  of  S  wif t. 

Books  publislied  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 


43 


5s.  (continued). 

DICKENS'S  (CHARLES)  WORKS. 
Cro" 

Pickwick  Papers. 

Nicholas  Nickleby. 

Dombcy  and  Son. 

David  Copperfield. 

Sketches  by  "  Boz." 

Martin  Chuzzlewit. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop. 

Barnaby  Budge. 

Oliver  Twist  and  Two  Cities. 

Bleak  House. 

Little  Dorrit. 

Our  Mutual  Friend. 

American  Notes,  Italy,  and  England. 

Christmas  Books  and  Hard  Times. 

Christmas  Stories  and  Others. 

Great  Expectations  and  Uncommercial. 

Edwin  Drood,  &o. 

Uniform  with  the  alcve. 

Life  of  Dickens. 

The  Dickens  Dictionary. 

Lazy  Tour  of  Two  Idle  Apprentices,  &c. 
Household  Edition. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit. 

David  Copperfield. 

Bleak  House. 

Little  D  )rrit. 

Pickwick  Papers. 

Our  Mutual  Friend. 

Nicholas  Nickleby. 

Dombey  and  Son. 

Edwin  Drood,  &c. 

The  Life  of  Dickens. 
Das's  Sketches  of  Hindoo  Life. 
Delille's  Some  French  Writers. 
Drayson's  Earth's  Past  History. 
Foster's  Round  the  Crooked  Spire. 
Fouque's  Undine. 
Francatelli's  Royal  Confectioner. 
Gordon's  Letters  from  the  Crimea. 
Gore's  Planetary  and  Stellar  Studies. 
Hartington's  New  Academe. 
Hudson's  Philosophy  of  Herbert  Spencer. 
Lloyd's  On  Active  Service. 
Maitland's  Bethia  Hardacre. 
Haspero's  Egypt  and  Assyria. 
Maude's  Five  Years  in  Madagascar. 
O'Grady's  Toryism  and  Democracy. 
O'Connor's  Some  Old  Love  Stories. 
Rae's  Austrian  Health  Resorts. 
Robinson's  Bee  Farming. 


5s.  (continued). 
Roland's  Dairy  Farming. 

Poultry  Keeping. 

Tree  Planting. 

Stock  Keeping. 

Drainage  of  Land. 

Root  Growing. 

Gra-^s  Lands. 

Market  Gardening. 

Ross's  Early  Days  Recalled. 
.Sehaucrmanu's  Wood  Carving. 
Seeman's  Mythology  of  Greece  and  Rome. 
Seton-Karr's  Ten  Years'  Sport  and  Travel. 
Simkiu's  Lifo  in  the  Army. 

Ward's  Elementary  Ornament. 
Wegg-Prosser'a  Galileo  and  his  Judges. 
Wrightson's  Agricultural  Practice. 
Fallow  and  Fodder  Cr 

4s.  6d. 

A  Halo's  Sea  and  the  Rod. 
Duckitt's  Hilda's  "  Where  is  it?  " 
Griffin's  Great  Republic. 
Leslie's  Sea  Boat. 
Haskell's  Russian  Art. 
Mill's  Advanced  Physiography. 
Moltke's  Poland. 
Seton-Karr's  Bear  Hunting. 
Tanner's  Holt  Castle. 
Younge's  Parallel  Lives. 

4s. 
About's  Social  Economy. 
Adam's  Building  Construction. 
Baker's  The  Beam. 
Bentley's  Songs  and  Yerses. 
Brackenbury's  Frederick  the  Great. 
Breakfasts,  Luncheons,  and  Ball  Suppers. 
DICKENS'S  (CHARLES)  WORKS. 
Charles  Dickens  Edition. 

Pickwick  Papers. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit. 

Dombey  and  Son. 

Nicholas  Nickleby. 

David  Copperfield. 

Bleak  House. 

Little  Dorrit. 

Our  Mutual  Friend. 

Household  Edition. 

Barnaby  Rudge. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop. 

Christmas  Stories. 
Hozier's  Turenne. 


44 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 


4s.  {continued). 
Lamennais's  Words  of  a  Believer. 
Malleson's  Marshal  Loudon. 
Midgley's  Plant  Form  and  Design. 
Poole's  Saracenic  Art. 
Riano's  Spanish.  Arts. 
Stoke's  Irish  Art, 
Walford's  Parliamentary  Generals. 

3s.  6d.  net. 
Crawfurd's  Lyrical  Verse. 

3*.  6d. 

Angel's  Geometry. 
Boyle's  From  the  Frontier. 
Bromley-Davenport's  Sport. 
Bnckland's  Log  Book  of  a  Fisherman. 
CHAPMAN'S  STORY  SERIES. 

The  Long  Arm.    By  M.  E.  Wilkins. 

In  a  Hollow  of  the  Hills.    By  Bret  Harte. 

At  the  Sign  of  the  Ostrich.    By  C.  James. 
Courtney's  Constructive  Ethics. 
DICKENS'S  (CHARLES)  WORKS. 
Charles  Dickens  Edition. 

Barnaby  Rudge. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop. 

Child's  History  of  England. 

Edwin  Drood,  &c. 

Christmas  Stories. 

Sketches  by  "Boz." 

American  Notes,  &c. 

Christmas  Books. 

Oliver  Twist. 

Great  Expectations. 

The  Life  of  Dickens.    2  vols.,  3s.  Qd.  each. 

The  Letters  of  Dickens         ,,  „ 

The  Pictorial  Edition. 

Dombey  and  Son. 

David  Copperfield. 

Nicholas  ISickleby. 

Barnaby  Rudge. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit. 

Oliver  Twist  and  Two  Cities. 

Our  Mutual  Friend. 

Bleak  House. 

Pickwick  Papers. 

Little  Dorrit. 

Expectations  and  Hard  Times. 

American  Notes,  Italy,  and  England. 

Sketches  and  Christmas  Books. 

Stories  and  Uncommercial. 

Edwin  Drood,  &c. 


3s.  Qd.  (continued). 
Life  of  Dickens. 
Dickens  (Mary)  Cross  Currents. 
Escott's  England. 
Harrison's  Decoration  of  Metals. 
Hope's  The  Yyvyans. 
Hovelaque's  Science  of  Language. 
Humphry's  Cookery  up  to  Date. 
Jokai's  Pretty  Michael. 

Midst  the  Wild  Carpathians. 

Lacordaire's  Conferences. 
Laing's  Human  Origins. 

Problems  of  the  Future. 

Modern  Science. 

Modern  Zoroastrian. 

Lefevre's  Philosophy. 
Leslie's  British  Privateer. 
Letourneau's  Sociology. 

Biology. 

Little's  Waif  from  the  Waves. 
Mallock's  A  Human  Document. 
Meredith's  One  of  our  Conquerors. 

Diana  of  the  Cross  ways. 

Evan  Harrington. 

Richard  Feverel. 

Harry  Richmond. 

Sandra  Belloni. 

Yittoria. 

Rhoda  Fleming. 

Beauchamp's  Career. 

Egoist. 

Shagpat  and  Farina. 

Mill's  Quantitative  Analysis. 
Muddock's  Star  of  Fortune. 
Murray's  Economic  Entomology. 
Official  Handbook  of  Cookery. 
Pushkin's  Queen  of  Spades. 
Renan's  Recollections  of  my  Youth. 
Robert's  (Morley)  In  Low  Relief. 
Russell's  Miss  Parson's  Adventure. 
Sexton's  First  Technical  College. 
Simmond's  Animal  Products. 
Sinnett's  Esoteric  Buddhism. 
Steele's  Clove  Pink. 
Stories  from  Black  and  White. 
Tanner's  Jack's  Education. 
Topinard's  Anthropology. 
Traherne's  Habits  of  Salmon. 
Underbill's  Through  a  Field  Glass. 
Yandam's  Mystery  of  the  Patrician  Club. 
Yeron's  Esthetics. 
Watson's  Sketches  in  the  Huntiug  Field 

British  Sporting  Fishes. 

Worsaae's  Danish  Arts. 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall,  Ltd. 


45 


35. 

2s.  6d.  (continued). 

Bell's  Chemistry  of  Foods.    Part  II. 

Translations  from  Musaeus,  &c. 

Carlyle's  Birthday  Book. 

Cromwell's  Letters.     1  vol,  blue  cloth. 

Church's  English  Porcelain. 

CHAPMAN'8  STORY  SERIES. 

"B"r.  ^-.Ht.V.     Wn»tVi/>« 

The  Long  Arm.    By  M.  E.  Wilkins. 

Food. 

In  a  Hollow  of  the  Hills.    By  Bret  Harte. 

DICKENS'S  (CHARLES)  WORKS. 

At  the  Sign  of  the  Ostrich.    By  C.  James 

Charles  Dickens  Edition. 

The  White  Feather.    By  Os.  Crawfurd. 

Tale  of  Two  Cities. 

Church's  Precious  Stones. 

Hard  Times  and  Pictures  from  Italy. 

Craik's  Outlines  of  the  English  Language. 

Uncommercial  Traveller. 

Cripp's  College  and  Corporation  Plate. 

Household  Edition. 

De  Champeaux  Tapestry. 

Oliver  Twist. 

DICKENS'S  (CHARLES)  WORKS. 

Great  Expectations. 

The  Half-crown  Edition. 

Sketches  by  "  Boz." 

Tne  Pickwick  Papers. 

Uncommercial  Traveller. 

Bamaby  Rudge. 

Christmas  Books. 

Oliver  Twist. 

Child's  History  of  England. 

The  Old  Curiosity  Shop. 

American  Notes,  Ac. 

David  Copperfield. 

A  Tale  of  Two  Cities. 

Nicholas  Nickleby. 

Gardner's  Ironwork. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit. 

Gasnault's  French  Pottery. 

Dombey  and  Son. 

Gower's  Practical  Metallurgy. 

Sketches  by  "Boz." 

Holmes's  Marine  Engines  and  Boilers. 

Christmas  Books. 

Industrial  Arts  :  Historical  Sketches. 

Bleak  House. 

Sinnett's  Karma. 

Little  Dorrit. 

Spencer,  Herbert ;  Aphorisms  from. 

Christmas  Stories. 

American  Notes  and  Reprinted  Pieces. 

2s.  6<L  net. 

Hard  Times  and  Pictures  from  Italy. 

Dyce's  Drawing  Book.     Standards  I— IV. 
Nelson's  Wood  Working  Positions. 
Lineham's  Directory  of  Schools,  &c. 

Child's  Histoiy  of  England. 
Great  Expectations. 
Tale  of  Two  Cities. 
Uncommercial  Traveller. 

2s   6d. 

Our  Mutual  Friend. 

Edwin  Drood  and  Other  Stories. 

Adam's  Machine  Construction.    (Eletn.) 

House7ioId  Edition. 

,,              ,,                  (Advan.) 

Hard  Times. 

Aveling's  Mechanics. 

Earl's  Dinners  in  Miniature. 

Engel's  Musical  Instruments. 

Fortnum's  Maiolica. 

T, 

Bell's  Chemistry  of  Foods.     Part  I. 

■    .tsronzes. 
Frank's  Japanese  Pottery. 

CARLYLE'S  (THOMAS)  WORKS. 

Hatton's  Elementary  Design. 

The  Half-crown  Edition. 

Hildebrand's  Scandinavian  Art. 

Sartor  Resartus  &  Latter-day  Pamphlets. 

James's  Handbook  to  Perspective. 

Past  and  Present  arid  On  Heroes. 

Kempt's  Convivial  Caledonia. 

Lives  of  Sterling  and  Schiller. 

Maskell's  Ivories. 

Critical  Essays.    4  vols.,  2s.  6d  each. 

Dyce  and  Foster  Collection. 

French  Revolution.    2  vols.,  2*.  6d.  each. 

Mill's  Alternative  Physics. 

Cromwell's  Letters.     3  vols.,  2s.  6d.  each. 

Nesbit's  Glass. 

Frederick  the  Great.    5  vols.,  2s.  6d.  each. 

Newey's  Elementary  Drawing. 

Wilhelm  Meister.    2  vols.,  2s.  Qd.  each. 

Pollen's  Gold  and  Silver-smith's  Work. 

46 


Books  published  by  Chapman  &  Hall^  Ltd. 


2s.  Qd.  (continued). 

Pollen's  Ancient  and  Modern  Furniture. 

Radical  Programme. 

Redgrave's  Manual  of  Design. 

Rock's  Textile  Fabrics. 

Ryan's  Egyptian  Art. 

Sanders'  Bent  Ironwork. 

Statham's  Form  and  Design  in  Music. 

Thrupp's  Coach  Trimming. 

2s. 

Agricultural  Science  Lectures. 
CARLYLE'S  (THOMAS)  WORKS. 

French  Revolution. 

Sartor,  Heroes,  Past  &  Present,  &c.    1  vol . 

Critical  Essays.     2  vols.,  2s.  each. 

Wilhelm  Meister. 

Lives  of  Schiller  and  Sterling. 
Crawfurd's  The  White  Feather. 
DICKENS'S  (CHARLES)  WORKS. 
Two  Shilling  Edition. 

Dombey  and  Son. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit. 

The  Pickwick  Papers. 

Bleak  House. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop. 

Barnaby  Rudge. 

David  Copperfield. 

Nicholas  Nickleby. 

Christmas  Stories. 

American  Notes  and  Reprinted  Pieces. 

Hard  Times  and  Pictures  from  Italy. 

Great  Expectations. 

Our  Mutual  Friend. 

Christmas  Books. 

Oh  ver  Twist. 

Little  Dorrit. 

Tale  of  Two  Cities. 

Uncommercial  Traveller. 

Sketches  by  "Boz." 

Child's  History  of  England. 

Edwin  Drood  and  Other  Stories. 
Fane's  Helen  Davenant. 
Fleming's  Practical  Horse  Shoeing. 
Gonner's  Political  Economy. 
Gore's  Astronomical  Lessons. 
James's  Perspective  Charts. 
Jokai's  Pretty  Michal. 
Pushkin's  Queen  of  Spades. 
Robert's  (Morley)  In  Low  Relief. 
Smith's  Persian  Art. 
Underbill's  Through  a  Field  Glass. 


Is.   6d.  net. 
Dyce's  Drawing  Book  (Selection). 

Is.  6d. 

Brock's  Elements  of  Physiology. 
Carlyle's  Thoughts  on  Life. 
DICKENS'S  (CHARLES)  WORKS. 
The  Cabinet  Edition.    Is.  6d.  each  vol. 

Christmas  Books. 

Martin  Chuzzlewit.     2  vols. 

David  Copperfleld.    2  vols. 

Oliver  Twist. 

Great  Expectations. 

Nicholas  Nickleby.  •  2  vols. 

Sketches  by  "  Boz." 

Christmas  Stories. 

Pickwick  Papers.    2  vols. 

Barnaby  Rudge.    2  vol*. 

Bleak  House.    2  vols. 

American  Notes,  ic. 

Edwin  Drood,  Ac. 

Old  Curiosity  Shop.    2  vols. 

Child's  History  of  England. 

Dombey  and  Son.    2  vols. 

A  Tale  of  Two  Cities. 

Little  Dorrit.     2  vols. 

Mutual  Friend.    2  vols. 

Hard  Times. 

Uncommercial  Traveller. 

Reprinted  Pieces. 
Gorst's  An  Election  Manual. 
Jopling's  Hints  to  Amateurs. 
Little's  Waif  from  the  Waves. 

Broken  Vow. 

s    Child  of  Stafferton. 

Mill's  Elem.  Physiographic  Astronomy. 

Quantitative  Analysis  flabrody  ). 

Sanders'  Bent  Ironwork. 
Shirreff' s  Home  Education. 

Is. 

Breakfast  and  Savoury  Dishes. 
CARLYLE'S  (THOMASJ  WORKS. 
People's  Edition. 

Sartor  Resartus. 

French  Revolution. 

Cromwell's  Letters. 

On  Heroes. 

Past  and  Present.    ^ 

Critical  Essays.    7  vols.,  Is.  each. 

Life  of  Schiller. 

Latter-day  Pamphlets. 

Wilhelm  Meister.    3  vols..  Is.  each 


3  vols.,  Is.  each. 
5  vols.,  Is.  each. 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of  w 

Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket 


.$%  26  192% 


liBF 

ml  apt 

III 


*$$ft$*ij!$ 

11H 


II 


fiBHi 


mm 


