OLD    CZECH    RECIPE! 

For     Today's     Kitchens 


mam 


TX 

723.5 

.C9 

043 

1920Z 


esearc 
Library 


0/  9oodj 

ipiled  by  Clarkson  Woman's  Club 

ARKSON,    NEBRASKA 


i 


We  Nebraskans  are  proud  of  the  heritage  given  to  us  by 
those  sturdy  pioneers  who  first  sought  a  better  life  for  themselves 
and  for  those  of  us  to  follow  by  venturing  into  a  new  and  un- 
known land,  where  they  visioned  a  land  of  prosperity  and  free- 
dom. They  broke  the  sod,  built  schools  and  churches,  and  took 
great  pride  in  being  "American." 

Many  Nebraska  communities  were  settled  by  the  oppressed 
peoples  of  Europe.  Some  of  the  first  people  to  settle  in  Colfax 
County  and  Clarkso'n  were  from  Czechoslovakia.  They  wrote 
their  families  in  the  old  country  of  the  many  opportunities  here. 
So  it  was,  that  the  first  settlers  were  followed  by  more  Czecho- 
slovakians.  Although  other  nationalities  were  found  among  our 
pioneers,  the  community  of  Clarkson  has  remained  predominant- 
ly Czech. 

The  Czech  language  is  still  used  extensively ;  Czech  music  is 
enjoyed  by  everyone ;  Czech  dishes  are  served  regularly. 

So  that  you  might  be  able  to  make  these  Czech  dishes  which 
have  been  enjoyed  for  generations  by  the  people  of  this  commun- 
ity, we  have  compiled  this  book  of  typical  Czech  cooking  accord- 
ing to  our  standard  measurements  and  the  conveniences  of  to- 
day's kitchens. 

To  our  mothers  and  grandmothers,  who  first  came  to  this 
country,  bringing  with  them  their  knowledge  of  old  world  cook- 
ing, we  dedicate  this  book. 


KDE  DOMOV  MUJ? 

WHERE  IS  MY  HOME? 


Kde  domov  muj,  kde  domov  muj? 
Voda  huci  po  lucinach 
bory  sumi  po  skalinach, 
V  sade  stkvi  se  jara  kvet, 
zemsky  raj  to  na  pohled! 
A  to  jest  ta  krasna  zeme, 
zeme  ceska  domov  muj! 
Zeme  ceska  domov  muj! 


Kde  domov  muj,  kde  domov  muj? 
V  kraji  znas-li  bohumilem 
duse  utie  v  tele  cilem, 
mysl  jasnou  vznik  a  zdar, 
a  tu  silu  vzdoru  smar? 
To  je  Cechuv  slane  pleme 
mezi  Cechy  domov  muj! 
Mezi  Cechy  domov  muj! 

Czech  National  Anthem 


Ohleb  Psenicny 
WHITE  BREAD 

2  pkgs.  active  dry  yeast  or  1  tbsp.  fresh  yeast 
14  ciuip  warm  water 

2  eups  milk  or  potato  water 

3  tbsp.  sugar 

1  tbsp.  salt 

2  tbsp.  soft  shortening 

6  to  61/2  cups  sifted  flour 

Soften  yeast  in  warm  water.  Scald  milk  and  cool.  Combine 
yeast  mixture,  milk,  sugar,  salt,  shortening,  and  half  the  flour. 
Mix  with  spoon  until  smooth.  Let  set  fior  I/2  hour.  Then  add  re- 
maining flour  and  knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Let  rise  in 
warm  place  until  doubled  in  bailk  (about  IV2  hours.)  Punch 
down.  Let  rise  again  until  almost  doubled  in  bulk  (about  30  min- 
utes.) Shape  into  2  loaves.  Place  in  greased  bread  pans.  Let  rise 
about  1  hour.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  25  minutes.  Reduce  to  350 
degrees  for  45  minutes  or  until  done.  The  loaves  are  done  when 
they  shrink  from  the  side  of  the  pan  and  give  a  hollow  sound 
when  tapped  on  the  bottom  or  side.  Remove  from  pans  and  let 
cool  on  wire  rack.  Brush  the  crust  with  grease. 

SHAPING  LOAVES 

There  are  several  ways  to  shape  loaves.  Use  whichever  one 
is  easier  for  you. 

Rolled  Method : 

1.  Divide  dough  into  two  portions. 

2.  Pat  a'nd  pull  dough  into  oblong  shape.  Roll  a  long  narrow  strip 
(about  5  to  6  inches  wide,  20  inches  long  and  Mi  inch  thick)  w4th 
rolling  pin. 

3.  Beginning  at  one  narrow^  end,  roll  dough  tightly  as  for  jelly 
roll.  Seal  final  seam  by  carefully  pushing  it  into  the  loaf  with 
your  fingertips.  Avoid  pinching. 

4.  Shape  or  square  ends  by  pressing  with  your  hand.  Press  out 
air  each  time,  slapping  bubbles  out. 

5.  Roll  loaf  back  and  forth,  to  round  and  shape.  Place  in  greased 
loaf  pan  with  seam  side  down. 

Hand  Method : 

Flatten  each  part  by  pressing  and  slapping  with  hands.  Stretch 
dough  to  an  18  by  10  inch  rectangle.  Fold  one  side  to  center  press- 
ing out  air  pockets.  Fold  other  side  to  overlap.  Then,  fold  over 
both  ends  of  dough  abou't  one-third  of  the  length  and  overlap  in 
the  center.  Press  out  air  each  time.  Roll  into  a  loaf,  sealing  edge 
by  pressing  with  heels  of  hands  while  tucking  edge  under.  Place 
in  pan,  seam  side  down. 


Zitny  Chleb 
RYE  BREAD 

I'n  the  evening  make  a  thin  sponge  using : 
11/2  cups  wateir 
1  tbsp.  fresh  yeast  or  2  pkgs.  of  the  dry  yeast  softened  in  %  cup 

warm  water 
1  cup  rye  flour 

1  cup  white  flour 

2  tsp.  caraway  seed 

Let  rise  overnight  or  f ot  at  least  4  to  5  houTs 

Then  add : 
%  cup  brown  sugar 
2  tbsp.  lard 
11/2  tbsp.  salt 

1  cup  lukewarm  water 

2  cups  rye  flour  and  about  2^/2  cups  white  flour 

Mix  and  knead  well  for  15  minutes  or  more.  Grease  crock 
and  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk,  punch  down  and  let  rise  again, 
cut  into  2  portions  and  form  into  loaves.  Let  set  10  minutes  and 
reform  loaves  slightly  to  give  a  smooth  appearance.  Place  in 
greased  loaf  pans  with  seams  down.  Grease  bread.  Let  rise  until 
doubled  in  bulk.  Then  bake  in  375  degree  oven  for  20  minutes 
and  then  reduce  to  360  degrees  for  40  minutes  or  until  done. 


Zitny  Rohlicky 
RYE  ROLLS 

2  cups  milk  I 

2  eggs 

%  cu^  lard 

14  cup  brown  sugar 

2  tbsp.  molasses  or  syrup 

%  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  cups  rye  flour 

3  cups  white  flour 

11/2  tbsp.  fresh  yeast  or  2  pkgs.  dry  yeast 

1  tsp.  caraway  seed 

2  tsp.  salt 

Dissolve  yeast  in  lukewarm  milk.  Add  lard  and  salt.  Add 
beaten  eggs,  molasses,  soda,  caraway  seed,  and  half  of  flour.  Beat 
well.  Add  remaining  flour  and  mix  dough  until  smooth.  Let  rise 
until  doubled.  Turn  dough  onto  board.  Shape  into  balls.  When 
raised,  form  into  crescents.  Brush  with  melted  butter.  Let  rise. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  400-425  degrees  for  about  15  minutes  or  until 
done. 


Ceske  Kolace 
KOLACHE 

3  cups  milk,  scalded 

2  pkgs.  active  dry  yeast  or  IV2  tbsp.  fresh  yeast 

%  cup  sugar 

2  tbsp.  salt 

2  eggs  yolks  beaten 

%  cup  melted  lard 

about  6  cups  of  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  with  half  the  sugar  iu  1%  cups  scalded  milk 
which  has  been  cooled  to  lukewarm.  Add  1%  cups  of  the  flour. 
Mix  all  together  and  put  in  warm  place  and  let  rise  until  bubbles 
appear.  (II/2  hours.)  Add  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  salt,  rest  of  the 
sugar,  melted  and  cooled  lard,  and  the  rest  of  the  milk  (luke- 
warm.) Beat  well.  Gradually  add  the  rest  of  the  flour,  a  small 
amount  at  a  time,  mixing  well  after  each  addition  until  smooth 
and  elastic.  Cover  and  place  in  a  warm  place.  Let  rise  until  doub- 
led in  bulk.  When  dough  is  light,  stir  with  spoon,  let  rise  again. 
Then  shape  into  small  balls  about  the  size  of  a  large  walnut.  Put 
into  well  greased  baking  pans,  well  spaced,  about  15  in  a  10x15  in. 
pan.  Brush  top  with  melted  fat  and  let  rise  in  warm  place  until 
light.  Then  rn  the  center  of  each  bun  make  a  small  indentation 
with  your  fingers  and  fill  each  with  at  least  1  tbsp.  of  prepared 
filling.  Return  to  warm  place  to  finish  rising.  Bake  in  a  very  hot 
oven  until  brown,  400  -  425  degrees  for  12  to  15  minutes.  Remove 
from  oven,  brush  with  melted  fat  and  remove  from  pans. 


Povidly  do  kolacu 
Fillings  for  kolaches  —  Prune,  Peach,  Apricot 

2  lbs.  of  fruit 

Cook  in  water  until  they  come  off  the  pit  easily.  Drain  them 
and  pit.  Mash  well.  Add  1  cup  sugar,  1  tsp.  vanilla,  and  a  little 
cinnamon  (if  desired.)  Prepared  fillings  may  also  be  used. 


Nadivka  z  Maku 
Poppy  Seed  Filling 
1  lb.  seedless  raisins 

Cover  with  water  and  simmer  until  almost  dry.  Drain. 
Combine  raisins,  3    12-oz.  cans  of  Poppy  Seed,  and  1/4  lb.  butter. 


Tvaroh 
Cottage  Cheese  Filling 
Cream  1  tbsp.  butter 
Add :  1  lb.  dried  sweet  cottage  cheese 
2  egg  yolks 
1/2  cup  sugar 
1/4  cup  raisins 
%  tsp.  salt 

%  tsp.  vanilla  (Lemon  flavoring  may  be  substituted) 
Dust  with  cinnamon,  mix  well. 


Zelniky 
Cabbage  Filling 

Clean  one  head  of  cabbage  (4  lb.)  and  wash  well.  Chop  fine- 
ly. Add  1  tbsp.  salt  and  let  stand  for  at  least  %  hour.  Press  out 
the  excess  juice.  Then,  steam  until  soft.  Lightly  brown  1  tbsp. 
flour  in  butter  about  the  size  of  a  hens  egg.  Add  i/2  cup  water, 
the  cabbage,  1  tbsp.  sugar,  and  1  tsp.  pepper.  Flatten  Kolache 
buns.  Fill  vrith  cabbage  filliug  an.!  punch  edges  together  at  the 
top.  Bake  as  you  would  kolaches,  with  pinched  side  down. 


Rohliky 
CRESCENT  ROLLS 

You  can  use  the  same  dough  as  for  kolaches.  Form  into  balls 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  Let  rise  until  about  double  in  size.  Then 
form  into  crescents.  Place  into  a  well  greased  pan,  well  spaced. 
Let  rise  and  when  double  in  size  brush  with  egg,  beaten  with  a 
little  salt.  Sprinkle  with  poppy  seed.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  400  de- 
crees 12  to  15  minutes. 


Koblihy  Nadivane 
FILLED  DOUGHNUTS 

Scald  1  quart  milk  (cool  to  lukewarm) 
Put  into  bowl: 

11/2  tbsp.  fresh  yeast  (crumbled) 

1/2  cup  sugar 

1  cup  of  the  warm  milk 
Let  stand  5  minutes  or  more. 
Add: 

8  beaten  egg  yolks 

1  scant  cup  lard,  melted 

1  tbsp.  salt 

The  remainder  of  the  warm  milk. 
Beat  with  electric  mixer. 

Add  11  cups  flour,  gradually.  The  dough  will  be  too  stiff  for  the 
mixer  as  the  last  cups  of  flour  are  added.  Mix  well  with  spoon. 

Cover  and  set  in  warm  place.  Let  rise  until  double  in  size. 
Shape  dough  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Let  rise. 

Press  edges  of  one  ball  of  dough  so  that  it  will  be  about  2% 
inches  in  diameter.  Moisten  the  edges  with  a  small  amount  of 
water.  Place  1  tsp.  filling  in  center.  Stretch  a  second  ball  of 
dough  so  that  it  will  be  of  equal  size.  Cover  the  first  piece  of 
dough  and  filling.  Press  edges  together.  Cut  with  a  round  cookie 
cutter,  trimming  away  the  excess.  This  seals  the  two  layers  to- 
gether. Fry  in  hot  fat  at  375  degrees.  Makes  about  6  dozen  dough- 
nuts. Roll  in  granulated  sugar  when  cool  if  desired.  Fillings  for 
raised  doughnuts  are  the  same  as  those  for  kolaches. 


Vanocka 
CHRISTMAS  BRAID 

1  cake  compressed  yeast 
1/4  cup  warm  water 

2  cups  scalded  milk 
%  cup  sugar 

Vs  cup  butter 

1  egg  beaten 

2%  tsp.  salt 

%  cup  almonds 

%  cup  white  or  dark  raisins 

%  cup  mixed  candied  fruit 

about  5%  cups  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  in  warm  water.  Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Add 
beaten  egg  and  salt.  Stir  in  cooled  milk  and  yeast.  Add  2  cups 
flour.  Beat  until  smooth.  Let  rise  about  %  hour.  Add  nuts,  and 
fruit,  and  mix  well.  Add  rest  of  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Knead  until  smooth.  Place  rn  bowl  and  let  rise  until  double  in 
bulk.  Divide  dough  into  5  elongated  strips.  Braid  3  strips  and 
place  on  greased  pan.  Twist  the  remaining  2  strips  and  place  on 
the  top  of  the  braid.  Pinch  the  ends  together.  Brush  with  beaten 
egg  (1  egg  beaten  with  1  tbsp.  water).  Let  rise  45  minutes.  Bake 
45  minutes  in  350  degree  oven.  May  be  iced  with  confectioners' 
sugar  icing. 


Listy 
CRISPIES 

2  eggs 

%  cup  cream 

1/2  cup  milk 

i/i  cup  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt 

Flour 

Mix  together  with  a  fork,  adding  enough  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Pour  onto  a  floured  board  and  knead  for  about  7  to 
10  minutes.  Koll  out  V2  of  the  dough  at  a  time  until  very  thin. 
Cut  rolled  dough  into  squares.  Cut  a  slit  in  the  center  of  each 
square.  Fry  in  hot  shortening  until  they  are  a  light  brown.  They 
fry  very  quickly.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 


Biskety 
BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS 

2y2  cups  sifted  flour 
3  tsp  .baking  powder 
1  tsp.  salt 

Sift  together.  Blend  in  2  tbsp.  shortening.  Add  %  cup  milk. 
Handle  as  little  as  possible.  Roll  out  on  floured  board  about  % 
inch  thick.  Cut  out  biscuits.  Bake  in  hot  oven  about  425  degrees 
for  20  minutes.  Brush  the  tops  with  melted  butter. 


Livance  z  Podmasli 
BUTTERMILK  PANCAKES 

2  eggs 

1  quart  buttermilk 

1  tsp.  baking  soda  (mixed  in  1  tbsp.  hot  water) 

1/2  tsp.  salt 

1 tbsp.  sugar 

About  2  cups  flour 

Beat  the  eggs  and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Then  add 
enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Fry  on  a  greased  griddle  or 
frying  pan. 


Kukuricny  Chleb 
CORN  BREAD 

1  egg  ^ 

2  tbsp.  sugar 
%  tsp.  salt 

2  tbsp.  melted  butter  or  lard 

%  cup  white  flour 

1%  cup  corn  meal  (white  or  yellow) 

1  cup  sour  milk 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  the  beaten  egg  and  the 
sour  milk  into  which  the  soda  has  been  whipped.  Beat  well.  Pour 
into  a  well  greased  9  by  13  inch  pan.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  20 
to  25  minutes.  Cut  into  squares  and  serve  hot. 

An  old  Czech  variation  was  to  substitute  about  4  tbsp.  chop- 
ped cracklings  instead  of  the  shortening. 


Svitek 
FARINA  BREAD 

Beat  6  eggs.  Add  a  little  salt  and  1  cup  farina.  Pour  into 
buttered  pan.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  brown.  Remove  from  oven. 
Pour  1  cup  hot  milk  or  water  over  it  and  put  back  into  the  oven 
until  puffy. 

Bramborove  Knedliky 
POTATO  DUMPLINGS 

3  cups  cooked  riced  potatoes 
When  cold  add : 
2  whole  eggs 
1/3  cup  farina 

1  tbsp.  salt 

2  cups  flour 

Mix  in  order  given  above.  Shape  into  small  balls.  Have  a 
large  kettle  of  boiling  water  with  1  tsp.  of  salt.  Put  the  dump- 
lings into  the  boiling  water.  Cover.  When  they  come  to  a  boil, 
stir  loose  from  bottom.  Replace  cover.  Boil  10  to  15  minutes.  Test 
by  taking  one  out  of  water  and  cutting  it  in  half.  If  the  center  is 
raw,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer. 


Kysane  Zeli 
SAUERKRAUT 

2  quarts  sauerkraut 
%  tsp.  caraway  seed  (if  desired) 

Boil  in  an  equal  amout  of  water  for  10  minutes.  Drain  water  off. 
Lightly  brown  a  medium  sized  onion  (chopped)  in  3  tbsp. 
shortening.  Add  about  1  tbsp.  flour.  Mix  well  and  pour  over  kraut 
immediately.  Stir  and  add  %  cup  drippings  fi'om  roasted  duck 
Or  pork. 

Praskovy  Knedliky 
BAKING  POWDER  DUMPLINGS 

2  cups  flour 

3I/2  level  tsp.  baking  powder 

1/2  tsp.  salt 

1  tbsp.  melted  butter 
1  beaten  egg 
%  cup  milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  beaten  egg  and  milk.  Add 
the  butter  to  batter.  Form  into  balls,  about  the  size  of  a  large  egg. 
Drop  into  slightly  salted  boiling  water.  Boil  about  5  to  8  minutes 
or  until  cooked  through.  Test  by  taking  one  out  and  open  to  see  if 
done.  If  you  wish  to  fill  the  dumplings,  use  the  following  pro- 
cedure. Wash  Italian  prunes  and  partially  slice  each  open  and 
remove  pit.  Mix  together  14  cup  sugar  with  %  tsp.  cinnamon  and 

1  tsp.  floup.  Put  1  level  tsp.  of  this  mixture  into  each  plum  and 
close.  Put  prepared  plum  into  the  center  of  each  patty  and  wrap 
dough  well  around  plum  and  seal.  Boil  water  with  1  tbsp.  salt 
in  large  kettle.  Drop  dumplings  into  fast  boiling  water  and  boil 
12  to  15  minutes.  Drain.  When  dumplings  have  been  drained  and 
dried  slightly,  pour  melted  butter  over  them. 

Chlebove  Knedliky 
CUBED  BREAD  DUMPLINGS 

2  eggs 

1%  cups  milk 

1  tsp.  butter 

2  tsp.  salt 

4  slices  stale  white  bread 

Beat  eggs.  Add  the  milk,  salt,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a 
thick  dough.  Beat  with  a  large  wooden  spoon  until  smooth.  Let 
stand  a  few  minutes.  Cut  bread  into  cubes  and  fry  until  golden 
brown  in  a  little  butter.  Cool  and  add  to  the  dough.  Wet  hands 
and  form  the  dough  into  an  oval  shape  (somewhat  like  a  foot- 
ball.) Put  into  a  large  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Cover  and  continue 
boiling.  After  ten  minutes,  remove  the  lid  and  carefully  pry  the 
dough  loose  from  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Cover  and  continue 
boiling  for  about  20  to  30  minutes.  Remove  from  water.  Using  a 
thread,  cut  into  %  inch  slices.  If  the  center  appears  raw,  it  may 
be  returned  to  the  boiling  water  for  another  few  minutes.  If  de- 
sired, (especially  with  pork  roast,  sauerkraut,  or  sweet  sour  cab- 
bage) pour  melted  butter  on  each  slice. 

This  dish  is  a  good  companion  to  Veal  Paprika. 


Nudle 
NOODLES 

Beat  6  egg  yolks. 

Add  14  ^up  milk  and  beat. 

Add  11/2  cups  flour  and  %  tsp.  salt. 

Stir  lightly  with  a  fork  and  turn  onto  a  floured  board. 

Knead  dough,  working  in  additional  flour.  This  requires 
about  %  cup  flour.  Do  not  overknead  as  the  noodles  will  become 
tough.  Koll  the  dough  thin,  as  for  pie  crust.  Cut  into  strips.  Stack 
the  strips  and  slice  off  narrow  slices.  Toss  with  a  small  amount 
of  flour  so  that  the  noodles  will  not  stick  together.  Drop  noodles 
into  a  large  kettle  of  boiling  water  or  broth,  slowly,  and  stir  after 
each  addition  so  that  the  noodles  will  not  lump  together.  Cook 
for  about  15  to  20  minutes. 

This  is  enough  for  a  large  casserole  or  is  good  added  to  stew- 
ed chicken  or  boiled  beef. 


Bramborove  Skubanky 
POTATO  FLUFF 

1  quart  quartered  potatoes 

%  tbsp.  salt  (or  more,  according  to  taste) 

1  cup  white  flour 

Melted  butter  (about  Vs  cup) 

1  cup  ground  poppy  seed  mixed  with  1  tbsp.  sugar 

Boil  the  potatoes  ^vitll  water  to  cover.  When  almost  done, 
pour  off  half  the  water.  Make  Avells  in  the  softened  potatoes.  Put 
the  salt  and  flour  into  the  wells.  Put  over  low  heat  and  boil  about 
10  minutes  more  being  careful  to  stir  frequently  as  the  mixture 
scorches  easily. 

Remove  from  fire  and  whip  thoroughly.  Drop  by  tablespoon- 
fuls  into  a  bowl.  Dip  the  spoon  in  the  melted  butter  to  keep  the 
potato  mixture  from  sticking  to  it.  Sprinkle  wih  the  ground  poppy 
seed  mixed  with  the  sugar.  Add  the  rest  of  the  melted  butter  if 
desired. 


Bramborova  Polevka 
POTATO  SOUP 

2  tbsp.  butter 

2  tbsp,  flour 

1  medium  onion  (cut  fine) 

3  stalks  celery  (finely  diced) 
1  tsp.  salt 

%  tsp.  white  pepper 

4  medium  potatoes,  diced 
4  cups  water 

6  cups  milk 

Place  onion,  celery,  salt  pepper,  diced  potatoes  and  water  in 
kettle.  Cook  until  soft.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour, 
and  milk.  Add  to  soup  and  boil  a  few  minutes.  Serve. 


Polevka  Krupkova  s  Susenymi  Houbami 
BARLEY  SOUP  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

1  cup  barley 
1  tbsp.  bu/tter 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  soup  bone,  cooked  with  2  carrots,  2  stalks  celery,    1  onion  a'nd 

2  sprigs  parsley  in  2  quarts  water  for  one  hour.  (Add  water,  if 
necessary.) 

Rinse  barley  twice  in  hot  water.  Add  butter,  salt  and  1  quart 
water  to  barlej^  and  cook  until  soft. 

In  anothe''  kettle,  cook  1  cup  dried  mushrooms  for  15  minutes. 
Drain  and  chop  them  with  2  sprigs  parsley.  Add  at  least  1  quart 
of  the  vegetable  beef  stock,  drained  cooked  barley,  and  2  tbsp. 
flour  which  has  been  browned  in  2  tbsp.  butter.  Continue  cook- 
inof  for  at  least  10  minutes. 


Couracka 
SAUERKRAUT  SOUP 
Make  a  thickening  of :  1  cup  thick  cream,  about  1^2  tbsp.  flour 
(the  amount  of  flour  depend.s  on  the  thickness  of  the  cneam.) 

Bring  to  a  boil:  1  No.  2  can  (2%  cups)  sauerkraut  (including 
juice;)  1  quart  water. 

SloAvty  add  the  cream  mixture  to  the  kraut,  stirring  constant- 
ly. This  should  make  a  thin  gravy,  like  soup.  Salt  to  taste.  Add 
A  tsp.  pepper.  Set  aside  on  a  very  low  fire.  Drop  about  6  eggs 
(more  or  less,  according  to  the  'number  of  servings  desired)  into 
the  soup  mixture  and  poach.  Keep  on  a  low  fire  until  the  eggs  are 
done. 

Serve  this  with  potatoes  that  have  been  boiled  in  the  jackets. 


Polevka  z  Zitnym  Chlebem 
SOUP  WITH  RYE  BREAD 

3  cups  cubed  rye  bread 

2  quarts  beef  stock 

Place  the  cubed  bread  in  a  shallow  pan  and  brown  in  a  hot 
oven.  Put  the  bread  in  a  kettle  and  pour  tlie  beef  soup  over  it. 
Add: 

1/4  tsp.  pepper 

1/2  small  onion  (chopped)  which  has  been  lightly  browned  in  1 
tbsp.  butter 

1  clove  garlic  rubbed  to  a  paste  (if  desired) 

V2  tsp.  caraway  seed 

Bring  the  soup  to  a  boil.  Add  2  sprigs  chopped  parsley  leaves. 
Drop  3  eggs  into  the  boiling  soup,  mixing  them  into  the  soup  with 
a  fork.  When  the  eggs  are  boiled,  serve. 


Mlecna  Polevka  s  Nudlemi  aneb  Kapani 
MILK  SOUP  WITH  NOODLES  OR  NOODLE  BATTER 

2  quarts  milk 

1  tbsp.  butter 

Egg  noodles  (made  from  one  egg) 

1  tsp.  salt 

Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil.  Add  the  noodles,  salt,  and  butter. 
Cook  slowly  until  the  noodles  are  cooked. 

Variation : 

Beat  2  eggs  until  frothy.  Add  5  tbsp.  milk,  Yz  tsp.  salt,  and  % 
cup  flour  to  make  a  medium  thin  batter.  Set  a  colander  over  the 
boiling  milk.  Pour  the  batter  into  the  colander  and  press  it 
through  quickly.  The  batter  will  drop  through  the  colander  in 
long  strings  and  make  little  curls  in  the  boiling  milk.  Cook  five 
minutes  longer  and  serve. 


Gulas 
GOULASH 

i/i  lb.  loan  pork 

1^  lb.  stewing  beef 

Cut  meat  into  bite  size  pieces 

Place  the  meat  in  pressure  cooker  with  7  cups  water  or  boil  in 

kettle. 
Add: 

1  tsp.  celery  salt 
1  tsp.  chili  powder 
1  tbsp.  finely  chopped  celery  (optional) 

1  tsp.  flaked  parsley 

%  cup  coarsel}^  chopped  onion 
1%  tsp.  salt 
1/8  tsp.  pepper 
1/4  tsp.  paprika 

Boil  50  minutes  under  10  lbs.  pressure  or  boil  until  tender. 

While  the  above  is  cooking  place  2  tbsp.  grease  in  a  medium 
sized  skillet  on  medium  heat.  Blend  in  6  tbsp.  flour.  Brown,  stir- 
ing  frequently.  Cool.  Add  IV2  cups  water  gradually.  Stir  until 
smooth.  Set  aside. 

Place  8  large  gingersnaps  in  a  bowl.  Pour  I/2  cup  water  over 
the  ginger  snaps.  Set  aside  until  the  meat  is  done. 

When  the  meat  is  tender,  add  the  ginger  snaps  and  the  browned 
flour  mixture. 
Add: 

2  cups  Heinz  catsup 

1  tbsp.  brown  sugar 

2  tbsp.  vinegar 
%  cup  water 

1/2  can  No.  303  red  kidney  beans  (or  more  if  desired) 

This  makes  6  servings.  Goulash  is  best  when  allowed  to  set  3 
or  4  hours  after  being  prepared.  If  goulash  becomes  quite  thick 
1/2  cup  water  may  be  added. 


Koprova 
DILL  CREAM  SOUP 

Boil :  3  medium  sized  potatoes,  cubed 

3  cups  water 
1  tsp.  salt 
When  the  potatoes  are  almost  done,  add  1  cup  sour  cream 
(can  be  thinned  with  some  milk)  mixed  with  2%     tbsp.     flour. 
When  the  soup  comes  to  a  boil  add  1  tbsp.  chopped  dill  (fresh.) 
Raw  eggs  may  be  dropped  into  the  soup  after  it  is  thickened  and 
cooked  over  a  slow  fire,  or  it  may  be  served  with  hard  boiled  eggs. 
For  added  zest  1  or  2  tsp.  vinegar  may  be  mixed  into  the  soup, 

Jaterni  Knedliky  s  Polevkou 
LIVER  DUMPLING  SOUP 

Cook  a  beef  shank  or  ribs  as  for  soup  with  1  tsp.  salt  for  one 
hour.  Add  1  carrot,  %  medium  onion,  and  1  or  2  stalks  celerj^ 
and  continue  cooking.  When  m.eat  is  cooked,  remove  meat  and 
vegetables  and  strain  the  soup.  Then  drop  the  dumpling  batter 
into  the  boiling  broth,  a  teaspoon  at  a  time.  Cook  until  dumplings 
are  cooked  through. 


DUMPLING  BATTER 

4  slices  beef  liver,  ground 

%  or  %  cup  bread  crumbs 

1  egg 

1  small  minced  onion 

1  clove  garlic  (rubbed  to  a  paste) 

1  tsp.  marjoram 

1  tsp.  minced  parsley 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well. 

(If  desired,  ^4  cup  rice  may  be  cooked  in  the  broth  before  the 
dumplings  are  added.) 


Teleci  s  Paprikou 
VEAL  WITH  PAPRIKA 

2  lbs.  veal 

3  tbsp.  butter  ,  /  \ 
2  finely  minced  onions  (medium)                 /  \  / 
Beef  broth                           \      /            ^.-^  /   .^           ■ 
1  tbsp.  flour                        \y          /^    ^   \     ^ 
y^^  tsp.  paprika              ^r 


butter  and  onion  in 


1  cup  sour  cream  \  \  1 

Cut  veal  into  medium  sized  pieces.  Place 
saucepan  (preferably  iron  or  heavy  ali^minum.)  When  it  bubbles, 
add  meat,  salt  to  taste,  cover,  and  stew  until  tender.  Then  add 
several  tbsp.  of  the  broth.  Dust  with  the  frour.  Add  paprika  and 
stew  a  while  longer.  Add  sour  cream.  .Wben  it  bubbles,  remove 
the  meat  from  the  gravy,  strain  the  gravy  to  remove  any  lumps 
and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat.  For  added  zest,  add  a  small 
amount  of  vinegar.  More  flour  may  be  needed  to  thicken  the  gravy. 

This  is  good  served  with  cubed  bread  dumplings. 
Kabbit  may  also  be  cooked  in  this  way. 


Jazyk,  Ledviny,  Srdce  na  Kyselo 
FRESH  TONGUE,  KIDNEY,  HEART  WITH 
SOUR  CREAM  GRAVY 

4  cups  water  i/4  tsp.  pepper 

1  tbsp.  salt  6  cloves 

2  bay  leaves  1  quartered  onion 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  tongue  and  peel.  Wash  and  pre- 
pare heart  and  kidneys.  Place  into  a  kettle  of  cold  water  with 
other  ingredients.  Boil  slowly  until  it  seems  tender  when  pierced 
with  a  fork.  Remove  meat  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Strain  broth 
and  put  meat  back  into  it.  Mix  well. 
1  cup  sour  cream 

3  tbsp.  flour 

1  tbsp.  vinegar 
%  tsp.  pepper 

Thicken  the  mixture  as  for  thin  gravy.  Serve.  This  may  be 
made  with  any  one  of  the  above  meats. 


Jatern^ce 
LIVER  SAUSAGE 

The  head,  tongue,  and  heart  from  a  pork. 

1  lb.  pork  liver 
Salt  to  taste 

2'  tsp.  pepper 

^  tsp.  ground  cloves 

2  tsp.  marjoram 

About  1  head  of  garlic,  mashed  to  a  smooth  paste.  (Less  garlic  if 
desired.) 

Boil  the  meat  until  soft.  Grind  all  coarsely  after  it  is  cooked 
a'nd  cooled.  Soak  the  bread  and  then  squeeze  out  until  quite  dry. 
Blanch  the  liver  with  hot  water.  Grind  raw.  Add  the  meat  and 
the  spices.  Add  enough  of  the  soup  to  the  meat  to  make  a  mix- 
ture which  would  almost  pour.  Stuff  cleaned  casings  and  tie. 
Boil  in  the  rest  of  the  strained  soup  which  has  first  been  cooled 
and  the  fat  skimmed  off.  Boil  till  they  rise  to  the  top,  stirring 
occasionally  wih  ladle.  Take  out  and  put  into  cold  water.  Then 
place  on  paper  to  dry.  Roast  before  serving  them.  May  be  frozen. 

Jelita 
BLOOD  SAUSAGE 

When  butchering  a  hog,  save  the  blood,  which  could  be  about 
1  quart,  or  use  according  to  how  dark  you  want  the  sausage  to 
be.  Beat  the  blood  well  to  keep  it  from  curdling.  Cook  abut  2 
lbs.  of  the  fat  jowl  of  the  hog.  Salt  to  taste.  When  done  cut  the 
meat  and  fat  into  small  cubes.  Cook  barley  so  that  proportions 
will  be  abut  2  parts  barley  to  1  part  prepared  meat.  Mix  the 
meat,  barley,  the  beaten  blood,  i/o  tsp.  ground  pepper,  %  tsp. 
ginger,  l^  tsp.  cloves  and  1  medium  onion  which  has  been  light- 
ly fried  in  2  tbsp.  fat.  If  the  mixture  is  too  thick  you  may  add 
some  of  the  meat  stock.  Stuff  into  the  casings  and  cook  as  you  do 
liver  sausage.  These  may  be  frozen.  Heat  in  the  oven  and  serve 
with  fried  potatoes,  onions  and  sauerkraut. 


Smazeny  Ryby 
FRIED  FISH 

Cut  fish  into  serving  pieces.  AVasli  quickly  in  cold  water.  Dry 
with  a  cloth.  Salt  and.  pepper  each  piece,  cover  with  cloth  and  let 
stand  one  half  hour. 

Dip  into  flour,  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  one  half  lard  and  one  half  butter.  Fry  uncovered  slowly  until 
golden  brown  on  both  sides.  A  suitable  sauce  to  serve  with  fish  is 
equal  portions  of  chili  sauce  and  horse  radish. 


Michana  Vejce  s  Mozkem 
SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  BRAINS 

1  lb.  brains 
1/2  tsp.  salt 
14  tsp.  pepper 
5  eggs 
3  tbsp.  butter 

Clean  brains.  Put  them  into  warm  water  for  one  half  hour. 
Then  peel  them.  Wash  in  cold  water  -  drain  well.  Place  the  butter 
rnto  the  skillet  to  melt,  add  brains  and  salt,  cook  slowly  stirring 
occasionally.  Cook  uncovered  for  about  20  minutes.  Mix  in  the 
eggs  and  cook  until  eggs  are  done.  Pepper. 


Sulc 
PORK  LOAF 

2  lbs.  pork  hocks 

2  lbs.  pork  head  (preferrably  jowl  meat) 

1  lb.  lean  pork 

Tongue  or  heart  may  also  be  added. 

Wash  all  meat  well.  Cover  with  water.  Add  1  tsp.  salt.  Boil 
all  together  until  done  but  not  too  soft.  If  liquid  boils  down  too 
much,  add  more  water.  You  should  have  at  least  3  cups  liquid 
when  cooked.  Remove  meat  and  remove  bones,  peel  tongue,  and 
cut  all  into  about  1  inch  pieces.  Strain  the  liquid  and  skim  off 
fat.  Taste  and  add  salt  if  needed.  Add  %  tsp.  pepper,  1  large 
onion  (finely  chopped,)  and  V2  cup  vinegar.  Place  the  chopped 
meat  into  the  liquid  and  again  bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  into  a  deep 
bowl  and  place  in  the  refrigerator  to  set.  Serve  cold,  sliced,  with 
vinegar.  This  may  also  be  placed  into  fruit  jars  and  sealed.  It 
may  be  kept  in  a  cold  place  indefinitely. 


Nalozene  Veprove  Nozicky 
PICKLED  PIGS  FEET 

Wash  and  clean  6  or  more  pig's  feet  and  place  in  kettle  to 
boil.  Cover  with  water.  Boil  1  hour.  Salt  to  taste.  Continue  to 
boil  until  soft.  When  cooked  place  the  meat  in  a  stone  jar.  Pour 
over  this  about  3  cups  hot  vinegar  which  has  been  boiled  with  a 
sliced  onion  and  1  tsp.  whole  mixed  spice.  Let  stand  at  least  two 
days  before  using. 


NfLfi  1  vim 
DRESSING  FOR  STUFFING  POULTRY 

Simmer  the  giblets  about  1  hour  in  seasoned  water. 
Soak : 

14  loaf  bread  (cubed)  in  li^  cups  broth  from  giblets  or  milk  on 
part  of  each. 
Saute : 

1/2  large  onion 

1^  cup  chopped  celery  in  1/8  lb.  margarine 
Combine  with: 

%  tsp.  poultry  seasoning 

%  tsp.  marjoram 

2  eggs 

%  tsp.  salt 

diced  giblets 


Nakladani  Okurky 
DILL  PICKLES  —  OPEN  JAR  METHOD 

Boil: 

4  tbsp.  sugar 

4  tbsp.  pickling  salt 

%  cup  vinegar 

6  cups  water 

Cool. 

Wash  cucumbers  (about  4  to  5  inches)  and  place  in  layers  in 
a  1  gallon  stone  jar  with  dill  (about  6  heads)  and  grape  leaves 
(about  8). 

Pour  the  cooled  brine  over  the  cucumbers.  Cover  with  a 
weighted  plate  so  that  the  cucumbers  remain  immersed  in  the 
brine.  Store  in  a  warm  place.  It  requires  at  least  5  days  before 
they  are  ready  to  eat. 


Zavareny  Okurky  s  Koprem 
DILL  PICKLES 

In  each  quart  jar  place : 
2  heads  of  dill 

1  clove  garlic 

2  grape  leaves 

alum  (the  size  of  a  pea) 

cucumbers  which  have  been  washed  and  trimmed  (if  they  are 
large  they  may  be  quartered.) 

Bring  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  the  cucumbers,  filling  each  jar : 

10  cups  water 

1  cup  vinegar 

%  cup  pickling  salt 

(This  wiU  make  about  4  quarts.) 

Seal  and  allow  to  set  for  several  weeks  before  using. 


Kren 
HORSERADISH 

1  cup  grated  horse  radish 
%  cup  sugar 
V2  cup  vinegar 
y^  tsp.  salt 

Mix  all  together.  This  will  keep  indefinitely  in  riefrigerator. 
When  ready  to  use,  you  can  add"  1  part  grated  apple  to  2  parts 
grated  horseradish  mixture. 


Cau-Cau 
CHOW  CHOW 

Yz  peck  green  tomatoes 
1  large  head  cabbage 
1  dozen  green  peppers 
1  dozen  red  peppers 
12  medium  onions 

Chop  coarsely.  Mix  well  and  salt  with  2  tbsp.  salt.  Place  in 
a  cheesecloth  bag  and  hang  up  over  night  to  drip.  Then  press  out 
all  the  liquid  possible. 

Place  in  a  deep  bowl,  pour  over  it  cold  vinegar  to  cover.  Let 
stand  6  hours  and  again  press  out  the  liquid.  Now  add  3  tbsp. 
celery  seed,  1  tsp.  ground  allspice  and  1  quart  grated  horseradish, 
(horseradish  and  allspice  may  be  omitted.)  Bring  to  a  boil  equal 
parts  of  vinegar  and  sugar  (enough  to  cover  the  vegetables.)  Add 
vegetables.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  seal  in  jars. 


Skladany  Dort  s  Ovocnymi  Rosoly 
LAYER  JELLY  CAKE 

%  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 
3  egg  yolks 

2  cups  sifted  flour  with  2  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

3  beaten  egg  whites 

Soften  the  butter  in  a  deep  mixing  bowl.  Add  the  sugar,  a 
tablespoon  at  a  time,  until  all  is  creamed  well.  Add  the  3  beaten 
egg  yolks,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  addition. 

Now  add  1/2  cup  milk  and  1/2  of  the  sifted  flour  and  baking 
powder.  Beat  well.  Then  add  %  cup  milk  and  the  rest  of  the 
flour.  Add  vanilla,  and  last,  fold  in  the  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake 
in  four  greased  and  floured  cake  pans  (round)  in  a  350  degree 
oven  for  20  minutes.  Cool  on  rack.  When  cool,  use  any  jam  or 
jelly  between  layers.  Sift  powdered  sugar  on  top. 


Bublanina 
CHERRY  CAKE 

Cream : 

1/4  lb.  butter 

%  cup  sugar 
Add: 

3  egg  yolks 
Beat. 
Add  alternately,  beating  after  each  addition : 

%  cup  milk 

IV2  cups  flour 
Fold  in : 

3  beaten  egg  whites 

1  tsp.  lemon  extract 

1  tsp.  salt 

Pour  into  greased  pan  (9  by  13  inches.)  Sprinkle  about  1  or 
1%  cups  pitted  cherries  over  the  batter.  Bake  at  375  degrees  un- 
til brown.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  the  top  and  cut  into 
squares  to  serve. 


Makovy  Dort 
POPPY  SEED  CAKE 

V2  cup  poppy  seed  (ground) 

1  cup  milk 
%  cup  butter 
1%  cups  sugar 

2  cups  sifted  flour 

1%  tsp.  baking  powder 
4  egg  whites  (well  beaten) 
1  tsp.  vanilla 

Soak  poppy  seed  in  milk  for  2  hours.  Cream  butter  and  add 
sugar.  Add  poppy  seed  and  milk.  Add  dry  ingredients  slowly. 
Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  layers  or  loaf  pan.  Bake  at 
350  degrees. 


PILLING  FOR  LAYERS  OR  FROSTING  FOR  LOAF 

1  tbsp.  com  starch 

1%  cups  milk 

%  cup  sugar 

4  egg  yolks 

V2  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Dissolve  com  starch  in  a  little  of  the  milk  and  cook  over 
double  boiler  with  milk  until  mixture  thickens.  Add  sugar,  beaten 
egg  yolks  and  chopped  nuts.  (^/^  recipe  is  sufficient  to  ice  loaf 
cake.) 


Cukrove  Kukesy 
SUGAR  COOKIES 

^  cup  soft  shortening  (half  butter) 

%  cup  sugar 

1  egg 

1  tbsp.  milk  or  cream 

1  tsp.  flavori'ng  (vanilla  or  lemon  or  both) 
1^  cups  sifted  flour 

14  tsp.  baking  powder 
%  tsp.  salt 

Mix  shortening,  sugar,  and  egg  together  thoroughly.  Stir  in 
milk  and  flavoring.  For  additional  flavor  add  3  or  4  drops  but- 
ter ilavornig.  Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together 
and  stir  into  creamed  mixture.  Chill  the  dough.  Roll  very  thin 
and  cut  into  desired  shapes.  Place  on  lightly  greased  cooky  sheet 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  5  to  7  minutes 
until  delicately  browned.  Makes  about  5  dozen  2%  inch  cookies. 

Medovi  Kukesy 
HONEY  COOKIES 

2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  shortening 

2  eggs 

1  cup  honey 

1  level  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cut  hot  coffee 

1  cup  raisins 

2  tsps.  vanilla 

3  tsps.  soda 

6  to  7  cups  flour 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening.  Add  eggs,  honey,  hot  coffee, 
raisrns,  and  vanilla.  Add  the  flour  with  baking  powder,  and  soda 
last.  Drop  with  teaspoon  on  greased  pan  and  bake,  or  form  into 
balls  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  350  degrees  for  10  to  15  minutes. 

Smetanove  Mechurinky 
CREAM  PUFFS 

%  cup  butter 
1  cup  hot  water 
1  cup  flour 

4  eggs 

1/4  tsp.  salt 

Add  the  butter  to  the  hot  water  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Add 
flour  and  salt  all  at  one  time.  Stir  rapidly  and  constantly  until 
the  paste  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Remove  from  the  fire  and 
when  cool  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  until  thoroughly 
blended  with  the  paste  mixture.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  greased 
baking  sheet  about  two  inches  apart  or  bake  in  muffin  pans. 
During  baking,  the  dough  expands  to  twice  or  more  its  original 
size.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  425  degrees  until  puffed  and  golden 
brown  for  25  minutes.  This  makes  about  12  medium  sized  puffs. 
When  cool  slit  the  side,  fill  with  whipped  cream,  crushed  fruit, 
or  custard.  If  desired,  sprinkle  the  top  with  powdered  sugar. 


CUSTARD  FILLING 

1  cup  rich  milk 
%  cup  sugar 

2  tbsp.  cornstarch 
2  egg  yolks 

1/8  tsp.  salt 
%  tsp.  vanilla 
1  tbsp.  butter 

Heat  milk  in  double  boiler.  Mix  cornstarch,  salt,  and  sugar 
with  a  little  milk  .Cook  until  it  thickens.  Add  egg  yolks  and  cook 
a  minute  longer.  Beat  well.  Add  vanilla  and  butter.  When  cool 
place  the  custard  mixture  in  the  puffs. 


Stnidl  s  Jablky 
APPLE  STRUDL 

Dough : 

Warm  1  cup  sweet  cream  and  %  lb.  butter  until  butter  melts. 
Add :  %  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  vanilla 
3  egg  yolks 
1/3  cup  sugar 
3  cups  flour 

Knead  dough  and  place  in  bowl  which  has  been  set  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water  so  that  the  dough  will  remain  warm.  Prepare  filling. 

Filling : 

2  quarts  sliced  apples 

1  ciuip  (or  more)  sugar 

2  tsp.  cinnamon 

11/2  cups  bread  crumbs  (lightly  browned  in  2  tbsp.  butter) 

1  cup  chopped  'nuts 

1  cup  raisins 

14  cup  melted  butter 

While  dough  is  warm,  stretch  it  over  a  floured  cloth  on  the 
table  until  paper  thin.  Trim  hard  edges.  Sprinkle  with  part  of 
melted  butter.  Arrange  apple  slices  over  dough.  Sprinkle  with 
the  remaining  ingredients.  Sprinkle  with  the  remaining  butter. 
Roll  as  for  jelly  roll.  Arrange  in  a  grease  pan  (15  x  18  inches.) 
Bake  about  1  hour  at  350  degrees.  While  baking  brush  often  with 
1  cup  rich  milk. 


Marcipan 
MARZIPAN 

Knead : 

1  cup  almond  paste 
Add :        2  egg  whites 
Mix  well 
Add: 

3  cups  powdered  sugar 

(1  cup  at  a  time) 
Add: 

V2  tsp.  vanilla  or  rum  flavoring 

Knead.  (Total  mixing  time  -  15  minutes.)  Dust  working  sur- 
face with  powdered  sugar.  It  may  be  necessary  to  work  in  ad- 
ditional powdered  sugar  to  acquire  the  right  consistency.  Divide 
the  dough  into  small  pieces,  (being  sure  to  keep  remaining  dough 
covered,)  and  with  the  hands  mold  into  the  shapes  of  fruits  and 
vegetables.  Lay  finished  pieces  on  a  mound  of  flour  so  that  the 
bottom  surfaces  will  not  flatten  while  drying.  Food  coloring  may 
be  used  to  obtain  the  desired  colors  of  dough  or  the  color  may 
be  brushed  on  after  the  molded  pieces  have  dried.  Allow  to  dry 
overnight  or  longer  before  glazing  with  warmed  corn  syrup  or  a 
commercial  glaze.  Artificial  marzipan  leaves  may  be  inserted  or 
leaves  and  stem  may  be  piped  on  with  decorators  icing. 

Testo  k  Pajum 
FLAKY  PIE  CRUST 

3  cups  sifted  flour 

1  cup  lard 

1  tbsp.  vinegar 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  beaten  egg 

water 

Sift  flour  and  salt.  Cut  shortening  into  flour  mixture  and 
work  until  mixture  is  like  corn  meal.  Break  egg  into  a  cup  and 
beat  lightly.  Add  vinegar  and  enough  water  to  make  a  %  cup 
liquid.  Sprinkle  over  flour  mixture.  Stir  together  and  form  into 
a  ball.  Chill  for  a  while.  Roll  out  and  bake  as  usual.  Bake  at  425 
degrees  for  15  minutes.  This  recipe  is  enough  for  2  double  crust 
pies. 

Tykvovy  Paj 
PUMPKIN  PIE 

1%  cup  pumpkin 
2/3  cups  brown  sugar 

1  tsp.  pumpkin  pie  spice 
%  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs 

1  cup  rich  milk 

3  tbsp.  syrup 

Beat  the  eggs.  Add  pumpkin,  sugar,  salt,  spice,  and  milk.  Pour 
into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  450  degrees  for  10  minutes.  Re- 
duce to  325  degrees  for  30  minutes  or  until  done.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 


Tvarohovy  Paj 
COTTAGE  CHEESE  PIE 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  pie  crust. 
Fill  with : 

2  cups  dry  cottage  cheese 

dot  with  bits  of  butter 

%  cup  raisins  (sprinkle  over  cheese) 
Mix  together: 

2  beaten  eggs 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

%  cup  sugar 

1  tsp.  lemon  extract 
Pour  the  custard  over  the  cottage  cheese.    Bake  at  275  degrees 
until  custard  is  set  (about  30  minutes). 


Vejcovy  Paj 
CUSTARD  PIE 

4  eggs 

%  CTip  sugar 
1/4  tsp.  salt 
2  cups  milk 
1/2  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  slightly.  Add  sugar,  salt,  vanilla,  and  milk.  Pour 
into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  10  minutes.  Re- 
duce to  325  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Test  for  doneness  with  a  knife 
blade.  When  it  comes  out  clean,  the  custard  is  done. 


Hrozinkovy  Paj 
RAISIN  PIE 

1  cup  seeded  raisins 

1  cup  water 
1/2  cup  sugar 

2  tbsp.  flour 

vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring 

Cook  raisins  in  water  until  tender.  Remove  from  fire.  Add 
sugar  mixed  with  flour.  Add  flavoring.  Fill  two  unbaked  pie 
shells.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  to  40  minutes. 


Vino  Pampeliskove 
DANDELION  WINE 

%  dozen  lemons  (cut  into  pieces) 

1  dozen  oranges  (cut  into  pieces) 

2  lbs.  raisins 

5  qts.  dandelion  blossoms 
20  lbs.  sugar 

Boil  5  gal.  water,  allow  to  cool,  pour  over  the  above  ingred- 
ients. Add  2  cakes  of  fresh  yeast.  Let  stand  10  days,  then  strain. 
Let  stand  again  4  weeks.  Then  put  in  jugs. 


Ceske  Pokrmy 
MENUS 

Roast  duck  or  ^oose  with  dressing 

Dumplings  and  sauerkraut 

Cranberries  Crescent  rolls 

Pumpkin  pie 

Veal  Paprika 

Cubed  bread  dumplings 

Buttered  cauliflower 

(Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  browned  in  butter) 

Cream  Puffs 

Fried  Fish 

With  sauce  or  Chow  Chow 

Baked  potato  with  butter 

Creamed  asparagus 

Strudl 

Blood  sausage  or  Jiternice 

Fried  potatoes  and  onions 

Sauerkraut 

Rye  bread  and  butter 

Sauerkraut  Soup 

Potatoes  with  jackets 

Layer  jelly  cake 

Tongue,  kidneys  and  heart  in  cream  gravy 

Boiled  potatoes 

Kolaches  Coffee 

Fried  Brains  with  Eggs 

Green  beans  with  mushrooms 

Dill  pickles  White  bread 

Bublanina 

(cherry  cake) 

Fried  Pork  Chops 

Baking  powder  dumplings 

Sauerkraut 

Custard  Pie 

***** 

ONE  DISH  MEALS 

Dill  Soup 

Milk  Soup  with  Noodles 

Prune  Dumplings 

Liver  Dumpling  Soup 

Sauerkraut  Soup 

Barley  and  Mushroom  Soup 

Com  Bread 

Potato  Soup 

Buttermilk  Pancakes 

Soup  with  Rye  Bread 

Goulash 


My     Favorite     Recipe 


