oneliwdrtd 

KATE  SARGEANT 


CLEVELAND  .ff 
CHARLES   ORR 

1699     Q&>       1699 


\&B9S:.S^^.SSSS&.&&.^^&J&J&.e$Si^- 


*    ' 


Q 


onehuftdrgd 

KATE  SARGEANT 


CLEVEL'AND^ 
CHARLES   ORR 

1899     C^>      1899 

Jfc- 


s  »».-i*^U&.    /..   _. 


l,^^^s.s^.s.^ass^^^.^^.^^^^^-^ 


?45      x^ 


^    c*> 


COPYRIGHT 

1899 
BY  CHARLES  ORR. 


1899 


PREFACE. 


Owing  to  the  present  popular  interest  in  the  subject  of  mush- 
rooms, and  to  the  fact  that  there  is  no  cook  book  devoted  ex- 
clusively to  them  (most  cook  books  having  only  a  few  receipts, 
.usually  for  cooking  the  common  mushroom,),  it  would  seem 
that,  a  collection  of  receipts  like  the  one  here  offered  to  the 
public  would  meet  with  favor. 

The  idea  of  arranging  such  a  book  was  suggested  to  the 
compiler  by  several  persons  unknown  to  each  other,  who  knew 
her  interest  in  mushrooms  in  this  relation  to  the  cuisine. 

To  my  own  receipts  I  have  added  those  collected  from 
friends,  and  from  the  different  books,  English  and  American, 
on  the  subject.  Many  of  the  receipts  may  be  changed  to  suit 
the  individual  taste,  and  if  one  has  not  enough  of  one  variety  a 
mixture  will  often  make  a  very  palatable  dish.  I  have  heard  of 
as  many  as  six  varieties  cooked  together. 

I  have  made  no  attempt  to  describe  the  edible,  nor  to  warn 
against  the  emetic  and  poisonous  kinds.  To  do  so  would  re- 
quire too  much  space,  and  besides,  such  knowledge  is  to  be 
presumed. 

I  am  greatly  indebted  to  Mr.  Wm.  Knox,  President  of  the 
Mycological  Club  of  Cleveland,  for  his  introduction  to  this 
book.  Mr.  Knox's  well-known  enthusiasm  for  this  subject 
and  his  kindly  interest  have  been  helpful  to  many. 

K.  R.  S. 


INTRODUCTION. 


The  general  opinion  in  this  country  regarding  mush- 
rooms has  been,  that  with  one  or  two  exceptions,  all  forms  of 
fungus  growth  are  either  poisonous  or  unwholesome,  but  it  is 
very  gratifying  to  observe  the  change  that  is  rapidly  taking 
place  in  the  public  mind.  Soon  public  opinion  will  acknowl- 
edge that  it  is  an  established  fact  that  the  great  majority  of 
the  larger  funguses,  especially  of  those  that  grow  in  fields  and 
other  open  places,  is  not  only  wholesome  but  highly  nutritious. 

The  terrible  tales  of  poisoning,  so  carefully  collected  and 
recorded  in  the  daily  newspapers  are  traceable  to  a  few  species ; 
these  seem  to  have  placed  a  curse  on  the  whole  tribe,  which 
would  otherwise  be — as  nature  must  have  intended — a  valuable 
addition  to  our  food  supply. 

The  mushroom  has  been  for  centuries  a  staple  article  of 
diet  in  many  of  the  countries  of  continental  Europe  and 
eastern  Asia.  It  is  said  that  in  these  countries  thousands  of 
persons  live  for  several  months  of  the  year  almost  entirely  upon 
this  kind  of  food.  It  is  gathered  by  the  people  living  in  the 
country  for  their  daily  use  and  also  to  be  preserved,  dried  or 
pickled  for  winter  stock.  Large  quantities  are  also  sent  daily 
to  the  markets  of  the  neighboring  cities  and  sold  at  a  good 
profit. 

No  country  is  richer  in  this  wholesome  and  palatable  food 
than  our  own,  and  in  no  other  country  is  it  to  be  found  in 
greater  variety   and   profusion.     But  owing  to   prejudice  or 


INTRODUCTION. 

ignorance,  vast  quantities  are  allowed  to  rot  year  after  year 
where  they  grow,  while  thousands  of  the  poor  may  feel  the 
pinch  of  hunger.  What  Dr.  Badham  wrote  of  England  fifty 
years  ago  could  be  applied  to  America  today,  "Hundred 
weights  of  rich,  wholesome  diet  rotting  under  trees,  woods 
teeming  with  food,  and  not  one  hand  to  gather  it." 

The  value  of  the  mushroom  as  an  article  of  diet  is  not  gen- 
erally understood. 

Funguses  differ  from  most  other  vegetables  in  that,  like 
animal  life  during  its  growth,  they  absorb  oxygen  and  as  a  rule 
give  out  carbonic  acid ;  to  chemical  analysis  they  also  show  the 
several  components  of  animal  structures  and  have  therefore 
been  aptly  named  vegetable  meat. 

It  is  claimed  that  America  uses  more  butcher's  meat  per 
head  of  population  than  any  other  country.  But  if  the  people 
would  learn  to  know  a  few  species  of  edible  mushrooms  the 
butcher's  bill  would  be  smaller  and  they  would  find  during 
the  summer  and  autumn  months  an  agreeable  and  wholesome 
change,  for  while  mushrooms  contain  all  the  constituents  of 
animal  food,  they  have  the  advantage  of  being  more  tender  and 
more  easily  digested.  Like  animal  structures,  they  are  subject 
to  rapid  decay,  and  therefore  should  be  prepared  for  the  table 
only  when  quite  fresh  and  perfectly  sound.  If  more  are  gath- 
ered than  required  for  one  meal,  it  is  better  to  cook  them  all 
when  fresh,  unless  they  are  to  be  dried  and  put  away  for 
winter  use. 

Owing  to  mushrooms  being  highly  nitrogenous  they  ought  to 
take  the  place  of  animal  food,  rather  than  that  of  an  extra 
vegetable  on  the  table.  Indigestion  caused  by  overeating 
mushrooms  will  be  just  as  disagreeable  as  it  would  be  from 
overeating  roast  beef,  and  the  mushrooms  will  probably  get 
the  entire  blame  for  the  trouble. 


INTRODUCTION. 


The  best  kinds  of  food  may  be  spoiled  in  the  cooking,  and 
mushrooms,  to  be  thoroughly  enjoyed  and  easily  digested,  must 
be  carefully  cooked.  The  receipts  for  cooking  given  in  this 
book  are  gatnered  from  many  sources,  some  being  the  results 
of  many  experiments. 

The  mushrooms  named  in  the  appended  list  have  been  gath- 
ered in  the  vicinity  of  Cleveland,  and  although  some  are  richer 
and  better  flavored  than  others,  still  they  are  all  good  and 
perfectly  wholesome. 

Agaricus  campester The  Common  mushroom. 


arvensis 

Coprinus  comatus 

"  micaceus   

"  atramentarius  . 

Clitopilus  prunulus 

orcella   

Marasmius  oreades 

Lepiota  procera 

"      naucinoides , 

Armillaria  mellea 

Tricholoma  personatum  . 
Pleurotus  ulmarius 

"  os'treatus 

"  sapidus  

Russula  virescens 

Cantharellus  cibarius 

Collybia  radicata 

Hypholoma  sublateritius 


Field 

Shaggy-maned    " 

Glistening  Coprinis. 

Inky  mushroom. 

Plum 

Sweetbread  mushroom. 

Fairy-ring 

Parasol 

Smooth- white  Lepiota. 

Honey-colored  mushr'm. 

Blewit. 

Elm-sprout. 

Oyster  mushroom. 

Sapid  Pleurotus. 

Green  Russula. 

Chan'tarelle 

Rooting-sbank. 

Brick^top. 


INTRODUCTION. 


Boletus  edulis  The  Edible  Bolet. 


Polyporus  sulphureus  . . . 

Fistulina  hepatica  

Morchella  esculenta 

Clavaria  flava  

Lycoperdon  giganteum . . . 
cyathiforme. 


Sulphur-clump. 
Beefsteak. 
Common  Morel. 
Coral  mushroom. 
Giant  puff-ball. 
Cup-shaped  puff-ball. 


SOUPS. 


"Muse,  sing  the  man  that  did  to  Paris  go, 
That  he  might  taste  their  soups,  and  mushrooms  know" 
— W.  King,  Art  of  Cookery. 


AGARICUS  CAMPESTER  SOUP. 

{Common  Mushroom.) 
Take  a  good  quantity  of  the  mushrooms,  cut  off  the 
lower  ends,  and  wash  and  peel,  then  put  in  stew-pan 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  stock,  stir 
until  tender,  take  off,  and  chop  in  small  pieces;  pre- 
pare a  good  stock,  as  for  any  other  soup,  and  add  it 
to  the  mushrooms  and  the  liquor  they  have  been  stewed 
in.  Boil  all  together  and  serve.  I  have  used  the  stems 
only  for  this  soup  and  the  following  one  with  good 


COPRINUS  COMATUS  SOUP. 

{Shaggy  mane.) 

Take  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  mushrooms,  clean 

and  peel,  then  throw  in  a  saucepan  and  stew  with 

butter,  pepper  and  salt  until  tender ;  take  out  and  chop, 

then  return  to  the  liquor,  to  which  add  a  little  stock. 


10  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

Another  way  is  to  add  celery,  onion,  a  bay  leaf  and  a 
blade  of  mace.* 


HUNGARIAN  BOLETUS  SOUP. 
Dry  the  Boleti  in  the  oven,  soak  in  tepid  water, 
thickening  with  toasted  bread,  till  the  whole  is  the  con- 
sistency of  a  puree;  then  rub  through  a  sieve,  throw 
in  some  stewed  boleti,  boil  together  and  serve  with 
the  usual  condiments. 


BOLETUS  SOUP. 

Slice  and  fry  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  two  onions ; 
to  these  add  two  quarts  of  water  a  half  dozen 
boleti,  two  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  pinch  of  herbs, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  when  the  mushrooms  are 
tender  strain  through  a  sieve  and  serve  with  croutons. 
This  makes  a  very  rich  soup. 


FISTULINA  HEPATICA  SOUP. 
(Beefsteak  Mushroom.) 
Fry  two  or  three  onions  in  butter,  add  the  beef- 
steak mushrooms,  which  have  been  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  any  gravy  or  pieces   of  meat    (left-overs),   two 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  11 

quarts  of  water,  two  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bay 
leaf,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  This  makes  a  good 
bouillon.  By  adding  tomatoes,  celery  or  other  vege- 
tables a  good  vegetable  soup  is  the  result.  In  fact, 
you  may  use  the  beefsteak  mushroom  in  soup  just  as 
you  would  a  piece  of  beef.  Old  dried  specimens  may 
be  used  in  soups  and  gravy. 


POLYPORUS  SULPHUREUS  SOUP. 

{Sulphur  Mushroom.) 
This  mushroom  tastes  and  smells,  when  cooking, 
like  chicken.  Only  the  young  and  tender  parts  should 
be  used.  Cut  into  rather  small  pieces,  and  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water.  When  tender  strain,  and  to  the 
broth  add  more  salt  if  necessary,  pepper,  onion  and 
rice,  as  for  chicken  broth.  The  pieces  from  which  the 
broth  is  made  may  be  used  for  salad,  for  which  a 
recipe  is  given  under  the  salads  on  another  page. 


PLEUROTUS  OSTREATUS  SOUP. 
{Oyster  Mushroom.) 
Clean,  cut  up  in  small  pieces  and  stew  until  tender, 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  and  then  strain.  Mush- 
rooms too  tough  for  eating  may  be  used  in  this  way. 
The  clear  broth  is  delicious ;  but  if  one  prefer,  milk,  or, 
still  better,  cream  may  be  added. 


12  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

WHITE  MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

{Button  Mushroom,  Cultivated.) 
One  quart  of  stock,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  gill  of 
thick  cream,  one-half  can  of  mushrooms,  and  all  the 
liquor,  or  one  quart  of  white  button  mushrooms,  which 
have  been  stirred  in  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  one  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Put  the  stock  and  milk  on  to  boil  separately;  stir 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  the  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether until  they  bubble;  pour  on  half  the  milk, 
quickly  stirring  all  the  time;  add  the  rest  and  then  the 
stock.  When  thick  as  cream  and  smooth,  put  in  the 
mushrooms,  salt,  and,  last,  the  cream.  Just  before 
using  squeeze  in  some  lemon  juice  or  throw  in  pieces 
of  lemon. 


PUREE  OF  MUSHROOMS. 
To  make  a  puree  of  mushrooms,  take  as  many  but- 
ton mushrooms  as  desired;  wash  them  in  cold  water 
and  wipe  dry;  chop  them  fine  as  possible  and  press  in 
a  cloth;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  butter, 
pepper  and  salt ;  let  them  stand  over  a  brisk  fire ;  when 
the  butter  is  melted  squeeze  in  lemon  juice  and  add 
jelly  broth,  according  to  the  quantity  of  mushrooms. 
Stew  until  reduced  to  the  consistency  of  pea  soup. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  l3 


STEWS. 


"That  I  should  live  so  long  and  ignorant  of  such  wealth  as 
this"  — Randolph. 


AGARICUS  CAMPESTER  STEW.  No.  I. 
{The  Common  Mushroom.) 
Peel  the  mushrooms ;  if  necessary,  wash  them  in  cold 
water;  cut  off  bottom  of  stalks.  Then  put  them  in  a 
porcelain  saucepan;  to  every  pint  of  mushrooms,  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Let  the 
mushrooms  cook  in  their  own  liquor  and  the  butter  for 
fifteen  minutes,  then  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve 
immediately. 


AGARICUS  CAMPESTER  STEW.      No.  II. 

{The  Common  Mushroom.) 
Peel  the  mushrooms,  and,  if,  necessary,  wash  them 
in  cold  water ;  cut  off  the  bottom  of  stalks.  Then  put 
them  into  a  porcelain  lined  kettle;  to  every  pint  of 
mushrooms  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  divided  into 
four  pieces,  rolled  in  flour.  Let  the  mushrooms  cook 
in  their  own  liquor  and  the  butter  and  flour  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream; 


14  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the 
well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and,  if  you  use  it,  one 
tablespoonful  of  sherry.     Serve  at  once. 


AGARICS  DELICATELY  STEWED. 
Remove  the  stalks  and  skin  from  young,  half- 
grown  agarics,  and  throw  them  into  a  basin  of  water 
slightly  acidulated  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  vinegar. 
When  all  are  prepared  remove  them  from  the  water, 
and  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  small  piece  of 
fresh  butter.  Sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little 
lemon  juice;  cover  up  closely  and  stew  for  half  an 
hour;  then  add  a  spoonful  of  flour,  with  sufficient 
milk  or  cream  till  the  whole  has  the  thickness  of 
cream.  Season  to  taste  and  stew  until  tender.  Re- 
move the  butter  from  the  surface,  and  serve  hot, 
garnished  with  slices  of  lemon.  A  little  mace  or 
catsup  may  be  added  if  you  like. 


ARMILLARIA  MELLEA  STEW. 

(Honey-colored  Mushroom.) 

Soak  the  tops  for  half  an  hour  in  a  quart  of  water, 

in  which  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  has  been  placed. 

Roll  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in   flour   and  put  in 

saucepan,  add  the  mushrooms  and  sufficient  water  to 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  l5 

cover;  stew  until  tender.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve  hot. 


CANTHARELLUS  CIBARIUS  STEW. 

(Chantarelle.) 

This  mushroom  being  of  a  somewhat  tough  con- 
sistency, requires  long  and  slow  cooking.  One  au- 
thority says,  "by  soaking  them  in  milk  the  night  before 
less  cooking  will  be  requisite." 

Cut  the  mushroom  across  and  remove  the  stems; 
put  them  into  a  closely  covered  saucepan  with  a  little 
fresh  butter,  and  "sweat"  them  until  tender  at  the 
lowest  temperature.  A  great  heat  always  destroys 
the  flavor.  Chantarelles  may  be  minced  and  served 
with  meat  or  other  mushrooms. 


CLAVARIA  STEW. 
(Coral  Fungus.) 
After  sousing  in  tepid  water,  and  wiping  perfectly 
clean,  the  fungus  should  be  "sweated"  over  a  slow 
fire,  afterward  to  be  strained  and  the  liquor  thrown 
away;  stew  for  an  hour;  add  salt,  pepper,  cloves  and 
parsley  to  taste,  masking  with  plain  stock  and  dredging 
occasionally  with  flour.  Thicken  with  yolks  of  eggs 
and  cream ;  serve  hot. 


16  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

COPRINUS  ATRAMENTARIUS  STEW. 

{Inky  Mushroom.)  , 

Gather  in  the  white  or  pink  stage.  Take  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  roll  in  flour  and  put  in  the  bottom 
of  a  porcelain  saucepan ;  throw  in  the  mushrooms  and 
cook  until  tender;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
cream  if  you  like. 

COPRINUS  COMATUS  STEW. 
(Shaggy  Mane.) 
These  should  be  used  only  in  the  young  state,  when 
pink  or  white  underneath.  Cut  off  lower  part  of  the 
stems,  peel  the  cap,  and  stew  slowly  until  tender  in 
their  own  liquor  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour ;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  serve  on  squares 
of  buttered  toast. 


FISTULINA  HEPATICA  STEW. 

(Beefsteak  Mushroom.) 
Fry    a    small   onion   in    butter,    add   the   beefsteak 
mushroom,  which  has  been  peeled  and  cut  in  small 
pieces,  enough  water  to  cover,  and  stew  until  tender; 
add  salt,  pepper  and  thickening,  and  serve  hot. 


RAGOUT  OF  HELVELLA  OR  MORELS. 
Pick  and  clean  your  fungi  and  cut  in  two;  wash  and 
dry  them  well  by  wiping;  then  put  them  in  a  stew- 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  17 

pan  with  butter,  or  a  piece  of  ham  or  bacon ;  place  over 
a  brisk  fire;  when  the  butter  is  melted,  squeeze  in  a 
little  lemon-juice,  give  a  few  turns,  then  add  salt,  pep- 
per, and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  cook  slowly  for  an 
hour,  pouring  on  at  intervals  small  quantities  of  beef 
stock  to  prevent  burning.  When  done,  thicken  with 
yolks  of  eggs. 

The  lemon  juice  is  omitted  by  many,  who  think  it 
unpalatable  as  well  as  unwholesome. 


HYPHOLOMA  SUBLATERITIUS  STEW. 
(Brick  Top.) 
Put  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  in  a  quart  of  water, 
soak  the  mushroom  caps  in  the  mixture  for  twenty 
minutes.  Take  them  out  and  stew  slowly  for  half  an 
hour,  or  until  tender,  in  a  covered  vessel,  adding  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  A  small  quantity  of  onion  is 
thought  by  some  to  improve  the  flavor,  and  a  thicken- 
ing of  cornstarch  and  milk  just  before  serving  is  an 
improvement. 


HYDNUM  STEW.     No.  I. 
(Medusa  Mushroom.) 
Cut  the  mushrooms  in  pieces  and  let  them  steep  in 
warm  water  for  twenty  minutes.     Then  allow  them  to 


18  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

simmer  for  an  hour  in  a  pan  with  butter,  pepper,  salt 
and  parsley,  with  the  addition  of  stock  or  gravy. 


HYDNUM  STEW.  No.  II. 
(Medusa  Mushroom.) 
Cut  the  fungus  into  pieces  and  simmer  in  a  little 
water;  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  add  a  little 
cream.  When  cooked,  pour  the  mixture  over  toast, 
or  saute  the  pieces  in  butter;  add  a  little  sherry  just 
before  taking  from  the  fire  and  serve  on  softened  toast. 


LEPIOTA  PROCERA  STEW.     No.  I. 
(Parasol  Mushroom.) 
Remove  scurf  spots,  steep  for  two  hours,  with  some 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  onion ;  then  toss  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  over  a  brisk  fire  with  a  little  parsley  chopped  fine 
and  a  little  lemon  juice. 


LEPIOTA  PROCERA  STEW.     No.  II. 
(Parasol  Mushroom.) 
Remove  the  scales  and  stalks  from  the  young  speci- 
mens, and  throw  each  one  as  you  do  into  a  basin  of 
water,  in  which  has  been  placed  a  little  lemon  juice  or 
vinegar.     When  all  are  prepared,  drain  and  put  in  the 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  19 

stew-pan  with  a  small  piece  of  butter;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  little  lemon  juice.  Cover 
up  closely  and  stew  for  half  an  hour.  Then  add  a 
spoonful  of  flour  with  sufficient  cream  or  cream  and 
milk  until  all  has  the  thickness  of  cream.  Season  to 
taste  and  stew  gently  until  tender.  Remove  the  butter 
from  the  top,  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish  garnished  with 
lemon.  A  little  mace,  nutmeg  or  catsup  may  be  added, 
but  some  think  the  spice  spoils  the  flavor. 


LYCOPERDON   GIGANTEUM   STEW. 

(Giant  Puff  Ball.) 
Peel  (discarding  all  yellow  or  those  streaked  with 
yellow".  Cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  in  stew-pan  with 
a  cup  of  cream;  stew  for  at  least  half  an  hour;  they 
must  be  well  cooked  to  be  good;  add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  serve  on  toast. 


MARASMIUS  OREADES  STEW.  No.  I. 

(Fairy  Ring  Mushroom.) 

If  dry,  soak,  wash  thoroughly,  as  they  are  apt  to  be 

full  of  grit  and  dirt;  cut  off  stems.     Cook  in  cream 

until  tender;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  serve  on 

toast. 


20  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

MARASMIUS  OREADES  STEW.  No.  II. 

(Fairy  Ring  Mushroom.) 
Wash  carefully,  cut  off  stems;  put  in  stew-pan  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour;  put  in  the  fairy 
rings,  enough  water  to  cover  and  stew  until  tender; 
add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  serve  hot. 


MORCHELLA  ESCULENTA  STEW.     No.  I. 
(Common  Morel.) 

Having  washed  and  cleansed  from  earth,  which  is 
apt  to  collect  in  the  hollows  of  the  plants,  dry  them 
thoroughly  in  a  napkin  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
little  parsley,  salt  and  pepper,  adding  a  piece  of  ham 
if  you  like  it;  stew  for  one  hour,  pouring  in  occasion- 
ally a  little  broth  to  prevent  burning.  When  tender 
bind  together  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  serve 
on  buttered  toast. 


MORCHELLA  ESCULENTA  STEW.     No.  II. 

(Morelles  a  I'ltalienne.) 
Having  washed  and  dried  the  mushrooms,  divide 
them  across;  put  them  on  the  fire  with  some  parsley, 
scallion,  cheveril,  burnet,  tarragon,  cives,  a  little  salt 
and  two  spoonfuls  of  good  oil;  stew  until  the  juice  runs 
out,  then  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Serve  with  bread 
crumbs  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS.  21 

STEWED  RUSSULA. 
Take  as  many  as  needed,  look  over  carefully  and 
peel;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  pan  and  the 
russulas  and  cook  until  tender ;  thicken  with  flour,  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve.  They  are  im- 
proved by  adding  cream.  Some  people  consider  the 
russulas  rather  tasteless  for  stewing. 


TRUFFLES  RAGOUT. 
For  a  ragout  the  tubers  snould  be  well  washed,  and 
afterwards  soaked  in  oil,  then  cut  in  slices  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick;  place  in  stew-pan,  with  oil  or  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  white  wine.  When  cooked 
bind  the  whole  together  with  the  yolk  of  an  Ggg. 


PIEDMONTESE  TRUFFLES. 
Soak  first  in  oil,  then  slice  thin,  and  put  them  in 
a  stew-pan  with  salt,  oil  and  pepper,  grating  over  them 
some  Parmesan  cheese;  then  place  in  stew-pan  over 
brisk  fire  for  fifteen  minutes. 


22  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS. 


BAKED. 


"Nearer  as  they  came,  a  genial  savor 
Of  certain  stews  and  roast-meats  and  pilans, 
Things  which  to  a  hungry  mortal's  eyes  find  favor." 

— Byron. 


AGARICUS  CAMPESTER,  ROASTED. 

{Common  Mushroom.) 
Cut  the  larger  specimens  into  fine  pieces,  and  place 
them  in  a  small  dish,  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter  to 
taste;  put  in  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  then 
fill  the  dish,  with  the  half-open  specimens  and  buttons; 
cover  tightly  and  place  in  the  oven,  (which  must  not 
be  overheated),  for  about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  The 
juice  of  the  larger  mushrooms  will  keep  them  moist, 
and  if  fresh,  yield  abundant  gravy. 


AGARICUS  ARVENSIS,  BAKED. 
(Horse  Mushroom.) 
Peel  off  the  cuticle  of  the  cap,  and  then,  cutting  the 
stem  close  to  the  gills,  lay  them  gills  upward  in  a 
shallow  dish;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  place 
a  lump  of  butter  on  each.  Cover  and  place  in  the  oven 
until  tender.     Serve  on  toast. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  23 

AGARICUS  CAMPESTER,  SCALLOPED. 
(Common  Mushroom.) 
Make  a  sauce  of  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
one  of  flour,  and  two  cupfuls  of  chicken  broth  or 
white  stock ;  add  to  this  the  chopped  stalks  of  a  pint  of 
mushrooms;  reduce  the  same  one-half,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Turn 
this  sauce  into  a  shallow  baking  dish,  put  in  as  many 
mushrooms  as  will  fill  the  dish,  placing  them  close 
together,  gills  up,  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  one 
and  sprinkle  the  tops  with  crumbs,  and  place  in  an 
oven  for  ten  minutes  or  until  tender,  and  serve  hot. 


AMANITA  CAESAREA,  ROAST. 

(The  Orange  Amanita.) 
Remove  peel  and  stems,  but  reserve  the  upper  half 
of  the  stems.  Rinse  the  mushrooms  well  in  cold  water, 
take  them  out  and  wipe  dry  on  a  cloth.  Make  a  force 
meat  with  the  upper  part  of  the  stems  minced,  bread 
crumbs,  sweet  herbs,  garlic,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little 
oil.  Pack  this  upon  the  gills  of  the  mushrooms.  Put 
them  on  a  pie  plate  in  a  hot  oven  and  continue  to  baste 
them  with  oil.     Cook  fifteen  minutes  and  serve. 


BAKED  BOLETL 
Select  carefully,  as  the  boleti  are  the  prey  of  worms ; 
cut   off   stems    and   pare   with   a  sharp   knife,  (some 


24  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS. 

even  recommend  cutting  off  the  pore  surface;  but  this 
takes  away  from  the  flavor).  Bake  with  butter,  salad 
oil,  pepper,  salt  and  chopped  herbs  and  bread  crumbs, 
to  which  may  be  added  some  mince  or  anchovy  or  ham. 


BOLETUS  EDULIS  ROAST  WITH  ONIONS. 

As  the  onions  take  longer  than  the  boleti,  bake  them 
first  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  when  they  begin  to 
grow  tender  add  the  boleti  and  bake  until  tender. 


LEPIOTA  PROCERA  BAKED.  No  I. 
(Parasol  Mushroom.) 
Remove  scales  and  stalks,  place  the  caps  in  layers  in 
a  dish,  placing  a  little  butter  on  each;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Cover  and  bake  twenty  minutes  or  half 
an  hour.  Place  on  toast  in  a  hot  dish  and  pour  sauce 
around  them. 


LEPIOTA  PROCERA  BAKED.     No.  II. 

(Parasol  Mushroom.) 
Remove  scales  and  stalks;  do  not  wash  the  "para- 
sols," as  they  are  usually  very  clean;  put  some  slices 
of  toast  on  a  well-buttered  pie-plate,  and  with  a  little 
melted  butter  or  cream  poured  over  them,  lay  in  the 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  25 

mushrooms,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little 
minced  parsley,  which  has  been  previously  rubbed  in 
onion  or  garlic ;  cover  the  dish  with  a  plate  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 


LACTARIUS  DELICIOSUS  BAKED. 
(Delicious  Lactarius. ) 
This  mushroom  requires  delicate  cooking,  too  long 
or  too  rapid  cooking  makes  it  tough.  One  of  the  best 
methods  is  to  bake  gently  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in 
a  covered  dish,  having  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  It  may  also  be  fried  or  cooked  in  a  white 
sauce,  and  serve  in  the  same  dish,  not  taking  off  the 
cover  until  ready  to  serve. 


MORCHELLA  ESCULENTA  STUFFED. 
(Common  Morel.) 
Choose  the  whitest  and  freshest  morels;  open  the 
stalks  at  the  bottom;  wash  and  wipe  them  well;  fill 
with  veal  or  chicken  stuffing,  anchovy,  or  any  rich 
farce  you  choose,  securing  the  ends  and  dressing  be- 
tween slices  of  bacon.     Serve  with  sauce. 


BAKED  RUSSULA. 
Wash,  peel  and  pick  over  carefully,  cut  off  the  stems 
and  save  to  chop  up.     Lay  the  caps  on  a  buttered  pie- 


26  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

plate  with  gills  up.  Make  a  stuffing  of  chopped  stems, 
bread  crumbs,  two  slices  of  onions,  a  small  pinch  of 
herbs,  a  little  lemon  juice,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  or  oil,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Fill  the 
caps  and  bake  until  tender,  about  twenty  minutes. 


BAKED  TRICHOLOMA  GAMBOSUS. 

(St.   George's  Mushroom.) 

Place  some  fresh  made  squares  of  toast  on  a  dish 
and  the  agarics  upon  it;  pepper,  salt  and  a  small  piece 
of  onion  on  each ;  then  pour  over  each  a  tablespoonful 
of  milk  or  cream,  add  a  single  clove  to  the  whole  dish, 
place  an  inverted  basin  over  the  whole,  bake  for 
twenty  minutes,  not  removing  the  cover  until  ready 
to  serve. 


BAKED  TRICHOLOMA  PERSONATUM. 

(Blewit.) 
Cleanse  and  peel,  cut  off  stems  and  lay  the  cap  gills 
up  on  a  baking  dish,  prepare  a  stuffing  of  chicken,  veal 
or  beef,   fill   the  caps,   cover  the   dish   and   bake   for 
twenty  minutes. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS.  27 

TRUFFLES  A  L'lTALIENNE. 
Take  ten  truffles,  cleanse  and  brush,  cut  in  thin 
slices  and  put  them  in  a  baking  dish;  pour  over  them 
a  pint  of  salad  oil,  or  butter;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  a  very  little  finely 
minced  garlic,  two  blades  of  pounded  mace  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice;  cover  and  bake  until 
tender. 


28  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 


FRIED. 


"The  common  growth  of  Mother  Earth  suffices  me." 

— Wordsworth. 


FRIED  BOLETL 
{Conelike.) 
Peel  the  wooly  cap,  cut  off  the  stems,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot 
butter,  seasoning  to  taste. 


LYCOPERDON  GIGANTEUM  FRIED.  No.  I. 
{Giant  Puff  Ball.) 
Remove  skin,  discarding  all  that  are  yellow  or 
streaked  with  yellow;  all  puff  balls  are  edible  in  a 
fresh  state;  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  or  a  batter  if  you 
prefer,  and  fry  in  hot  butter  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  at  once. 


LYCOPERDON  GIGANTEUM  FRIED.     No.  II. 
Prepare  as  above,  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs, 
sprinkle   with  chopped  herbs   and   salt  and   pepper; 
brown  nicely  on  both  sides  and  serve  immediately. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  29 

RUSSULA  FRIED  WITH  BACON. 
Cut  four  thin  slices  of  bacon,  fry  crisp  and  lay  upon 
a  platter,  then  put  into  the  bacon  fat  a  quart  of 
Russulas  which  have  been  peeled  and  carefully  looked 
over;  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  tender.  Serve  on  platter 
with  bacon. 


FISTULINA  HEPATICA  FRIED. 

(Beefsteak  Mushroom.) 

Fry  crisp  some  thin  slices  of  bacon;  lay  them  on  a 

platter,  then  fry  pieces  of  beefsteak  mushroom  as  you 

would  a  real  beefsteak  until  tender;  season  and  serve 

with  the  bacon. 


TRICHOLOMA  GAMBOSUS  FRIED.    No.  I. 
(St.  George's  Mushroom.) 

Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan  with  a  suffi- 
ciency of  gravy  or  milk  and  a  little  curry  powder;  fry 
for  seven  or  eight  minutes,  then  throw  in  the  sliced 
agarics,  fry  gently  for  ten  minutes  and  serve  quickly 
on  toast. 


TRICHOLOMA  GAMBOSUS  FRIED.     No.  II. 

(St.  George's  Mushroom.) 
Cut  the  stems  off  close,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  place  them  in  a  frying-pan,  gills  up,  in  fat  in  which 


30  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS. 

bacon  has  been  fried,  or  in  default  of  bacon  place  a 
piece  of  butter  on  each  cap.  Then  fry  them  until 
thoroughly  done,  when  they  will  be  soft  all  over,  and 
appetizing  in  odor.    Serve  either  with  bacon  or  on  toast. 


MUSHROOMS  FRIED  WITH  BACON. 
Take  some  full-grown  mushrooms,  clean  them  well. 
Procure  a  few  rashers  of  bacon,  streaked  with  lean, 
and  fry  in  the  usual  manner.  When  nearly  done  add 
a  dozen  or  so  of  mushrooms,  and  fry  them  slowly  until 
they  are  cooked.     Season  and  serve  hot. 


LEPIOTA  PROCERA  BROILED. 

(Parasol  Mushroom.) 
Remove  scales  and  stalks,  and  boil  lightly  over  a 
clear  fire  on  both  sides  for  a  few  minutes;  arrange 
them  on  a  dish,  over  fresh  made  toast;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  melt  the  butter.  Then  serve 
quickly.  Bacon  toasted  over  the  mushrooms  is  thought 
by  some  to  improve  the  flavor,  and  saves  butter.  This 
method  may  be  used  in  broiling  any  of  the  Agarics. 


LYCOPERDON  GIGANTEUM  BROILED. 

(Giant  Puff -Ball.) 
Peel  and  slice  in  half-inch  slices,  rejecting  all  that 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS.  3l 

are  yellow  or  striped  with  yellow,  broil  on  a  wire 
broiler,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other;  lay  on 
a  hot  dish,  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  a  piece  of  butter  on 
each  slice ;  set  in  the  oven  a  minute  and  serve  at  once. 


TRICHOLOMA  PERSONATUM  BROILED. 

(Blewits.) 
These  may  be  broiled  like  the  Parasol  mushroom,  or 
cooked    like    any   of    the    recipes    given    for    the    St. 
George  mushroom. 


THE  FISTULINA  HEPATICA  BROILED. 
Some  like  this  broiled.     Broil  over  a  hot  fire  first 
on  one  side,  then  other ;  season,  pour  over  melted  butter 
and  serve. 


COTTAGER'S  PROCERA  PIE. 
Cut  fresh  agarics  in  small  pieces  and  cover  the 
bottom  of  a  pie  dish.  Pepper  and  salt,  and  place 
them  on  small  shreds  of  fresh  bacon,  then  put  in  a 
layer  of  mashed  potatoes,  and  so  fill  the  dish  layer  by 
layer  with  a  cover  of  mashed  potato  for  the  crust; 
bake  well  for  half  an  hour. 


32 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 


MUSHROOM  PIE. 
A  very  good  mushroom  pie  is  made  in  the  following 
manner:  Chop  a  quart  of  common  mushrooms  into 
small  pieces ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  pound 
of  round  steak  chopped  fine,  and  seasoned  with  a  small 
piece  of  onion.  If  the  steak  is  lean,  add  a  small  piece 
of  suet  or  butter.  Put  chopped  steak  and  mushrooms 
in  a  deep  saucepan  with  a  cover  and  stew  slowly  until 
tender.  Make  a  crust  as  for  beefsteak  pie  and  put 
in  deep  dish,  lightly  browning  the  under  crust  before 
adding  the  stew,  and  cover  with  a  crust  lightly  punc- 
tured. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS.  33 


SAUCE. 


"Epicurean  cooks. 
Sharpen  with  cloyless  sauce  his  appetite." 

Antony  and  Cleopatra,  iii, 


LEPIOTA  PROCERA  SAUCE. 
{Parasol  Mushroom.) 
Chop  up  about  half  a  pint  of  these  agarics,  pepper 
and  salt  and  add  an  ounce  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Put  in  a  stew-pan  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  minutes; 
add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  or,  better  still,  cream,  boil 
gently,  stirring  all  the  while,  until  sufficiently  thick 
and  smooth.  Pour  around  fowls  or  rabbits  or  any 
fricassee. 


PLEUROTUS  OSTREATUS  SAUCE. 

{Oyster  Mushroom.) 

A  nice  addition  to  a  veal  stew  is  to  take  some  young, 

tender  specimens  of  the  oyster  mushroom,  chop  up  and 

stew  in  veal  stock  with  salt  and  pepper.     Pour  over 

the  veal  and  serve. 


34  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

CREAM  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  and  add  one  cup  of  fresh 
common  mushrooms  chopped  fine,  or  the  same  quan- 
tity of  canned  mushrooms;  if  the  latter,  just  heat 
through,  as  long  cooking  toughens  them;  if  the  fresh 
mushrooms,  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  ten  minutes. 
Stems  chopped  fine  may  be  used  for  this  sauce. 


BROWN  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 
Make  a  brown  sauce,  add  to  it  one  pint  of  fresh 
common  mushrooms,  or  canned  mushrooms;  if  the 
first,  simmer  gently  for  fifteen  minutes;  if  the  latter, 
only  five.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  wine  if  you 
use  it.  Some  think  a  little  mace  or  nutmeg  an  im- 
provement, or  a  little  Harvey  sauce. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS.  35 


SALADS. 


"Oh!  herbaceous  treat! 
'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat" 

— Sydney  Smith. 


CLAVARIA  SALAD. 

{Coral  Mushroom.) 
Wash  and  pick  over  carefully,  throw  into  boiling 
salted  water,  and  cook  until  tender,  then  drain  and 
cool.     When    cold    mix    with    French    dressing    and 
serve. 


FISTULINA  HEPATICA  SALAD. 

{Beefsteak  Mushroom.) 
In  Vienna  the  fresh  young  beefsteaks  are  cut  in  thin 
slices  and  eaten  as  a  salad. 


POLYPORUS  SULPHUREUS  SALAD. 

{Sulphur  Mushroom.) 

Cook  the  young  tender  parts  in  boiling  salted  water 

until  tender;  cut  up  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 

a  mayonnaise  dressing.     This  may  be  varied  by  add- 


36  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

ing  some  slices  of  tomatoes,  and  peas  or  celery  cut 
fine.     This  is  a  very  delicious  salad. 


RUSSULA  SALAD. 
Wash  and  dry  fresh  young  Russulas,  serve  on  let- 
tuce, either  with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 


LEPIOTA  PROCERA  OMELETTE. 
{Parasol  Mushroom.) 
Mince  some  young,  fresh  agarics;  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  add  butter  and  set  them  in  the  oven  while 
you  whisk  well  the  whites  and  yolks  of  six  eggs;  then 
put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  the  frying  pan,  heat  until 
it  begins  to  brown;  having  again  beaten  the  eggs,  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  agarics,  and  a  little  milk; 
pour  lightly  into  the  boiling  butter;  stir  one  way,  and 
fry  on  one  side  for  only  five  or  six  minutes,  drain 
from  fat,  roll  up  and  down  and  serve  quickly  on  a  hot, 
well-covered  dish. 


MUSHROOM  OMELETTE. 
Make  an  omelette  of  the  size  desired,  lay  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  stewed  mushrooms  on  it  before  serving, 
and  serve  with  mushrooms  around  it. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS.  37 

MUSHROOM  JELLY. 
Take  two  pounds  of  mushrooms,  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  over  the  fire  with  a  gill  of  strong  consomme, 
squeeze  in  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  add  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  unless  the  consomme  is  salt  enough. 
Melt  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  gill  of  water  and 
strain  it.  When  the  mushrooms  are  quite  soft,  pass 
through  a  strainer,  mix  with  the  gelatine  and  pour  the 
mixture  into  a  mould,  which  has  been  rinsed  with  cold 
water.  When  set  turn  out  and  garnish  with  finely 
chopped  aspec,  and  a  few  cherry  tomatoes,  if  in  the 
season. 


38  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


"The  spirit  of  each  dish,  and  zest  of  all, 
Is  what  ingenious  cooks  the  relish  call, 
For  though  the  market  sends  in  loads  of  food, 
They  are  all  tasteless,  till  that,  makes  them  good." 

— Kings  Cookery. 


"TO  DRESS  A  DISH  OF  FUNGEE." 

{An  early  Seventeenth  Century  Receipt.) 

Take  them  fresh  gathered,  and  putt  them  betweene 
two  dishes  and  sett  them  on  a  Chaifing  Dish  of  Coles, 
and  there  lett  them  Stewe,  but  putt  nothing  to  them  in 
the  first  Stewing,  for  they  will  Yeald  Liquor  enough 
of  them  selves,  and  When  the  Water  is  Stewed  out 
of  them,  putt  a  good  quantity  of  Sallitt  Oyle  unto  them 
and  Stewe  them  therein.  Wring  in  the  Joyce  of  one 
or  two  Leamons,  or  else  putt  in  some  Vinniger,  and 
putt  in  a  little  Nutmegg,  and  two  or  three  blades  of 
Mace. 

If  your  Lord  or  Lady  Loves  not  Oyle,  Stewe  them 
with  a  little  Sweete  Butter  and  a  little  White  Wine." 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS.  39 

MUSHROOMS  COOKED  IN  BUTTER. 

(A  Russian  Receipt.) 
Wipe  the  mushrooms  clean  and  dip  in  flour.  Heat 
a  quantity  of  butter  to  a  boiling  temperature,  in  a 
saucepan,  put  in  the  mushrooms,  seasoning  with  salt 
and  pepper;  shake  the  pan  constantly  over  the  fire. 
When  the  mushrooms  are  done  add  some  cream  to 
taste,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  muscat  nut. 


MUSHROOMS  AND  TOMATOES. 
Toast  some  slices  of  bread,  cut  them  into  round 
pieces  two  inches  in  diameter,  and  butter  them.  Peel 
some  firm  tomatoes,  cut  in  thick  slices  and  lay  them 
on  the  toast.  On  top  of  each  place  a  peeled  mush- 
room. Put  them  in  a  dish  that  can  go  on  the  table, 
pour  a  little  clarified  butter  over  them,  put  them  in  a 
hot  oven  for  five  or  eight  minutes,  baste  well  and  serve. 


LYCOPERDON  GIGANTEUM  WITH 

TOMATOES. 

(Giant  Puff  Balls.) 

Peel  and  slice  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  fry  in  butter 

with  a  little  salt  and  pepper;   have  ready  a  tomato 

sauce,   butter  a  baking   dish,   put   in   a   layer  of  the 


40  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

cooked  puff  balls,  then  a  layer  of  sauce,  until  the  dish 
is  full;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  hot 
oven. 


DEVILED  MUSHROOMS. 

Chop  one  quart  of  mushrooms,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  a  little  lemon  juice;  mix  the  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs,  and  two  raw  ones,  stir  in  a  pint  of 
bread  crumbs  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Fill 
baking-shells  with  the  mixture,  cover  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.     Bake  a  nice  brown. 


MUSHROOMS  A  LA  BORDELAISE. 

Choose  some  big,  firm,  fresh  mushrooms ;  peel,  wash 
and  drain  them ;  make  one  or  two  slits  on  the  top  side 
of  the  mushrooms.  Soak  for  an  hour  and  a  half  in 
fine  oil;  pepper  and  salt.  Broil  them,  turning  when 
half  cooked,  so  that  each  side  may  be  equally  broiled. 
Warm  the  olive  oil  in  which  the  mushrooms  have  been 
soaked.  Season  with  finely  chopped  onion  and  parsley. 
Dish  the  mushrooms  and  sprinkle  with  a  few  drops 
of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  and  pour  the  hot  oil  over 
them. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS.  41 

CAMELONS  OF  MUSHROOMS. 

Peel  and  chop  fine  one-quarter  pound  of  fresh 
mushrooms.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  ten  drops  of  lemon  juice. 
Cover  closely  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes;  add  one- 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne, 
and  one-half  a  cupful  of  good  beef  stock  and  simmer 
for  twenty  minutes.  Add  one-half  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  blended  with  a  little  cold  water,  boil  a  minute, 
take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  three  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 
Take  from  the  fire  long  enough  to  cool.  When  cold, 
roll  some  puff  paste  very  thin,  cut  in  pieces  four  by 
six  inches,  lay  on  each  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  mix- 
ture, moisten  the  edges  of  the  paste  with  the  white  of 
egg  and  roll  up  like  cigars,  pinch  the  ends  carefully 
together.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  hot  fat. 


MUSHROOM  BASKETS. 

Make  some  puff  paste;  roll  it  out  very  thin;  line 
some  small,  suitably  shaped  moulds ;  fill  the  center  with 
uncooked  rice  or  flour  to  keep  the  shape  while  baking ; 
cut  some  strips  of  paste,  twist  them  and  bend  them 
for  handles,  bake  to  a  pale  brown. 


42  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

When  the  cases  are  done,  empty  out  the  rice,  re- 
move from  the  moulds  and  fill  with  the  following 
mixture : 

Chop  as  many  fresh  or  canned  mushrooms  as  you 
need  with  a  small  piece  of  onion,  squeeze  to  them  the 
juice  and  pulp  of  a  large  tomato,  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  one  of  thick, 
white  sauce.  Stir  until  the  consistency  to  eat  with  a 
fork,  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon  on  top,  put  on  the 
handles  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 


BROILED  MUSHROOMS  ON  TOAST. 
Procure  enough  large,  fresh  mushrooms,  pare  and 
cut  off  the  lower  part  of  the  stalks,  wash  carefully, 
drain  on  a  cloth  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Broil  over  a  double  gridiron  over  a  brisk  fire,  basting 
with  oil ;  dish  up  on  thin  bread  toast,  pour  melted  but- 
ter over  and  serve  immediately. 


FRESH  MUSHROOMS  A  LTTALIENNE. 
Have  two  pounds  of  nice,  fresh  mushrooms;  pare, 
cut. off  lower  stalks,  wash  well  and  drain;  chop  the 
stalks  fine,  press  the  water  out;  heat  four  ounces  of 
sweet  oil  in  a  large  frying  pan,  throw  the  mushroom 
heads  into  it,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  43 

briskly  for  about  -ten  minutes,  then  with  a  skimmer 
transfer  them  to  small  pieces  of  dry  toast  placed  on  a 
dish;  put  the  chopped  stalks  into  the  frying-pan  for  a 
few  minutes,  season,  and  add  chopped  parsley  and 
lemon  juice;  pour  this  over  the  mushrooms  and  serve. 


SWEET-BREAD  AND  MUSHROOM  RAGOUT. 

Put  in  the  chafing-dish  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter; 
when  melted,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stirring 
constantly.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  a  cup 
of  cream,  a  cold-dressed  sweet-bread,  and  a  dozen 
mushrooms,  cut  into  small  dice.  Let  all  simmer  to- 
gether for  about  ten  minutes,  stirring  often. 


MUSHROOM  STEMS  STEWED. 

Take  the  stems  of  mushrooms,  where  the  caps  have 
been  used,  wash  and  drain  and  put  them  over  the  fire 
with  a  heaping  spoonful  of  butter  for  each  pint  of 
stems,  roll  it  in  flour  and  put  in  stew-pan  with  the 
stems,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  add  milk  or  cream 
and  serve  on  delicate  slices  of  toast.  The  stems  may 
be  used  for  sauce. 


44  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 

PUFF  BALLS  WITH  STEAK. 
Peel  and  cut  the  puff  balls  in  small  pieces,  then  put 
in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  olive  oil; 
toss  them  about  until  slightly  browned,  then  add  one- 
half  a  pint  of  beef  juice  or  strong  soup  stock,  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  beef  stock.  Stir  constantly  until  it 
thickens,  then  add  a  wineglassful  of  port  wine.  Pour 
over  some  freshly  broiled  steak  and  serve  at  once. 


BEEFSTEAK  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 
Procure  a  tender  round  steak,  cut  it  in  small  pieces 
and  brown  these  in  butter  in  the  frying-pan;  add  a 
pint  of  mushrooms,  a  little  water,  salt  and  pepper  and 
stew  until  tender.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour  smoothed 
in  beef  stock  or  water.  If  liked,  a  little  onion  or 
parsley  may  be  used. 


CURRIED  MUSHROOMS. 
Stew  a  quart  of  button  mushrooms  for  about  twenty 
minutes  in  enough  good  stock  to  cover  them  well,  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  curry  powder  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  boil 
slowly  for  ten  minutes  longer  and  just  before  taking 
from  the  fire  add  half  a  cupful  of  cream;  serve  hot 
on  a  hot  dish  with  slices  of  toast. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  45 

LOBSTER  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

One  pound  of  lobster  cut  into  dice.  Take  a  table- 
spoon of  butter;  when  melted,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  but  do  not  brown,  mix  smooth ;  to  this  add  a  half 
pint  of  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  it  boils;  add  to 
this  a  pint  of  mushrooms  chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper 
and  the  lobster;  stir  until  cooked.     Serve  in  cases. 


RICE  AND  MUSHROOM  CROQUETTES. 

Open  a  can  of  mushrooms  (the  French  Champig- 
nons) several  hours  before  you  make  the  croquettes; 
drain  off  the  liquor,  stew  them  for  ten  minutes  in 
mutton  or  chicken  stock,  drain  again  and  chop.  Save 
the  soup-stock  and  cook  in  it  half  a  dozen  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rice.  The  rick  will  soak  the  broth,  unless 
there  is  more  than  necessary.  Add  the  soft  rice  to  the 
chopped  mushrooms,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  butter 
and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  When  the  paste  is  thoroughly  cold 
flour  your  hands  and  make  into  croquettes.  Roll  these 
in  egg  and  cracker  dust,  and  set  them  several  hours  in 
the  ice-chest  before  frying  in  deep  fat. 


46  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS. 


"An  exquisite  poignant  sauce, 
For  which  I  say  unto  my  cook, 
There's  gold.     Go  forth  and  be  a  knight." 

— B.    JONSON. 


AGARICUS  CAMPESTRIS  KETCHUP.  No.  I. 
{Common  Mushroom.) 
Any  of  the  agarics  may  be  used  for  this  ketchup. 
Place  them,  as  large  size  as  you  procure,  but  not 
worm-eaten,  layer  by  layer  in  a  deep  pan,  sprinkling 
each  layer  with  a  little  salt.  The  next  day  stir  them 
well  several  times  to  extract  the  juice.  On  the  third 
day  strain  off  the  liquor,  measure,  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes,  then  to  every  pint  of  liquor  add  half  an  ounce 
of  black  pepper,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  bruised 
ginger  root,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  clove  or  two,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard  seed.  Boil  again  for  half  an 
hour;  put  in  two  or  three  bay  leaves,  and  set  aside  till 
quite  cold.  Pass  through  a  sieve,  and  bottle;  cork 
well  and  dip  the  ends  in  sealing  wax.  A  very  little 
Chili  vinegar  is  an  improvement,  and  some  add  a 
glass  of  port  wine,  or  a  glass  of  strong  ale  to  every 
bottle.  Care  should  be  taken  that  the  spice  is  not  so 
strong  as  to  overpower  the  true  flavor  of  the  agaric. 
A  careful  cook  will  always  keep  out  a  little  of  the 
simple  liquor  to  guard  against  this  mistake. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS.  47 

MUSHROOM  KETCHUP.  No.  II. 
Take  freshly  gathered  mushrooms  and  examine  them 
carefully  to  see  they  are  all  right.  Wipe,  but  do  not 
wash.  Put  a  layer  of  mushrooms  in  the  bottom  of  an 
earthen  dish,  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  then  another 
layer  of  the  mushrooms,  and  another  layer  of  salt  and 
so  on  until  the  jar  is  full;  cover  with  a  folded  towel, 
stand  in  a  warm  place  for  twenty-four  hours,  then 
mash  and  strain  through  a  coarse  bag.  To  every  quart 
of  liquor,  add  one  ounce  of  pepper  corns,  and  boil 
slowly  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  for  thirty  minutes; 
then  add  a  quarter  ounce  of  whole  allspice,  a  half  ounce 
of  sliced  ginger-root,  one  dozen  whole  cloves,  and  three 
blades  of  mace.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  or  longer.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  stand  in  a  cool  place.  When  cold 
strain  through  flannel  and  put  in  small  bottles,  filling 
to  the  very  top ;  cork  lightly  and  dip  in  sealing  wax. 


TO  PICKLE  MUSHROOMS.     No.  I. 

Select  a  number  of  small  sound  agarics,  as  nearly 
alike  in  size  as  possible.  Throw  into  cold  water  for 
a  few  minutes,  then  drain,  cut  off  the  stalks  and  peel. 
Then  boil  the  vinegar,  adding  to  each  quart  two  ounces 
of  salt,  a  half  of  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  drachm  of  mace, 
and  an  ounce  of  white  peppercorns.     Put  the  mush- 


48  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS. 

rooms  into  the  vinegar  for  ten  minutes  over  the  fire, 
then  pour  the  whole  into  small  jars,  taking  care  that 
the  spices  are  equally  divided;  stand  a  day,  and  then 
cover. 


TO  PICKLE  MUSHROOMS.     No.  II. 

Sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  the  mushrooms,  to  each 
quart,  add  two  blades  of  mace^  one  ounce  of  ground 
pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Choose  nice,  young  button 
mushrooms,  rub  off  the  skin  with  a  piece  of  flannel 
and  salt,  cut  off  stalks.  Put  them  in  a  stew-pan, 
sprinkle  the  salt  over  them  with  the  pounded  mace, 
and  pepper  in  the  above  proportion;  shake  them  well 
over  a  clear  fire  until  the  liquor  flows,  keep  them  there 
until  the  liquor  dries,  then  add  vinegar  to  cover  and 
let  them  come  to  a  boil.  Store  away  in  stone  jars  or  in 
Mason  jars,  if  you  prefer. 


MARASMIUS  OREADES  PICKLES. 
(Fairy  Ring  Champignon.) 
Collect  fresh  buttons  of  the  Fairy  Ring  and  use 
them  at  once.  Cut  off  the  stems  quite  close,  throwing 
each  one  into  a  basin  of  salted  water.  Drain  them 
from  it  quickly  afterwards  and  lay  them  on  a  soft 
cloth  to  dry.     For  each  quart  take  nearly  a  quart  of 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM  RECEIPTS.  49 

pale  white  wine  vinegar,  add  to  it  a  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  half  an  ounce  of  whole  pepper,  an  ounce 
of  ginger  bruised,  two  large  blades  of  mace,  a  fourth 
of  a  spoonful  of  cayenne  tied  in  a  piece  of  muslin. 
When  the  pickle  boils  through  in  the  Fairy  Rings,  and 
boil  them  in  it  over  a  clear  fire  moderately  fast,  from 
six  to  nine  minutes.  When  tolerably  tender,  put  them 
into  warm,  wide-mouthed  bottles,  dividing  the  spice 
equally  among  them.  When  cold  cork  well  and  stand 
in  a  dry  place,  out  of  frost. 


"Pray  take  them,  Sir — enough's  a  feast; 
Eat  some  and  pocket  up  the  rest." 


DRIED  AGARICS. 

Wipe  the  mushrooms  clean,  peel  off  the  skin,  and  lay 
on  shallow  baking-pans,  which  have  been  covered  with 
white  paper;  only  put  on  a  single  layer  of  the  mush- 
rooms, stand  in  a  cool  oven  to  dry.  When  dry  and 
shriveled,  take  them  out,  put  them  in  paper  bags,  and 
hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  When  wanted  for  use,  put 
them  in  cold  water  or  milk  and  bring  slowly  to  simmer. 
In  this  way  they  will  regain  almost  their  natural  size 
and  flavor. 


50  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS. 

DRIED  BOLETI. 

These  are  among  the  most  common  of  the  dried 
fungi.  Place  on  a  stout  twine  leaving  space  between 
for  the  circulation  of  air.  Some  people  cut  in  slices 
before  putting  on  the  twine.  If  convenient  they  can 
be  dried  artificially  by  placing  in  a  not  too  hot  oven. 
Dried  either  way  they  may  be  kept  all  winter.  Before 
using  they  should  be  soaked  in  milk  or  water.  They 
make  a  good  filling  for  pies  or  may  be  used  in  soups 
or  gravy. 


DRIED   CHANTARELLES. 

Chantarelles  are  admirably  adapted  for  drying,  and 
should  be  dried  in  the  same  manner  as  the  Marasmius 
Oreades,  unless  they  are  very  large,  when  they  should 
be  cut  in  half  in  order  to  facilitate  drying.  The 
Italians  both  dry  and  pickle  the  chantarelle. 


DRIED  HYDUMN. 

(Hedgehog  Mushroom.) 
They  should  be  cut  in  slices,  as  the  whole  specimen 
if  large  is  apt  to  decay,  if  dried  slowly. 


ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS.  5l 

TRICHOLOMA  GAMBOSUS  DRIED. 

(St.  George  Mushroom.) 
This  mushroom  is  recommended  by  some  for  dry- 
ing. 


DRIED  MARASMIUS  OREADES. 

(Fairy  Ring  Mushroom.) 
These  can  be  strung  on  a  line  by  passing  a  twine 
through  a  hole  in  the  stems  and  suspending  them  in 
kitchen  until  dry.  They  have  so  little  water  in  their 
composition  that  they  will  dry  readily  without  a  ten- 
dency to  decay,  and  the  flavor  is  hardly  equaled  by 
another.  Those  I  have  tried  when  soaked  in  cold  water 
have  regained  their  natural  size  and  almost  their  nat- 
ural flavor. 


CHAMPIGNON  POWDER. 

(Fairy  Ring  Champignon.) 
Champignon  Powder  is  good  for  winter  use.  Put 
the  Fairy  Rings  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  mace,  a 
few  cloves,  and  a  sprinkling  of  white  pepper.  Simmer 
and  shake  constantly  to  prevent  burning,  until  the 
liquor  that  may  exude  is  dried  up  again.  Dry  thor- 
oughly in  a  warm  oven  until  they  will  easily  powder. 
Put  the  dried  fungi,  or  the  powder,  into  wide-mouthed 
bottles,  and  store  in  a  dry  place. 


52  ONE  HUNDRED  MUSHROOM   RECEIPTS. 

TO  POT  MUSHROOMS. 
(Marasmius  Ureades.) 
The  small  open  mushrooms  suit  best  for  potting. 
Trim  and  rub  off  the  skins;  put  into  a  stew-pan  a 
quart  of  mushrooms,  three  ounces  of  butter,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  and 
mace  mixed.  Stew  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  or  until 
the  mushrooms  are  tender,  then  take  them  carefully 
out  and  drain  them  on  a  sloping  dish,  and  when  cold 
press  them  into  small  pots  and  pour  clarified  butter 
over  them,  in  which  state  they  will  keep  for  several 
weeks.  Writing  paper  over  the  butter  and  melted  suet 
over  that  will  effectually  preserve  them  for  a  long  time 
in  a  dry,  cool  place. 


INDEX. 

Agaricus  arvensis,   Baked 22 

Agaricus   campester   Ketchup 46 

"               "            Roasted   22 

"               "            Scalloped    23 

"                "            Soup   9 

"            Stew  13,  14 

Amanita  caesarea  Roasted 23 

Asmillaria  mellea   stew 14 

BAKED  22-27 

Beefsteak  Mushroom,  see  Fistulina  hepatica 

Blewit,  see  Tricholoma  personatum 

Boletus,  Baked  23 

Fried   28 

"        Roast  with  onions 24 

"        Soup   

Bricktop  Mushroom,  see  Hypholoma  sublateritus.  . . 

Cantherllus   cibarius    Stew 15 

Chantarelle,   see   Cantharellus   cibarius 

Clavaria  Salad  35 

"        Stew   15 

Common  Mushroom,  see  Agaricus  Campester 


INDEX. 

Coprinus    atramentarius    Stew 16 

Coprinus  comatus   Soups 9 

"               "        Stew   16 

Delicious  lactarius,  see  Lactarius  delicious 

Fairy-ring  Mushrooms,  see  Marasmius  Oreades 

Fistulina  hepatica,   Boiled 31 

"            "          Fried   31 

Salad  35 

"          Soup    10 

"          Stewed  16 

FRIED  28-32 

Helvella  Ragout  16 

Honey-colored  Mushroom,  see  Armillaria  mellea.  . . . 

Hydnum  Stew  17,  18 

Horse  Mushroom,  see  Agaricus  arvensis 

Hypholoma  sublateritus  Stew 17 

Inky  Mushroom,  see  Coprinus  atramentarius 

Lactarius   delicious,    Baked 25 

Lepiota  procera  Baked 24 

"•      Broiled    30 

"  "        Fried   

"        Omelette  36 

Sause    33 

Lycoperdon  giganteum  Broiled 30 

Fried    28 

Stew    19 

Marasmius  oreades  Stew  19,  20 


Medusa  Mushroom,  see  Hydnum 

Morel   Ragout    16 

"        See  also  Morchella 

Morchella  Esculenta  Stew 20 

"          Stuffed    25 

Mushroom  a  l'ltalienne 27,  42 

"          a  la  Bordelaise 40 

"          and  Sweet-bread  Ragout 43 

"          and  Tomatoes   39 

"          Baskets    41 

"          Broiled  on  Toast 42 

Camelons  of  41 

"           Cooked  in  Butter 39 

"          Curried 44 

"          Deviled 40 

"  Dried    49,  50,  51 

Jelly  37 

"  Ketchup    46, 47 

"          Omelette 36 

"  Pickles   47, 48 

"          Pie  32 

"          with  Beef-steak 44 

"          with  Lobster 45 

"          with  Rice   Croquettes 45 

Orange  amanita,  see  Amanita  caesarea 

Oyster  Mushroom,  see  Pleurotus  Ostreatus 

Parasol  Mushroom,  see  Lepiota  procera 


Pleurotus  ostreatus   Sauce 33, 

"          Soup   11 

Polyporus  sulphureus  Salad 35 

Soup   11 

Russula  Baked  25 

"         Fried  -  29 

Salad   36 

"         Stewed   21 

St.  George's  Mushroom,  see  Tricholoma  gambosus.  . 

SALADS   35-37 

SAUCES   33-34 

Shaggy  mane  Mushroom,  see  Coprinus  comatus.... 

SOUPS  9-12 

STEWS   13121 

Sulphur  Mushroom,  see  Polyporus  sulphureus 

Tricholoma  gambosus,  Baked 26 

Tricholoma  personatum,  Baked 26 

"               Broiled    31 

Truffles  Ragout  21 

"         Piedmontese   21 


Deacidified  using  the  Bookkeeper  process. 
Neutralizing  agent:  Magnesium  Oxide 
Treatment  Date:  Sept.  2004 

PreservationTechnologies 

A  WORLD  LEADER  IN  PAPER  PRESERVATION 

1 1 1  Thomson  Park  Drive 
Cranberry  Township,  PA  16066 
(724)  779-21 1 1 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  011  623  930  9    % 


