ORIGINAL 


OCRACOKB  COOK  BOOK 


Published  by 
United  Methodist  Women 

of  the 

United  Methodist  Church 

Ocracoke,  hlorth  Carolina 


THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 
UNIVERSITY  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINA 
AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


THE  COLLECTION  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINIANA 

PRESENTED  BY 

Robert  G.  Anthony,  Jr. 


Cp641.5 

019o 

1970z 


oho 

BOILED  SALT  FISH  VY[o"L 

Soak  fish  overnight  or  all  day.  Put  fish  in  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil,  boil 
over  medium  heat  about  20  minutes.  Serve  with  hot  pepper  vinegar  or 
fried  out  salt  pork  cubes  crisped  with  drippings  very  hot. 
With  this  serve  corn  meal  cakes. 

Boiled  fresh  fish  is  the  same  except  have  water  boiling  and  salted  then 
drop  fish  in  skin  down. 

—  Mrs.  Rosa  Garrish 


STEWED  DRUM 

Cut  drum  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  pot  with  8  potatoes  (whole),  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Slice  2  onions  and  put  in;  then  fry  out  salt  pork  cubes  and 
pour  over  all.  Put  in  enough  water  to  cover  fish.  Cook  for 
•/j  hour,  then  thicken  gravy  with  a  little  corn  starch  mixed  in  a  little 
water.  (I  tablespoon) 
Cook  about  15  minutes  longer. 

—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 

CREAMED  DRUM  (Channel  Bass) 

Soak  one  pound  of  salt  drum  overnight  to  freshen.  Boil  and  flake.  Make 
sauce  of  j/2  stick  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour  and  one  cup  top  milk  or 
coffee  cream,  pepper  to  taste.  Add  drum  flakes,  heat  to  boiling  and 
serve  with  baked  potatoes  or  on  toast. 

—  Mrs.  Myra  Wahab 

BOILED  OLD  DRUM  AND  POTATOES 

Cut  up  drum  fish  in  pieces;  sprinkle  well  with  salt;  let  stand  for  l/2  hour  be- 
fore cooking.  Boil  potatoes  separately.  Serve  with  fried  out  salt  pork, 
chopped  onion,  and  hard-boiled  eggs  and  baked  corn  bread. 

—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 

FRIED  DRUM  {Ocracoke  style) 

Cut  in  pieces,  salt  and  roll  in  corn  meal;  fry  in  hot  fat  till  brown.  Serve 
hot  with  rolls,  cole  slaw,  and  cold  boiled  white  beans  or  black  eyed  peas. 

—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 

OLD  DRUM  BAKED  (Ocracoke  style) 

Put  one  side  of  drum  if  large  in  a  large  baking  pan,  sprinkle  salt  and  pep- 
per on  fish;  then  fry  out  fat  pork  and  pour  over  all  the  fish.  Sprinkle  with 
chopped  or  sliced  onions.  Peel  8  potatoes;  slice  them  and  put  in  pan 
where  the  fish  does  not  cover,  then  cover  fish  and  potatoes  with  water. 
Bake  in  not  too  hot  oven  for  2  hours  or  until  brown.  Serve  with  corn 
bread  and  cole  slaw.  Serves  about  8  people.  (If  small  drum  is  used,  bake 
whole). 

—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 


BAKED  BONELESS  SHAD 


Have  shad  dressed  whole,  salt  and  pepper  as  desired.  Place  in  roaster 
with  a  tight  lid,  strip  with  bacon  across  fish  and  also  place  a  strip  in  cavity. 
Add  water  to  about  %  inch  in  pan.  This  will  make  just  enough  moisture, 
cover  closely  and  bake  in  a  250  deg.  oven  for  seven  hours. 
This  is  real  company  fare,  no  bones. 

—  Mrs.  Myra  Wanab 

BOILED  DRUM 

Cut  drum  into  small  pieces  and  put  in  cold,  salted  water.  Bring  to  a  boil; 
boil  about  10  or  15  minutes.  Serve  on  platter  with  boiled  potatoes,  sliced 
raw  onions,  hardboiled-eggs  around  the  fish. 
Make  a  sauce  of  fried-out  small  pieces  of  salt  pork  or  cracklings. 

—  Mrs.  Laura  Bragg 

CORNED  FISH 

Clean  fish,  cut  in  half,  remove  back  bone.  Place  pieces  on  wax  paper  or 
platter.  Salt  heavily,  let  stand  20  minutes.  Then  wash  in  cold  water  to  re- 
move all  salt.  Hang  up  to  dry  about  12  hours. 
Fry  in  pan  with  little  shortening,  or  broil. 

(This  can  be  stored  in  refrigerator  by  wrapping  each  piece  separately  in 

wax  paper  until  ready  to  use.) 

Serve  with  pan  fried  potatoes  and  corn  bread. 

—  Mrs.  Irene  O'Neal 

BAKED  BLUE  FISH  {Ocracoke  Style) 

Three  or  four  pound  blue  fish  cleaned  and  ready  for  baking.  Place  fish  in 
baking  pan,  then  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  well  inside  and  outside  of  fish. 
Peel  and  slice  thin  4  or  5  potatoes  and  2  onions.  Lay  over  fish,  then  put 
slices  salt  pork  over  fish  and  potatoes.  Add  two  cups  water.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  until  fish  and  potatoes  are  brown  (about  two  hours).  Add  extra  water 
and  thicken  with  I  teaspoon  corn  starch  if  gravy  is  desired. 

—  Mrs.  Ellen  Robinson 

BAKED  SHEEPSHEAD  (OR  FLOUNDER) 

Dress  and  wash  a  rather  large  whole  fish.  Sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Place  in  baking  pan.  Slice  2  medium  sized  onions  and  one  large  onion 
and  place  around  edges  of  pan.  Add  water  about  I  inch  deep,  then  pour 
flour  paste  (3  tblsp.  flour  mixed  with  '/2  cup  water)  on  top  of  fish.  Place  in 
375  deg.  oven  for  one  hour  and  15  minutes,  according  to  size  of  fish.  Also 
add  2  strips  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  on  top  of  fish  and  spoon  gravy  over 
often  until  it  makes  a  nice  brown  top. 

—  Mrs.  Fonnie  Willis 


BAKED  FLOUNDER 


I   cup  potatoes  sliced  thin  4  lb.  flounder 

I  onion  sliced  thin  4  slices  salt  pork 

Rub  fish  inside  with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  wttti  pepper  and  flour.  Place 
in  baking  pan.  Cover  with  water  and  put  in  potatoes  and  onions  and  place 
salt  pork  on  fish. 

Bake  50  to  60  minutes  according  to  size  of  fish  at  350  deg. 

—  Mrs.  Bertha  Garrish 

BAKED  FLOUNDER 

Clean  flounder,  leaving  head  and  tail  on.  Fill  fish  with  thin  slices  of  pota- 
to. Add  more  sliced  potatoes  over  fish  and  in  pan  and  slices  of  salt  pork 
and  sliced  onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Sprinkle  with  flour  and  slices  of  salt  pork 
on  fish.  Add  2  cups  of  water  and  1/2  cup  catsup  or  juice  from  canned  to- 
matoes. 

Bake  in  300  deg.  oven  about  I  hour,  then  reduce  heat  to  150  deg.  and 
bake  I  hour  longer. 

—  Mrs.  Eva  Williams 

FRIED  FRESH  MULLET 
(or  other  varieties) 

Cut  off  tail  and  head.  Split  fish  down  middle,  removing  back  bone,  leaving 
two  sides  of  dressed  fish.  Wash  and  dry  or  drain.  Add  salt  and  pepper  and 
sprinkle  with  corn  meal  or  cracker  meal.  Cook  in  deep  fat  or  saute  in  little 
fat  until  browned  on  both  sides. 

—  Mrs.  Fonnie  Willis 

SMOTHERED  DRUM 

Wash  drum,  slice  crosswise  in  2  inch  strips,  pepper  and  salt  fish.  Put  in  hot 
grease,  sliced  onion,  and  lay  on  top  of  fish,  You  don't  use  any  water  except 
what  comes  from  washing  the  fish  and  onions.  Put  lid  on  and  cook  until 
done.  This  doesn't  brown. 

—  Mrs.  Doris  Garrish 


STEWED  CLAMS 


I  qt.  medium  sized  clams  3  slices  salt  pork 

6  medium  sized  potatoes  salt  and  pepper 

I  onion 

Cut  salt  pork  in  cubes,  fry  until  crisp  and  golden  brown  in  pot  stew  is  to 
be  cooked  in.  Add  clams  whole  or  cut  in  large  pieces.  Add  ciam  liquor  and 
water  to  cover.  Add  seasonings.  Cook  slowly  until  tender,  2  to  3  hours. 
Quarter  or  slice  potatoes,  cut  up  onion,  and  add  these.  If  desired  add 
corn  dumplings,  cook  until  done. 

—  Mrs.  Emma  Ballance 

CLAM  FRITTERS 

I  pint  clams  chopped  fine  I  very  small  onion  chopped 

and  drained  well  fine  optional 

1  egg  '/2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  tablespoon  flour 

Mix  all  together;  fry  in  fairly  deep  fat. 

—  Mrs.  Level  la  Howard 

CLAM  FRITTERS 

Chop  or  grind  one  pint  clams.  Add  mixture  of  1/2  tsp.  salt,  2  tsp.  baking 
powder,  l/2  cup  flour,  I  beaten  egg,  and  '/j  cup  canned  milk  or  clam  juice. 
Mix  well. 

Drop  from  spoon  to  make  fritters  in  '/j  inch  of  grease  in  fry  pan.  Brown 
well. 

—  Mrs.  Fonnie  Willis 

CLAM  FRITTERS 

I  quart  clams  chopped  fine  I  egg 

I  cup  flour  salt  and  pepper 

I  tsp.  baking  powder 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  pepper  together.  Add  to  clams.  Beat 
in  egg. 

Fry  in  hot  fat  till  brown.  Serves  about  six. 

—  Mrs.  Bertha  O'Neal 

CLAM  CHOWDER 

I  qt.  clams  4  medium  size  potatoes 

I  small  can  tomatoes  2  medium  size  onions 

I  small  can  whole  grain  corn  salt  to  your  taste 

Small  piece  of  salt  pork  fried  out.  Chop  clams  but  not  too  fine.  Let  cook 
one  hour  in  one  pint  of  water.  Then  add  other  ingredients. 

—  Mrs.  Irene  O'Neal 


DEVILED  CLAMS 


24  clams  —  large  —  ground  I  tblsp.  Worcestershire  Sauce 

2  cups  bread  cubes  (crust  I  tblsp.  chopped  parsley 

removed)  2  eggs  —  slightly  beaten 

'/j  cup  butter  I  cup  rich  milk  or  light  cream 

I  small  onion 

Melt  butter  in  heavy  frying  pan,  saute  onion  till  soft.  Remove  from  fire 
Add  clams,  bread  cubes  and  W.  sauce,  dash  pepper,  add  eggs.  Return  to 
fire  (medium,  not  too  hot).  Gradually  add  milk.  It  may  not  take  all  of  it 
as  you  want  it  fairly  thick.  Keep  stirring  till  cooked  through. 

Put  in  buttered  shells  or  casserole.  Sprinkle  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and 
dot  with  butter.  Put  in  fairly  hot  oven  and  brown  (about  375°) 

—  Mrs.  Hilda  Scarborough 


CLAM  CHOWDER 

I  quart  clams,  chopped  fine  5  medium  potatoes  cubed; 

3  slices  salt  pork  I  medium  onion 

Fry  out  salt  pork  until  light  brown.  Add  all  other  ingredients  and  a  quart 
of  water.  Cook  slowly  about  I  to  I  '/^  hours  (no  longer). 

—  Mrs.  Rosa  Garrish 


CLAM  CHOWDER 

I  quart  clams  (medium  ground  2  slices  salt  pork  (cut  in  cubes) 

or  chopped)  2  quarts  water 

3  medium  potatoes,  cubed  small     salt  to  taste 
I  onion  cut  fine 

Fry  out  pork  till  brown.  Add  clams  and  onion  and  water.  Cook  about  1 1/2 
hours  then  add  potatoes;  cook  another  M/2  hours  on  very  low  heat. 

—  Mrs.  Levella  Howard 


WAHAB  VILLAGE  HOTEL  CLAM  CHOWDER 

I  quart  chopped  clams  I  pint  sliced  potatoes 

I  quart  water  Drippings  from  6  strips  bacon 

4  medium  onions  (not  salt  pork) 

Put  all  ingredients  in  pot  and  cook  slowly  for  at  least  four  hours.  Add 
water  as  needed. 

This  chowder  should  be  thick  when  finished. 

—  Mrs.  Beulah  Boyette 


FRIED  HARD  CRABS 


Clean  hard  crabs,  claws  removed,  crack  shells.  Salt,  pepper,  and  flour. 
Have  frying  pan  and  fat  hot.  Fry  till  brown,  about  15  or  20  minutes, 
moderate  heat. 

—  Mrs.  Eva  Williams 


STEWED  HARD  CRABS 


I  doz.  hard  crabs,  cleaned,  with       Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
claws  removed  2  tblsp.  flour  sifted 

4  potatoes  peeled  and  quartered    I  thick  slice  salt  pork 
I  onion  cut  up 

Fry  out  salt  pork  till  brown.  Add  crabs,  potatoes,  onion,  flour,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Cover  with  water.  Cook  very  slowly  about  I  hour.  When  half  done 
add  corn  dumplings. 

—  Mrs.  Eva  Williams 


CRAB  CAKES 


Mix  cooked  crabmeat  with  a  generous  supply  of  butter  and  enough  bread 
crumbs  to  hold  together;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  a  little  Worcester- 
shire sauce;  mustard,  if  desired.  Brown  in  butter. 

—  Mrs.  Selma  Spencer 


DEVILED  CRABS 


1  lb.  crab  meat 
5  tblsp.  butter 

2  tblsp.  heaping  flour 
l/2  tsp.  dry  mustard 

I  tsp.  salt 

Dash  black  &  red  pepper 


I  cup  milk  or  light  cream 
I  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
I  tblsp.  chopped  parsley 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

2  hard  cooked  egg  yolks  (sieved) 
I  raw  egg  yolk 


Melt  butter  in  heavy  skillet.  Mix  flour,  mustard,  salt  and  pepper,  blend 
into  melted  butter.  Beat  egg  into  milk  and  add  to  butter  mixture;  keep 
stirring  over  moderate  heat  until  thickened  and  smooth.  Add  Worcester- 
shire, parsley,  and  lemon  juice  and  sieved  hard-cooked  egg  yolks.  Fold  in 
crab  meat.  Try  not  to  break  it  up  too  much.  Fill  buttered  shells,  sprinkle 
with  fine  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  brown  in  375  oven. 


—  Mrs.  Hilda  Scarborough 


CASSEROLE  OF  CRAB 


I  tsp.  grated  onion  -  scant 
4  tblsp.  butter  or  margarine 
4  tblsp.  flour 
Dash  of  pepper 
4'/2  cups  rich  milk 


I  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
4  eggs  beaten 
M/2  lbs.  crab  meat 
I  cup  buttered  crumbs 


In  saucepan  saute  onion  over  slow  heat,  blend  in  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  milk  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  stirring  constantly  until  thickened.  Re- 
move from  fire.  Add  beaten  eggs  stirring  constantly.  Put  crabmeat  in 
greased  casserole,  add  sauce.  Do  not  stir  in  crabmeat.  Sprinkle  with  but- 
tered crumbs.  Bake  about  I  hour  (or  until  inserted  knife  comes  out  clean) 
at  325  deg.  About  6  portions. 

—  Mrs.  Hilda  Scarborough 


CRAB  MEAT  CAKES 

I  '/2  lb.  cooked  crab  meat  I  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

I  cup  bread  crumbs  I  /8  tsp.  salt 

1  egg  I  tsp.  dry  mustard 

2  tblsp.  finely  chopped  onion  '/j  tsp.  thyme 
2  tblsp.  finely  chopped  green 

pepper 

Blend  mixture,  form  into  medium  size  cakes.  Roll  cakes  lightly  in  flour  and 
fry  in  deep  hot  crisco  until  brown  and  crisp.  Serve  with  hot  Tabasco  sauce. 

—  Mrs.  Elizabeth  G.  Howard 


CRAB  CAKES 

'/2  lb.  crab  meat  |/2  small  onion,  chopped 

I    egg  I  tblsp.  mustard 

j/2'cup  cream  potatoes,  I  tblsp.  mayonnaise 

cornflakes  or  pancake  flour 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce. 

Fry  in  deep  fat. 

—  Mrs.  Doris  Garfish 


ROAST  OYSTERS 


Fill  roaster  with  oysters  in  shell.  Put  in  hot  (450)  degrees  oven  for  about 
1/2  hr.  or  until  oysters  are  hot  all  the  way  through.  Serve  with  toasted  sal- 
tines  or  with  hot  biscuits. 

—  Mrs.  Hilda  Scarborough 


OYSTER  STEW 

l/l  lb.  salt  pork,  diced  and  I  qt.  water 

cooked  until  crisp  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

I  qt.  oysters  and  liquor 

Bring  mixed  ingredients  to  boiling  point,  cook  15  minutes  over  moderate 
heat.  Serve  with  oyster  crackers.  Serves  4  to  6. 

—  Mrs.  Bertha  O'Neal 


FRIED  OYSTERS  (CLUSTERS) 

Make  a  batter  of  2  eggs,  1/2  c.  flour,  2  tbsp.  corn  meal,  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  liquor  off  I  pt.  oysters  and  stir  oysters  into  the  batter.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls (2  or  3  oysters  in  a  cluster)  into  deep  fat  and  fry. 

—  Mrs.  Laura  Bragg 


STEAMED  OYSTERS 

Put  oysters  in  shell  in  large  pot  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Let  stand 
about  15  minutes.  Serve  with  toasted  saltines  or  hot  biscuits. 

—  Mrs.  Hilda  Scarborough 


OYSTER  DRESSING 

Crumble  12  biscuits,  scald  and  mash  throughly.  Add  %  c.  sifted  meal,  2 
tsp.  baking  powder,  3  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  enough  well- 
drained  oysters  to  thin  sufficiently  (approximately  I  qt.).  Bake  dressing  in 
a  well-greased  pan.  Rub  grease  on  top  before  baking  to  make  it  brown 
well. 


—  Mrs.  Hilda  McWilliams 


OYSTERS  ON  HALF-SHELL 


1  qt.  oysters  salt 

2  med.  onions  chopped  fine  pepper 

I  tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  I  c.  toasted  bread  crumbs 

|/4  cup  butter 

Chop  oysters,  not  too  fine,  drain  before  chopping,  save  liquor,  brown  on- 
ions lightly  in  butter,  add  oysters.  Cook  till  oysters  stop  drawing  water. 
Add  toasted  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  of  the  liquor  saved  from  the  drain- 
ed oysters.  Add  butter  and  heat  until  melted.  Fill  greased  shells  with  oys- 
ter mixture.  To  I  c.  soft  bread  crumbs  add  '/j  c.  melted  butter  and  sprin- 
kle over  the  top.  Bake  till  light  brown  (450  degrees)  for  about  1 5  minutes. 

—  Mrs.  Hilda  Scarborough 


OYSTER 

I  pt.  oysters  (drained) 
3  tsp.  flour  (level) 
I  egg 

Mix  ingredients  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


PATTIES 

1/4  tsp.  baking  powder 

1/4  tsp.  salt 

{/4  tsp.  pepper. 


—  Mrs.  Eva  Williams 


OYSTER  PIE 

Line  pie  pan  with  rich  pie  pastry.  Fill  with  layers  of  oysters  dotted  with 
butter.  Continue  until  pie  is  as  deep  as  wanted  ending  with  butter  and  a 
generous  sprinkling  of  pepper.  Cover  with  top  crust  and  seal.  Make  slash- 
es in  crust  to  allow  steam  to  escape.  Bake  in  400  degree  oven  until  brown 
and  bubbly. 

—  Mrs.  Myra  Wahab 


OYSTER  PONE 

I  qt.  oysters  I  egg 

I  c.  meal  salt  &  pepper 

'/2  stick  margarine  1/2  c.  milk 

Mix  oysters,  sifted  meal,  salt,  pepper,  beaten  egg,  melted  butter,  or  mar- 
garine, and  milk  together.  Put  in  well-greased  loaf  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  for  an  hour  or  until  well  done. 


—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 


SHRIMP  PIE 


l/2  stick  margarine  2  lb  shelled  shrimp 

2  hard-boiled  eggs  2  c.  diced  potatoes 

pepper  and  salt  to  taste  I  small  onion 

Cook  shrimp  until  tender,  add  cooked  pctatoes,  chopped  onions,  marga- 
rine, chopped  eggs,  pepper  and  salt.  Add  3  c.  hot  water  and  cook  for 
five  minutes.  Thicken  with  a  tbsp.  corn  starch  which  has  been  mixed  with 
a  little  cold  water.  Pour  in  a  fairly  deep  baking  pan.  Cover  the  top  with 
rolled  out  biscuit  dough.  Baice  until  brown  (15  or  20  minutes).  Serve  hot 
with  cole  slaw  and  sliced  tomatoes. 

—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 


SHRIMP  COCKTAIL 

3  lb.  shrimp  I  tbsp.  dry  mustard 

I  handful  salt  ground  red  pepper  to 

'/2  c.  vinegar  turn  water  red 

Bring  water  to  boil.  Add  shrimp  (if  frozen,  separate  as  quiddy  as  possible), 
cook  about  15  minutes  or  until  shells  leave  shrimp  -  do  not  overcook.  Serve 
with  cocktail  sauce. 


COCKTAIL  SAUCE 

1/2  bot.  catsup  juice  of  '/2  lernon 

1/2  bot.  chili  sauce  2  tbsp.  horse-radish  or  to  taste 

2  tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

—  Mrs.  Hilda  Scarborough 

STEWED  SHRIMP  WITH  DUMPLINGS 

'/4  lb.  salt  pork  cut  in  cubes  10  potatoes  (peeled  and  cut  in 

3  lb.  green  shrimp  quarters) 
I  onion  cut  up 

Fry  out  salt  pork  cubes  till  brown  in  saucepan.  Add  shrimp  whole,  pota- 
toes, onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  enough  water  to  cover.  After 
stew  comes  to  a  boil,  thicken  slightly  with  flour  which  has  been  mixed  with  a 
little  cold  water.  When  half  done,  add  corn  dumplings. 

CORN  DUMPLINGS 

I  '/2  c.  sifted  corn  meal  '/j  tsp.  baking  powder 

1/4  tsp.  salt 

Add  to  ingredients  enough  cold  water  to  make  thick  dough  for  dumpling 
to  hold  together.  Make  into  rounds  like  biscuits  and  pat  into  flat  cakes 
and  place  on  the  top  of  stew.  Makes  6  or  7  dumplings. 

—  Mrs.  Iva  Garrish 


RITZY  SHRIMP  SPREAD 


Make  a  cocktail  sauce  of  1/2  mayonnaise  and  1/2  catsup  (or  bottled  cock- 
tail sauce),  and  a  little  hot  sauce  and  Worcestershire,  and  some  finely 
chopped  onions.  Use  enough  of  this  mixture  to  make  a  paste  when  chop- 
ped cooked  shrimp  are  added.  A  few  chopped  olives,  also,  if  desired. 
Serve  as  a  spread  on  ritz  or  other  crackers. 

—  Alice  K.  Rondthaler 


SHRIMP  TOSSED  SALAD 

Slice  cooked  shrimp  lengthwise  and  add  to  a  vegetable  tossed  salad. 
I  usually  cut  my  celery,  green  pepper,  tomatoes  in  thin  rather  long  slices 
and  shred  the  lettuce  in  long  strips.  I  sometimes  also  add  slices  of  black 
pitted  olives  for  color.  Use  an  Italian  or  some  similar  oil  dressing. 

—  Alice  K.  Rondthaler 


FRENCH  FRIED  SHRIMP 

I  c.  flour  (scant)  I  egg 

1/2  tsp.  salt  2  tbsp.  salad  oil 

%  c.  cold  water 

Put  in  bowl  in  the  order  given  and  beat  thoroughly.  Dip  shelled  green 
shrimp  in  batter.  Put  in  deep  fat  and  cook  until  done. 

—  Mrs.  Hilda  Scarborough 


BAKED  SEAFOOD  SALAD 


3  hard-boiled  eggs 
I  c.  celery 
1/3  c.  bell  pepper 
1/3  c.  onion 
I  pimiento 

I  c.  sliced  fresh  shrimp 
I  c.  fresh  crab  meat 
I  c.  very  soft  bread  crumbs 
(remove  crusts) 

Mix  the  above  ingredients.  Place  in  greased  casserole,  sprinkle  with  extra 
soft  bread  crumbs.  Just  before  removing  from  the  oven,  sprinkle  with  your 
favorite  sharp  cheese  and  crisp  bacon  crumbs.  Bake  325  deg.  40  min. 

—  Mrs.  Maggie  Boos 


%  to  I  c.  mayonnaise 
'/l  c.  ripe  olives 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
3  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
dash  of  Indo  Pep 
small  pinch  of  thyme 
small  pinch  of  salad  herbs 
small  pinch  fish  herbs 


SHRIMP  STEW 


3  lb.  shrimp  I  c.  diced  potatoes 

%  c.  diced  salt  pork  I  tsp.  salt 

I  tbsp.  flour  l/2  tsp.  pepper 

•/l  c.  diced  onions  2  c.  water 

Remove  shells  and  veins  from  shrimp.  Fry  salt  pork  until  brown  in  sauce- 
pan. Add  flour  and  slightly  brown.  Add  onions,  shrimp,  potatoes,  salt  and 
pepper.  Cover  and  cook  until  the  shrimp  are  tender. 

—  Mrs.  Olive  Garrish 


SHRIMP  WITH  GRAVY 

Dredge  fresh  shelled  shrimp  heavily  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
sear  on  both  sides  in  shallow  fat,  then  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  sim- 
mer about  15  minutes  or  until  gravy  has  been  made. 

—  Mrs.  Maxine  Mason 


SHRIMP  NEWBURG 

Melt  2  tbsp.  butter,  stir  in  until  blended  I  %  tbsp.  flour,  stir  in  slowly  I  c. 
cream.  When  sauce  is  thick,  stir  in  3  tbsp.  tomato  catsup  and  %  tbsp. 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Remove  shells  and  clean  I  lb.  of  cooked  shrimp. 
Add  to  the  sauce  and  stir  together  until  they  are  well  heated. 

Season  with  salt,  paprika,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper.  Immedi- 
ately before  serving  add  2  tbsp.  sherry.  Serve  in  a  grits  ring  or  over  rice. 

—  Mrs.  Myra  Wahab 


SHRIMP  SALAD 

Sprinkle  I  lb.  cooked,  cleaned,  diced  shrimp  with  I  tbsp.  lemon  juice. 
Combine  with  I  c.  diced  celery,  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced,  2  tbsp.  green 
onion  slices.  Chill.  Lightly  toss  with  1/2  c.  mayonnaise,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Serve  on  lettuce.  Tuck  in  cucumber  slices  and  sprinkle  with  paprika. 
Serves  four. 


—  Mrs.  Fonnie  Willis 


STEWED  DIAMOND  BACK  TERRAPIN 


Remove  shells  from  four  terrapins,  pour  boiling  water  over  meat,  skin  and 
remove  claws,  cut  off  head. 

'/j  lb.  salt  pork  cut  in  cubes,  fried  out  in  pot  terrapins  are  to  be  cooked 
in.  Add  terrapin  and  eggs  if  any  (of  terrapin).  4  or  5  medium  potatoes 
peeled  and  quartered,  I  onion  cut  up,  salt  and  plenty  of  black  pepper;  I 
pod  red  pepper.  Water  to  cover.  Cook  about  M/2  hours. 

—  Mrs.  Loui  Dell  Williams 

DIAMOND  BACK  TERRAPIN 

Boil  meat  of  six  terrapin  until  tender.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Melt  I  stick  of  butter  and  brown  six  tablespoons  flour  in  butter, 
add  terrapin  to  butter,  flour  mixture.  Add  %  cup  sherry  wine.  Bring  back 
to  boil  and  serve  in  soup  plates  with  crisp  crackers. 

To  prepare  terrapin  cut  off  heads,  scald  and  cut  from  shell,  skin  pieces 
and  remove  claws. 

—  Mrs.  Myra  Wahab 

STEWED  TURTLE 

Small  hind  quarter  of  turtle.  Pour  boiling  water  over  turtle  and  skin  it. 
Parboil  about  '/2  hour  after  it  starts  to  boil  or  until  it  starts  to  leave  the 
bone.  Remove  from  fire.  With  sharp  knife  cut  in  pieces  crosswise  of  grain 
or  it  will  be  stringy.  Remove  all  bones. 

1/2  lb.  salt  pork  cut  in  cubes,  fry  this  out  in  large  pot  turtle  is  to  be  cooked 
in. 

5  lbs.  potatoes  cut  in  quarters 

1  lb.  onions  cut  up 

2  teaspoons  pepper,  black,  dash  red  pepper  or  pod  of  red  pepper. 
Add  turtle  and  enough  water  to  cover.  Cook  on  low  heat  about  two  hours. 

—  Mrs.  Eva  Williams 

STEWED  SNAPPER  or  SWAMP  TURTLE 

Medium  sized  turtle.  Remove  shell,  pour  boiling  water  over  meat  to  re- 
move skin.  Boil  until  it  starts  to  leave  bone.  Remove  bone  and  cut  in 
pieces. 

Fry  out  salt  pork,  about  '/j  lb.  cut  in  cubes,  in  the  stew  pot  and  when  pork 
is  crisp  add  turtle. 

Add  4  or  5  white  potatoes  quartered,  2  onions  cut  up,  black  pepper  and 
pod  of  red  pepper,  I  cup  cooking  wine,  water  to  cover. 
Cook  slowly  for  about  2  hours.  When  done  add  2  hard  cooked  eggs  cut  up 
fine.  Serve  with  baked  corn  bread. 

—  Mrs.  Elizabeth  G.  Howard 


WILDFOWL 


STEWED  WILD  GOOSE 

'/}  lb.  salt  pork  Cut  up  goose. 

1/4  cup  flour  salt  and  pepper 

8  potatoes  halved  pod  of  red  pepper 

Corn  dumplings  or 
drop  pastry  dumplings 

In  large  pot  fry  out  salt  pork  until  light  brown,  add  flour  slightly  browned, 
add  cut  up  fowl.  Add  salt,  pepper,  pod  red  pepper,  and  enough  water  to 
cover.  Cook  until  tender,  then  add  potatoes  and  corn  dumplings.  Lay 
dumplings  in  top  or  add  drop  dumplings  when  nearly  done. 

Wild  ducks  prepared  the  same  way  but  ingredients  will  have  to  be  re- 
duced according  to  number  and  size  of  ducks. 

—  Mrs.  Eva  Williams 

FRICASSEE  OF  CHICKEN 

Cut  into  joints,  place  in  stew  pan  with  2  raw  onions  cut  into  eight  parts, 
Add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  and  just  a  little  lemon  juice 
squeezed  over  it.  Add  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Pour  in  a  pint  of 
water.  Stew  for  an  hour  under  tight  lid,  then  lift  lid  and  pour  off  the 
gravy  into  which  beat  gradually  a  cup  full  of  cream  and  the  yolk  of  two 
eggs.  Heat  this  up,  but  don't  boil.  Pour  over  the  chicken. 


—  Mrs.  Bessie  Howard 


HUSH 

I  cup  meal 
1/2  cup  flour 
I  Hp.  baking  powder 

Mix  altogether,  this  makes  a  thick 
Brown.  Serve  hot. 


PUPPIES 

I/2  cup  milk  and  water 
I  tablespoon  sugar 
I  tsp.  salt 

batter.  Drop  by  teaspoon  in  hot  fat. 
—  Mrs.  Martha  Jane  Gaskins 


SPOON  BREAD 

1/2  cup  corn  meal  (waterground)       I  egg  beaten 
I  tsp.  bacon  drippings  l/2  cup  boiling  water 

I  tsp.  sugar  I  cup  sour  or  buttermilk 

I  tsp.  salt  l/|  tsp.  soda 

Sift  corn  meal  in  baking  dish  with  bacon  drippings,  sugar,  salt.  Add  boil- 
ing water,  stir  well.  When  cool  add  well  beaten  egg,  milk  and  soda,  and 
one  teaspoon  cold  water.  Mix  well.  Bake  350°  about  30  minutes  or  until  set. 
If  sweet  milk  is  used  add  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  place  of  soda. 

—  Mrs.  Hilda  Scarborough 


CORN  BREAD 

Mix  I  cup  meal,  I/2  cup  flour,  I  tsp.  salt,  2  tsp.  baking  powder,  then  add 
one  egg,  I  cup  water  and  1/2  cup  canned  milk.  Mix  well.  Fry  in  cakes  in  a 
little  fat. 

To  bake  add  3  tablespoons  melted  fat  to  above  ingredients  and  bake  in 
greased  pan  until  brown. 

—  Mrs.  Fonnie  Willis 


SEAFOOD  CORN  STICKS 

Use  your  favorite  corn  stick  recipe  and  to  this  mixture  add  crab  meat  or 
very  finely  chopped  shrimp.  Also  add  I  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
and  a  good  dash  Indo  pepper.  Very  good  with  chilled  seafood  salad.  Can 
use  fresh  or  canned  crab  meat  or  shrimp. 

—  Mrs.  Maggie  Boos 


MRS.  ELEANOR'S  ROLLS 

3  cups  flour  sifted  I/2  pkg.  yeast  dissolved  in 

'/2  teaspoon  salt  cup  warm  water 

3  tablespoon  sugar  l/2  cup  more  water 

•/2  cup  shortening 

Sift  flour,  salt,  sugar  together;  work  in  shortening  and  liquid.  Let  rise  till 
double  then  make  out  in  rolls;  let  rise  again  and  bake. 

—  Mrs.  Eleanor  Ba  I  lance 


CORN  MEAL  DODGERS 

Scald  I  cup  meal  and  I  tsp.  of  salt  with  boiling  water.  Continue  to  add 
water  until  mixture  is  consistency  to  drop  —  not  too  stiff  —  beat  very 
well. 

Fry  in  small  cakes  about  the  size  of  a  biscuit  in  hot  fat  that  is  at  least  l/| 

inch  deep.  When  brown  turn  and  brown  on  other  side. 

These  will  be  very  crisp  on  the  outside  but  soft  on  the  inside.  Serve  with 

seafood. 

—  Mrs.  Myra  Wahab 

HUSH  PUPPIES 

21/}  cups  meal  3  tsp.  baking  powder 

%  cups  flour  2  small  eggs 

I  '/2  tablespoons  sugar  I  pint  buttermilk  or  sour  milk 

%  tablespoon  salt 

Beat  eggs  until  light.  Add  part  of  buttermilk.  Sift  together  into  a  bowl 
the  meal,  flour,  sugar,  and  salt.  Add  the  eggs  and  milk  mixture  to  dry  in- 
gredients and  add  remaining  buttermilk.  Last  of  all  add  baking  powder. 
Drop  in  deep  hot  fat  for  2  to  3  minutes  —  until  golden  brown. 

—  Mrs.  Lela  G.  Howard 

PONE  BREAD 

I  qt.  meal  I  cup  molasses 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  '/j  teaspoon  soda 

%  cup  flour 

Sift  meal  with  salt  then  scald  it  damp.  Add  molasses.  Leave  overnight; 
add  soda,  grease  pan.  Bake  2  hrs.  very  slow. 

—  Mrs.  Lola  Williams 

CORN  DUMPLING 

I  cup  sifted  meal  I  tsp.  baking  powder 

1/2  tsp.  salt 

Scald  meal  with  water  and  enough  to  make  thick  paste.  Make  into  dump- 
ling and  drop  in  pot  with  cabbage,  greens,  or  stews. 

—  Mrs.  Irene  O'Neal 

PONE  BREAD 

4  cups  sifted  meal  I  teaspoon  soda 

I  cup  molasses  I  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  flour 

Scald  meal  witfi  hot  water,  just  enough  water  to  make  stiff  batter.  Let  this 
stand  overnight.  Next  day  add  soda  and  molasses,  flour  and  salt.  Add 
enough  water  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

Melt  I  tablespoon  of  shortening  in  pan,  then  pour  in  batter.  Bake  at  250 
degrees  until  done,  about  1 1/2  *°  2  hours. 

—  Mrs.  Tressie  Howard 


CORN  BREAD 

2  cups  corn  meal  2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  I  tsp.  salt 

I  cup  flour 

Sift  meal  and  flour  together,  add  baking  powder  salt  and  sugar.  Mix  to- 
gether '/j  cup  Carnation  milk,  3  cups  water  and  2  eggs  beaten,  '/j  cup 
melted  shortening. 

Mix  well  and  bake  in  well  greased  pan  till  brown.  Have  oven  450  degrees. 

—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 

SPOON  BREAD 

I  cup  hot  water  3  tablespoons  shortening 

I  cup  corn  meal  I  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  sour  milk  l/2  teaspoon  soda 

I  tablespoon  sugar  2  eggs 

Add  hot  water  to  cornmeal,  then  shortening,  sugar  and  salt.  When  well 
mixed  add  milk  in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Add  well  beaten  eggs. 
Bake  30  to  40  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  375  degrees. 
Serve  hot  from  pan  with  spoon. 

—  Mrs.  Lola  Williams 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 

\l/4  cups  whole-wheat  flour  H/2  cups  buttermilk 

>/}  cup  sugar  I  heaping  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt  I  '/j  cups  white  flour 
'/}  cup  molasses 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  salt;  add  molasses  and  buttermilk  and  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  warm  water.  Stir  well.  Add  raisins  and  nuts  if  desired. 
Bake  in  greased  bread-loaf  pan  about  an  hour  at  350  deg.  Let  cool  in  pan 
a  few  minutes.  (If  you  desire  a  moist  bread,  wrap  the  loaf  in  wax  paper  for 
about  15  minutes  while  still  hot.) 

—  Mrs.  Alice  Rondthaler 

SWEET  POTATO  BISCUITS 

Boil  yams  or  sweet  potatoes  until  done;  mash. 

2  cups  mashed  hot  yams  I  '/^  cups  flour 
1/2  cup  shortening                         Y4  cup  sugar 

I  teaspoon  salt  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Mix  first  three  ingredients  together.  Let  cool.  Add  just  enough  flour  to 
hold  together. 

These  are  flat  and  do  not  rise  but  very  little.  If  too  sticky  a  little  more 
flour  can  be  added  sparingly. 

Bake  in  hot,  450  deg.,  oven  about  1 5  to  20  minutes.  These  are  crusty  out- 
side and  soft  inside.  Serve  with  plenty  of  butter. 

—  Mrs.  Hilda  Scarborough 


PONE  BREAD 


2  lbs.  Corn  Meal  l/2  pint  molasses 

2  cups  flour  |l/2  teaspoon  salt 

I  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Sift  corn  meal,  add  boiling  water  till  wet  and  mushy,  then  add  cold  water 
till  fairly  thin.  Add  flour,  molasses,  and  salt.  Let  stand  overnight.  Then 
add  baking  soda. 

Put  in  well  greased  pan,,  bake  about  2  hours  or  longer,  the  slower  the  bet- 
ter, in  very  slow  oven,  250  deg.  Put  cover  over  pan  in  last  part  of  baking. 
When  baked  this  has  a  very  thick  crust  all  over. 

—  Mrs.  Lena  Williams 


THIN  CORN  CAKES 

I  cup  meal  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

l/2  cup  flour  l/2  cup  canned  milk 

I  egg  with  1/2  CUP  water 

I  tsp.  baking  powder 

Fry  in  thin  cakes. 

—  Mrs.  Levella  Howard 


BATTER  CAKES 

To  one  cup  meal  add  lard  the  size  of  a  big  walnut,  scald  with  boiling  water, 
about  1/2  cup,  thin  with  clabber  that  has  been  sweetened  with  %  teaspoon 
soda. 

Sift  one  cup  flour  with  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  add  to  first  mixture 
and  beat  well.  Now  add  one  egg  and  beat  thoroughly.  Bake  on  well 
greased  and  hot  griddle. 

—  Mrs.  Myra  Wahab 


BEATEN  BISCUITS 

Sift  two  cups  flour  with  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  in  two  tablespoons  lard 
and  enough  milk  and  water  in  equal  parts  to  make  stiff  dough,  not  quite 
as  stiff  as  pie  crust.  Use  rolling  pin,  blunt  end  of  a  hatchet  or  a  wooden 
mallet  and  beat  until  it  blisters  and  pops  when  hit,  at  least  20  minutes. 
When  it  is  blistered,  smooth  and  white,  roll  out  thin  and  cut.  Prick  each 
biscuit  with  a  fork. 

Bake  in  hot  oven,  475  degrees.  Serve  hot. 

The  cold  ones  are  excellent  for  serving  with  salads  or  with  ham. 

—  Mrs.  Myra  Wahab 


POOR  MAN'S  STEW 

12  small  potatoes  I  onion 

1/4  lb.  salt  pork  Pepper  and  Salt 

1  can  crushed  corn  4  cups  water 

Peel  potatoes  (cooked  whole),  cut  pork  in  slices,  add  to  potatoes,  then 
add  com,  onions,  water,  etc.  Cook  all  together  until  potatoes  and  pork 
are  done.  Add  more  water  if  a  thinner  stew  is  desired. 

—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 

POTATO  SALAD 

3  cups  diced  potatoes  I  small  onion  chopped  fine 

2  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  %  cup  mayonnaise 
1/4  cup  bell  pepper  diced  '/2  tsp.  celery  seed 
'/l  cup  sweet  pickles  tsp.  salt 

Combine  all  ingredients,  serve  on  lettuce.         —  Mrs.  Olive  Garrish 

STEWED  IRISH  POTATOES 

8  potatoes  cut  in  cubes  2  large  onions  cut  up 

1/4  lb.  salt  pork  cut  and  fried  till  lightly  brown  in  saucepan. 

Add  potatoes  to  salt  pork  after  browning,  add  onions  and  salt  and  pepper. 

Cook  slowly  until  potatoes  are  cooked  down  thick. 

— -  Mrs.  Loui  Dell  Williams 

HASH  BROWN  POTATOES 

8  large  potatoes  */2  cup  flour,  pepper  and  salt 

Peel  and  slice  potatoes,  then  sprinkle  potatoes  with  flour,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Then  fry  out  cubes  of  fat  pork  in  iron  frying  pan.  Add  potatoes  and 
half  cup  of  water.  Cover  with  lid  and  cook  until  brown,  set  aside  covered 
until  ready  to  serve.  Miss  Lucy  Garrish 

MACARONI  SUPREME 

I  pkg.  elbow  macaroni  1/2  teaspoon  mustard 

I  lb.  ground  beef  I  teaspoon  salt 

I  tablespoon  sweet  pepper  Small  can  of  tomatoes 

I  tablespoon  onion  2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

1/2  teaspoon  black  pepper 

Cook  macaroni,  then  mix  beef  and  other  ingredients.  Bake  in  325  deg. 
oven.  _  Mrs.  Elsie  W.  Tolson 

HAM  BONE  SOUP 

I  ham  bone  3  small  potatoes 

I  large  can  tomatoes  I  medium  onion 

I  cup  rice  I  small  can  whole  grain  corn 

Boil  bone  for  a  few  minutes  then  add  ingredients.  Cook  until  done. 

—  Mrs.  Irene  O'Neal 

BREADED  PORK  CHOPS 

Crumble  cold  biscuits  or  loaf  bread  real  fine,  salt  and  pepper  pork  chops. 
Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  place  in  baking  pan  and  bake  slowly  until 
tender  and  brown.  —  Mrs.  Bessie  Howard 


APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE 


Peel  sour  apples  and  stew  until  soft  and  not  much  water  is  left  in  them, 
rub  through  a  colander.  Beat  three  eggs  for  each  pie,  put  in  proportion  of 
one  cup  butter  and  one  of  sugar  for  three  pies,  season  with  nutmeg  or 
cinnamon.  _  Mrs.  Bessie  Howard 

APPLE  PIE  or  CRACKER  PIE 

2  cups  water  2  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 
I  '/2  cups  sugar 

Put  in  a  saucepan  and  bring  to  boil.  Boil  hard  and  stir  for  I  minute.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  drop  in  20  Ritz  Crackers.  Let  stand  while  making  crust. 
Pour  in  crust.  Dot  with  butter  and  cinnamon.  Bake  375  deg.  about  45  min- 
uses. —  Mrs.  Virginia  Esham 

LEMON  CHESS  PIE 

3  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

1  '/2  cups  sugar  4  tablespoons  melted  butter 
l/j  cup  lemon  juice  [not  margarine). 

grated  rind  of  one  lemon 

Beat  eggs  until  fluffy,  add  all  other  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour 
into  unbaked  8  inch  pie  shell.  Bake  in  350  deg.  oven  for  35  to  40  minutes, 

—  Mrs.  Myra  Wahab 

CANTALOUPE  PIE 

Take  one  good  cantaloupe  ripe,  cut  in  cubes,  mix  3  egg  yolks  with  milk 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Put  the  cantaloupe  cubes  in  eggs  and  sugar.  Cook  for 
one  hour  until  cubes  are  done.  Make  pie  crust  for  2  pies.  Bake  the  crust. 
Pour  in  filling  and  beat  egg  whites.  Add  6  tblsp.  sugar  gradually,  pile  on 
pies  and  brown  lightly.  _  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Myers 

MOLASSES  CAKE 

%  cup  molasses  I  '/^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  I  /8  teaspoon  cloves 
%  cup  brown  sugar                       2  teaspoons  soda 

%  cup  melted  shortening  '/2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

iy3  cup  sifted  flour  '/2  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  ginger  I  cup  boiling  water 

'/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Beat  eggs  in  mixing  bowl,  add  sugar,  molasses  and  shortening,  mix  well. 
Sift  dry  ingredients  and  beat  with  vigor.  Last  add  boiling  water,  mix  well. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  about  45  mins.    Mrs.  Myra  Wahab 

PLAIN  CAKE  ( use  any  filling  desired ) 

1  cup  butter  4  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  I  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3  cups  flour  I  teasp.  flavoring 
■   rup  milk 

—  Mrs.  Bessie  Howard 


AUNT  LUCY'S  DATE  CAKE 

1/2  lb.  chopped  dates  %  cup  sugar 

2  cups  chopped  nuts  (walnuts  '/2  teaspoon  salt 
or  pecans)  I  teaspoon  vanilla 

1 1/4  cups  sifted  flour  3  eggs  separated 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  egg  yolks  until  lemon  colored,  combine  dry  ingredients  and  mix  with 
yolks  of  eggs,  beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry,  add  to  mixture  and 
blend,  now  add  dates  and  nuts,  do  nut  use  any  other  liquid.  Bake  in  a  loaf 
pan  about  I  hour  at  300  degrees.  —  Mrs.  Myra  Wahab 

CHOCOLATE  POUND  CAKE 

1/2  lb.  butter  '/4  tsp.  salt 

'/2  cup  Crisco  3  eggs 

2%  cups  sugar  4  tablespoons  cocoa 

3  cups  flour  I  cup  milk 

1/2  tsp.  baking  powder  I  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  Crisco,  sugar,  add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Add  flour,  bak- 
ing powder,  cocoa,  and  salt,  alternately  with  milk.  Start  in  cold  oven,  bake 
one  hour  and  15  minutes  at  350  degrees. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING 

1/4  stick  butter  '/4  CUP  m'"< 

3  cups  4x  sugar  '/2  tsp.  salt 

3  squares  chocolate  I  tsp.  vanilla 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate.  Add  sugar  and  milk,  until  you  can  spread. 

—  Mrs.  Lillian  Simpson 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

1/2  cup  butter  or  margarine  I  cup  mincement 

I  cup  sugar  M/2  cups  flour 

I  egg  V4  teaspoon  salt 

1/2  cup  dates  I  teaspoon  soda 

or  preserved  figs  (cut  fine)  V3  teaspoon  cloves 

l/2  cup  raisins  I  teaspoon  cinnamon 

I  cup  nut  meats  !  cup  apple  sauce 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  dates,  raisins,  mincemeat,  and  nuts. 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  to  creamed  mixture.  Last  of  all 

work  in  apple  sauce.  Bake  about  an  hour  or  a  few  minutes  longer  at  325 

degrees.  —  Lela  G.  Howard 

MOLASSES  CAKE 

I  cup  lard  3  c.  flour 

1  cup  sugar  I  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  molasses  I  tsp.  cinnamon,  allspice,  nutmeg, 
'/2  tsp.  baking  soda                        cloves,  and  ginger 

2  c.  coffee 

Can  add  raisins  if  desired. 

Cream  lard  and  sugar,  add  molasses.  Put  baking  soda  in  coffee,  add  with 
flour  and  spices.  Grease  pan  and  dust  with  flour.  Place  in  center  of  oven, 
bake  275  degrees  about  I  hour.  —  Mrs.  Addie  Williams 


DATE  CAKE 


V2  P^9*  ^a+es  I  egg 

I  tsp.  soda  I  tsp.  vanilla 

I  cup  boiling  water  I  '/^  cup  flour 

(mix  and  let  cool)  I  tsp.  salt 

I  cup  sugar  l/2  cup  nuts 
l/j  cup  margarine  or  spry 
Bake  1/2  hour  at  350  degrees. 

Cream  sugar,  margarine  and  egg,  then  add  first  mixture  when  cool  enough. 

Then  add  the  other  ingredients.  Pour  cake  mixture  in  pan  12"  x  5"  then 
top  with  following  mixture. 

5  tblsp.  melted  butter  3  tblsp.  Cream  or  canned  milk 

8  tblsp.  Brown  sugar  l/2  cup  nuts 

—  Mrs.  Hilda  McWilliams 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE 

1/2  cup  butter  M/2  cups  sugar 

I  teaspoon  vanila  2  cups  flour 

3  eggs 

Blend  together  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  flour,  eggs,  and  vanilla. 

Use  your  own  favorite  icing,  or  I  pkg.  Phila.  Cream  Cheese,  2  cups  4x 

sugar,  2  squares  bitter  chocolate,  I  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  pinch  salt. 

—  Mrs.  Irene  E  O'Neal 

CHERRY  CAKE 

8  well  beaten  eggs  2  lb.  pecans 

1  lb.  cherries  —  candied  2  lb.  dates 
•/2  lb.  pineapple  cut  —  candied 

(Beat  eggs  and  add  with  this  part.  Mix  the  above  together  and  "men  add). 

2  cups  flour  sifted  I  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  these  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  the  above  mixture.  Mix  well  together 
bake  about  (300  deg.).  There  is  no  butter  or  liquid  in  the  cake.  It  is  best 
to  bake  in  a  pan  that  has  a  stem  in  the  center. 

—  Mrs.  Levella  Howard 

FIG  CAKE 

Use  regular  butter  cake  recipe.  Bake  in  thin  layers.  Spread  layers  with  fig 
filling. 

1  qt.  preserved  figs,  add  little  sugar.  Grind  figs  and  heat  enough  to 
spread.  —  Mrs.  Levella  Howard 

SPICE  CAKE 

2  cups  white  sugar  2  heaping  tblsp.  shortening 
2  cups  water  I  lb.  raisins 

I  tsp.  soda  slightly  heaping  I  tsp.  of  cinnamon 

I  tsp.  cloves  I  tsp.  of  nutmeg 

'/2  tsp.  salt  3  cups  of  flour 

Boil  together  for  five  minutes  sugar,  water,  shortening  and  raisins,  when 
cool  add  other  ingredients.  —  Mrs.  Irene  E.  O'Neal 


OZARK  PUDDING 


1  egg  1/8  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sugar  '/2  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  tablespoons  flour  '/2  cup  chopped  raw  apples 

teaspoon  baking  powder  I  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  egg  and  sugar  for  considerable  time  until  it  is  very  smooth.  Mix  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt,  stir  into  sugar-egg  mixture.  Add  apples,  nuts,  and  vanilla.  Bake  in 
a  well  buttered  pie  pan  in  a  medium  oven  (350)  for  35  minutes.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  or  ice  cream. 

(Mrs.  Truman's   Recipe  for  Ozark   Pudding)    —  Mrs.   Myra  Wahab 


RAISIN  DUFF 

I  cup  flour  Vl  cup  water 

>/2  cup  raisins  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  egg  V2  +sp.  salt 

I  tblsp.  butter 

Put  in  double  boiler,  cook  one  hour  or  test  with  cake  tester,  if  dry,  duff  is  done. 
Serves  four. 

Serve  with  egg  sauce  as  follows: 

2  eggs  separated,  beat  whites  very  stiff,  add  '/2  CUP  sugar,  2  well  beaten  egg  yolks, 
this  takes  lots  of  beating.  Combine  each,  add  I  teasp.  cooking  sherry  or  vanilla,  dash 
of  nutmeg  if  desired. 

—  Mrs.  Eva  Williams 


RICE  FRUMENTY 

I    cup   rice  Vl  CUP  canned  milk 

I   cup  sugar  V2  cup  water 

salt  small  lump  butter 

3  eggs  separated  I   teaspoon  flavoring 

Cook  rice  until  done  and  water  is  cooked  away.  Add  sugar,  salt,  and  cook  about  ten 
minutes  longer.  Mix  milk  and  water  and  add.  Cook  down.  Add  butter.  Beat  eggs 
separately  then  put  yolks  and  whites  together.  Remove  rice  from  fire  and  add  egg 
mixture  and  flavoring.  Sprinkle  with  nutmeg. 

—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 


IRISH  POTATO  PUDDING 

3  or  4  medium  size  Irish  potatoes  I   can   (small  crushed)  pineapple 

4  eggs  %  cup  milk 
72  stick  butter  I   cup  water 

1 72  cups  sugar  1/8  teaspoon  salt 

I  pk.  frozen  coconut  5  oz.  or  I   teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs;  add  sugar,  salt,  gradually.  Peel  and  grate  potatoes,  add  to  egg 
and  sugar  mixture,  add  melted  butter.  Beat  egg  whites  stiff,  fold  in  mixture.  Pour  in 
buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  slowly  until  brown  and  solid. 

—  Mrs.  Eleanora  Ballance 


BREAD  PUDDING 

5  slices  bread   (stale  or  fresh)  3  eggs 

trim  off  edges  2  cups  of  milk 

%  cup  sugar  I   cup  water 

!   cup  raisins  I  tsp.  lemon  flavoring 

'/2  stick  margarine  I   tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

Soak  bread  in  water  and  mash  fine  —  add  sugar,  eggs  (beaten),  milk,  raisins  and 
flavoring.  Put  in  baking  pan;  sprinkle  with  margarine.  Cut  in  bits.  Cook   I  hour. 

—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 


SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

2  grated  sweet  potatoes  I  can  evaporated  milk 

I  cup  sugar  2  cans  water 

4  eggs  (beat  in  one  at  a  time)  I  teaspoon  vanilla  or  cooking  sherry 

'/t  cup  butter  melted 

Make  as  listed.  Bake  about  1/2  hour  at  300  deg.  or  until  knife  inserted  in  pudding  comes 
ou+  clean  _  Mrs.  Loui  Dell  Williams 

OLD  FASHIONED  MOLASSES  PUDDING 

Soak  enough  bread  to  make  4  cups,  then  add  2  cups  molasses,  '/2  CUP  sugar,  2  cups 
milk,  '/2  stick  butter  or  margarine,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  flavor  with  spices  or  almond  or 
maple  flavoring,  whichever  is  preferred. 

Bake  in  not  too  shallow  pan  until  cooked  well  done  and  brown,  about  300  degrees. 

—  Mrs.  Dell  Scarborough 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

Boil  sweet  potatoes,  peel  and  mash  4  cups,  mix  with  3  cups  milk,  I  cup  sugar,  '/2  cup 
flour,  3  eggs,  I  teaspoon  baking  powder,  '/(  teaspoon  salt,  I  stick  margarine  or  butter. 
Flavor  with  spice  or  flavoring  vanilla  or  lemon.  Add  coconut  if  desired.  Bake  in  pudding 
pan  about  I  and  '/2  hours  at  300  degrees.  _  Mrs>  De||  Scarborough 

HEAVENLY  HASH 

I  pint  whipped  cream  l/2  can  Fruit  mix 

Vl  pkg.  marshmallows  2'/2  cups  nuts 

Melt  marshmallows  over  low  heat.  Then  put  into  whipped  cream  along  with  fruit  and 
nuts.  Place  in  tray  and  freeze.  _  Mrs>  Lo|a  Williams 

SNOW  CREAM 

4  eggs  can  crushed  pinapple  or 

I  can  condensed  milk  chopped  can  peaches,  drained 

pinch  salt  large  bowl  snow 

4  tblsp.  sugar 

Separate  eggs,  beat  egg  whites  till  stand  in  peaks,  add  sugar  gradually,  beat  egg 
yolks  till  light,  add  salt,  milk,  fruit,  then  fold  in  egg  whites,  add  snow  last,  serve  im- 
mediately. Mrs.  Loui  Dell  Williams 

MOLASSES  CANDY 

1  cup  molasses  I  tablespoon  vinegar 

2  cups  sugar  little  butter  and  vanilla 

Boil  ten  minutes,  then  cool  it  enough  to  pull.    Mrs.  Bessie  Howard 

SPANISH  SAUCE 

'/2  cup  of  boiling  water  I  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch  I  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  1/2  nutmeg  grated 

—  Mrs.  Bessie  Howard 

PICKLED  FIGS 

7  lbs.  figs  (not  too  ripe  and  with  stems  on).  Wash  and  cook  in  syrup,  20  minutes  or 
until  tender. 

4  lbs.  sugar  I  tsp.  whole  allspice 

I  pt.  vinegar  I  tsp.  ginger 

I  tsp.  whole  cloves 

—  Mrs.  Virginia  Esham 

PRESERVED  FIGS 

I  peck  ripe  figs  6  lbs  sugar 

Wash  figs,  cover  with  sugar  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Second  day  cook  about  2  hours. 
Third  day  cook  about  I  hour.  Put  in  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

—  Mrs.  Lena  Williams 


UNIVERSITY  OF  N.C.  AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


00036759212 


FOR  USE  ONLY  IN 
THE  NORTH  CAROLINA  COLLECTION 


