Shamrock  Drive  Baptist  Church 

4301  Shamrock  Drive 
Charlotte,  North  Carolina  28215 


C641.5 
011s 


THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY  OF 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


THE  COLLECTION  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINIANA 

PRESENTED  BY 

Lynn  Roundtree 


C641.5 
Oils 


HISTORY  OF  SHAMROCK  DRIVE  BAPTIST  CHURCH 


Olfs 


From  its  beginning  in  1897,  at  other  locations  and  with  different  names, 
Shamrock  Drive  Baptist  Church  was  built  on  a  firm  foundation.  The 
original  church  was  organized  on  April  7, 1901  with  44  charter  members. 


The  neighborhood  was  changing  in  the  1960's,  and  on  July  30, 1967  the 
Reverend  Ernest  Glass,  former  missionary  to  Singapore,  was  called  as 
pastor  and  led  the  church  into  relocating  at  4301  Shamrock  Drive.  The 
church's  name  was  changed  from  Allen  Street  Baptist  to  Shamrock 
Drive  Baptist  on  March  10,  1968.  Herschel  Ponder  came  on  March  9, 
1969  to  serve  as  Minister  of  Music  &  Youth  with  a  later  title  of  Minister  of 
Education. 


The  new  building  on  Shamrock  Drive  was  dedicated  on  May  17,  1970, 
and  the  cornerstone  was  put  in  place.  Three  nights  of  special  services 
followed  with  former  pastors  speaking. 


Family  night  suppers  were  started  in  1970.  In  April  1972  a  Mothers  Morn- 
ing Out  program  began  as  well  as  a  tape  ministry  for  shut-ins.  Kinder- 
Sarten  began  in  1973,  and  the  church  accepted  the  Albermarie  Road 
lission  under  its  watchcare.  The  Chinese  speaking  ministry  began  with 
meetings  in  our  church  June  6, 1982,  and  their  leader,  Abraham  Ho,  was 
ordained  on  August  14, 1986.  The  Chinese  moved  to  their  own  facilities 
in  1994.  A  black  congreation,  Life  Baptist,  worshipped  for  over  a  year, 
using  our  sanctuary  after  our  morning  worship  service.  The  church  is 
also  used  as  a  voting  precinct,  and  twice  a  week  the  Hawthorne  AA  and 
Al-Anon  groups  meet  in  our  building. 


After  20  years  of  service,  the  Reverend  Glass  retired  on  Jufy  31,  1987, 
and  the  Reverend  Frank  Moore  served  as  Interim  until  May  2, 1989  when 
the  Reverend  Gary  Hudson  was  called  as  pastor.  Along  with  Herschel 
Ponder  and  the  Associate  Pastor,  Tim  Moore,  who  left  in  Jufy  1995  to 
become  a  pastor,  Gary  has  led  our  church  well  during  some  difficult 
changes. 


See  what  God  hath  wrought  through  a  congregation  who 
loves  Him,  seeks  to  serve  Him  faithfully,  and  who  loves 
and  cares  for  each  other. 

t 
% 

'  I. 


Woman's  Missionary  Union  of  the  Shamrock  Drive  Baptist  Church  would 
like  to  dedicate  this  cookbook  to  Mrs.  Nezzie  Buchanan  who  served  as 
WMU  Director  for  ten  years  (1983-1993).  Nezzie  conceived  the  idea  of 
compiling  a  cookbook  as  a  part  of  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  celebra- 
tion of  the  church  in  1995.  We  honor  her  for  the  work  she  has  done 
through  the  years. 

"Give  her  the  product  of  her  hands,  and  let  her  works  praise  her  in  the 
gates.'  Proverbs  31 :31 


We  recognize  Judy  Poole  and  Virginia  Helms  for  proof-reading  and 
categorizing  each  recipe.  Many  thanks  to  these  ladies  for  the  many 
hours  they  spent  in  order  to  accomplish  this  task. 


DONOR  LIST 


Arndt,  Lana 
Atkinson,  Mary  Lee 
Austin,  Daisy 
Austin,  Jean 
Baldwin,  Bobbie 
Barnette,  Lorena 
Broome,  Lib 
Brooks,  Frances 
Bryant,  Judith 
Buchanan,  Nezzie 
Canady,  Reba 
Carpenter,  Pat 
Carter,  Cora 
Chan,  Pauline 
Craddock,  Ruby 
DeCristoforo,  Zelda 
Doyle,  Beverly 
Doyle,  Trey 
Ennis,  Frances 
Farrar,  Marguerite 
Faulk,  Helen 
Flowe,  Carroll 
Foard,  Sarah 
Fowler,  Betty 
Gibson,  Geneva 
Glass,  Marjorie 
Glenn,  Helen 
Glover,  Grace 
Godfrey,  Dot 
Griffin,  Glendred 
Harrington,  Chris 
Harris,  Gladys 
Helms,  Anita 
Helms,  Barbara 
Helms,  Elma 
Helma,  Faye 
Helms,  Kim 
Helms,  Virginia 
Ho,  Gloria 
Holshouser,  Una 
Honeycutt,  Sara 
Jameson,  Frances 
Johnson,  Ethel 
Jordan,  Sarah 
Keathley,  Jennier 
Keathley,  June 
Kennon,  Johnsie 
King,  Maxie 
Kinsey,  Patsy  B. 


Lee,  Dot 
Little,  Mildred 
Long,  Barbara 
Long,  Janelle 
Martin,  Johnnie 
Martin,  Juanita 
McClellan,  Jimmie 
McCoy,  Gerry 
McDonald,  Faye 
Moore,  Gin 
Morgan,  Beth 
Nantz,  Lucille 
Nelson,  Bernice 
Ferryman,  Judy 
Phillips,  Clara 
Ponder,  Sara 
Poole,  Carol 
Poole,  Gene 
Poole,  Judy 
Poole,  Lean 
Rice,  Alva 
Robinson,  Ava 
Rutledge,  Dot 
Sayers,  Martha 
Scarborough,  Robbie 
Shepherd,  Magay 
Smith,  Dottie 
Smith,  Leslie 
Smith,  Rachel 
Smitherman,  Edith 
Smothers,  Clarice 
Stames,  Edith 
Stone,  Nancy 
Tarn,  Amy 
Tarn,  Kim.  Dr. 
Tate,  Lois 

Vanderburg,  Carolyn 
Walsh,  Phyllis 
Wardlaw,  Betty 
Warren,  Barbara 
Whitlock,  Rita 
Yu,  Anne 


'Oh,  heavenly  Father,  we  thank  Thee  for 
food  and  remember  the  hungry.  We  thank 
Thee  for  health,  and  remember  the  sick. 
We  thank  Thee  for  friends,  and  remember 
the  friendless.  We  thank  Thee  for  freedom 
and  remember  the  enslaved.  May  these 
remembrances  stir  us  to  service-that  Thy 
gifts  to  us  may  be  used  for  others.  Amen.* 


RECIPE  FOR  A  HAPPY  NEW  YEAR 


CLEAN  THOROUGHLY  12  whole  months. 

DIVIDE  INTO  365  parts;  set  aside,  preparing  one  part  only  at  a  time  as 
follows: 

MIX  WELL  into  each  day: 

1  part  patience  1  part  courage 

1  part  work 

ADD  to  each  day :  1  part  each  of  hope,  faithfulness,  generosity,  and 
kindness 

BLEND  with: 

1  part  prayer  1  part  meditation 

&  1  good  deed 

SEASON  the  mixture  with  a  dash  of  good  spirits,  a  sprinkle  of  fun,  a 
pinch  of  play,  &  a  cup  of  good  humor 

POUR  mixture  into  vessel  of  love.  Cook  over  radiant  joy,  garnish  with  a 
smile. 

SERVE  with  quietness,  unselfishness,  &  cheer. 

YIELD:  1  Happy  Year 


Appetizers 
and  Beverages 


\ 


EASY  PUNCH  Judy  Poole 

2  46  oz.  cans  unsweetened 
pineapple  Juice 

3  2  liter  bottles  of  Cheerwine 

Combine  pineapple  juice  and  Cheerwine;  mix  well.  Chill  until  serving. 
May  be  frozen  and  thawed  to  a  slush  for  serving.  Serves  72. 


EASY  PUNCH  Judy  Poole 

2  24  oz.  bottles  of  white  grape 

juice 
4  C.  ginger  ale 

Combine  grape  juice  and  ginger  ale;  mix  well.  Chill  or  freeze  and  thaw  to 
a  slush  for  serving.  Serves  20. 


MINT  PUNCH  Megay  Shepherd 

25  Sprigs  of  mint  (2")  4-5  drops  green  food  color 

1  1 2  oz.  can  frozen  lemon  juice  1  C.  sugar 

1  1 2  oz.  can  frozen  orange  juice  Ginger  ale 
1  46  oz.  can  pineapple  juice 

Dissolve  1  C.  sugar  in  4  C.  boiling  water.  Pour  over  mint  -  crush  mint. 
Combine  all  ingredients.  Strain  mint.  Let  stand  in  refrigerator  12  hours. 
Mix  w/ginger  ale  as  you  serve  it.  Makes  1  gallon. 


HOT  SPICE  TEA  Carol  Poole 

3/4  C.  instant  tea  mix  2  pkgs.  Instant  lemonade  mix 

2  C.  Tang  orange  juice  mix  1 1.  ground  cloves 

2  C.  sugar  2 1.  cinnamon 

2 1.  per  cup  hot  water.  May  be  stored  for  some  time  in  an  air  tight  con- 
tainer. 


PEANUT  BUTTER  SHAKER  Mildred  A.  Little 

1  banana  1  C.  milk 

1  Ig.  scoop  ice  cream  1  T.  sugar 

2  T.  peanut  butter 

Peel  and  slice  banana  into  V2*  thick  slices.    Put  all  ingredients  into 
blender  and  blend  well.  Makes  one  serving. 

1 


INSTANT  RUSSIAN  TEA  Marguerite  Farrar 

Va  C.  Instant  tea  V2 1.  cloves 

VA  C.  sugar  1 1.  cinnamon 

2  C.  Tang  2  pkg.  Lemonade  Kool  Aid 

Mix  above  and  keep  in  tightly  closed  jar.  Shake  before  using.  2 1.  to  cup 
of  boiling  water. 


RUSSIAN  TEA  Barbara  Warren 

8  tea  bags  21/2  C.  pineapple  juice 

2  qts.  water  juice  of  1  lemon 

1  Va  C.  sugar  1 0-1 2  whole  cloves 

2Vz  C.  orange  juice  1  stick  cinnamon 

Make  the  tea  with  the  2  qts.  of  water.  Add  the  other  ingredients.  Heat. 
DO  NOT  BOIL  Makes  1  gallon. 


RUSSIAN  TEA  Dot  Godfrey 

6  C.  water  V*  C.  orange  juice 

1 1.  whole  cloves  2  T.  lemon  juice 

1  inch  stick  cinnamon  1  C.  sugar 

3  tea  bags  (may  use 
decaffeinated) 

To  6  cups  water,  add  1 1.  whole  cloves  and  1  in.  stick  cinnamon.  Heat  to 
boiling.  Add  3  tea  bags,  cover  and  remove  from  heat.  Steep  for  5 
minutes,  strain.  Heat  orange  juice,  lemon  juice,  and  sugar  to  boiling,  stir. 
Add  to  hot  tea  Makes  6-8  servings. 


RUSSIAN  TEA  Cora  Carter 

8  C.  of  water-boll  5  more  C.  of  water-5  minutes 

7  tea  bags-5  minutes  1  qt.  apple  juice 

2  C.  of  sugar  1 8  oz.  pineapple  juice 

2  cinnamon  sticks  2  C.  orange  juice 

1  T.  whole  cloves  1  T.  lemon  juice 

Mix  ingredients  in  order.  As  you  pour  in  the  juices  do  not  let  them  boil, 
just  allow  them  to  get  really  hot. 


RUSSIAN  TEA 


Faye  L  Helms 


3  family  size  tea  bags-(makes  1 

§al.  of  tea) 
:.  sugar 
Vz  C.  lemon  Juice 


1  can  Dole's  orange-pineapple 

juice 
15  whole  cloves 


Make  tea  and  sweeten.  Add  lemon  juice.  Mix  prepared  tea  and  orange- 
pineapple  juice  (half  and  half).  Boil  %  C.  water  with  1  t.  sugar  and  15 
whole  cloves.  Boil  several  minutes  and  add  to  tea  mixture.  Refrigerate 
and  take  out  amount  desired  and  microwave  2V6  minutes  per  cup. 


SLUSH 

3  bananas 

1  #2  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  C.  sugar 


Dottie  Smith 


juice  of  2  lemons 
2  C.  ginger  ale 
2  C.  orange  juice 


Mash  bananas.  Add  sugar.  Add  other  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Add 
cherries  if  desired.  Freeze.  Partially  thaw  to  serve. 


OLD  FASHIONED  EGGNOG 

4V2  C.   milk  (may  use  2  cans 

milk  in  place  of  other  milk) 

sugar 

6  eggs,  separated 

1  pt.  vanilla  ice  cream 


Dot  Rutledge 


2 1.  brandy  or  rum  extract 
Vz  t.  pure  vanilla  extract 
V4 1.  salt 
fresh  ground  nutmeg 


1.  Combine  milk  and  V*  C.  sugar  in  a  medium  saucepan.  Heat  over 
medium  heat,  stirring  to  dissolve  sugar  until  rim  of  fine  bubbles  appears 
around  edge  of  pan.  2.  Beat  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored. 
Add  a  small  amount  of  hot  milk  to  egg  yolks;  return  all  to  saucepan.  3. 
Cook  over  medium  heat  for  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  into  a 
bowl.  Add  ice  cream  by  spoonfuls,  stirring  until  melted.  Add  extracts. 
Cover  and  refrigerate.  4.  Refrigerate  unbeaten  egg  whites,  covered,  in  a 
separate  container.  5.  Just  before  filling  punch  bowl,  let  egg  whites 
stand  at  room  temperature  in  large  bowl  of  mixer  for  15  minutes.  6.  Beat 
whites  until  foamy;  add  salt  and  continue  beating  until  soft  peaks  form. 
Add  Va  C.  sugar,  1  T.  at  a  time,  beating  constantly.  7.  Continue  beating 
until  sugar  is  dissolved  and  whites  are  glossy  and  again  stand  in  soft 
peaks.  8.  Fold  custard  mixture  into  whites,  using  a  large  whisk.  9.  Pour 
eggnog  into  chilled  punch  bowl.  Ladle  into  punch  cups  and  sprinkle  with 
fresh-ground  nutmeg. 


PINK  PUNCH  Carol  Poole 

3  oz.  mixed  fruit  jello 

1  C. sugar 

2  C.  boiling  water 

Dissolve  jello  &  sugar  in  boiling  water.  Add  12  oz.  frozen,  undiluted  pink 
lemonade,  69  oz.  of  pineapple  juice.  Mix  well  and  chill.  When  ready  to 
serve,  add  a  2  liter  of  ginger  ale. 


HOT  SPICED  CIDER  Judy  Poole 

2  cinnamon  sticks  1  qt.  pineapple  juice 

V2 1.  whole  allspice  1A  C.  sugar 

1/2 1.  cloves  Vz  C.  lemon  juice 
1  qt.  apple  cider 

Bring  to  a  boil;  reduce  heat  and  simmer  for  15  minutes. 


ASPARAGUS  ROLL-UPS  Robbie  Scarborough 

1  can  asparagus  spears  Parmesan  cheese 

8-1 0  slices  white  bread  red  pepper 

butter  or  margarine  (softened) 

Drain  asparagus,  spread  out  on  paper  towels.  Cut  crust  from  bread  and 
roll  each  slice  flat  between  two  pieces  of  wax  paper.  Spread  each  piece 
with  softened  butter  and  sprinkle  each  piece  with  Parmesan  cheese  and 
a  small  amount  of  red  pepper.  Place  2-3  asparagus  spears  diagonally 
on  bread  and  start  at  corner  and  roll  up.  Secure  with  toothpick.  Before 
baking,  brush  each  roll-up  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  Parmesan 
cheese.  Place  on  baking  sheet  which  has  been  sprayed  with  vegetable 
cooking  spray  and  bake  in  a  400°  oven  for  10  minutes. 


CHEESE  APPETIZER  Dot  Rutiedge 

1  C.  sharp  cheese-grated  1  8  oz.  cream  cheese 

1  onion-chopped  1  C.  mayo 

Cream  all  together  and  bake  30  minutes  at  350°. 

4 


CHEESE  STUFFED  APPLES  Judy  Perryman 

3  oz.  cream  cheese  1  T.  dry  white  wine 

1  Vs  oz.  Camembert  cheese  4  medium  apples 

Beat  cream  cheese,  Camembert  cheese  and  wine  with  electric  or  rotary 
beater  until  smooth.  Core  apples,  scoop  out  insides  leaving  shells  about 
Vfc'  thick.  Fill  with  cheese  mixture.  Chill  2-3  hours.  Cut  in  wedges.  Serve. 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  DIP  Jenni  Keathley 

1  C.  cottage  cheese  as  desired: 

1  T.  mayonnaise  V*  C.  chopped  onion 

2 1.  dillweed  V*  C.  tomato  (finely  chopped) 

Vz  t.  lemon  herb  seasoning  V*  finely  chopped  cucumber 
(Mrs.  Dash) 

Combine  all  ingredients,  puree  if  creamy  consistency  is  desired.  Let  it  sit 
for  24  hours  in  refrigerator.  Serve  with  vegetable  pieces  or  crackers  or 
can  be  used  as  a  salad  dressing. 


FRUIT  DIP  Judy  Poole 

8  oz.  cream  cheese 

1  pt.  marshmallow  cream 

Blend  cream  cheese  and  marshmallow  cream  well.  Serve  with  fresh  fruit. 


HAM  BISCUITS  Kim  Helms 

V*  lb.  margarine,  softened  1  small  onion,  grated 

2 1.  prepared  mustard  1  pkg.  party  rolls 

2  T.  poppy  seeds  1  pkg.  sliced  ham 

2 1.  Worcestershire  1  pkg.  sliced  Swiss  cheese 

Mix  together  margarine,  mustard,  poppy  seeds,  Worcestershire,  and 
onion.  Open  party  rolls  and  spread  mixture  on  both  sides,  add  small 
pieces  of  ham  and  cheese.  Return  ham  biscuits  to  party  roll  pan;  heat  in 
a  350°  oven  until  cheese  melts,  about  10  minutes.  Ham  biscuits  freeze 
well  before  being  cooked. 


LEMON  FRUIT  DIP  Dot  Rutledge 

Mix  1  Vz  C.  sour  cream,  1  t.  grated  lemon  peel,  and  vi  C.  confectioners 
sugar  and  chill.  Serve  with  fresh  fruit. 


PIMENTO  CHEESE  SPREAD  Judy  Poole 

8  oz.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese,  1  4  oz.  jar  chopped  pimento, 

shredded  fine  drained 

Vz  C.  mayonnaise  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  a  flat  dish  or  on  a  plate  and  mash  with  a  fork, 
then  mix  well. 


SAUSAGE  BALLS  Leslie  Smith 

2  C.  Bisquick 
1  lb.  hot  sausage 
1-16  oz.  jar  Cheez  whiz 

Combine  Bisquick,  sausage  and  Cheez  Whiz.  Cheez  Whiz  works  best  if 
heated  in  microwave  for  1  minute.  Roll  into  medium  sized  balls  and  bake 
at  350°  for  15  minutes.  If  you  want  to  freeze  for  later,  allow  balls  to  cool 
and  place  in  a  freezer  bag.  Recipe  makes  about  60-90  balls. 


SPINACH  THINGS  Cora  Carter 

2  boxes  chopped  spinach  Vz  C.  Parmesan  cheese 

1  Ig.  onion,  finely  chopped  Vz  t.  garlic  salt 

1  drop  hot  sauce  V*  t.  pepper 

4  eggs,  beaten  V*  t.  thyme 
V*  C.  melted  butter 

Mix  all  ingredients  for  uniform  consistency.  Order  is  not  important.  Form 
into  round  balls  (about  %'  in  diameter)  and  place  on  a  baking  sheet. 
Place  in  freezer.  When  frozen,  remove  from  baking  sheet  and  store 
frozen  in  plastic  bags  or  containers.  Before  serving,  place  on  baking 
sheet  in  350°  oven  for  15-20  minutes.  Makes  about  200  balls. 


SANDWICH  SPREAD  Virginia  Helms 

4  boiled  eggs  1  small  jar  pimentos,  2  oz. 

salt  to  taste  drained 

Vz  C.  nuts  mayonnaise 
Vz  C.  sweet  pickles,  drained 

Combine  mashed  eggs,  salt,  nuts,  pickles,  and  pimentos.  Mix  well.  Add 
enough  mayonnaise  to  make  spreading  consistency.  Refrigerate  over- 
night before  making  sandwiches. 


SPINACH  DIP 


Pat  Carpenter 


1  C.  mayonnaise 

2  pkg.  chopped  spinach, 
thawed  and  drained 


2  T.  McCormlck  Salad  Supreme 

(must  use  this  seasoning) 
1  bunch  scallions,  chopped 


Mix  all  together  and  refrigerate  overnight.  Cut  circle  out  of  round  dark 
bread  and  put  dip  in  "bread  container",  cut  the  bread  that  was  removed 
into  cubes  and  use  for  dip. 


SPINACH  BALLS 

2-10  oz.  pkg.  frozen  chopped 

spinach 
1  pkg.  Pepperidge  Farm  herb 

dressing  mix 
1  large  onion,  chopped  fine 
V*  C.  melted  butter 


Dot  Lee 


6  eggs,  beaten 

Vz  C.  Parmesan  cheese 

VAX.  pepper 

V2 1.  thyme 

IVzt.  garlic  salt 


Cook  spinach;  drain  well  and  squeeze  as  dry  as  possible.  Combine  with 
other  ingredients;  shape  into  small  balls.  Bake  at  325°  for  15  minutes. 
Yields  1 1  dozen. 


SWEET  &  SOUR  PARTY  MEATBALLS 


Dot  Lee 


1  lb.  ground  round  steak 

1  lb.  ground  pork 

2  C.  soft  bread  crumbs 

2  T.  finely  chopped  onion 

2  eggs,  beaten 
1 1.  salt 

V*  t.  pepper 

1  T.  butter,  melted 

3  T.  cornstarch 


1  C.  vinegar 

V*  C.  sugar 

3  drops  hot  sauce 

1  T.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  green  pepper,  chopped 

1-20  oz.  can  pineapple  chunks, 

drained 
1-8  oz.  can  tomato  sauce 


Combine  first  7  ingredients;  mix  well.  Shape  into  1  inch  meat  balls. 
Brown  in  butter  over  medium  heat;  drain  and  place  balls  in  13x9x2  inch 
baking  dish.  Combine  cornstarch,  vinegar  and  sugar  in  saucepan;  cook 
over  low  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  clear  and  thick.  Stir  in  remaining 
ingredients.  Pour  over  meat  balls.  Bake  at  300°  for  40  minutes.  Yields  6 
dozen. 


VEGETABLE  DIP 

1 6  oz.  sour  cream 

1  pt.  Hellmann's  mayonnaise 

1 1.  seasoned  salt 


Judy  Poole 


2  T.  minced  onion 
1  T.  parsley  flakes 


Mix  all  ingredients  well  and  refrigerate  overnight  before  serving.  Serve 
with  raw  vegetables. 


VEGETABLE  SANDWICH  SPREAD  Judy  Poole 

1  large  carrot  1  envelope  unflavored  gelatin 

1  small  onion  8  oz.  cream  cheese 

1  cucumber  1  C.  mayonnaise 

1  bell  pepper  salt  to  taste 

Grate  all  vegetables;  drain  reserving  juice.  Mix  2  T.  vegetable  juice  with 
unflavored  gelatin,  melt  over  hot  water.  Blend  vegetables,  melted 
gelatin,  and  cream  cheese.  Salt  to  taste.  Refrigerate  overnight  before 
making  sandwiches.  Makes  4  dozen  party  sandwiches. 

YOGURT-DILL  DRESSING  June  Keathley 

1  -8  oz.  plain  low-fat  yogurt  Vz  t.  crushed  dill  weed 

2 1.  very  finely  chopped  onion  V*  t.  dry  mustard 

1 1.  lemon  juice  V»  t.  garlic  powder 

Mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly.  Chill  until  served  over  tossed  green  salad 
or  baked  potato.  Serving  size:  2  T.  Calories:  18  per  serving. 


Soups,  Salads 
and  Vegetables 


SALMON  STEW 


Dot  Rutledge 


Heat  1  qt.  milk,  till  bubbles  form  around  edge  of  pan.  Salt  to  taste.  Add  1 
large  can  of  salmon  that  has  been  skinned  and  boned,  and  broken  into 
bite-sized  pieces.  Add  butter.  Serve.  Tastes  like  oyster  soup. 


OYSTER  STEW 

3  cans  evaporated  milk 
3  cans  water 
1  pt.  oysters 


Sarah  L  Foard 


V*  stick  margarine 
salt  &  pepper  to  taste 


Heat  milk,    water,    and  margarine  over  low  heat; 
thoroughly.  Add  oysters;  let  set  until  serving  time. 


stir  until  heated 


SNEAKY  SQUASH  PIE 

3  C.  cooked,  drained  squash 
1  C.  evaporated  milk 

4  beaten  eggs 
V*  C.  sugar 


Carol  Poole 


2  unbaked  pie  shells 
1 1.  vanilla 
Vz  t.  salt 
1  T.  flour 


Blend  squash,  milk,  eggs,  and  sugar.  Add  vanilla,  salt,  and  flour.  Pour 
into  shells,  and  bake  at  350°-400°  for  30  minutes. 


ONE  GALLON  OF  SLAW 

3  lbs.  cabbage 

1  lb.  fresh  tomatoes 

1  pint  canned  tomatoes 

2  bell  peppers 

1  pink  sour  pickles 


Janelle  Long 


4  oz.  can  pimento 

1  T.  salt 

1 1.  ground  red  pepper 

Vz  C.  sugar 

1  C.  vinegar 


Grate  cabbage  in  a  large  pan  (like  a  dish  pan).  Chop  all  vegetables  fine. 
Mix  altogether,  along  with  seasonings.  Use  your  hands  to  mix  so  that 
cabbage  is  mixed  well  with  other  ingredients.  Store  in  a  gallon  jar  with 
lid,  in  the  refrigerator.  Keeps  indefinitely.  Very  good  on  hamburgers,  hot- 
dogs,  barbecue  etc.  Better  after  a  few  days. 


CHINESE  COLE  SLAW 


Johnnie  Martin 


1 6  oz.  cole  slaw  mix  (shredded 

cabbage  w/carrots) 
1  bunch  green  onions 
1  pkg.  beef  oodles  of  noodles 
Vz  C.  slivered  almonds 
V2  C.  sunflower  seed 


Dressing: 

3  T.  sugar 

Vz  t.  each  salt  &  pepper 

3  T.  vinegar 

V2  C.  oil 

flavored  packet  from  noodles 


Saute  broken  noodles  and  almonds  in  2  T.  margarine  until  almost 
brown.  Mix  together  salad  dressing  ingredients.  Pour  dressing  over  cab- 
bage mix  and  onions.  Mix  in  noodles,  almonds,  &  sunflower  seed.  Serve 
immediately,  (noodles  tend  to  get  soft  if  they  sit  too  long). 


MARINATED  SLAW 

1  large  head  cabbage 

1  green  pepper 

2  onions 

2C.JT.&1 1.  sugar 
1  C.  vinegar 


Janelle  Long 


y4  c.  on 

1 1.  dry  mustard 
1 1.  celery  seeds 
1  T.  salt 


Shred  cabbage,  pepper,  &  onions;  combine  &  mix  together  well.  Stir  in  2 
C  sugar.  Combine  the  remaining  T.  &  t.  of  sugar  with  vinegar,  oil,  mus- 
tard, celery  seeds,  &  salt.  Bring  mixture  to  a  boil.  Pour  over  cabbage 
mixture.  Seal  slaw  in  an  airtight  container.  DO  NOT  uncover  for  at  least  4 
hours.  Refrigerate. 


GLAZED  BEETS 

1  medium  can  of  beets,  drain  & 

reserve  juice 
V»  C.  sugar 


Judy  Poole 


Vz  C.  vinegar 
1  T.  cornstarch 
1  T.  margarine 


Bring  to  a  boil,  beet  juice,  vinegar,  and  sugar.  Mix  cornstarch  with 
enough  water  to  dissolve  it.  Add  to  boiling  mixture.  Add  beets  and  mar- 
garine and  simmer  30  minutes. 


BLACK  AND  WHITE  BEANS 

1  can  black  beans 

1  can  Navy  beans 

V2  C.  chicken  broth 

1  clove  minced  garlic 

4  T.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


Rita  Whitlock 

10  oz.  bag  fresh  spinach  or  1 
can  whole  leaf  spinach 

1  T.  balsamic  vinegar  or 
seasoned  rice  vinegar 


Simmer  garlic  in  broth  10  minutes.  Rinse  and  drain  both  cans  of  beans. 
Add  beans  to  broth  along  with  Parmesan  cheese.  In  another  pan,  wilt 
washed  spinach  in  water  which  clings  to  it.  Just  heat  and  remove  from 
stove.  Stir  in  vinegar.  Place  spinach  on  serving  dish  and  top  with  beans. 
Sprinkle  with  chives  or  green  onion  tops. 


10 


TASTY  STEWED  APPLES  Edith  Starnes 

2  C.  water  Vfe  t.  rum  flavoring 

%  C.  granulated  sugar  4  Golden  Delicious  apples 

Va  t.  nutmeg  %A  C.  white  raisins 

V2 1.  vanilla  flavoring 

Boil  water,  sugar,  and  nutmeg  5  minutes.  Add  apples  that  have  been 
peeled,  cored,  and  cut  into  quarters  or  eighths.  Turn  off  heat;  let  them 
stay  on  the  burner  2  or  3  minutes.  Removed  from  heat;  stir  in  flavorings 
and  raisins.  May  be  served  warm  or  cold  from  the  refrigerator. 


LEMON  DILL  RICE  Carroll  Flowe 

1  C.  raw  rice  V* 1.  salt 

V/z  t.  dried  lemon  peel  2  chicken  bouillon  cubes 

1 1.  dill  weed  2  T.  butter 

V2 1.  dried  chive  2  C.  water 

Saute  rice  in  butter  until  transparent.  Add  water  and  seasonings.  Cover 
and  cook  on  low  until  liquid  is  absorbed.  Serves  6. 


VEGIE  BARS  Lib  Broome 

2-8  oz.  cans  crescent  dinner  1  med.  green  bell  pepper 

rolls  chopped 

2-8  oz.  pkgs.  cream  cheese,  1  small  red  onion,  chopped 

softened  V2  C.  fresh  mushrooms, 
V*  C.  mayonnaise  chopped 

1-10  oz.  pkg.  ranch  dressing  Vz  C.  cauliflower,  chopped 

mix  Vz  C.  chopped  broccoli 

1  med.  red  bell  pepper,  V*  C.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

chopped 

Unroll  crescent  rolls  and  place  on  jelly  roll  pan.  Bake  the  flattened  rolls  at 
350°  for  7-8  minutes,  until  brown.  Cool  thoroughly.  Combine  cream 
cheese,  mayonnaise  and  dry  ranch  salad  dressing.  Beat  with  electric 
mixer  until  smooth.  Spread  over  crust.  Combine  vegetables  and  cheese; 
place  on  top  of  spread.  Cool  several  hours  -  cut  into  small  squares  to 
serve. 


11 


ICE  BOX  SLAW 


Marguerite  Farrar 


y4  c.  oil 

1  C.  sugar 
1  C.  vinegar 
1 1.  dry  mustard 


1 1.  celery  seed 

1 1.  salt 

1  large  cabbage,  shredded 

1  onion,  chopped 


Put  cabbage  in  a  large  bowl  or  jar.  Put  onion  on  top  of  cabbage.  Put 
sugar  on  top  of  onion  (do  not  stir).  Heat  the  vinegar,  oil,  celery  seed,  dry 
mustard,  &  salt.  Pour  over  the  cabbage.  Do  Not  Stir.  Put  lid  on  and 
refrigerate  overnight. 


ORIENTAL  SLAW 

1  pkg.  slaw  mix 

1  chopped  onion,  purple  or 

other 
1  pkg.  Ramen  (Ooodles  of 

Noodles  Nissin)  -  beef  flavor 


Bobbie  (Mrs.  E.W.)  Baldwin 

1  C.  sunflower  seeds 

1  C.  slivered  almonds 

1  C.  olive  oil 

Vz  C.  sugar 

V%  C.  apple  cider  vinegar 


Break  up  noodles  and  hold  out  flavored  pkg.;  mix  noodles,  seeds,  and 
almonds  with  slaw  mix.  (Other  nuts  may  be  added  if  desired).  Mix  in 
separate  bowl  the  oil,  sugar,  vinegar  and  stir  in  beef  flavor.  Pour  over 
slaw  mix.  (Make  2-3  hours  before  needed  so  noodles  will  soften.  Will 
keep  for  a  week  or  more-if  it  lasts  that  long). 


CHRISTMAS  RICE 

1  C.  uncooked  rice 

2  cans  chicken  &  rice  soup 
V/iC.  water 

1  medium  jar  pimento 
salt  &  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  all  ingredients.  Bake  at  350* 
minutes  (3  times). 


Sara  Ponder  &  Reba  Canady 

1  stick  margarine  (cut  in  slices) 

2  med.  bell  peppers 

1  large  onion  chopped 
1  can  sliced  mushrooms 


for  45  minutes  to  1  hour.  Stir  every  15 


OVERNIGHT  SLAW  Cora  Carter 

21/2  C.  green  cabbage 

2Va  C.  red  cabbage 

1  med.  green  pepper,  chopped 

Vz  C.  vegetable  oil 

V*  C.  white  wine  vinegar 

1  T.  sugar 

Chop  cabbage  and  pepper.  Add  all  other  ingredients  and  chill  over- 
night. 


Vz  t.  celery  seed 
Va  t.  celery  salt 
Vz  t.  onion  salt 
Vz  t.  table  salt 
Vz  t.  pepper 


12 


CORN  PUDDING  Dot  Rutledge 

8-10  ears  corn  (2-3  cups)  1  T.  butter 

1  C.  sugar  VAC.  milk 

1  heaping  T.  flour  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  eggs  or  egg  substitute 

Mix  well  and  pour  into  a  buttered  pyrex.  Bake  at  375  or  400°  until  light 
brown.  Stir  well  and  brown  again. 


ORANGE  SALAD  June  Keathley 

2  cans  mandarin  oranges 

1  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  small  can  frozen  orange  juice 

Drain  oranges;  use  juice  and  add  water  to  make  2  cups.  Bring  to  boil; 
dissolve  jello  and  add  other  ingredients.  Place  in  refrigerator  until  serv- 
ing. 


POTATO  SALAD  Judy  Poole 

6  potatoes,  cubed  Vz  C.  finely  chopped  celery 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste  1  C.  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs 

Vz  C.  chopped  bell  pepper  1  C.  lowfat  mayonnaise 

Vz  C.  chopped  onion  %  C.  prepared  mustard 
Vz  C.  sweet  pickle  cubes 

Cook  potatoes  until  tender;  let  cool,  peel  and  cube.  Add  salt  and  pep- 
per. Combine  with  remaining  ingredients.  Mix  gently.  Yields  12  generous 
servings. 


CONGEALED  STRAWBERRY  SALAD  Grace  Glover 

3  med.  bananas,  mashed  1  C.  chopped  pecans 

1  -20  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple,  1-16  oz.  pkg.  cherry  gelatin 

drained  1  C.  hot  water 

2-1 0  oz.  pkg.  frozen  1  -6  oz.  carton  light  sour  cream 

strawberries 

Mix  fruits  and  nuts.  Dissolve  gelatin  with  hot  water.  Mix  gelatin  and  fruit 
together.  In  a  9x13  dish  pour  half  of  gelatin  mixture.  Refrigerate  until  set. 
Spread  light  sour  cream  on  top.  Add  the  remaining  gelatin  on  top  of  the 
sour  cream.  Allow  to  set  in  refrigerator  until  firm.  Makes  12-15  servings. 

13 


CHERRY  NUT  SALAD 

1  pkg.  cherry  jello 

1  C.  not  water 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple, 

chilled 
1  can  cherry  pie  filling,  chilled 
1  C.  chopped  nuts 


Virginia  Helms 


Topping: 

1  -8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 

Vz  C.  sugar 

Va  C.  sour  cream 

1 1.  vanilla  flavoring 


Dissolve  cherry  jello  in  1  cup  boiling  water.  Stir  until  well  dissolved.  Add 
cherry  pie  filling,  pineapple  and  nuts.  Refrigerate  until  firm.  Beat  topping 
together  and  spread  over  cherry  nut  salad.  Place  back  in  refrigerator. 


VEG  SALAD 

V4  C.  sugar 
V*  C.  vinegar 
1  T.  water 
1 1.  salt 
Va  t  pepper 


Phyllis  Walsh 


1  can  small  peas 

1  can  shoe  peg  corn 

2  oz.  diced  pimentos 
1  C.  onions 

1  C.  celery 


Mix  sugar,  vinegar,  water,  salt  &  pepper.  Boil  for  1  minute.  Set  aside  to 
cool.  Drain  can  peas,  corn,  and  pimentos.  Cut  up  onions  and  celery.  Mix 
together.  Put  in  refrigerator  overnight  before  serving. 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

1-3  oz.  pkg.  orange  gelatin 
Va  pint  small  curd  cottage 

cheese 
1-5  oz.  carton  whipped  topping 


Alva  Rice 

1-8%  oz.  can  crushed 
pineapple,  well-drained 

1-10  oz.  can  mandarin  oranges, 
drained 


Sprinkle  dry  gelatin  over  cottage  cheese.  Fold  in  whipped  topping.  Add 
fruits.  Place  in  covered  bowl  and  refrigerate  24  hours  before  serving,  to 
blend  the  flavors.  The  secret  of  this  salad  is  to  drain  the  fruit  well.  Serves 
6-8  servings. 


CUCUMBER  SALAD 

1  pkg.  lemon  Jello,  dissolved 

In  Va  C.  boiling  water 
1  cucumber  grated,  unpeeled 
1  carton  cottage  cheese 

Mix  together  and  mold. 


Dottie  Smith 


1  C.  mayonnaise 
Va  C.  nuts,  optional 
salt  to  taste 


14 


BLUEBERRY  SALAD  Dot  Rutledge 

2  pkg.  blackberry  jello  15  oz.  can  blueberries 

2  C.  boiling  water  1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

Dissolve  jello  in  boiling  water.  Drain  fruit  and  add  1  cup  of  combined 

juices  to  not  mixture.  Add  blueberries  and  pineapple.  Pour  in  2  quart  flat 

dish  or  pan.  Chill. 

Topping: 

1  -8  oz.  cream  cheese  V&  tsp.  vanilla 

%  pt.  sour  cream  Va  C.  chopped  pecans 

V*  C.  sugar 

Whip  together  cheese,  sour  cream,  sugar,  and  vanilla  Spread  on  top  of 
congealed  gelatin  mixture.  Sprinkle  with  pecans.  Mini  marshmallows 
may  be  added  if  desired. 


MARINATED  VEGETABLE  SALAD  Alva  Rice 

1-1  lb.  can  green  peas  1  med.  green  pepper 

1-1  lb.  can  lima  beans  1  C.  chopped  celery 

2-1  lb.  each  french-cut  green  salt  to  taste 

beans  %  C.  vegetable  oil 

1  -1  lb.  can  shoe  peg  corn  %  C.  white  vinegar 

1  -8  oz.  can  water  chestnuts  Va  C.  sugar 
1-2  oz.  Jar  pimentos 

Drain  all  vegetables.  Slice  water  chestnuts,  pimentos,  and  green  pep- 
per, layer  vegetables  in  a  large  bowl.  Combine  oil,  vinegar,  and  sugar; 
stirring  until  sugar  dissolves.  Pour  over  salad.  Cover  and  refrigerate  for 
24  hours.  Makes  3  quarts. 


GRAPEFRUIT  ASPIC  Dottie  Smith 

2  C.  grapefruit  2  pkgs.  lemon  Jello 

1  -1 V2  C.  boiling  water  Vs  C.  chopped  pecans  or 

small  can  crushed  pineapple,  almonds 
do  not  drain 

Dissolve  jello  in  water.  Add  grapefruit  sections  and  juice.  May  cut  sec- 
tions if  desired.  Then  add  crushed  pineapple  and  nuts.  Put  in  mold  or 
9x13x2  inch  dish. 

15 


CHRISTMAS  RIBBON  SALAD  Dot  Rutledge 

FIRST  LAYER: 

1-3  oz.  pkg.  lime  jello 

VAC.  hot  water 

Pour  into  a  8x8  inch  glass  dish  and  let  stand  in  refrigerator  until  firm. 

SECOND  LAYER: 

Vz  C.  pineapple  juice 

20  large  marshmallows,  cut  up 

Heat  above  ingredients  in  a  pan  until  the  marshmallows  melt.  Dissolve 
one  3  oz.  pkg.  lemon  jello  in  V/z  C.  hot  water.  Soften  1-8  oz.  pkg.  cream 
cheese.  Combine  the  hot  marshmallow-pineapple  liquid,  jello  and  cream 
cheese  and  mix  well.  When  cool,  pour  over  the  first  layer  and  let  stand  in 
refrigerator. 

THIRD  LAYER: 

1-3  oz.  pkg.  cherry  jello 

1 V*  C.  hot  water 

Combine  above  ingredients.  When  cool,  pour  over  the  second  layer  and 
let  stand  until  firm.  Cut  in  2  or  3  inch  squares  to  serve.  SO  PRETTY  AS  A 
SALAD  OR  DESSERT. 


LAYERED  RIBBON  SALAD  Clara  Phillips 

3  oz.  pkg.  lime  gelatin  1  C.  chopped  pecans 

1  C.  hot  water  2  T.  mayonnaise 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple  3  oz.  pkg.  strawberry  gelatin 

3  oz.  pkg.  lemon  gelatin  1  C.  hot  water 

1  C.  hot  water  1  can  fruit  cocktail 

8  oz.  cream  cheese 

Combine  first  three  ingredients  and  pour  into  oblong  deep  serving  dish. 
Refrigerate  to  set.  Combine  next  five  ingredients  and  allow  to  cool.  Pour 
over  first  layer  and  allow  to  set.  Combine  remaining  ingredients  and 
cool.  Pour  over  top  of  other  layers  and  allow  to  set.  Cut  into  squares  & 
serve.  Can  double. 


ORANGE  SPICED  PEACH  SALAD  Sarah  Foard 

1  jar  spiced  peaches  (must  be  1-3  oz.  box  jello 

spiced,  not  pickled)  nuts 

Heat  peach  juice.  Pour  over  jello  and  dissolve.  Add  V4  C.  water  and  nuts, 
chopped  or  whole.  Place  peaches  in  ring  salad  mold.  Pour  liquid  over 
peaches.  Chill. 

16 


PASTA  SALAD  Sara  Honeycutt 

1  large  box  pasta  1  large  pepper,  chopped  or  thin 
1  large  purple  onion  strips 

1  large  carton  fresh  mushrooms  1  -1 0  oz.  jar  olives 

2  large  carrots  1  large  Kraft  Zesty  Italian 

1  head  broccoli  dressing 

2  tomatoes,  chopped  2  T.  sesame  seeds 

Cook  pasta,  rinse  &  drain.  Slice,  cook  &  drain  mushrooms.  Slice  carrots 
very  thin,  cook  &  drain.  Remove  florets  from  broccoli,  cook  &  drain. 
(Cook  all  these  vegetables  until  tender).  Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  a 
very  large  container.  Let  stand  24  hours  before  serving.  Will  last  several 
days.  Note:  do  no  cook  onion,  pepper,  or  tomatoes. 


FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD  Nancy  Stone 

1  small  can  fruit  cocktail,  V*  C.  chopped  nuts 
drained                                           V*  C.  mayonnaise 

2  bananas  1  C.  Cool  Whip 
6-8  maraschino  cherries,  sliced 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.   Freeze  in  muffin  tins.  Serve  in  dessert 
dishes  or  on  lettuce  leaves. 


FROZEN  PINEAPPLE-CRANBERRY  SALAD  Barbara  Warren 

V/i  C.  drained,  crushed  1  C.  sour  cream 

pineapple  %  C.  chopped  pecans 

1  can  whole  cranberry  sauce 

Combine  ingredients  and  spoon  into  paper  muffin  cups  that  are  placed 
in  muffin  tins.  Freeze  until  solidly  frozen.  Remove  paper  muffin  cups  and 
place  in  large  plastic  bag  in  freezer.  Remove  as  many  as  needed  and 
thaw  for  10-15  minutes  before  serving  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Makes  about  14 
individual  salads. 


CRANBERRY  CRUNCH  Una  Holshouser 

1  lb.  cranberries  2  apples 

2  oranges  1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  C.  celery,  fine  *1  pkg.  raspberry  Jello  or  1  pkg. 

1  C.  pecans,  cut  up  plain  gelatin 

Put  all  ingredients  through  food  chopper.  Mix  with  jello  or  gelatin  and 
chill  until  firm.  Use  as  salad  or  with  main  dish.  *(Do  not  mix  jello  or 
gelatin  with  water). 

17 


OVEN  CHICKEN  SALAD  Bernice  Nelson 

2  C.  chicken  cooked  &  diced  3  T.  lemon  juice 

2  C.  celery,  diced  1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 

IV2  C.  cooked  rice  2  hard  cooked  eggs,  diced 

V2  C.  nuts  1  C.  shredded  sharp  cheese  or 
1  T.  diced  onion  or  1  small  crushed  potato  chips 

onion  salt  &  pepper  to  taste 


1/2-3/4  C.  mayonnaise 

Mix  chicken,  celery,  rice,  nuts,  &  onion.  Mix  mayonnaise,  lemon  juice, 
and  celery  soup.  Blend  into  chicken  mixture.  (If  salad  seems  too  stiff, 
add  2-3  T.  water).  Add  salt  &  pepper  &  diced  eggs.  Spoon  chicken  mix- 
ture into  greased  9x13  casserole  and  cover  with  cheese  or  crushed 
potato  chips.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes  or  until  topping  is  browned 
and  mixture  is  bubbly.  Makes  8-10  servings. 


PINEAPPLE  CHICKEN  SALAD  Judy  Poole 

1Vz  C.  finely  chopped  chicken  Vs  C.  mayonnaise 

%  C.  crushed  pineapple,  V*  C.  chopped  walnuts 

drained 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Chill  before  serving. 


CRANBERRY  SALAD  Judy  Poole 

2-3  oz.  pkgs.  cherry  jello  1  C.  sugar 

3  C.  boiling  water  2  oranges 

1  lb.  fresh  cranberries,  8  oz.  crushed  pineapple, 
chopped  drained 

2  med.  apples,  chopped 

Dissolve  jello  in  boiling  water.  Pour  into  large  flat  dish.  Chill  until  partially 
set.  Process  cranberries,  apples,  oranges,  pineapple  and  sugar  in  food 
processor.  Stir  in  jello.  (1  C.  chopped  nuts,  optional).  Refrigerate. 


STRAWBERRY  PRETZEL  SALAD  Dot  Rutledge 

Mix  21/2  C.  crushed  pretzels  with  3  T.  brown  sugar  and  3A  C.  melted  oleo. 
Pat  into  a  buttered  13x9x3  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  10  minutes  and  cool. 
Beat  together  1  small  Cool  Whip,  1-8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  and  Vz  C. 
sugar.  Spread  over  pretzel  base.  Bring  15V2  oz.  can  of  undrained 
crushed  pineapple  to  a  boil.  Add  6  oz.  pkg.  strawberry  jello.  Stir  and 
remove  from  heat  quickly.  Let  jello  congeal  a  little  before  adding  3  C. 
strawberries.  When  jello  has  congealed,  pour  over  first  mixture.  Keep  in 
refrigerator. 

18 


STRAWBERRY  SALAD 
(20  SERVINGS) 

2  C.  crushed  pretzels  (8  oz) 
V*  C.  butter,  melted 

3  T.  sugar 

3-3  oz.  pkg.  strawberry  jello 
1  Vz  C.  boiling  water 
IV2  cans  crushed  pineapple, 
2  cups 


Johnsie  Kennon 
Mary  Lou  Atkinson 

3-10  oz.  pkg.  frozen 

strawberries 
1  pkg.  8  oz.  cream  cheese, 

softened 
1  C.  sugar 
8  oz.  topping 


For  Crust:  Mix  pretzels,  melted  butter  and  3  T.  sugar  together  and 
spread  in  bottom  of  a  9x14x2  container.  Bake  5-10  minutes  at  350°. 
Cool.  For  filling:  Mix  jello  and  boiling  water.  Add  thawed  strawberries  (or 
boiling  water  will  thaw)  and  pineapple  (juice  and  all).  Pour  half  of  mixture 
on  top  of  pretzels  crust.  Let  congeal.  Center  Layer:  Mix  softened  cream 
cheese,  1  C.  sugar  and  topping.  Spread  on  top  of  congealed  half,  then 
add  other  half  of  filling  and  congeal. 


CUCUMBER  CHEESE  SALAD 

1-3  oz.  lime  jello 
V*  C.  hot  water 
1  C.  shredded  cucumber, 
unpeeled 


Bernice  Nelson 

V2  C.  shredded  carrots 
2 1.  grated  onion 
1  C.  creamed  cottage  cheese 
1  C.  salad  dressing 


Dissolve  gelatin  in  water  and  cool.  Mix  cucumber,  onion,  and  carrot. 
Drain.  Add  cottage  cheese  &  salad  dressing.  Fold  in  gelatin.  Pour  into 
mold  and  chill  until  set. 


CHERRY  COKE  SALAD 

2  cans  dark  sweet  cherries 
1-1 5V2  oz.  can  crushed 

pineapple 
2-3  oz.  pkgs.  cherry  jello 


Faye  L  Helms 

1-12  oz.  coke 

1  carton  soft  cream  cheese 

1  C.  chopped  pecans 


Drain  cherries  and  pineapple  and  retain  juice.  Heat  to  a  boil.  Dissolve 
jello  in  juice.  Add  coke.  Mix  in  cream  cheese.  Add  nuts.  Pour  into  9x13 
pan  (or  molds).  Refrigerate.  Use  whipped  cream  topping  if  desired. 


FRUIT  VELVET 


Alva  Rice 


1-11  oz.  can  mandarin  orange 

segments,  drained 
1  C.  green  seedless  grape 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Chill  until  ready  to  serve.  Makes  4  servings. 


Vz  C.  pineapple  tidbits 
V*  C.  sour  cream 
1 1.  brown  sugar 


19 


CHERRY  SALAD  Alva  Rice 

1  can  cherry  pie  filling  1-8  oz.  can  mandarin  oranges, 

1  can  sweetened  condensed  drained  &  chopped 

milk  1  C.  pecans,  chopped 

1  -20  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple,  1  -8  oz.  container  whipped 

drained  topping,  thawed 

Combine  all  of  the  above  ingredients  and  stir  well.  Refrigerate. 


CABBAGE  SALAD  Juanita  Martin 

3  C. cabbage  2  T.  sugar 

3  T.  green  pepper  2  T.  vinegar 

1  T.  onion  2  T.  salad  oil 
1 1.  salt 

Chop  cabbage,  pepper,  and  onion.  Mix  together  salt,  vinegar,  sugar, 
and  oil.  Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Keeps  very  well  because  there  is  no 
mayonnaise. 


PRETZEL  SALAD  Lana  Arndt 

2  C.  crushed  pretzels  2  C.  Cool  Whip 

Va  C.  margarine,  melted  2  small  pkg.  strawberry  Jello 

3  T.  sugar  2  C.  boiling  water 

1  -8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  2-1 0  oz.  pkg.  frozen 

1  C.  sugar  strawberries 

Mix  together  first  3  items.  Put  into  13x10  dish.  Bake  at  400°  for  8-10 
minutes.  Cool.  Mix  well  cream  cheese  &  sugar.  Fold  in  2  C.  Cool  Whip. 
Spread  over  pretzel  mix.  Mix  together  jello,  water,  frozen  strawberries. 
Stir  until  dissolved.  Sit  in  refrigerator  for  10  minutes.  Pour  over  cream 
cheese  mixture.  Keep  in  refrigerator  until  served. 


WORLD'S  BEST  BROCCOLI  SALAD  Patsy  Barnett  Kinsey 

2  large  bunches  broccoli,  cut  4  spring  onions 

into  small  pieces  2  C.  mayonnaise 

1  lb.  bacon,  cooked  1  Vz  C.  sugar 

8  oz.  Cheddar  cheese,  grated  2  T.  vinegar 

Mix  mayonnaise,  sugar  and  vinegar  about  one  hour  before  serving.  Stir 
into  other  ingredients  that  have  been  combined.  Serves  8. 

20 


BEAN  SALAD  Lois  Tate 

1  can  or  Jar  3  bean  salad  mix,  1  can  red  kidney  beans, 

not  drained  drained  &  rinsed  with  cold 

1  small  can  green  peas,  drained  water 

Vz  C.  sugar  Vz  C.  vinegar 
Vz  C.  oil 

Mix  together  and  refrigerate  overnight.  Drain  and  serve  coid. 


21 


Potpourri 


BEET  PICKLES  Johnnie  Martin 

2  gal.  beets,  leave  enough  top  1  C.  water 

to  retain  color  2  C.  sugar 

2  c.  vinegar  1  T.  pickling  spices 

Bring  to  boil  last  4  items.  Pour  over  beets  packed  in  jars.  Process  for  10 
minutes  in  simmering  water  (180°)  to  cover  jars.  (I  buy  canned  beets 
and  use  the  last  4  items  in  proportion  to  amount  of  beets). 


BUCK  EYES  Dot  Rutledge 

1  Vz  boxes  confectioners  sugar  1  -6  oz.  bag  semi-sweet 

1  lb.  peanut  butter  chocolate  chips 

Vz  lb.  margarine  Vz  bar  paraffin  wax 

Mix  first  three  ingredients  together  and  roll  into  small  balls.  Melt  wax  and 
chips  together.  {\t  is  best  to  use  a  double  boiler  for  this  so  the  chocolate 
won't  get  too  hot).  Using  toothpicks,  dip  balls  into  melted  chocolate 
leaving  a  small  circle  at  top  of  the  ball  uncoated.  Dry  on  waxed  paper. 
This  makes  a  lot  of  candy.  You  may  want  to  use  half  the  recipe. 


CANDY  PICKLES  Gene  Poole 

3  dozen  large  cucumbers  3  sticks  cinnamon 

2  qts.  vinegar  brine 

6  pts.  (1 2  cups)  sugar  alum 
2  T.  celery  seed 

1.  Wash  cucumbers  and  put  in  brine  for  one  week.  (Brine  that  will  float  a 
fresh  egg).  (Simply  add  salt  to  water  until  egg  floats).  2.  Drain,  cut  in 
pieces  one  inch  long  and  cover  with  boiling  water  to  which  has  been 
added  one  lump  of  alum  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Let  stand  overnight.  3. 
Drain  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Let  stand  until  cold.  4.  Make  syrup  of 
vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices,  boiling  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Drain  cucum- 
bers; pour  boiling  syrup  over  them  and  let  stand  overnight.  5.  Drain, 
reheat  syrup  and  pour  over  cucumbers,  doing  this  each  day  for  four 
days.  Seal  in  sterilized  jars. 


23 


CRANBERRY  CHUTNEY  Dot  Rutledge 

1-12  oz.  bag  cranberries  1  large  apple,  peeled  and 

2  C. sugar  chopped 

1  C.  water  1  C.  dark  raisins 

1  C.  orange  juice  1  t.  grated  orange  peel 

1  C.  chopped  pecans  1  t.  grated  ginger 

1  C.  chopped  celery 

Heat  cranberries,  sugar  and  water  to  boiling.  Reduce  heat  to  low  and 
cook  15  minutes.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  in  remaining  ingredients. 
Spoon  into  containers  or  jars  and  store  in  refrigerator.  Delicious  with 
turkey  and  dressing  or  any  meat. 

CURRIED  FRUIT  COMPOTE  Majorie  Glass 

1  can  peaches  1  can  pineapple  pieces,  use 

1  can  pears  this  juice 

1  can  apricots  2-3 1.  curry  powder 
1/2  C.  sugar 

Drain  juice  off  peaches,  pears,  and  apricots.  Mix  fruits  in  a  baking  dish. 
Cover  with  sugar  and  sprinkle  with  curry.  Bake  about  1  hour  at  325°.  A 
few  cherries  added  is  pretty.  Serve  warm. 

FROZEN  PICKLES  Elma  Helms 

2  qts.  cucumbers,  sliced  thin  1  C.  white  vinegar 

1  onion,  thinly  sliced  2 1.  salt 

3  C. sugar 

Sprinkle  salt  over  cucumbers  and  onions.  Let  stand  2  hours.  Heat  sugar 
and  vinegar  until  sugar  has  melted.  Drain  cucumbers  and  onions 
thoroughly.  Put  cucumbers  and  onions  in  containers  and  pour  syrup 
over,  filling  to  top  of  container.  Freeze.  May  keep  in  freezer  for  a  year  or 
more. 

HEAVENLY  JAM  Judy  Perryman 

2  med.  oranges  6  med.  peaches 
1  lemon  6  med.  apples 
pinch  of  baking  soda  sugar 

6  med.  pears 

Grind  unpeeled  oranges  &  lemon  in  food  processor  or  grinder;  transfer 
to  a  large  kettle.  Add  baking  soda;  simmer  10  minutes.  Peel  the  remain- 
ing fruit;  grind,  then  crush  it.  Add  to  orange  mixture;  measure  &  return  to 
kettle.  Add  sugar  equal  to  amount  of  fruit.  Boil  until  thick,  about  30 
minutes.  Pour  into  hot  jars,  leaving  W  headspace.  Adjust  caps.  Process 
20  minutes  in  boiling  water  bath.  Yield:  about  7  pts.  Recipe  requires  no 
pectin. 

24 


JEZEBEL  SAUCE  Faye  McDonald 

1-10  oz.  jar  pineapple  1  -4  oz.  Jar  hot  mustard 

preserves  6  T.  prepared  horseradish 

1-10  oz.  Jar  apple  Jelly 

Mix  and  refrigerate.  Use  like  barbecue  sauce  on  meat.  This  is  especially 
good  with  pork  or  chicken. 

HOT  PEPPER  JELLY  Mildred  A.  Little 

4  bell  peppers  5  lb.  sugar 

1 2  small  hot  green  or  red  3  C.  white  vinegar 

peppers  2-8  oz.  bottles  liquid  pectin 

Chop  peppers  in  food  chopper  or  blender  with  V&  C.  water.  Add  sugar 
and  pepper  and  boil  1  minute.  Skim  off  foam.  Add  green  or  red  food 
coloring  if  desired.  Pour  into  hot  sterilized  jar  and  seal. 

KOSHER  DILL  PICKLES  Gene  Poole 

1  qt.  yellow  apple  vinegar 

1  qt.  water 

Vz  C.  salt,  not  Iodized 

Fill  sterilized  jars  with  small  whole  or  large  cut  cucumbers.  Put  into  each 
jar:  1  clove  garlic,  1  grape  leaf,  and  1  head  dill  or  Vz  t.  dill  seed.  Heat 
vinegar,  water  and  salt  to  boiling,  fill  jars  and  seal. 

Marjorie  Glass 
CHEAP  EASY  PICKLES 

V*  C.  cider  vinegar 

1  -46  oz.  Jar  Kosher  dills,  whole         1  T.  mustard  seed 
(cheapest  ones)  1  T.  celery  seed 

2  C.  sugar 

Pour  liquid  off  pickles  and  rinse  thoroughly  in  cold  water.  Cut  pickles 
into  W  slices.  Put  back  into  jar.  Mix  other  ingredients.  Add  to  pickles  and 
shake  well  back  and  forth  until  mixed  well.  Juice  will  appear.  Refrigerate. 
Keeps  well  for  a  long  time.  These  are  so  easy  to  make  and  so  good! 

NOODLE  NESTS  Dot  Rutledge 

1  can  of  your  favorite  frosting 
4  C.  chow  mein  noodles 
small  jelly  beans 

Cover  cookie  sheet  with  waxed  paper.  Heat  frosting  over  low  heat  until  it 
is  liquid,  stirring  occasionally.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  in  noodles  by 
Va  cupfuls.  Drop  about  one  inch  apart  on  waxed  paper.  Make  a  hollow  in 
center  of  each,  using  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Fill  with  jelly  beans.  Let  stand 
until  firm.  FUN  FOR  CHILDREN  TO  DO  AT  EASTER  TIME. 

25 


POTATO  CANDY  Dot  Rutledge 

1  medium  potato 

IV2-2  boxes  confectioners 

sugar 
peanut  butter  to  spread 

Cook  potato  in  peeling.  Peel  and  mash.  Add  confectioners  sugar. 
Knead,  then  roll  flat.  Spread  with  peanut  butter.  Roll  up  and  slice  after 
chilling. 

PUPPY  CHOW  Janelle  Long 

1  box  Crispix  cereal  1-12  oz.  pkg.  chocolate  chips 

1  box  1 0x  box  confectioners  (semi-sweet) 

sugar  1  stick  margarine 
1  C.  creamy  peanut  butter 

Melt  peanut  butter,  chocolate  chips  &  butter  in  saucepan.  Pour  Crispix 
in  large  bowl.  Pour  melted  mixture  over  Crispix.  Pour  1 0x  sugar  over  mix. 
Cover  bowl  &  shake,  shake,  shake!!  (A  plastic  bowl  with  a  seal  cover 
works  best). 

SNACK  DILLS  June  Keathley 

1  pkg.  of  ranch  dressing  one  large  box  of  Chees-it 

Va  C.  oil  crackers 

1  T.  dill  weed 

Mix  all  together  and  bake  at  250°  1 5-20  minutes,  shake  every  5  minutes. 
P.S.  I  use  4-6  C.  of  snack  crackers,  pretzels  and  nuts  and  cereals  and 
bake  longer  tho. 

STRAWBERRY  FIGS  Gene  Poole 

7  C.  mashed  figs 

3  C.  sugar 

12  oz.  strawberry  jello 

Cook  in  heavy  pot  for  10  minutes  or  until  thick  (It  will  stick). 


MOM'S  PEAR  HONEY  Dot  Rutledge 

6  pears  1  orange 

6  apples  1  Vz  lbs.  sugar 

Pare  and  seed  pears  and  apples.  Peel  orange,  remove  seeds.  Grind 
pears,  apples  and  orange.  Add  sugar  and  cook  20  minutes,  stirring  fre- 
quently. Add  grated  orange  rind.  Cook  until  thick.  Delicious  for  breakfast 
on  hot  biscuits.  WORTH  THE  WORK! 

26 


PLAY  DOUGH  Dot  Godfrey 

1  C.  plain  flour  2 1.  cream  of  tartar 

y%  C.  salt  1  T.  cooking  oil 

1  C.  water  food  coloring,  any  color 

Mix  flour,  salt,  water,  cream  of  tartar,  cooking  oil,  &  food  coloring 
together  until  smooth.  May  use  rotary  beater.  Heat  over  medium  heat, 
stirring  constantly.  When  mixture  pulls  away  from  pan  remove  from  heat. 
Turn  out  onto  waxed  paper.  Knead  play  dough  until  smooth  and  store  in 
airtight  container. 


UNUSUAL  PEACH  PRESERVES  Pat  Carpenter 

4  C.  sliced  peaches  1  T.  butter 

juice  of  Vz  lemon  4  C.  sugar,  divided 

Combine  peaches,  lemon  juice,  butter,  and  2  C.  sugar.  Boil  10  minutes. 
Add  remaining  2  C.  sugar  and  cook  for  12  minutes.  Remove  from  heat 
and  put  into  large  bowl.  Let  stand  overnight,  stirring  occasionally.  The 
next  day  return  mixture  to  the  stove  and  bring  just  to  boiling.  Pour  mix- 
ture into  hot  sterilized  jars.  Put  lids  in  place.  Submerge  jars  in  simmering 
water  (the  level  of  the  water  must  be  a  least  1  inch  over  the  tops  of  the 
lids)  for  10  minutes.  Remove  and  cool. 


27 


Main  Dishes  &. 
Casseroles 


CHINESE  BARBECUE  CHICKEN  Amy  Tarn 

4  chicken  breasts  2  T.  sugar 

1/4  C.  sherry  1  T.  chopped  ginger 

Va  C.  soy  sauce  1  T.  chopped  green  onion 

1  T.  sesame  oil 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Marinate  chicken  breasts  at  least  4  hours,  turn- 
ing occasionally.  Grill  over  hot  coals  until  done. 


EASY  GARDEN  VEGETABLE  PIE  June  Keathley 

2-1 0  oz.  pkgs.  frozen  broccoli,  1  Vz  C.  milk 

thawed  3A  C.  Blsquick 

Vz  C.  chopped  onion  3  eggs 

Vz  C.  chopped  bell  pepper  1 1.  salt 

1  C.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  vegetables  and  cheese  together  and  pour  into  9x13"  baking  dish. 
Whip  milk,  Bisquick,  eggs,  and  salt  &  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  well  and  pour 
over  vegetable  mixture.  Bake  at  400°  for  35-40  minutes. 


ITAUAN  FRITTATA  Dot  Rutledge 

1  C.  egg  substitute  V*  C.  chopped  red  pepper 

1  T.  skim  milk  V*  C.  broccoli  flowerets 

Vs  t.  garlic  powder  V«  C.  alfalfa  sprouts 

V*  t.  leaf  oregano  V*  C.  sliced  mushrooms 

Vs  t.  black  pepper  2  oz.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 

Combine  first  five  ingredients  in  a  small  bowl.  Beat  well.  Coat  a  medium 
non-stick  skillet  with  cooking  spray.  Saute  red  peppers  and  broccoli  for 
2-3  minutes.  Remove  mixture  from  skillet  and  set  aside.  Add  egg  mixture 
to  skillet  and  cook  over  low  heat  until  set.  Do  no  stir.  Top  with  cooked 
vegetables,  alfalfa  sprouts  and  mushrooms.  Sprinkle  with  shredded 
cheese.  Cover  tightly  and  let  stand  for  3-5  minutes  until  cheese  melts. 
Great  for  breakfast  or  brunch. 


BAKED  BEANS  Ruby  Craddock 

large  size,  3  lb.  can  pork  &  1  C.  Ketchup 

beans  2  T.  Worcestershire 

1  lb.  hamburger,  browned  and  3  T.  white  sugar 

drained  Vz  C.  molasses 

1  med.  onion,  chopped  bacon  for  top 

Bake  at  325°  or  350°  for  approximately  1  hour  and  15  minutes. 

29 


BEEF  WITH  ASPARAGUS  Pauline  Chan 

Vz  lb.  beef  2  T.  water 

Vz  T.  each,  soy  sauce,  cooking  Vs  t.  salt 

wine  Vs  t.  sugar 

1  T.  cornstarch  1  t.  cornstarch 

total  of  2  C.  or  Vz  lb.  sectioned  Vz  t.  sesame  oil 

asparagus,  sliced  mushroom  pepper  as  desired 
1  T.  shredded  ginger 

Mix  together  soy  sauce,  wine  &  cornstarch.  Slice  beef  and  combine  with 
soy  sauce  mixture.  Add  1  T.  oil  and  mix  so  meat  will  separate  during 
frying.  Heat  1  T.  oil.  Briefly  stir-fry  asparagus  &  mushrooms.  Add  1  T. 
water;  remove.  Wipe  wok  dry.  Heat  2  T.  oil.  Stir  fry  ginger  until  fragrant. 
Add  beef  and  stir  fry  to  desired  tenderness.  Combine  water,  salt,  sugar, 
cornstarch,  sesame  oil,  &  pepper.  Add  this  mixture  to  the  meat  and  then 
add  asparagus  and  mushrooms.  Stir  to  mix  well;  serve. 


GROUND  BEEF  PIE  Dot  Godfrey 

1  baking  potato  5  slices  cheese,  American  or 

1  medium  onion  Cheddar 

1  lb.  ground  beef  top  and  bottom  9"  pie  crusts 
1-16  oz.  can  tomatoes 

1 .  Into  unbaked  pie  crust  place  very  thinly  sliced  potato  to  cover  bottom 
of  crust.  2.  Brown  ground  beef  in  1  T.  oil  and  spread  on  top  of  potato 
layer.  3.  Next  add  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  onions.  4.  Pour  tomatoes  and 
juice  over  onions.  5.  Add  layer  of  cheese  slices  and  cover  with  top  crust 
which  has  been  vented  with  knife  slits.  6.  Bake  1  Vz  hours  at  325°. 


OVEN  BEEF  STEW  Lana  Arndt 

3  lb.  stew  beef  V6  soup  can  water 

4  C.  diced  potatoes  2  T.  flour 

2  C.  sliced  carrots  1  T.  salt,  can  cut 

2  onions,  cut  up  1  T.  sugar 

1  can  tomato  soup  Vz  t.  pepper 

Put  in  dutch  oven  in  order  given.  Do  not  stir.  Cover  and  bake  for  5  hours 
at  250°.  Stir  well  before  serving. 

30 


SLOW  COOKER  BRUNSWICK  STEW 


Pat  Carpenter 


2-3  C.  ground  cooked  chicken 
2  C.  ground  cooked  pork 
1  small  onion,  ground 
2-16  oz.  cans  whole  tomatoes, 
mashed 


2-16  oz.  cans  cream  style  corn 

1  C.  chicken  broth 

salt  and  pepper 

Dash  of  Tabasco  sauce 

Dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce 


Put  all  ingredients  in  slow  cooker;  stir  well.  Cover  and  cook  on  LOW  set- 
ting for  6-9  hours  (on  HIGH  setting  for  3-4  hours).  Add  more  chicken 
broth  after  cooking  if  desired.  Season  to  taste  before  serving  with  addi- 
tional salt,  pepper,  Tabasco,  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  The  longer  the 
stew  cooks  the  better  the  flavor.  Makes  4-6  servings  (about  21/2  qts.). 


BEEF  STROGANOFF 

3  lb.  round  steak,  Vzm  thick 

V*  C.  butter 

1  Ig.  onion 

Va  C.  sifted  flour 

1  can  consomme  soup 


Pat  Carpenter 


1  can  tomato  soup 

3  oz.  can  mushrooms 

salt/pepper 

1/z  C.  sour  cream 

2  T.  parsley 


Remove  skin  and  fat  from  steak.  Cut  meat  in  narrow  strips  about  2"  long, 
slicing  across  grain.  Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  or  roaster  with  the  V*  C. 
butter.  Brown  meat.  Add  1  large  onion,  thinly  sliced.  Cook  several 
minutes.  Sprinkle  over  top  %  C.  flour,  stir  until  flour  is  blended.  Add  1 
can  consomme  and  tomato  soup,  stir  until  sauce  thickens.  Add  can 
mushrooms,  whole  or  sliced.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  and  cook 
over  low  heat  1-1  Vz  hours,  or  until  meat  is  tender.  Just  before  serving, 
add  Vz  C.  sour  cream  and  parsley.  Serve  over  wide  noodles. 


CHICKEN  ENCHILADAS 

4  chicken  breasts,  cooked, 

deboned,  and  cut 
1  can  mushroom  soup 
1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
1  can  Rotel 


Dottie  Smith 


1  chopped  onion 
1  chopped  bell  pepper 
1  pkg.  flour  tortillas 
grated  cheese 


In  a  9x13  pan,  spread  T.  of  soup  mixture  on  bottom;  then  layer  tortillas, 
chicken,  onion,  bell  pepper,  soup  mixture  and  cheese.  Repeat  layers. 
Top  with  tortillas,  soup  mixture  and  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  covered  with 
foil  for  45  minutes.  Last  1 5  minutes  without  foil. 


31 


BAKED  CHICKEN 

1  stick  margarine 
1  C.  raw  rice 
1  can  onion  soup 


Dottie  Smith 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
1  chicken  bouillon  cube 
1  C.  water 


Mix  all  ingredients  and  put  chicken  on  top.  Bake  at  400°  1  hour  covered 
and  15  minutes  uncovered. 


LEMON  HERB  CHICKEN 

V2  C.  lemon  juice 
V*  C.  corn  oil 

2 1.  dried  dillweed,  rosemary,  or 
tarragon  crushed 


Carroll  Flowe 

2  T.  chopped  parsley 
1 1.  salt 

Va  t.  pepper 

3  lbs.  broiler-fryer  chicken  parts 


Mix  all  but  chicken  in  a  large  shallow  baking  dish.  Add  chicken;  turn  to 
coat.  Cover;  refrigerate,  turning  occasionally  for  several  hours  or  over- 
night. Remove  chicken  from  marinade.  Place  on  a  grill  6"  from  heat,  turn- 
ing and  brushing  frequently  with  the  marinade,  35-45  minutes  or  until 
tender.  Makes  4  servings. 


3-CUP  CHICKEN 

chicken  leg  quarters,  6  pieces 
1  C.  vegetable  oil/black  sesame 

oil 
1  C.  soy  sauce 


Gloria  Ho 


1  C.  cooking  wine 
Vz  bulb  garlic 

2  T.  sugar 


1.  Rinse  and  chop  chicken  in  bite-size  chunks.  2.  Fry  garlic  in  oil  on 
moderate  heat.  3.  Stir  in  chicken.  4.  Add  soy  sauce,  cooking  wine,  & 
sugar.  5.  Cook  with  cover  for  5-8  minutes.  Ready  to  serve.  Delicious. 


BAKED  CHICKEN  PARMESAN 

1  egg 

Va  C.  sour  cream 

Va  C.  Italian  bread  crumbs 


Nancy  Stone 

2  T.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
2  chicken  breast,  skinned 


Beat  egg  in  shallow  bowl.  Stir  in  sour  cream  &  set  aside.  Combine  bread 
crumbs  and  cheese  in  a  shallow  bowl.  Dip  chicken  pieces  in  egg  mix- 
ture, then  bread  crumb  mixture.  Bake  in  greased  baking  dish  at  350°  for 
45  minutes  or  until  well  done. 

32 


HOT  CHICKEN  SALAD 


Dot  Rutledge 


2  C.  cooked  chopped  chicken 

1  can  cream  chicken  soup 

2  hard  boiled  eggs 

1  C.  chopped  celery 
Vz  C.  mayo 


1 1.  grated  onion 

Vz  C.  almonds 

Vs  C.  crushed  Ritz  crackers 

salt  and  pepper 


Combine  all  ingredients.  Put  in  buttered  casserole  dish.  Bake  1  hour  at 
325°. 


LEMON  PARMESAN  CHICKEN 

V*  C.  bread  crumbs 
3  T.  Parmesan  cheese 
1  T.  parsley  flakes 


Judy  Poole 


6-4  oz.  chicken  breasts 
Vz  C.  melted  margarine 
1  T.  lemon  Juice 


Combine  bread  crumbs,  cheese  and  parsley  in  bowl.  Rinse  chicken.  Roll 
in  crumb  mixture,  coating  well.  Place  in  shallow  pan.  Drizzle  with  mixture 
of  margarine  and  lemon  juice.  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour. 


CURRIED  CHICKEN 

2  C.  cooked  chicken 
1  onion,  chopped 

1  clove  garlic,  chopped 

2  T.  margarine 
2  T.  flour 


Jean  Austin 

1 1.  curry  powder 

1  chicken  bouillon  cube 

dissolve  in  1  C.  broth 
1  small  can  evaporated  milk,  or 

sweet  milk 


Saute  onion  and  garlic  in  margarine.  Add  flour  and  cook  2-3  minutes. 
Add  curry  powder,  milk,  and  broth.  Stir  as  it  thickens.  Add  pieces  of 
chicken  taken  from  bones.  Simmer  5  minutes;  serve  over  hot  cooked 
rice. 


CHICKEN  RICE 

2  cans  chunky  chicken,  not 

drained 
2  cans  Veg-AII,  drained 


Alva  Rice 


2  cans  cream  of  mushroom 
soup,  undiluted 


Layer  above  in  casserole  dish  in  order  as  shown  above  (chicken,  Veg- 
AII,  &  soup).  Mix  together  and  pour  over  the  above:  1  C.  self  rising  flour, 
1  C.  milk,  and  2  sticks  melted  margarine.  Bake  30  minutes  or  until  brown 
at  400°. 


33 


POPPY  SEED  CHICKEN  Helen  Glenn 

6-9  chicken  breasts  1  stack  of  Ritz  crackers 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup  2  T.  poppy  seeds 

1-8  oz.  pkg.  of  sour  cream  1  stick  of  melted  butter 

Line  9x13  dish  with  cooked  chopped  chicken.  Mix  soups  with  sour 
cream  and  pour  over  chicken.  Crush  crackers  and  sprinkle  over 
chicken.  Then  sprinkle  poppy  seeds  and  pour  melted  butter  over  all. 
Bake  at  350°  for  25-30  minutes. 


CHICKEN  DAVID  Beth  Morgan/Faye  Helms 

Vz  lb.  butter  2  cans  cream  of  mushroom 

4  boneless  chicken  breasts  soup 

1  -8  oz.  carton  sour  cream  Vz  soup  can  of  sherry 

Melt  butter.  Turn  chicken  in  melted  butter  -  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in 
shallow  pan  in  325°  oven  for  30  minutes.  Meanwhile  mix  2  cans  mush- 
room soup,  sour  cream,  and  sherry.  Pour  over  chicken  and  bake  1-1  Vz 
hours. 


EASY  CRUST  CHICKEN  PIE  Barbara  Helms 

1  chicken  1  C.  self-rising  flour 

1  stick  margarine  1  C.  milk 

1 1.  salt  1  Vz  C.  chicken  broth 

1 1.  pepper  1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 

Cook  chicken,  remove  skin  and  bones.  Cut  up  and  place  in  a  9x13 
baking  pan.  (De-fat  broth  by  refrigerating  until  cold  and  remove  fat  from 
top  of  broth).  Mix  chicken  broth  and  celery  soup,  heating  and  stirring  un- 
til smooth,  bet  aside.  Mix  all  other  ingredients.  Pour  broth  and  soup  mix- 
ture over  chicken.  Pour  crust  mixture  on  top  of  chicken  and  soup  mix- 
ture. Bake  at  425°  for  30-35  minutes  or  until  crust  is  brown. 


CRISPY  BAKED  CHICKEN  Chris  Harrington 

4  boneless  chicken  breast  1  C.  cornflake  crumbs 

fillets  1 1.  rosemary 

1  C.  skim  milk  freshly  ground  black  pepper 

Remove  all  skin  from  chicken;  rinse  and  dry  pieces  thoroughly.  Dip  in 
milk;  mix  cornflake  crumbs  with  rosemary  and  pepper;  roll  in  seasoned 
crumbs.  Let  stand  briefly  so  coating  will  adhere.  Place  chicken  in  an 
oiled  baking  pan.  (Line  pan  with  foil  for  easy  clean-up).  Do  not  crowd; 
pieces  should  not  touch.  Bake  at  400°  for  45  minutes  or  more.  Yield:  4 
serving. 

34 


CHICKEN  PIE  Pat  Carpenter 

4  large  chicken  breasts  Crust: 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup  1  C.  self-rising  flour 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup  2  sticks  margarine 

1  can  mixed  vegetables  1  C.  milk 

Cook  chicken  breast  and  remove  meat  from  bone.  Place  in  baking  dish 
and  mix  with  chicken  soup,  mushroom  soup,  and  mixed  vegetables.  Mix 
the  flour,  melted  margarine  and  milk  to  form  thin  batter  and  pour  over 
other  ingredients.  Bake  at  400°  for  40-45  minutes. 

CHICKEN  DUMPLINGS  Pat  Carpenter 

3  lb.  chicken  1  egg 

water  salt  to  taste 

1  C.  milk  1 1.  baking  powder 

1  C.  boiling  chicken  broth  4  C.  plain  flour 

Put  the  chicken  in  large  pot  with  about  2Vs>  qts.  water.  Simmer  chicken 
several  hours  until  tender.  Remove  chicken  (you  should  have  about  2 
qts.  broth).  Remove  chicken  from  bones  and  reserve  meat.  Mix  milk,  1  C. 
broth,  egg,  salt,  and  baking  powder  into  flour.  Mix  and  work  in  flour  until 
stiff  enough  to  roll.  Roll  out  dough  fairly  thin;  cut  into  1  inch  strips  and 
drop  one  at  a  time  into  the  remaining  boiling  broth  in  pot.  Cover  and 
cook  until  dumplings  are  tender  and  done.  Stir  in  meat. 

MELT-IN-YOUR-MOUTH  CHICKEN  PIE  Johnnie  Martin 

1-2  lb.  chicken  1  C.  self-rising  flour 

1  -1 0  oz.  can  cream  of  chicken  Vz  t.  salt 

soup  Vz  t.  black  pepper 

2  C.  chicken  broth  Vz  C.  melted  margarine 

1  C.  buttermilk 

Stew  chicken  and  remove  all  bones.  Cut  into  small  pieces.  Spread  in  a 
13x9x2"  baking  pan.  Bring  to  boil  2  C.  chicken  broth  and  the  can  of 
chicken  soup.  Pour  over  chicken  pieces.  In  a  separate  bowl,  mix  melted 
margarine,  buttermilk,  flour,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Spoon  mixture  over 
chicken  pieces  and  broth.  Bake  at  425°  for  20-30  minutes. 

HOT  CHICKEN  SALAD  Gerry  McCoy 

2  C.  cooked  chicken  1  C.  mayonnaise 

2  C.  chopped  celery  Vz  C.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

Vz  C.  chopped  almonds  2 1.  salt 

Vz  C.  chopped  mushrooms  1  C.  potato  chips,  crushed 
1 1.  chopped  onion 

Mix  all  ingredients  (except  potato  chips).  Put  in  baking  dish  and  sprinkle 
potato  chips  on  top.  Bake  at  350°  until  hot. 

35 


CHICKEN  PIE  Daisy  Austin 

1  -1 0  oz.  can  whole  chicken  1-16  oz.  pkg.  frozen  vegetables 

Vz  C.  condensed  milk,  undiluted  (carrots  &  peas  or  other) 

1  -1 0%  oz.  cream  of  2-9"  deep  crust  pie  shells 
mushroom-chicken  soup 

Tear  chicken  into  small  pieces.  Mix  all  ingredients  in  mixing  bowl.  Pour 
into  one  pie  shell.  Place  other  pie  shell  over  top.  Cut  4  1"  slits  in  top 
crust.  Cook  in  preheated  oven  (375°)  approximately  40  minutes  or  until 
all  ingredients  are  cooked. 


CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY  CURRY  Marjorie  Glass 

2  med.  onions,  chopped  1  C.  seedless  raisins 

5-6  T.  oil  1  C.  crushed  pineapple,  drained 

6-8  cloves  small  piece  of  lemon  peel, 
2-3  stick  cinnamon  optional 

5  T.  flour  +  1  C.  light  cream  or  evaporated 

3  T.  curry  powder  milk 

1  qt.  chicken  broth  2  or  more  C.  of  cooked  chicken 

Scant  t.  salt  or  turkey,  diced  (I  usually  use 

juice  of  Vi  lemon  a  3+  lb.  fryer) 

Simmer  onions,  stick  cinnamon,  and  cloves  in  oil  until  golden  and  soft. 
Remove  cloves,  cinnamon  and  onions.  Stir  in  flour,  gradually  adding 
broth,  stirring  constantly  over  low  heat.  Replace  cloves,  cinnamon,  and 
onions.  Stir  in  raisins,  pineapple,  and  lemon  juice.  When  thickened,  add 
chicken,  cream,  and  salt.  If  a  stronger  curry  is  desired,  add  more  curry 
powder.  Simmer  to  desired  consistency.  Serve  with  rice  and  favorite 
condiments.  After  chicken  is  added,  stir  gently  so  the  chicken  will  stay  in 
nice  chunks.  Yield:  8-10  servings.  Our  favorite  condiments  for  chicken  or 
turkey  curry:  Pineapple  chunks,  drained,  mango  chutney,  optional, 
shredded  coconut  (or  pkg.  frozen),  honeydew  melon  or  cantaloupe, 
cubed,  diced  bananas,  apples,  cubed,  peanuts,  cucumbers,  cubed, 
Prawn  crackers.  You  can  use  any  or  all  of  the  above. 


DIXON'S  KANSAS  CITY  CHILI  Pat  Carpenter 

10  lb.  ground  beef  4  T.  red  pepper 

2  oz.  chill  powder  1  T.  cumin  seed 

1  bulb  garlic  salt  to  taste 

Steam  meat.  Mix  spice  in  water.  Cook  45  minutes. 

36 


CHILI  MEATBALLS 


Una  Holshouser 


1  lb.  ground  beef 
V4  C.  bread  crumbs 

2  T.  chopped  onions 
1 1.  salt 

1  egg 


V*  C.  tomato  soup,  reserve 
%  can  tomato  soup  mixed  with 

V*  C.  water  (equals  1  can 

of  soup) 


Mix  together  all  ingredients  except  the  reserved  tomato  soup  and  water. 
Make  into  1  inch  balls  and  brown  on  cookie  sheet.  When  brown  place  in 
baking  dish  and  pour  reserved  soup  and  water  over  meatballs.  Cover 
and  bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes. 


CURRIED  FRUIT 

1  #2  can  peach  halves 
1  #2  can  pear  halves 
1  #2  can  pineapple  slices 
Vz  C.  butter  or  margarine 
1  C.  brown  sugar 


Judy  Perryman 


1  sm.  bottle  maraschino 

cherries 
2 1.  curry  powder 
mandarin  orange  slices, 

optional 


Drain  all  fruit  well.  Place  in  greased  casserole  dish.  Melt  butter.  Blend 
sugar,  butter  and  curry  powder.  Spoon  over  fruit.  Bake  at  325°  for  45 
minutes.  Yield:  8-10  servings.  Note:  Reserve  cherries  to  place  on  top  of 
other  fruit. 


ENCHILADAS  ACAPULCO 

1  lb.  ground  beef 
1-9  oz.  can  tomato  sauce 
%  C.  chopped  green  pepper 
1  81/2  oz.  kidney  beans,  drained 
8-6"  tortillas 


Janelle  Long 

Vfe  lb.  Velveeta  Mexican  cheese, 

cubed 
oil 

Vz  C.  chopped  fresh  tomato 
sour  cream,  optional 


Brown  meat,  drain.  Add  tomato  sauce  and  V6  C.  peppers.  Cook  over 
medium  heat  5  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Add  beans  and  V4  lb. 
cubed  cheese;  continue  cooking  until  cheese  is  melted.  Dip  tortillas  in 
hot  oil,  drain.  Fill  each  tortilla  with  %  C.  meat  mixture;  roll  up.  Place  seam 
side  down  in  12x8  baking  dish.  Top  with  remaining  meat  mixture;  cover. 
Bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes.  Top  with  remaining  cheese;  continue 
baking,  uncovered  5-8  minutes  until  cheese  is  melted.  Top  with  remain- 
ing peppers  and  tomatoes.  Serve  with  sour  cream,  if  desired.  Serves  4. 


37 


CRAB-SHRIMP  QUICHE 


Dot  Lee 


1  deep  dish  9  Inch  pie  shell 
2-6  oz.  pkg.  frozen  crab  or 

shrimp 
4  large  eggs 
1  C.  half  I  half 
dash  of  nutmeg 


1-4  oz.  can  sliced  mushrooms, 

drained 
1 1.  chives 
dash  of  pepper 
IV2-2  C.  grated  Jarlsburg 

cheese 


Thaw  and  drain  crab  or  shrimp  well.  Beat  together  eggs,  half  &  half  and 
seasonings.  Place  crab  or  shrimp  in  bottom  of  pie  shell.  Sprinkle  with 
cheese.  Add  egg  mixture.  Bake  at  370°  for  35-40  minutes,  or  until  center 
is  firm.  To  prepare  ahead,  bake  10  minutes  less;  cool,  wrap  and  freeze. 
Bake  at  325°  for  25  minutes.  Note:  May  substitute  Vi  C.  sherry  for  V*  C. 
half  &  half. 


BAKED  FISH  DRAUGHON 

onions 

tomatoes 

fish  fillets,  any  kind 

1  can  cream  of  shrimp  soup 


Patsy  Barnett  Kinsey 


1  C.  white  wine  or  sherry 
Parmesan  cheese 
saltines 


In  Pyrex  baking  dish,  put  layer  of  sliced  onions  topped  with  a  layer  of 
thinly  sliced  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Top  with  a  layer  of 
fish.  Mix  cream  of  shrimp  soup  with  wine  or  sherry  and  baste  fish  with 
mixture.  Sprinkle  fish  with  Parmesan  cheese,  crumble  crackers  on  top 
and  then  add  more  parmesan  cheese.  Pour  rest  of  sauce  over  fish  and 
bake  at  350°  until  done.  20  minutes  for  thin  fish.  30  minutes  or  more  for 
thicker  fish.  Serves  4-6. 


SHERRY  WINE  FRUIT 

1  can  peach  halves 
1  can  pineapple  slices 

1  can  spiced  apple  rings 

2  cans  apricot  halves 
1  can  pear  halves 


Sara  Honeycutt 


1  stick  margarine 
V2  C.  sugar 

1  C.  sherry  wine 

2  T.  flour 


Drain  juice  from  all  canned  fruits.  Place  in  layers  in  large  casserole  dish. 
Mix  sugar,  wine,  flour  and  margarine  in  saucepan  and  cook  until  mixture 
thickens.  Pour  over  fruit  and  refrigerate  overnight.  Heat  before  serving. 


38 


HAM  PIE  Bobbie  (Mrs.  E.W.)  Baldwin 

2Vi  C.  milk  V«  t.  dry  or  regular  mustard 

Vfc-Vs  C.  cornstarch  Vz  t.  horseradish 

Vz  stick  margarine  1 Vz  C.  chopped  ham 

1 1.  salt  3  boiled  eggs,  chopped 

%  t.  paprika  grated  cheese 

Cook  milk  and  cornstarch  till  thick.  Add  other  items  except  ham,  eggs 
and  cheese.  Cook  till  margarine  melts  and  is  thick-like  creamed  soup 
not  diluted.  Stir  in  ham,  eggs  and  top  with  grated  cheese.  Cook  in  oven 
till  cheese  melts.  1 5-20  minutes  at  350°. 

GOULASH  Leslie  Smith 

IV2  lbs.  ground  chuck  1  can  whole  tomatoes,  chopped 

1  small  onion,  chopped  1  C.  large  macaroni 

1  green  pepper,  chopped  2  C.  Mozzarella  cheese 

Brown  ground  chuck  and  drain.  Add  onions  and  pepper,  cook  until 
tender.  Add  chopped  tomatoes  and  simmer.  Cook  macaroni  until  almost 
done,  add  to  mixture  and  simmer.  Pour  into  Pyrex  dish  and  cover  with 
Mozzarella  cheese.  Place  in  oven  under  broiler  and  let  cheese  melt  and 
brown.  Serves  6-8. 

HAMBURGER  DISH  Alva  Rice 

1  lb.  hamburger 
small  box  macaroni 
large  can  tomatoes 

Brown  1  lb.  hamburger  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion  salt.  Drain  well.  Cook 
small  box  macaroni.  Heat  large  can  tomatoes.  To  Serve:  Put  serving  of 
macaroni  on  plate,  hamburger  and  then  tomatoes. 

LASAGNA  Rachel  Smith 

1 Vz  lb.  ground  chuck  1  -6  oz.  can  tomato  paste 

1  small  box  lasagna  1  carton  cottage  cheese 

1  onion,  chopped  1-3  C.  pkg.  and  1-2  C.  pkg. 
1  pkg.  Sauer  spaghetti  mix  Mozzarella   cheese 

1  can  tomatoes 

Cook  ground  chuck  and  onion  until  browned.  Drain.  In  blender  add 
tomatoes  and  tomato  paste,  and  one  can  of  water  from  tomato  paste 
can.  Mix  and  pour  into  ground  chuck  then  add  spaghetti  mix.  Cook 
about  30-45  minutes  on  medium,  stirring  often.  Cook  lasagna  according 
to  package.  Put  some  sauce  in  pan  first,  then  lasagna  noodles,  cottage 
cheese,  Mozzarella  cheese.  Add  a  sprinkle  of  Parmesan  cheese  if  you 
like,  then  repeat  the  above  until  you  finish  with  Mozzarella  cheese.  Cook 
at  350°  until  cheese  is  browned.  About  30  minutes. 

39 


LASAGNA  Pat  Carpenter 

1  lb.  Italian  sausage  3  C.  fresh  Ricotta  or  creamy 

1  clove  garlic,  minced  cottage  cheese 

1  T.  whole  basil  Va  C.  grated  Parmesan  or 

1  Va  tsp.  salt  Romano  cheese 
1-1  lb.  can  (2  C.)  tomatoes  2  beaten  eggs 
2-6  oz.  cans  (1 V*  C.)  tomato  2 1.  salt 

paste  Vz  t.  pepper 

1 0  oz.  lasagna  or  wide  noodles         1  lb.  Mozzarella  cheese,  sliced 

2  T.  parsley  flakes  very  thin 

Brown  meat  slowly;  spoon  off  excess  fat.  Add  next  5  ingredients.  Sim- 
mer, uncovered,  30  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Cook  noodles  in  large 
amount  boiling  salted  water  till  tender;  drain.  Rinse.  Combine  remaining 
ingredients,  except  Mozzarella  cheese.  Place  half  the  noodles  in  13x9x2 
inch  baking  dish;  spread  with  half  the  cottage  cheese  filling.  Add  half  the 
Mozzarella  cheese  and  half  the  meat  sauce.  Repeat  layers.  Bake  at  375° 
about  30  minutes.  Let  stand  10  minutes  before  cutting  in  squares,  filling 
will  set  slightly.  Makes  12  servings.  Or  assemble  early;  refrigerate.  Be 
sure  to  allow  1 5  minutes  or  so  longer  in  oven. 


LASAGNA  Beverly  Doyle 

Brown  1  -1 1/2  lbs.  lean  hamburger  with  2  medium  chopped  onions  and  2 
cloves  minced  garlic.  Cook  12  oz.  of  lasagna  noodles  as  directed. 
Prepare  sauce  and  add  to  meat  mixture.  Sauce:  1  small  can  tomato 
paste,  2  cans  tomatoes,  2 1.  oregano  or  Italian  seasonings,  2  bay  leaves, 
and  salt  &  pepper  to  taste.Cheese  sauce:  Melt  2  T.  margarine.  Stir  in  1 
T.  flour,  add  1  C.  Parmesan  cheese  and  1  C.  milk.  In  a  9x13  pan  layer 
noodles,  meat  sauce  and  cheese  sauce.  Top  each  layer  of  cheese 
sauce  with  thinly  sliced  Mozzarella  Bake  30-40  minutes  at  350°. 


LOW  COUNTRY  BOIL  Trey  Doyle 

Bring  a  large  kettle  of  water  to  a  boil  with  Va-Vz  bag  shrimp  and  crab 
seasonings,  1-2  medium  sized  onions,  quartered,  4-6  new  potatoes, 
cubed.  Brown  about  1  lb.  polish  sausage,  sliced;  then  drain.  Add  to  sim- 
mering water.  Add  4-6  small  ears  of  corn  (fresh  or  frozen)  to  water. 
Finally  add  2-2V&  lbs.  shrimp  to  water.  Cook  until  shrimp  are  pink  and 
vegetables  are  tender.  Serve  with  cornbread,  french  bread  or  crackers. 
Serves  4-6. 

40 


MARINATED  PINEAPPLE  CHUNKS 


Dottie  Smith 


4-20  oz.  cans  pineapple 

chunks,  save  juice 
2  c.  vinegar 
1  C.  white  sugar 


1  C.  brown  sugar 

4  T.  cloves 

1  box  cinnamon  sticks 


Mix  vinegar,  sugars,  and  juice  from  fruit.  Bring  to  a  rapid  boil.  Drop  in 
cloves  and  cinnamon.  Continue  to  boil  for  2  minutes.  Turn  off  burner 
and  let  mixture  completely  cool.  Pour  over  fruit.  Makes  8  cups,  this 
keeps  a  couple  of  weeks  in  refrigerator. 


ROSEMARY'S  TEASED  EGGS 

3  T.  butter 

3  T.  flour 

salt  to  taste 

I-IV2C.  milk 

3  T.  prepared  horseradish 


Zelda  DeCristoforo 

l-VfeC.  sour  cream 

1  lb.  cooked,  cleaned,  shrimp 
8-10  eggs,  hard  boiled 

2  T.  grated  onion 
Parmesan  cheese  grated 


Melt  butter  and  stir  in  flour,  salt  and  milk.  Cook  until  thickened.  Stir  in 
horseradish  and  sour  cream.  Chop  shrimp  finely  reserving  a  few  shrimp 
for  garnish.  Cut  eggs  in  oblongs,  and  scoop  out  yolks.  Mash  yolks  and 
add  salt,  onion,  half  of  the  sauce,  and  chopped  shrimp.  Fill  whites  of  the 
eggs  with  the  yolk  mixture.  Place  in  a  13x9x2  casserole.  Pour  sauce  over 
eggs.  Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  garnish  with  whole 
shrimp.  Bake  at  325°  for  15  minutes  or  until  bubbly.  This  can  be  made  a 
day  ahead,  covered  with  Saran  Wrap  and  refrigerated.  Take  out  of  the 
refrigerator  1  hour  before  baking. 


EGG/CHEESE  SOUFFLE 


8  slices  buttered  bread 

2Va  C.  milk 

4  eggs 

1 1.  salt 

1 1.  dry  mustard 


Sara  Ponder/Marjorie  Glass/ 
Betty  Fowler 

Vz  lb.  American  cheese,  grated 
V*  t.  onion  salt,  optional 
Vs  t.  pepper,  optional 


Cut  crusts  off  of  bread  and  cut  into  fourths.  Place  half  the  bread  in 
greased  2  qt.  casserole  dish.  Cover  with  half  the  cheese.  Repeat  bread 
and  cheese.  Beat  eggs,  milk,  salt,  and  mustard  together.  Pour  over 
bread  and  cheese.  Let  sit  overnight  (12-24  hours)  in  refrigerator.  Set  it  in 
a  pan  of  water.  Bake  1  hour  at  350°. 


41 


FLANK  STEAK  MARINATE  SAUCE  June  Keathley 

Vs  C.  salad  oil  2V*  t.  (less  salt)* 

%  C.  soy  sauce  Vz  C.  wine  vinegar,  white, 

V4  C.  Worcestershire  sauce  unflavored 

2  T.  dry  mustard  1 V2  tsp.  parsley  flakes 

1 1.  onion  salt  V*  C.  fresh  lemon  juice 

1 1.  pepper 

Mix  all  together.  Marinate  steaks  in  mixture  overnight  or  for  days.  Cook 
on  charcoal  fire  using  the  sauce  on  it.  Slice  in  small  pieces  against  the 
grain.  P.S.  This  is  great  for  round  steak,  too.*Can  use  less  salt. 


TWO  MEAT  PASTA  Trey  Doyle 

Cook  your  favorite  pasta  as  directed.  Drain.  Brown  and  cook  until  tender 
2-3  chicken  breasts.  Slice  in  strips.  Brown  and  slice  about  1  lb.  polish 
sausage.  Drain.  Toss  pasta,  chicken,  and  sausage  with  3  T.  minced  gar- 
lic, 3  T.  parsley  and  4-6  T.  margarine.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese. 
Serves  4-6. 


BAKED  PAPRIKA  POTATOES  Robbie  Scarborough 

Vz  C.  margarine  pinch  garlic  or  onion  salt 

V«  C.  all  purpose  flour  6  med.  (about  2  lb.)  potatoes, 

V*  C.  grated  Parmesan  cheese  peeled  and  quartered 

1  T.  paprika  lengthwise 
V*  tsp.  salt 

Melt  margarine  in  13x9x2  inch  baking  pan.  Combine  the  next  6  in- 
gredients in  large  plastic  bag  and  set  aside.  Rinse  potatoes  under  cold 
water  and  drain  well.  Place  half  of  the  potatoes  in  the  bag  and  shake 
well  to  coat.  Place  in  single  layer  in  baking  pan.  Repeat  with  remaining 
potatoes.  Bake  uncovered  in  a  350°  oven  for  50-60  minutes  or  until 
tender,  turning  once  after  30  minutes.  Serves  4-6. 


CORN  PUDDING  Gerry  McCoy 

1  C.  self-rising  corn  meal  Vz  C.  cooking  oil 

1  C.  creamed  corn  2  eggs 

1  C.  sour  cream 

Mix  all  of  the  ingredients  together.  Bake  in  12  inch  square  pan  about 
1 5-20  minutes  at  400°  or  until  lightly  browned. 

42 


CROCK  POT  MACARONI  &  CHEESE  Faye  McDonald 

10  oz.  macaroni,  cooked  and  1  C.  shredded  Swiss  cheese 

drained  1  Vz  C.  regular  mlik 

1  C.  evaporated  milk  1  stick  margarine 
5  eggs  1 1.  dry  mustard 

2  C.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  both  kinds  of  milk,  eggs,  margarine,  2  C.  Cheddar  cheese,  dry  mus- 
tard, salt  and  pepper.  Spray  crock  pot  with  Pam.  Then  layer  noodles  & 
cheese  mixture.  Top  with  1  C.  of  Swiss  cheese,  cover  and  cook  on  low 
for  3  hours  in  crock  pot.  Do  not  stir.  More  milk  may  be  added  if  needed. 


PINEAPPLE  AU  GRATIN  Carroll  Flowe 

2-20  oz.  cans  pineapple  tidbits,  2  C.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 

drained  grated 

1  C.  sugar  1  C.  Ritz  crackers,  crumbled 

6  T.  all  purpose  flour  Vz  C.  melted  butter 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  except  crackers  and  butter.  Place  mixture  in 
a  greased  V/z  qt.  casserole  dish.  Cover  top  with  cracker  crumbs  and 
drizzle  with  melted  butter.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  minutes.  Serves  6-8. 


E-Z  FRIED  RICE  (SHRIMP)  Dr.  Kim  Tarn 

2  C.  cooked  rice  2  eggs,  scrambled,  cut  Into 

1  C.  frozen  green  peas,  thawed  small  Va  in.  pieces 

1  C.  popcorn  shrimp,  cooked  2 1.  chopped  spring  green 

onion 

Cook  rice  a  few  hours  ahead  and  loosen  up  the  rice  to  cool  and  get  rid 
of  excessive  steam/moisture.  Add  2  t.  of  oil  to  a  large  non-stick  frying 
pan.  Heat  oil  and  add  spring  onion,  and  rice.  Stir  fry  a  couple  of  minutes. 
Add  green  peas,  shrimp  and  eggs.  Stir  fry  a  few  more  minutes.  Add  a 
small  amount  of  soy  sauce  for  color  and  taste.  Serve  hot.  Can  substitute 
ham  or  chicken  for  the  shrimp.  May  also  add  extra  ingredients  such  as 
chopped  onion,  corn  or  parsley.  This  adds  color  and  flavor. 


SIMPLE  FRY  RICE  Gloria  Ho 

4  bowls  cooked  rice  1 1.  salt 

Vz  doz.  eggs  4  T.  vegetable  oil 

4  T.  chopped  green  onion 

1 .  Beat  and  mix  egg  white  and  yolk  well.  2.  Heat  oil,  add  green  onion, 
and  salt.  3.  Stir  in  egg  batter.  4.  Add  rice  before  the  scrambled  eggs  be- 
come solid.  5.  Stir  and  mix  them  until  they  do  not  stick  together. 

43 


SOUTHWESTERN  MEAT  &  POTATO  STEW  Janelle  Long 

2  lb.  ground  beef  or  chuck  1  C.  salsa 
1  large  onion,  chopped  1 1.  salt 

1  C.  water,  divided  Vz  t.  pepper 

1  -28  oz.  can  tomatoes  with  1 1.  ground  cumin 

liquid,  cut  up  Vz 1.  garlic  powder 

1-16  oz.  bag  frozen  corn  2  T.  all  purpose  flour 

3  med.  potatoes,  peels  &  cubed 

In  dutch  oven  or  large  pot,  brown  beef  and  onion;  drain.  Add  2A  C.  water 
and  all  remaining  ingredients  except  flour.  Bring  to  a  boil;  reduce  heat. 
Cover  and  simmer  for  1  Vz  hours.  Combine  flour  and  remaining  V*  C. 
water;  stir  into  stew.  Cook  and  stir  until  boiling  and  slightly  thickened. 
Yield:  6  servings. 


SPAGHETTI  SAUCE  Gene  Poole 

2  lbs.  hamburger  meat  1/4  C.  finely  chopped  green 

V*  C.  finely  chopped  onion  pepper 

Vz  bulb  finely  chopped  garlic 

Brown  all  above  in  small  amount  of  oil.  Add: 

1 2  oz.  tomato  paste  V*  t.  oregano 

2  pt.  tomatoes  3  T.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  Vz  T.  sugar  Vz  t.  hot  sauce 

2 1.  salt  Vz  t.  celery  seed 

1  T.  chill  powder  2  large  bay  leaves 

1  T.  Italian  seasoning 

Cook  on  low  heat  for  2  hours.  Remove  bay  leaves  before  serving. 


EASY  CHEDDARY  SCALLOPED  POTATOES  Dot  Rutledge 

2  T.  margarine  4  medium  potatoes,  cooked 

1  small  onion,  sliced  and  sliced 

1  can  broccoli  cheese  soup  chopped  fresh  parsley  for 

Vz  C.  milk  garnish 

Vb  t.  pepper 

1.  Saute  onion  in  margarine  until  transparent.  2.  Add  remaining  in- 
gredients except  parsley.  Heat  to  boiling.  Reduce  heat  to  low.  Cover; 
simmer  5  minutes  or  until  hot  and  bubbling.  3.  Place  in  serving  dish  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

44 


CROWD  PLEASING  POTATOES  Helen  Glenn 

2  lb.  pkg.  hashed  brown  1  can  cream  chicken  soup 

potatoes  Vz  C.  chopped  onions 

Vz  lb.  margarine,  2  sticks  2  C.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 

1  pint  sour  cream  grated 

Thaw  potatoes,  melt  margarine.  Mix  Vz  of  the  margarine  with  the 
potatoes  until  the  potatoes  are  coated.  Combine  undiluted  soup,  sour 
cream,  onion  and  cheese.  Mix  well  with  potatoes.  Place  in  9x13  baking 
dish.  Pour  the  remaining  Vz  of  the  melted  margarine  over  the  potatoes. 
Cover  with  corn  flakes  crumbs.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes. 

CINDERELLA'S  MAGIC  QUICHE  Dot  Rutledge 

2  C.  shredded  Swiss  cheese  3A  C.  cooked,  chopped  turkey, 

2  T.  flour  ham,  shrimp  or  chicken 
1  Vz  C.  milk  dash  pepper 

3  eggs  or  egg  substitute  can  mushrooms  (or  use  fresh 
9  in.  deep  dish  pie  shell  ones) 

Vz  t.  salt 

Toss  cheese  with  flour.  Add  milk,  eggs,  meat  and  seasonings.  Mix  well. 
Pour  into  pastry  shell.  Bake  at  350  for  55-60  minutes  or  until  set.  I 
sometimes  add  some  cooked  broccoli. 


SALMON  LOAF  Virginia  Helms 

1  -1  lb.  can  pink  salmon  (drain,  SAUCE: 
flake  and  save  liquid)  2  T.  butter 

V*  C.  milk  2  T.  flour 

2  beaten  eggs  1  C.  milk 

1  C.  bread  crumbs  Juice  from  salmon 

1  T.  lemon  juice  1 1.  prepared  horseradish 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste  1  T.  lemon  juice 

Mix  flaked  salmon,  milk,  eggs,  bread  crumbs,  lemon  juice  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  into  a  loaf  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes.  Serve  with 
sauce  spooned  over  top  of  meat  slices.  For  sauce  melt  butter,  add  flour 
and  blend.  Add  milk,  salmon  liquid,  lemon  juice,  horseradish  and  cook 
slowly  until  smooth,  stirring  frequently. 


SALMON  LOAF  Alva  Rice 

1  can  salmon  1  egg 

Vz  C.  herb  dressing  Vz  C.  mayonnaise 

1 1.  onion  use  liquid  from  can  of  salmon 

Mix  all  of  the  above.  Bake  for  30  minutes  at  400°. 

45 


STIR  FRY  PRAWNS  (SHRIMP)  Ann  Yu 

V2  lb.  prawns  V*  C.  chopped  ginger 

V*  C.  chopped  garlic  V*  C.  butter 

Va  C.  chopped  green  onion  V*  C.  wine 

Remove  shell  from  prawns.  Melt  butter.  Fry  chopped  garlic,  green  onion 
and  ginger  for  a  couple  seconds.  Then  pour  in  the  prawns;  add  some 
wine.  Wait  until  It  changes  color  to  pink.  Remove  from  heat  and  pour  on 
plate. 


SQUASH  SQUARES  Frances  Brooks 

3  C.  grated  squash  Vz  t.  salt 

Vz  C.  grated  onion  Vz  C.  Parmesan  cheese 

1  C.  Bisquick  4  eggs,  beaten 

Vz  C.  corn  oil 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  pour  into  a  long  baking  dish.  Bake  at  375°  for 
30-35  minutes.  Cut  in  squares. 


SUKIYAKI  (JAPAN)  June  Keathley 

1  lb.  round  steak-1/*  inch  strips  1  C.  sliced  celery 

1  can  condensed  bouillon  1  green  pepper,  sliced 

2  T.  soy  sauce  1  medium  onion  thinly  sliced 
2  T.  flour  1  small  can  mushrooms 

Cut  round  steak  into  Mr  strips  and  brown  well  in  fat  in  hot  skillet;  add 
bouillon  and  soy  sauce.  Simmer  for  about  20  minutes  or  until  meat  is 
tender.  Thicken  with  flour  and  add  vegetables;  simmer  for  10  minutes 
longer.  Serve  over  hot  rice.  Yields  6  servings. 

Janelle  Long 

SWISS  BLISS  potatoes 

mushrooms,  optional 
2  lbs.  cubed  steak  1  lb.  can  tomatoes 

1  pkg.  onion  soup  mix  6-8  pats  butter 

green  peppers 
onions 

Place  a  20"  piece  of  heavy  duty  foil  in  9x13  pan.  Place  6-8  pats  butter  on 
foil.  Put  2  lbs.  cubed  steak  on  top  of  butter.  Sprinkle  meat  with  onion 
soup  mix.  Slice  green  peppers,  onion,  potatoes  and  mushrooms  on  top 
of  soup  mix.  Chop  canned  tomatoes  (save  juice)  and  put  on  top  of 
potatoes.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Sauce:  Vz  C.  tomato  juice,  dash  of 
A-1  sauce,  1  T.  cornstarch.  Mix  together  until  well  blended.  Pour  over 
meat  and  vegetable  mixture.  Sprinkle  on  1  T.  parsley.  Cover  and  cook  at 
350°  for  2  hours. 

46 


TASTY  TOMATO  BAKE  Chris  Harrington 

3  strips  bacon  1  T.  sugar 

V*  C.  green  pepper,  chopped  1  T.  flour 

V*  C.  onion,  chopped  V«  t.  pepper 

2  C.  bread  cubes,  3  slices  V*  t.  sage 

6  medium  tomatoes,  chopped  Vs  C.  Cheddar  cheese,  grated 

Fry  bacon  and  drain,  leave  about  3  T.  fat  in  skillet.  Saute  pepper  and 
onion  lightly  in  fat.  Stir  in  bread  cubes  and  brown  lightly.  Add  tomatoes 
to  bread  mixture.  Combine  sugar,  flour,  pepper  and  sage.  Toss  with 
tomatoes.  Spoon  mixture  into  greased  1  Vz  at.  casserole.  Crumble  bacon 
over  top.  Sprinkle  with  cheese.  Bake  at  350  for  20-30  minutes. 


HONEY  GRILLED  TURKEY  TENDERLOINS  Leah  Poole 

2-4  turkey  tenderloins  2  T.  brown  sugar 

Vs  C.  low  sodium  soy  sauce  3  T.  honey 

Vz  t.  ground  ginger  2 1.  sesame  oil 
%  t.  ground  garlic 

Cut  tenderloins  in  half  (long  way).  Place  in  shallow  container.  Combine 
soy  sauce,  ginger  and  garlic.  Pour  over  tenderloins.  Cover  and  seal. 
Refrigerate  one  hour,  turning  occasionally.  Remove  tenderloins  from 
marinade  (discard  marinade).  Combine  brown  sugar,  honey,  and  oil  in  a 
sauce  pan.  Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring  constantly  until  sugar  dissolves. 
Place  tenderloins  on  rack,  brush  with  honey  mixture.  Cook  15-20 
minutes  on  one  side;  flip  and  baste  with  mixture.  Cook  until  done. 


GRATES  RAW  SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING  Lorena  M.  Barnett 

2  C.  grated  raw  sweet  potato  pinch  of  salt 

1  C.  of  sugar  V*  lb.  butter,  or  substitute 

2  eggs  1 V2  C.  sweet  milk 
2 1.  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  as  for  custard  until  a  lemon  colored  fluff; 
add  milk,  melted  butter,  vanilla,  salt  and  grated  potato.  Bake  in  a  but- 
tered dish  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  hours. 

47 


SWEET  POTATO  SOUFFLE 


Barbara  Long 


3  C.  mashed  sweet  potatoes 

1  C.  sugar 
1/2 1.  salt 

2  eggs 

Va  stick  margarine 
Vz  C.  sweet  milk 
1 1.  vanilla 


TOPPING: 

1  C.  brown  sugar 
1  C.  chopped  nuts 
Vz  C.  flour 
1A  stick  margarine 


Mix  all  ingredients,  pour  into  greased  baking  dish.  Mix  topping  and 
sprinkle  on  top.  Bake  for  35  minutes  at  350°. 


ASPARAGUS  CASSEROLE 

1-14  oz.  can  asparagus 
1  small  onion,  chopped 
1  C.  grated  sharp  cheese 


Juanita  Martin 

2  slices  bread,  toasted  and  cut 

into  cubes 
1  T.  vegetable  oil 


Saute  onion  in  oil  until  clear.  Add  bread  cubes  to  pan  and  coat  with  oil. 
Arrange  asparagus  in  shallow  baking  dish.  Next  add  grated  sharp 
cheese  on  top  of  asparagus.  Top  with  onion  and  bread  cubes.  Bake  at 
350°  until  cheese  is  melted. 


GOLDENROD  BEAN  CASSEROLE 

2-1 5  oz.  cans  f rench  style 

beans 
Vz  C.  liquid  from  beans 
3  eggs,  hard  boiled 
IV2T.  margarine 


Sarah  Foard 


Vz  t.  salt  and  pepper 

parsley 

Vz  C.  mayonnaise 

V*  C.  evaporated  milk 


Cook  beans,  salt  to  taste.  Boil  3  eggs.  Chop  egg  whites,  set  aside. 
Crumble  egg  yolks,  set  aside.  Reserve  Vz  C.  liquid  from  cooked  beans. 
Drain  beans.  Make  sauce:  melt  1  Vz  T.  margarine  in  sauce  pan.  Blend  2 
T.  flour  in  Vz  C.  liquid  from  beans.  Add  to  butter  and  stir.  Add  salt  and 
pepper.  Boil.  Add  egg  whites  and  evaporated  milk  and  heat  thoroughly 
until  sauce  consistency.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  mayonnaise.  Place 
beans  in  casserole  and  cover  with  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  egg  yolks  and 
parsley. 


BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

IV2C.  cooked  rice 
1  small  jar  of  Cheese  Whiz 
10  oz.  chopped  broccoli, 
cooked 

Bake  20  minutes  at  400°. 

48 


Lana  Arndt 

2  T.  melted  margarine 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup  or 

mushroom,  undiluted 
1  T.  lemon  juice 


BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE  Patsy  B.  Kinsey 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  2  T.  onion 

1  stick  of  butter,  melted  2  pkgs.  frozen  broccoli 

1  C.  mayonnaise  1  C.  mushroom  soup 

1  C.  shredded  sharp  cheese  2  pkgs.  Ritz  crackers,  crushed 

Cook  and  drain  broccoli.  Add  mayonnaise,  %  of  cheese,  onion,  butter 
and  eggs.  Grease  a  baking  dish  and  then  put  a  layer  of  broccoli  mixture 
in  and  then  a  cup  of  mushroom  soup.  Put  in  a  second  layer  of  broccoli 
mixture  and  top  with  crushed  Ritz  crackers,  and  the  other  half  of  grated 
cheese.  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour. 

BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE  Sara  Honeycutt 

2  heads  broccoli  2  cans  Campbells  cream  of 
1  large  onion,  chopped  mushroom  soup 

1  stick  margarine,  melted  2  C.  grated  sharp  cheese 

2  eggs,  beaten 

Steam  broccoli  florets  until  tender,  drain  and  mix  with  other  ingredients. 
Bake  one  hour  at  350°.  Remove  before  last  15  minutes  and  top  with 
crushed  Ritz  cracker  crumbs.  Return  to  oven  and  finish  baking  time. 


BROCCOLI,  CHEESE,  RICE  CASSEROLE  Dot  Rutledge 

2  C.  cooked  rice  1  T.  minced  onion 

1  pkg.  frozen  broccoli,  cooked  1  small  jar  cheese 

1  small  can  mushrooms  1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

2  T.  butter,  melted 

Mix  all  ingredients.  Place  in  a  buttered  dish  or  pan.  Bake  at  375°  for  15 
minutes.  This  can  be  prepared  ahead  of  time  and  kept  in  the  fridge  until 
just  before  time  to  bake.  (A  can  of  water  chestnuts  gives  it  a  good 
crunch). 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  Barbara  Long/Janelle  Long 

1  pkg.  Pepperidge  Farm  Corn  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

Bread  dressing  1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  stick  margarine  4  large  chicken  breasts 

Stew  chicken-no  salt-  let  cool.  Pull  apart  into  pieces.  Set  aside.  Save 
broth.  Melt  margarine  and  stir  in  dressing.  In  a  greased  9x13  dish  put  a 
layer  of  dressing,  then  a  layer  of  chicken.  Dilute  can  of  mushroom  soup 
with  can  of  chicken  broth  put  on  above.  Repeat  the  above  3  using 
cream  of  chicken  soup  diluted  with  can  of  chicken  broth.  Sprinkle  layer 
of  dressing  on  top.  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour  uncovered.  Do  not  salt  at  all. 
May  freeze. 

49 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 


Faye  L  Helms 


2  C.  cooked  chicken,  diced 
1  C.  rice,  cooked 
1  C.  diced  celery 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup, 
undiluted 

2  T.  chopped  onion 


V*  c.  mayonnaise 

1  small  can  water  chestnuts, 

sliced  and  drained 
V2  C.  sliced  almonds 
1  C.  corn  flakes,  crushed 
V*  stick  butter,  melted 


Mix  first  8  ingredients  and  put  in  buttered  casserole.  Mix  corn  flakes  with 
melted  butter  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  mixture.  Bake  for  45  minutes  at 
350°. 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 


Leah  Poole 


stewed  chicken 
1  can  cream  of  chicken 
1  can  cream  of  celery 
1  stick  melted  margarine 


Pepperldge  Farm  Corn  Bread 

stuffing  mix 
2  C.  of  chicken  broth 


Mix  chicken,  soups  and  margarine.  Spread  in  shallow  glass  pan. 
Sprinkle  crumbs  over  top.  Spoon  broth  over  finished  product.  Cook 
covered  with  tin  foil  for  50  minutes  at  300°.  Take  tin  foil  off  for  the  last  ten 
minutes. 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 

2  c.  chicken,  cook  and  dice 
1  C.  cream  of  chicken  soup 
V*  C.  mayonnaise 
1  C.  sliced  water  chestnuts 
1  C.  celery,  cook  and  dice 
1  C.  cooked  rice 


Clara  Phillips 


2  T.  onion,  chopped 
V4  C.  almond  slices 
V*  stick  butter,  melted 
1  C.  Pepperldge  Farm  herb 
stuffing  mix 


Mix  together  chicken,  cream  of  chicken  soup,  mayonnaise,  chestnuts, 
celery,  rice,  onion,  and  almonds.  Mix  butter  with  stuffing;  sprinkle  over 
chicken  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes.  Can  double. 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 


Carroll  Flowe 


1  box  Escort  crackers,  crushed 
1  stick  melted  margarine 
1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
4  chicken  breasts 


1  small  can  water  chestnuts, 

sliced  thinly 
1-8  oz.  carton  sour  cream 


Cook  chicken  until  tender.  Cool,  then  bone  chicken  and  cut  it  up.  Mix 
crackers  with  margarine  and  put  %  of  mixture  in  bottom  of  13x9"  dish. 
Place  chicken  on  crust.  Mix  soups,  sour  cream  and  drained  water 
chestnuts.  Pour  mixture  over  chicken.  Sprinkle  remainder  of  crackers  on 
top.  Bake  at  375°  for  about  20  minutes  or  until  bubbly  hot. 


50 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  Lana  Arndt 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup  1  pkg.  Pepperldge  Farms  herb 

4  chicken  breasts,  cooked  seasoned  dressing 

2  cans  water  or  broth 

Line  greased  casserole  dish  (or  spray  with  Pam)  with  Pepperidge  Farms 
dressing  and  layer  chicken,  soup  and  dressing  until  all  used. 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  Gin  Moore 

3  C.  cooked  chicken  1  small  onion,  chopped 

1  green  pepper  1  C.  celery 

2  cans  mushroom  soup  8  oz.  spaghetti 
!/2  C.  chicken  broth 

Cook  the  onion,  pepper  and  celery  in  2  T.  butter.  Cook  spaghetti  in 
chicken  broth;  put  in  buttered  casserole  dish.  Mix  all  ingredients  and 
then  sprinkle  cheese  on  top  (use  as  much  as  desired).  Bake  350°  for  30 
minutes. 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  Robbie  Scarborough 

1-3  oz.  can  Chinese  noodles  1  C.  cooked  diced  chicken 

1  can  cream  of  celery  soup  Vz  C.  slivered  almonds 

1  C.  evaporated  milk  1  small  minced  onion 
1  C.  diced  celery 

Line  bottom  of  casserole  dish  with  Vz  of  the  noodles.  Combine  the 
remaining  ingredients  (except  the  noodles)  and  spread  over  noodles  in 
dish.  Top  with  remaining  half  of  the  noodles  and  bake  at  350°  for  40 
minutes. 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  Glendred  Griffin 

2  fryers,  cooked  and  cut  up  1  stick  margarine 

1  pkg.  stuffing  mix  2  cans  chicken  broth,  can  use 

1  can  chicken  soup  broth  chicken  was  cooked  in 
1  can  mushroom  soup 

Melt  margarine  in  large  9x13  in.  casserole  dish.  Layer  bottom  of  dish 
with  stuffing  mix.  Add  a  layer  of  chicken  on  top.  Add  1  can  soup  mixed 
with  1  can  broth.  Pour  over  top  of  chicken.  Add  another  layer  of  stuffing 
mix,  then  another  layer  of  chicken.  Add  last  can  of  soup  with  can  of 
broth.  Bake  for  30  minutes  at  350°.  (Can  half  ingredients  for  smaller 
casserole). 

51 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  Janelle  Long 

4  large  chicken  breasts  (or  1  1  pkg.  Pepperidge  Farm  Corn 
whole  fryer)  Bread  Stuffing 

1  stick  margarine  1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
chicken  broth  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

Boil  chicken  until  tender-DO  NOT  SALT.  SAVE  BROTH.  Pull  chicken  from 
bones.  Discard  skin  and  any  visible  fat.  Melt  margarine  in  large  sauce 
pan.  Add  stuffing.  Stir  until  stuffing  is  well  buttered.  In  large  casserole 
dish,  place  a  layer  of  stuffing,  a  layer  of  chicken;  mix  1  can  of  soup  with 
soup  can  of  broth.  Pour  over  chicken.  Repeat  layer  of  stuffing,  layer  of 
chicken,  the  other  can  of  soup  mixed  with  a  can  of  chicken  broth.  Top 
with  remaining  stuffing.  Bake  at  375°  for  45  minutes  to  1  hour.  (Top  will 
be  brown  and  bubbly).  Serves  6-8. 

CHICKEN  CASHEW  NUT  CASSEROLE  Sarah  Jordan 

Vz  C.  chopped  onion  black  pepper,  as  desired 

Vi  C.  chopped  celery  2  c.  diced  chicken 

2  T.  butter  %  C.  cashew  nuts 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup         1  C.  chow  mein  noodles 
1  T.  soy  sauce  Vz  C.  chicken  broth 

Braise  slowly  till  tender,  onions,  celery  in  2  T.  butter.  Add  1  can  mush- 
room soup,  chicken  broth,  soy  sauce  and  pepper.  Add  diced  chicken, 
then  simmer  a  few  minutes  and  pour  into  casserole.  Top  with  nuts  and  1 
C.  chow  mein  noodles.  Bake  for  20  minutes  at  350°.  Serve  hot. 


EASY  CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  Maxie  King 

1  chicken,  cooked  and  cubed  %  stick  margarine 

8  oz.  pkg.  herb  stuffing  mix  1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  C.  chicken  broth  8  oz.  sour  cream 

Melt  margarine  and  combine  with  stuffing  mix  and  broth.  Place  half  this 
mixture  in  a  9  inch  square  pan  and  save  the  other  half  for  the  top.  Place 
chicken  over  stuffing.  Mix  soup  and  sour  cream  and  pour  over  chicken. 
Top  with  remaining  stuffing  mixture.  Bake  at  at  350°  for  30  minutes. 
Serves  6. 


CHICKEN  &  RICE  CASSEROLE  Lana  Arndt 

chicken  pieces  1  C.  rice 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup  2  C.  water 

Flour  oven  bag.  Put  chicken  pieces  on  bottom,  breast,  etc.  Put  can 
cream  of  chicken  soup.  1  C.  rice.  2  C.  water.  Cook  45  minutes  to  1  hour 
at  300°. 

52 


CHICKEN  &  RICE  CASSEROLE  Lana  Arndt 

4  pieces  chicken  V*  C.  margarine 

1  C.  minute  rice  1  C.  boiling  water 

1  chicken  bouillon  cube  1 1.  parsley 

Wash  chicken.  Grease  an  8"  casserole,  or  spray  with  Pam.  Pour  in  rice, 
then  pour  water  (with  chicken  bouillon  cube  added)  over  rice.  Arrange 
chicken  on  top  of  rice  and  dot  with  margarine.  Sprinkle  parsley  over  all 
(optional).  Bake  at  350°  for  1  Vz  hours. 


CRANBERRY  CASSEROLE  Dottie  Smith 

1  can  whole  cranberry  sauce  Vz  t.  salt 

3-4  Granny  Smith  apples  Vz  C.  nuts 

1  C.  oatmeal  V«  C.  melted  butter 

Vz  C.  brown  sugar 

Slice  apples  and  place  in  casserole  dish.  Add  cranberry  sauce  on  top  of 
apples.  Mix  all  other  ingredients  and  pour  over  cranberry  sauce.  Bake  at 
350°  for  50  minutes. 


CRANBERRY  CASSEROLE  Judy  Perryman 

2  C.  cranberries  Vz  C.  pecans 

3  C.  apples,  cut  up  Vz  C.  brown  sugar 
1  C.  sugar  Vz  C.  flour 

1  C.  quick  cook  oatmeal  1 V*  stick  margarine 

Melt  margarine.  Mix  oatmeal,  pecans,  brown  sugar,  and  flour  together. 
Add  to  melted  margarine  and  mix.  Place  apples,  cranberries  and  sugar 
in  casserole  dish.  Top  with  oatmeal  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  50-60 
minutes.  Serve  while  warm. 


HAMBURGER  CASSEROLE  Cora  Carter 

1  lb.  hamburger  1  pkg.  tater  tots 

1  can  mushroom  soup  1  medium  onion,  chopped 

Vz  C.  evaporated  milk 

Grease  bottom  of  8x11x2.  Spread  hamburger,  add  salt  and  pepper 
along  with  chopped  onion.  Spread  other  ingredients  evenly  over  ham- 
burger, cover  with  foil.  Bake  1  Vz  hours  at  375  .  Yields  6-8  servings. 


53 


GRITS  CASSEROLE 


Sara  Ponder 


1  qt  milk 

1  f.  salt 

1  stick  of  margarine 

1  C.  grits 


2-4  oz.  Gruyere  cheese,  thinly 

sliced  or  grated 
1/4  C.  Parmesan  cheese 
3  T.  melted  margarine 


Bring  milk,  salt  and  stick  of  margarine  to  a  boil.  Add  1  C.  grits.  Cook  until 
thick.  Pour  into  greased  casserole  dish.  Cover  top  with  Gruyere  cheese. 
Then  sprinkle  Parmesan  cheese  and  pour  melted  margarine  over  the 
top.  Bake  at  400°  for  15-20  minutes  until  bubbly  and  light  brown.  Great 
with  ham. 


HASH  BROWN  CASSEROLE 

1  pkg.  hash  brown  potatoes, 

thawed 
8  oz.  sour  cream 
1  can  mushroom  soup  or 

chicken  soup 


Ethel  Johnson 


8  oz.  Cheese  Whiz  or  2  C. 

shredded  cheese 
1  small  onion,  chopped 
1  stick  butter  melted 


Mix  thawed  potatoes  with  soup,  sour  cream,  onions  and  cheese.  Pour 
butter  over  these.  Pour  into  a  9x13  inch  casserole  dish.  Cook  in  the  oven 
at  350°  for  1  hour  or  until  brown. 


POTATO/SPINACH  CASSEROLE 

8-8  potatoes;  peeled,  cooked 
and  mashed 

1  C.  (8  oz.)  sour  cream 
2 1.  salt 

V«  L  pepper 

2  T.  chopped  chives  or  green 
onion  tops 


Anita  Helms 

1/4  C.  butter  or  margarine, 

softened 
1-10  oz.  pkg.  frozen  chopped 

spinach,  thawed  and  well 

drained 
4  oz.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 


in  large  bowl,  combine  all  ingredients,  except  cheese.  Spoon  into  a 
greased  2  qt.  casserole.  Bake  uncovered  at  400°  for  15  minutes.  Top 
with  cheese  and  bake  5  minutes  longer.  Yields  6-8  servings. 


PUMPKIN  CASSEROLE 

2  c.  fresh  or  canned  pumpkin 

1  C.  sugar 

1  C.  evaporated  milk 

1/2 1.  salt 

Vz  t.  soda 


Dottie  Smith 


Va  C.  plain  flour 

2  eggs,  beaten 

1 1.  vanilla 

V2  C.  butter  or  margarine 

cinnamon  to  taste 


Melt  butter  in  1-1  Vfe  -  2  qt.  casserole.  Pour  mixture  of  all  other  ingredients 
over  butter.  Bake  1  hour  at  350°. 


54 


PINEAPPLE  CASSEROLE 


Dottie  Smith 


2  la.  cans  pineapple  chunks, 
drained 

1  C.  sugar 

3  T.  flour 


1-1  Vz  C.  grated  sharp  cheese 
1  cylinder  Ritz  crackers, 

crushed 
1  stick  margarine,  melted 


Place  pineapple  chunks  in  dish.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  cheese  and  place 
over  pineapple.  Mix  crackers  and  margarine  and  sprinkle  over  top.  Bake 
at  350°  for  25-30  minutes. 


PINEAPPLE  CHEESE  CASSEROLE 

2-20  oz.  cans  chunky 
pineapple,  drained 
Va  C.  sugar 
6  T.  flour 


Lib  Broome 


1  C.  grated  sharp  Cheddar 

cheese 
1  roll  Ritz  crackers 
1  stick  margarine,  melted 


Mix  sugar  and  flour.  Add  cheese  and  stir  in  the  pineapple.  Mix  all 
together.  Put  pineapple  mixture  in  1  Vfe  qt.  casserole  dish.  Crush  the  Ritz 
cracker  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  other  ingredients.  Pour  melted  margarine 
over  all.  Bake  20-25  minutes  at  325  .  Good  with  ham  or  other  main 
dishes. 


SHRIMP  AND  RICE  CASSEROLE 

3  lb.  cooked  shrimp 
IV2  C.  chopped  onion 
V2  C.  chopped  green  pepper 
IV2  C.  chopped  mushrooms 

(2-4  oz.  cans) 
IV2  C.  sticks  margarine 


Gin  Moore 

3  T.  Worcestershire  sauce 
6  C.  cooked  rice  (\V*  C.  raw 

rice) 
2-3  cans  mushroom  soup 

(according  to  consistency) 
Tabasco 


Saute  onions  and  peppers  in  margarine  until  soft.  Add  all  other  in- 
gredients. Place  in  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  at  300°  until 
thoroughly  hot.  (Use  the  two  can  of  soup  and  then,  if  not  the  right  con- 
sistency add  the  other).  Should  serve  from  1 5-1 8.  Delicious. 


PIZZA  SPAGHETTI  CASSEROLE 

8  oz.  spaghetti 

1  C.  milk 
1egg 

2  cans  pizza  sauce 


Edith  Smitherman 


2  C.  Mozzarella  cheese 
Parmesan  cheese 
1  lb.  hamburger 


Cook  spaghetti  and  drain.  Mix  milk  and  egg  and  pour  over  spaghetti  to 
form  crust.  Brown  hamburger  and  drain  off  fat.  Combine  pizza  sauce 
and  hamburger  and  pour  over  spaghetti.  Top  with  cheeses.  Bake  in 
9x13  pan  at  350°  for  30  minutes. 


55 


RICE  CASSEROLE  Ava  Robinson 

1  lb.  lean  ground  beef  1  C.  tomatoes  with  green 

1  C.  chopped  onion  chilies 

1 1.  salt  Vz  C.  sour  cream 

1 1.  garlic  salt  1  C.  shredded  Monterey  Jack 

3  C.  cooked  rice  cheese 

Brown  ground  beef  and  onion  in  skillet,  stirring  frequently;  drain.  Add 
salt,  garlic  salt,  tomatoes,  rice  and  sour  cream.  Mix  well.  Spoon  into  but- 
tered VA  qt.  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  for  20 
minutes  or  until  heated  through. 


SPAGHETTI  CASSEROLE  Barbara  Helms 

7  oz.  spaghetti  1 1/2  lb.  cottage  cheese 
2  T.  margarine  V*  C.  sour  cream 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  24  oz.  jar  spaghetti  sauce 
1  Vz  lb.  ground  beef  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Cook  spaghetti  as  directed  on  package  and  pour  into  greased  13x9' 
baking  pan.  Cook  ground  beef;  drain.  Add  sauce  and  simmer  10 
minutes.  Mix  cottage  cheese,  cream  cheese  and  sour  cream  together. 
Layer  in  order;  spaghetti,  cheese  mixture,  and  meat.  Sprinkle  top  with 
Parmesan  cheese.  Dot  with  margarine  if  desired.  Cover  and  refrigerate 
for  6  hours.  Bake  at  350°  for  about  45  minutes  to  1  hour.  Casserole  may 
be  reduced  in  fat  by  substituting  no  fat  or  low  fat  cheese,  sour  cream 
and  spaghetti  sauce.  Use  extra-lean  ground  beef. 


SQUASH  AND  STUFFING  CASSEROLE  Judy  Poole 

3  lbs.  squash,  coarsely  1  C.  milk 

chopped  2  eggs,  beaten 

1  med.  onion,  chopped  1  C.  sour  cream 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste  Vz  C.  melted  margarine 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup  2  C.  herb  seasoned  stuffing 

2  carrots,  shredded  mix 

Cook  squash  and  onion  in  a  small  amount  of  lightly  salted  water  until 
tender;  drain.  Add  soup,  carrots,  milk,  eggs  and  sour  cream;  mix  well. 
Mix  butter  and  stuffing  in  bowl;  reserve  Vz  C.  mixture.  Add  remaining 
stuffing  mixture  to  squash;  mix  well.  Spoon  into  greased  9x13  inch  cas- 
serole. Sprinkle  with  reserved  stuffing  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  45 
minutes  or  until  golden  brown.  Yields  10  servings. 

56 


SQUASH  CASSEROLE 


Bobbie  (Mrs.  E.W.)  Baldwin 


2V2  lb.  squash  (about  8) 
1  carrot 
1  onion 
Vz  C.  water 
dressing  mix 


1  -8  oz.  sour  cream 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  stick  margarine 

Fr.  fried  onions 


Cook  squash,  carrot,  and  onion  till  tender.  Drain.  Add  sour  cream  and 
chicken  soup.  Melt  margarine  and  add  about  one-half.  Spray  casserole 
dish  and  pour  in  squash,  etc.  Sprinkle  layer  of  dressing  mix  and  pour 
balance  of  margarine.  Add  fried  onions.  Place  in  oven  to  heat 
thoroughly.  (350°  for  about  15-20  minutes).  (Casserole  may  be 
prepared  for  freezing:  omit  margarine,  dressing  mix,  and  fried  onions. 
Pour  into  containers.  When  ready  to  use,  drain  well;  melt  margarine  and 
add  with  dressing  mix.  Heat  and  then  add  onions  till  they  get  hot,  too). 


CREAMY  SQUASH  CASSEROLE 

IV2  lbs.  squash 

2  med.  onions,  chopped 

1-4  oz.  jar  pimento,  chopped 

1-8  oz.  can  water  chestnuts, 

sliced 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 


Janelle  Long 


%  soup  can  of  milk 
1 -8  oz.  sour  cream 
1  stick  margarine 
1  pkg.  Pepperidge  Farm 
stuffing  mix 


Cook  squash  until  tender,  drain.  Add  next  6  ingredients.  Melt  margarine 
in  large  skillet.  Add  stuffing  mix.  Stir  until  crumbs  are  well  buttered.  Line 
bottom  of  casserole  dish  with  V2  of  buttered  crumbs.  Pour  in  squash  mix- 
ture. Top  with  remaining  crumbs.  Dot  top  with  margarine,  if  desired. 
Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes. 


SQUASH  CASSEROLE 

2  lbs.  squash,  cooked  and  well 

drained 
1-10  oz.  can  cream  of  chicken 

soup 
1  onion,  finely  chopped 


Alva  Rice 

1-3  oz.  (small)  carton  sour 

cream 
1  pkg.  seasoned  stuffing  mix 
3  1.  butter  or  margarine 
dash  of  salt  and  pepper 


Mix  stuffing  mix  with  butter.  Using  1/2  of  this  mixture  with  all  the  other  in- 
gredients. Pour  in  a  2  qt.  casserole  dish.  Spread  other  half  of  stuffing 
mix  over  the  top.  Bake  for  30  minutes  at  350  ° . 


57 


SQUASH  CASSEROLE 


Pat  Carpenter 


IValb.  squash 

2  T.  butter 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

Vz  C.  cracker  crumbs 


1  can  mushroom  soup  or  cream 

of  chicken 
Vz  C.  grated  cheese  (hot  pepper 

jack) 
Vz  t.  salt 


Peel  and  slice  squash  crosswise.  Cook  until  tender.  Add  butter,  eggs, 
soup  and  salt.  Mix  well.  Top  with  cheese  and  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  for 
45  minutes  at  375°. 


SQUASH  CASSEROLE 

2  C.  drained,  mashed  squash 

1  egg,  beaten 

1  C.  grated  sharp  cheese 

1  can  mushroom  or  celery  soup 


Carol  Poole 


1  stick  melted  margarine 
1  pkg.  Pepperidge  Farm 
stuffing 


Mix  first  four  ingredients.  Blend  margarine  and  stuffing.  Layer  squash 
mixture  with  stuffing  mix.  Bake  for  30  minutes  at  350°.  Freezes  well. 


SQUASH  CASSEROLE  PARMESAN 

5  medium  size  yellow  squash 

1  medium  size  onion 

V*  C.  water 

2 1.  sugar 

y4 1.  salt 

1  egg,  well  beaten 


Bettie  Wardlaw 

Vz  C.  milk 

Vz  C.  Parmesan  cheese,  do  not 

substitute 
2  T.  melted  margarine 
%  C.  Cheddar  cheese,  grated 


Wash  and  slice  squash.  Add  sliced  onion,  water,  sugar,  and  salt.  Cook 
until  tender;  drain  off  excess  liquid.  Put  into  mixing  bowl  and  beat  until 
smooth.  Add  the  egg,  milk,  Parmesan  cheese,  and  melted  margarine. 
Pour  into  greased  2  at.  casserole.  Top  with  grated  Cheddar  cheese. 
Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes  or  until  mixture  becomes  set  and  top  slightly 
brown.  Serves  6. 


SWEET  POTATO  CASSEROLE 

3  C.  sweet  potatoes,  cooked 

1  C.  sugar 

2  eggs 

Vz  C.  butter 
2 1.  nutmeg 


Marguerite  Farrar 


Topping: 

1  C.  brown  sugar 

1  C.  pecans 

V»  C.  self-rising  flour 

Vs  C.  butter  or  margarine 


Combine  sweet  potatoes,  sugar,  eggs,  butter  and  nutmeg.  Pour  into 
baking  dish.  Mix  topping  ingredients  and  pour  over  top  of  sweet  potato 
mixture.  Bake  30  minutes  at  350°. 


58 


SWEET  POTATO  CASSEROLE 


Lana  Arndt 


3  C.  cooked,  mashed  sweet 

potatoes 
2  beaten  eggs 
1  C.  sugar 
Vz  t.  salt 


Vz  stick  margarine,  melted 
Vz  C.  milk 

1  T.  vanilla  or  VAT. 
1  -2  T.  cinnamon 


Stir  together  and  bake  at  350-375°  in  greased  dish  until  lightly  browned 
on  top,  about  30-45  minutes.  Can  use  left  over  baked  sweet  potatoes. 


SWEET  POTATO  CASSEROLE 

3  c.  mashed  sweet  potatoes 

1  scant  C.  sugar 

2  eggs 

1 1.  vanilla 

Vz  C.  margarine 


Dot  Godfrey 


Topping: 

1  Co  brown  sugar 

1  C.  chopped  pecans 

Vz  C.  flour 

Vz  C.  margarine 


Mix  and  pour  into  lightly  greased  2  qt.  casserole  dish.  Mix  topping  into 
crumble  mixture  and  sprinkle  over  potatoes.  Bake  at  375°  for  about  30 
minutes. 


SWEET  POTATO  CASSEROLE 

3  c.  mashed  potatoes,  baked  Is 
good 

1  C.  sugar 

2  eggs 

1 1.  vanilla 

Vz  C.  margarine 


Clarice  Smothers 


Topping: 

Vz  C.  margarine,  melted 
1  C.  dark  brown  sugar 
Vz  C.  plain  flour  or  Vz  C. 

self-rising 
1  C.  chopped  pecans 


Mix  and  place  in  buttered  shallow  baking  dish.  Mix  topping  ingredients 
in  order  given  and  dot  on  top  of  potato  mixture.  Bake  30  minutes  at  350° 
or  until  center  does  not  shake. 


SWEET  POTATO  CASSEROLE 

3  C.  mashed,  cooked  sweet 

potatoes 
1  C.  sugar 
V/z  sticks  margarine 

Topping: 

1  C.  brown  sugar 

Vz  C.  melted  margarine 

Mix  well. 


Pat  Carpenter 


2  eggs 

1 1.  vanilla 

Vz  C.  brown  sugar 

Vz  t.  cinnamon  or  nutmeg 

Vz  C.  plain  flour 

1  C.  chopped  pecans 


Mash  and  mix  until  smooth  and  place  in  casserole  dish.  Add  topping 
and  bake  at  at  375°  for  30-45  minutes.  Makes  8-1 2  servings. 


59 


TACO  CASSEROLE 

1  lb.  ground  beef 
V4  C.  chopped  onions,  optional 
4  envelope  taco  seasoning  mix 
1-4  oz.  can  chopped  green 

chilies 
VAC.  milk 


RitaWhitlock 

3/4  C.  Blsqulck  mix 

3  eggs 

2  tomatoes  or  1  can  drained 

and  chopped 
1  C.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 


Fry  beef  until  brown;  drain.  Stir  in  seasoning  mix.  Spread  into  a  8x1 1 
inch  casserole  dish.  Top  with  chilies  and  tomatoes.  Blend  milk,  eggs, 
and  Bisquick  mix.  Pour  into  casserole.  Top  with  cheese.  Bake  25-30 
minutes  at  400°. 


LEFTOVER  TURKEY  CASSEROLE 

2  C.  bite-size  turkey  pieces, 

cooked 
2  pkg.  chipped  beef 


RitaWhitlock 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
6  bacon  strips,  cooked 
1  C.  sour  cream 


Mix  soup  and  sour  cream.  Cut  up  chipped  beef.  Add  to  soup  mix  along 
with  turkey  pieces  and  bacon  pieces.  Bake  at  350°  for  15  minutes  in  a 
shallow  baking  dish. 


VEGETABLE  CASSEROLE 

2  cans  Veg-AII,  drained 
1  can  creamed  chicken  soup 
1  can  water  chestnuts,  sliced 
and  drained 


Chris  Harrington 


1/2  C.  chopped  celery 
Vz  C.  chopped  onion 
V*  C.  mayonnaise 


Mix  and  pour  in  greased  casserole.  Crumble  1  stack  Townhouse  crack- 
ers and  add  V*  stick  butter.  Cover  vegetables  with  crackers  and  butter 
and  bake  at  350°  for  35  minutes. 


60 


Desserts 


CHERRY-NUT  ICE  CREAM  Johnnie  Martin 

4  eggs,  beaten  1  C.  chopped  pecans 

2  C.  sugar  1  -1 0  oz.  Jar  Maraschino 
2-12  oz.  cans  evaporated  milk  cherries, 

5  C.  milk  drained  and  chopped 
1  T.  vanilla  flavor  dash  salt 

Combine  eggs,  sugar  and  salt;  blend  well.  Add  evaporated  milk,  milk 
and  vanilla  Stir  in  pecans  and  cherries.  Pour  mixture  into  freezer  can  of 
a  5  qt.  hand-turned  or  electric  freezer.  Freeze  according  to 
manufacturer's  instruction.  Allow  to  ripen  at  least  1  hour.  Yield:  1  gallon. 

BASIC  ICE  CREAM  (NO  EGGS)  Carol  Poole 

1 V4  C.  sugar  1  %  t.  vanilla 

1  can  Eagle  Brand  milk  regular  or  V2%  low  fat  milk 

1  can  evaporated  milk 

Blend  first  three  ingredients.  Add  vanilla  (more  if  you  like).  Pour  into 
freezer.  Top  off  with  milk.  With  dasher,  stir  until  well  blended.  Freeze. 
Fruits,  chocolate,  Cheerwine  may  be  used  to  change  flavor. 

HOMEMADE  ICE  CREAM  Lois  Tate 

2  C.  sugar  1  half  gallon  milk 
4  eggs  1 1.  vanilla 

1  large  can  Carnation  milk 

Mix  all  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl,  holding  out  V£  of  the  Vs  gallon  of  milk. 
Pour  mixture  in  freezer  then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Freeze  and  enjoy. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM  Johnnie  Martin 

4  eggs  1  -3  oz.  pkg.  vanilla  instant 
1  C.  sugar  pudding  mix 

1-14  oz.  can  sweetened  1  T.  vanilla  extract 

condensed  milk  1  Vz  qts.  milk,  divided 

Beat  eggs  in  a  large  bowl  at  medium-high  speed  with  an  electric  mixer 
for  1  minute.  Add  sugar,  and  beat  well.  Add  sweetened  condensed  milk, 
pudding  mix,  and  vanilla;  beat  well.  Stir  in  1  qt.  milk.  Pour  mixture  into 
freezer  can  of  a  1 -gallon  freezer.  Add  remaining  V2  qt.  milk.  Freeze  mix- 
ture according  to  manufacturer's  instructions.  Let  ripen  at  least  1  hour. 
Yield  about  21/a  qts.  Chocolate  Ice  Cream  Variation:  Follow  recipe  for 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream,  except  add  1-1 6oz.  can  chocolate-flavored  syrup 
when  adding  sweetened  condensed  milk,  pudding  mix,  and  vanilla 
Yield  3  qts.  Peppermint  Ice  Cream  Variation:  Follow  recipe  for  Vanilla 
Ice  Cream,  except  add  Vz  t.  peppermint  extract  when  adding  vanilla  and 
1  cup  crushed  peppermint  candy  when  adding  the  last  Vfe  quart  of  milk. 
Yield  about  3  quarts. 

61 


TUTTI  FRUITTI  ICE  CREAM  Johnnie  Martin 

1  -1 4  oz.  can  sweetened  1-11  oz.  can  mandarin  oranges, 

condensed  milk  drained  and  chopped 

Va  C.  lemon  juice  1  -6  oz.  jar  maraschino  cherries, 

Vz  C.  sugar  drained  and  chopped 

3  ripe  bananas,  mashed  3  C.  milk 

1-8  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple,  1  C.  water 
undrained 

Combine  first  7  ingredients;  blend  well.  Add  milk  and  water.  Pour  mix- 
ture into  freezer  can  of  a  1 -gallon,  hand-turned  or  electric  freezer.  Freeze 
according  to  manufacturer's  instructions.  Allow  ice  cream  to  ripen  at 
least  1  hour.  Yields  2  qts. 


STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM  Johnnie  Martin 

1  =51/2  oz.  package  vanilla  1  C.  water 

instant  pudding  mix  1-13  oz.  can  evaporated  milk 

2  C.  sugar  2  C.  mashed  fresh  strawberries 
4  C.  milk 

Combine  pudding  mix  and  sugar  in  a  large  bowl;  add  remaining  in- 
gredients, stirring  well.  Pour  mixture  into  freezer  can  of  a  1 -gallon  hand 
-turned  or  electric  freezer.  Freeze  according  to  manufacturer's  instruc- 
tions. Let  ripen  at  least  1  hours.  Yield  1  gallon.  Note:  any  fresh  fruit  may 
be  substituted  for  strawberries. 


FRUIT  COBBLER  Judy  Poole 

Va  C.  soft  butter  Va  t.  salt 

Vz  C.  sugar  V&  C.  milk 

1  egg  2  C.  fruit  of  choice 

1  C.  flour  1  C.  juice 

2 1.  baking  powder 

Cream  together  until  light  and  fluffy  the  butter,  sugar  and  egg.  Sift 
together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Mix  alternately  with  Vz  C.  milk 
the  dry  mixture  with  sugar-shortening  mixture.  Beat  until  smooth. 
Sprinkle  Vz  C.    sugar  over  fruit.    Pour  batter  into  1 1 1/2x71/zx1  Vb  inch 

greased  pan.  Spoon  fruit  over  batter  and  pour  juice  from  fruit  over  top. 
ake  45  minutes  at  375°.  During  baking,  the  fruit  and  juice  will  go  to  bot- 
tom and  a  cake-like  layer  forms  on  top.  This  is  especially  good  with 
berries. 

62 


QUICK  COBBLER  Gerry  McCoy 

1  C.  all  purpose  flour  V4  C.  margarine 

1  C.  sugar  1  large  can  of  peaches,  drained 

1 1.  baking  powder  1 1.  almond  extract  added  to 

dash  of  salt  drained  peaches 

1egg 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  egg.  Mix  until  coarse  meal.  Layer 
coarse  meal,  then  peaches,  etc.  Melt  1/z  C.  margarine  and  pour  on  top. 
Bake  at  350°  for  30-40  minutes. 


QUICK  PEACH  COBBLER  Dot  Rutledge 

1  stick  butter  or  margarine  1  C.  milk  (or  use  half  milk  and 

2  C.  peaches  half  peach  juice  for  more 
1  C.  self-rising  flour                             flavor) 

1  C.  sugar 

Melt  butter  in  square  pan  or  glass  dish.  Pour  fruit  over  melted  butter.  Mix 
milk  (or  juice),  flour,  and  sugar  together.  Pour  batter  over  fruit.  DO  NOT 
STIR.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes.  Note:  any  fruit  may  be  substituted. 


STRAWBERRY  OR  CHERRY  NUT  PIE  Carol  Poole 

1  envelope  Dream  Whip,  1  C.  chopped  nuts 

prepared  1  can  pie  cherries  or  pie 

1  can  Eagle  Brand  milk  strawberries 

Vz  C.  lemon  Juice  1  pre-baked  crumb  crust 

Prepare  Dream  Whip.  Set  aside.  Mix  milk  and  lemon  juice  until  thick.  Add 
cherries  (or  strawberries)  and  nuts  to  milk  mixture.  Fold  Dream  Whip  into 
milk.  Pour  into  cooled  crumb  crust.  Refrigerate.  Cool  thoroughly  before 
serving.  Makes  2  medium  pies  or  one  large  pie. 


COCONUT  CUSTARD  PIE  Nancy  Hudson 

V%  stick  butter  or  margarine  1  C.  coconut 

1  Va  C.  sugar  V*  C.  buttermilk 

3  eggs  1  pie  shell 
1 1.  vanilla 

Combine  melted  butter,  sugar,  coconut,  eggs,  vanilla,  and  buttermilk. 
Mix  well.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  325°  for  35-45  minutes. 

63 


PEANUT  BUTTER  PIE  Judy  Poole 

;hy  m 
Whip 


4  oz.  cream  cheese 

1  C.  confectioners  sugar  9  oz.  Cool 

'/2  C.  milk 


Cream  cheese  until  fluffy;  slowly  add  milk,  sugar,  peanut  butter,  and 
Cool  Whip.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  a  9"  graham  cracker  crust.  Freeze  for 
serving. 


CHERRY  CHEESE  PIE  Judy  Poole 

9"  graham  cracker  pie  crust  V4  C.  Real  lemon  juice 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  1  -21  oz.  can  cherry  pie  filling 

1  can  Eagle  brand  milk 

Beat  cream  cheese  until  fluffy.  Gradually  add  milk.  Stir  in  lemon  juice. 
Mix  well  and  pour  into  a  9"  graham  cracker  crust.  Top  with  cherry  pie  fill- 
ing. Refrigerate. 


CARAMEL  PIE  Judy  Poole 

4  oz.  cream  cheese  Y*  C.  toasted  coconut 

Vz  C.  Eagle  brand  milk  %  C.  toasted  pecans 

8  oz.  Cool  Whip  V4  C.  caramel  Ice  cream  topping 

Blend  cream  cheese  and  condensed  milk,  fold  in  Cool  Whip.  Spread  half 
of  mixture  over  a  9"  graham  cracker  crust.  Drizzle  half  of  the  ice  cream 
topping  over  mixture.  Combine  toasted  coconut  and  pecans  and 
sprinkle  half  of  this  over  the  ice  cream  topping.  Repeat  layers.  Freeze  for 
serving. 


BEST  PECAN  PIE  Sarah  Jordan 

Vz  C.  sugar  1  C.  white  Karo  syrup 

2  T.  butter  1  C.  chopped  pecans,  coarsely 

3  eggs,  beaten  chopped 
2  T.  plain  flour  1 1.  vanilla 
V2 1.  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  eggs,  flour,  salt  and  flavoring  - 
then  syrup  and  nuts.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  till  firm  in  middle 
(about  30  minutes)  at  350  ° . 

64 


LEMON  CHESS  PIE  Dot  Rutledge 

4  eggs  V*  C.  melted  butter 

1 V*  C.  sugar  zest  of  1  lemon 

pinch  of  salt  V*  C.  lemon  Juice 

4  T.  buttermilk  1  partially  baked  9  ■  pie  shell 

2  T.  cornmeal 

In  medium  bowl,  beat  the  eggs  lightly  with  a  fork,  then  beat  in  the  sugar 
with  a  fork  or  whisk.  Mix  in  the  salt,  buttermilk  and  cornmeal.  Then  pour 
in  the  melted  butter  in  a  steady  stream,  combining  until  smooth.  Finally, 
mix  in  lemon  zest  and  juice  just  until  incorporated.  Bake  in  preheated 
400°  oven  for  10  minutes,  then  reduce  heat  to  325°  and  bake  until  cus- 
tard is  set,  about  30  minutes. 


"O  SO  EASY"  PECAN  PIE  Dot  Rutledge 

1  C.  sugar  1  heaping  T.  flour 

Vz  C.  light  Karo  syrup  V*  t.  salt 

3  eggs  or  egg  substitute  2  T.  margarine 

1  T.  vanilla  1  C.  chopped  pecans 

Mix  all  ingredients.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell  and  bake  at  400°  for  15 
minutes  and  then  350°  for  30-35  minutes.  DO  NOT  OVERBAKE.  THE 
PIE  WILL  BE  TOO  CHEWY. 


BEST  COCONUT  PIE  Edith  Smitherman 


2  eggs  1/2 1.  vanilla 

%  C.  sugar  Vz  can  coconut 

1  C.  milk  Vs  stick  melted  margarine 

2  T.  flour 


Beat  the  eggs  well.  Add  rest  of  ingredients.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  crust. 
Bake  25  minutes  at  375°. 


SUPER  EASY  APPLE  PIE  Janelle  Long 

5  C.  sliced  apples  1  egg,  eaten 

3  slices  white  bread,  cut  Into  1  stick  margarine,  melted 

strips  1  Vi  C.  sugar 

Place  apples  in  8x8"  baking  dish.  Cover  top  with  bread  strips.  Combine 
egg,  sugar  and  melted  marqarine.  Pour  over  bread  and  apples.  Bake 
uncovered  45  minutes  at  350  . 

65 


MILLION  DOLLAR  PIE  Lana  Arndt 

1  can  Eagle  brand  milk  3  T.  lemon  juice,  If  runny  add 

1  small  crushed  pineapple  more  lemon  juice 

1  medium  Cool  Whip  2-  9"  pie  shells 
VA  C.  chopped  pecans 

Mix  milk  and  Cool  Whip.  Add  crushed  pineapple  and  pecans,  then 
lemon  juice.  Mix  well.  Pour  into  baked  pie  shell.  Refrigerate.  Make  filling 
and  put  into  refrigerator  first,  before  baking  pie  crust.  Cool  pie  shells 
completely. 

JAPANESE  FRUIT  PIE  Alva  Rice 

Mix  well:  Add:                                Mix  In: 

1  C.  sugar  Vfc  C.  coconut                  1  T.  white  vinegar 

2  eggs  Vfe  C.  chopped 
1  stick  soft  pecans 

margarine  V&  C.  raisins 

Pour  into  pie  shell  or  8  tart  shells.  Bake  for  40  minutes  at  300°. 

COCONUT  PIE  Alva  Rice 

1  stick  melted  margarine  1  can  flake  coconut 

VA  C.  sugar  1  T.  vinegar 

3  eggs,  beaten  1 1.  vanilla 

Combine  all  and  put  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  - 
350°  for  1  hour. 

CHOCOLATE  PECAN  PIE  Leslie  Smith 

3  eggs  2  squares  melted  Baker's 

V2  C.  sugar  chocolate 

V2  C.  Karo  syrup,  blue  label  1 1.  vanilla 

1  T.  flour  1  C,  pecan  pieces 

In  a  bowl,  beat  eggs  slightly.  Add  sugar,  mix;  add  Karo,  mix;  add  choco- 
late, mix.  Add  flour  and  vanilla,  mix;  add  pecans,  mix.  Pour  into  a  9"  un- 
baked pie  shell  and  bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes,  or  until  a  silver  knife 
comes  out  clean.  Serves  6-8. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE  Carroll  Flowe 

1  can  sweetened  condensed  1  Ig.  size  Cool  Whip 
milk                                                3/4  C.  nuts,  chopped 

2  T.  lemon  juice  1  graham  cracker  crust 
1  can  crushed  pineapple 

Mix  first  5  ingredients  until  well-blended.  Pour  into  graham  cracker  crust. 

66 


KENTUCKY  DERBY  PIE  Barbara  Warren 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten  1-6  oz.  pkg.  semi-sweet 
1  C.  sugar  chocolate  morsels 

Vi  C.  butter,  melted  and  cooled  1  unbaked  9"  pastry  shell 

1 1.  vanilla  extract  1  C.  whipping  cream 

1  C.  chopped  pecans  %  C.  powdered  sugar 

Combine  first  4  ingredients  in  a  medium  mixing  bowl;  beat  until  blended. 
Stir  in  pecans,  chocolate  morsels,  and  vanilla  Pour  filling  into  pastry 
shell  and  bake  at  350°  for  45-50  minutes.  Beat  whipping  cream  until 
foamy;  gradually  add  powdered  sugar,  beating  until  soft  peaks  form. 


PAULETTE'S  CHOCOLATE  CHEW  PIE  Carroll  Flowe 

2  eggs  1  C.  sugar 

2  squares  unsweetened  V*  C.  warm  milk 

chocolate  (or  6  T.  cocoa)  1 1.  vanilla 

1  stick  margarine  Vz  C.  chopped  nuts 

Beat  eggs;  melt  chocolate  and  margarine.  Add  to  eggs.  Add  sugar, 
warm  milk,  vanilla  and  nuts.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  9"  unbaked  pie  shell. 
Bake  for  35  minutes  at  350  ° . 


VINEGAR  PIE  Frances  Ennis 

2  T.  butter  or  margarine  1  egg 

Vz  C.  sugar  2  T.  vinegar 

3  T.  all  purpose  flour  1  C.  water 

1 1.  ground  cinnamon  1  bake  8"  pie  shell  (baked  only 

Vz  t.  ground  cloves  2-3  minutes) 

Va  t.  ground  allspice 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Measure  and  sift  flour,  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
allspice.  Add  to  creamed  mixture.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Pour 
into  pie  shell  that  has  been  baked  2-3  minutes.  Bake  pie  at  350°  until 
done. 


PECAN  PIE  Phyllis  Walsh 

Vz  C.  brown  sugar  2  T.  milk 

1  C.  white  sugar  1 1.  vanilla 

1  T.  flour  1  stick  oleo,  melted 

2  eggs  1  C.  pecans 

Mix  in  order  as  listed.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  375°  for  30- 
40  minutes. 

67 


LOW  FAT  LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE  Barbara  Helms 

V*  C.  sugar  2 1.  grated  lemon  rind 

1  Vz  C.  water  dash  of  salt 

5  T.  cornstarch  2  T.  margarine  (may  omit 

Vz  C.  thawed  egg  beaters  margarine  to  further  lower 

Vz  C.  lemon  juice  the  fat) 
Meringue: 

2  egg  whites  Vz  t.  cream  of  tartar 
4  T.  sugar  Vz  t.  vanilla 

Combine  sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt  in  sauce  pan.  Mix  well,  add  lemon 
juice  and  water.  Stir  until  well  blended.  Add  egg  beaters.  Bring  to  a  boil 
and  cook  slowly  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  heat  when  thick,  add 
margarine  and  lemon  rind.  Pour  into  baked  pie  shell.  Meringue:  Beat 
egg  whites  until  soft  peaks  form.  Gradually  add  sugar  and  cream  of  tar- 
tar. Continue  beating  until  stiffer  peaks  form.  Add  vanilla  and  again  beat 
to  mix.  Spread  over  pie,  sealing  to  edge  of  pastry.  Place  in  moderate 
oven  (350°)  for  12  minutes  or  longer  until  golden  brown. 


PECAN  PIE  Judy  Poole 

2  eggs,  beaten  Vz  box  light  brown  sugar 

Va  t.  salt  1  T.  corn  meal 

Vz  stick  butter,  melted  1  C.  chopped  pecans 
1  T.  vanilla 

Mix  all  ingredients  well  and  pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  350°  for 
15  minutes,  then  reduce  heat  to  300°  and  continue  baking  40-45 
minutes. 


COCONUT  CREAM  PIE  Judy  Poole 

3/4  C.  sugar  3  C.  milk 

V*  C.  cornstarch  1  Vz  T.  butter 

Vz  t.  salt  %  C.  coconut 

3  egg  yolks,  beaten  1 1.  vanilla 

Combine  first  3  ingredients  in  a  heavy  sauce  pan.  Combine  eggs  and 
milk  and  gradually  stir  into  sugar  mixture.  Cook  over  medium  heat,  stir- 
ring constantly,  until  thicken  and  boils.  Boil  1  minute.  Remove  from  heat; 
stir  in  Vz  C.  coconut,  butter  and  vanilla.  Immediately  pour  into  baked  pie 
shell  and  cover  with  waxed  paper.  Beat  egg  whites;  add  Vz  C.  sugar. 
Continue  beating  until  they  form  stiff  peaks.  Spread  over  pie  and  return 
to  oven  and  bake  at  350°  for  12-15  minutes. 

68 


NO  FOOL  PIE  Nezzie  Buchanan 

V*  stick  of  margarine  9A  C.  milk 

1  C.  self-rising  flour  2  C.  fruit,  your  choice 

Y*  C.  sugar 

Melt  margarine  in  1  qt.  baking  dish.  Mix  flour,  sugar  and  milk.  Pour  over 
melted  margarine.  Pour  fruit  over  the  above  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for 
about  45  minutes  or  until  light  brown. 


JAPANESE  FRUIT  PIE  Sarah  L  Foard 

1  C.  sugar  Vfc  C.  raisins 

1  stick  butter  Vfc  C.  pecans 

2  eggs  1 1.  vinegar 

V2  C.  coconut  1  pie  shell,  unbaked 

Mix  sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add  eggs,  coconut,  raisins,  pecans 
and  vinegar;  mix  well.  Pour  into  pie  shells.  Cook  30  minutes  at  350°. 

COCONUT  CUSTARD  PIE  Johnnie  Martin 

2  c.  milk  1 1.  vanilla  flavoring 

Va  C.  sugar  1  baked  9"  pie  shell 

2  T.  corn  starch  1A  C.  heavy  cream,  whipped  (or 
V*  t.  salt  3  egg  whites  beaten) 

3  egg  yolks,  lightly  beaten  1  C.  flaked  coconut 

Scald  milk  in  saucepan.  Combine  sugar,  corn  starch,  and  salt.  Stir  into 
scalded  milk.  Bring  to  boil,  stirring.  Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring  con- 
stantly, for  4  minutes.  Combine  a  small  amount  of  mixture  with  beaten 
eggs;  return  to  sauce  pan.  Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring,  until  mixture 
thickens.  Cool.  Add  vaniiia  and  half  of  coconut.  Pour  into  baked  pie  shell 
and  spread  whipped  cream  over  this.  Cover  with  remaining  coconut. 
Note:  instead  of  coconut  use  the  following  variations;  for  chocolate  pie, 
use  Va  c.  cocoa;  for  lemon  custard  pie,  use  approx.  1  T.  each  lemon  rind, 
grated,  and  fresh  lemon  juice.  Also,  this  can  be  made  with  oranges, 
about  the  same  proportion  as  for  lemon. 


APPLE  PIE  W/BREAD  STRIPS  Sara  Ponder 

5  c.  peeled  apples  (Winesap,  1%  C.  sugar 

Stamen  or  Mcintosh)  1  egg,  beaten 

3-5  slices  of  bread  cut  Into  1  stick  margarine,  melted 

strips 

Arrange  apple  slices  in  shallow  pan.  Lattice-  weave  the  bread  strips  over 
apples.  Pour  sugar/egg/butter  mixture  all  over  the  surface.  Bake  at  350° 
for  45  minutes.  Add  spices  as  desired. 

69 


SWEET  POTATO  PIE  Lucille  Nantz 

1  V%  C.  mashed  sweet  potatoes  2  eggs 

1  stick  melted  butter  %  C.  evaporated  milk 

V/z  C.  sugar  1 1.  lemon  extract 

3  T.  flour  1 1.  vanilla,  I  used  2 1.  vanilla 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  pour  into  9"  deep  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake 
at  375°  for  45-55  minutes. 


BROWN  SUGAR  PIE  Marjorie  Glass-A  Family  Favorite 

1  pkg.  light  brown  sugar  3  eggs 

3  T.  flour  1 1.  vanilla 

3  T.  evaporated  milk  1  stick  melted  butter 

Cream  butter,  brown  sugar,  and  flour.  Add  other  ingredients.  Bake  one 
hour  at  300°.  Makes  2  eight  inch  pies. 


PECAN  PIE  Bobbie  (Mrs.  E.W.)  Baldwin 

Vz  C.  granulated  sugar  1 1.  vanilla 

3  T.  margarine  V*  X.  salt 

1  C.  Karo  maple  syrup,  green  1  C.  chopped  pecans 

label  pie  shell 
3  eggs 

Cook  sugar,  margarine,  and  Karo  syrup  till  margarine  melts.  Add  eggs, 
vanilla,  and  salt  and  mix  well.  Add  pecans  and  pour  into  frozen  pie  shell. 
(Keep  crust  frozen  till  ready  to  use  to  prevent  seepage.  I  sprinkle  nuts 
over  shell  and  then  pour  liquid  over  an  place  halves  of  pecans  on  top). 
Cook  40  minutes  at  375°. 


CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PIE  Judy  Poole 

1  C.  sugar  1/4 1.  almond 
\U  C.  cornstarch  V*  C.  cocoa 

2  c.  milk  pinch  of  salt 
1 1.  vanilla  2  egg  yolks 

Combine  sugar,  cornstarch,  cocoa,  and  salt  in  a  heavy  sauce  pan.  Com- 
bine milk  and  egg  yolks;  gradually  stir  into  sugar  mixture.  Cook  over 
medium  heat,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from 
heat  and  add  flavorings.  Pour  into  a  baked  pie  shell.  Cover  with  waxed 
paper  until  cool.  Top  with  Cool  Whip. 

70 


BAKED  CARAMEL  CUSTARD  Faye  Helms 


3  eggs  12  oz.  can  evaporated  plus  1  C. 

1/2  C.  sugar  whole  milk 

1 1.  vanilla  ground  nutmeg 

dash  of  salt  Smuckers  caramel  topping 

2Vz  C.  milk 


Heat  oven  to  350°.  Mix  eggs,  sugar,  vanilla,  and  salt.  Gradually  stir  in 
milk.  Put  2  t.  caramel  topping  into  custard  cups.  Pour  in  mixture. 
Sprinkle  with  nutmeg.  Place  cups  in  13x9x2"  pan  and  fill  pan  with  hot 
water  to  half  way  u  cups.  Bake  45  minutes  or  until  knife  comes  out  clean. 
When  cool  or  cold  run  knife  around  rim  and  turn  out  on  plate. 

APPLE  PIE  Jimmie  McClellan  &  Judy  Poole 

6-7  apples,  shredded  2 1.  apple  pie  spice 

1  egg  1  T.  flour 

Vz  C.  brown  sugar  V*  stick  margarine  melted 
Va  C.  white  sugar 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at 
375°  for  45  minutes. 


SCRIPTURE  CAKE 

3Va  C.  sifted  all-purpose  flour  2  C.  firmly  packed  brown  sugar 
(1  Kings  4:22)  (Jeremiah  6:20) 

3 1.  baking  powder  2 1.  honey  (Exodus  16:31) 

(Galatians  5:9)  6  eggs  (Luke  11:12) 

V*  t.  salt  (Leviticus  2:13)  1  pkg.  (8  oz.)  pitted  dates, 
1  Va  t.  cinnamon  chopped  (Deuteronomy  34:3) 

Vz  t.  nutmeg  2  C.  raisins  (1  Samuel  30:12) 

Vz  t.  cloves  1  C.  walnuts,  chopped 
1 1.  allspice  (1  Kings  1 0:2)  (Solomon  6:11) 

1  C.  (2  sticks)  butter,  softened  1  C.  Milk  (Judges  5:25) 
(Judges  5:25) 


Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  cloves,  and  allspice 
onto  wax  paper.  Beat  butter,  sugar,  honey  and  eggs  in  a  large  bowl  with 
electric  mixer  at  high  speed,  until  light  and  fluffy.  Sprinkle  %  C.  of  the 
flour  mixture  over  the  fruits  and  nuts.  Add  remaining  flour  mixture  alter- 
nately with  the  milk  to  the  fluffy  butter  mixture,  beating  until  smooth.  Stir 
in  fruits  and  nuts.  Spoon  into  a  greased  and  floured  10  in.  tube  pan. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  (325°)  for  VA  hours  or  until  top  springs  back  when 
lightly  touched  with  finger  tips.  Cool  in  pan  on  wire  rack  30  minutes; 
loosen  around  edge  and  middle  with  knife;  turn  out  on  rack;  cool  com- 
pletely. Wrap  in  foil  or  plastic.  Cake  slices  best  the  next  day. 

71 


WHIP  CREAM  POUND  CAKE 

2  sticks  butter 

3  C.  sugar 
6  eggs 

3  C.  plain  flour 
V*  t.  salt 


Sarah  Jordan 

V2 1.  baking  powder 
1  T.  vanilla 

1 1.  lemon  or  almond  flavoring 
1  small  carton  heavy  whipping 
cream 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  well.  Beat  in  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Add  salt  and 
baking  powder  to  flour.  Add  flour  and  cream  alternately  till  all  used.  Add 
flavorings.  Place  in  a  tube  pan  and  in  a  cold  oven.  Turn  oven  on  at  325°. 
Bake  1  hour  and  25  minutes  or  till  tests  done. 


FIVE  FLAVOR  POUND  CAKE 

1  C.  margarine  or  butter 

3  C.  sugar 

3  C.  cake  flour 

1  C.  milk 

1/2  C.  shortening 


Lucille  Nantz 

5  eggs,  well  beaten 
V2 1.  baking  powder 
1 1.  each  coconut,  rum,  butter, 
lemon,  and  vanilla  flavoring 


Cream  butter,  shortening  and  sugar  thoroughly,  until  light  and  fluffy. 
Add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Beat  well.  Add  flour,  baking  powder  and  milk. 
Then  add  flavoring.  Blend  well.  Pour  in  a  greased  10'  tube  pan  and  bake 
at  325°  for  1V&  hours.  Cool  cake  five  minutes  before  removing  from  pan. 
Glaze:  1  C.  sugar,  Vfe  C.  water,  1  tsp.  almond  flavoring,  and  1 1.  above  5 
flavorings.  Beat  until  smooth  and  pour  over  hot  cake. 


COLD  OVEN  POUND  CAKE 

Va  lb.  or  2  sticks  margarine 
1/2  C.  Crisco 
1  C.  milk 
3  C.  sugar 

3  C.  plain  flour,  measure  before 
sifting 


Gene  Poole 


5  eggs 

Vz  t.  baking  powder 

V&  t.  salt 

1 1.  vanilla 

1 1.  lemon  Juice 


DO  NOT  PREHEAT  OVEN!  Mix  and  cream  sugar,  butter,  &  Crisco.  Add 
one  egg  at  a  time.  Add  milk  and  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  then  lemon 
and  vanilla.  Bake  for  one  hour  or  longer  at  350°. 

72 


CRUSTY  CREAM  CHEESE  POUND  CAKE  Janelle  Long 

1  C.  butter  or  margarine  3  C.  cake  flour 

1/2  C.  shortening  6  eggs 

3  C.  sugar  1  T.  vanilla 
1-8  oz.  cream  cheese,  softened 

Cream  butter  and  shortening,  gradually  add  sugar,  beating  well  after 
each  addition  at  medium  speed  of  electric  mixer.  Add  cream  cheese, 
beat  well.  Alternately  add  flour  and  eggs,  begin  and  end  with  flour.  Stir  in 
vanilla.  Bake  in  10'  greased  and  floured  tube  pan  at  325°  for  1  hour  and 
15  minutes  or  until  tests  done.  Cool  in  pan  10  minutes.  Remove  from 
pan  and  finish  cooling  on  wire  rack.  No  milk  or  baking  powder  required. 


CRUSTY  POUND  CAKE  Glendred  Griffin 

%  lb.  country  butter  1 1.  almond  flavoring 

6  large  eggs  3  C.  sifted  flour 

Vz  t.  salt  3  C.  sugar 
1  T.  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  work  in  sugar  until  mixture  is  of  a  fine  mealy  texture. 
Beat  eggs  and  add  one  at  a  time.  Work  in  flour  sifted  with  salt.  Beat  well. 
Add  vanilla  and  almond  flavoring.  Bake  in  a  greased  and  floured  tube 
pan  in  a  slow  oven  (350°)  flro  1  hour,  then  lower  to  325°  for  30  minutes. 
A  crusty  top  forms  on  this  cake. 


COCONUT  POUND  CAKE  Nezzie  Buchanan 

1  lb.  butter  or  margarine  3Vz  C.  sugar 

1 0  eggs  2  T.  coconut  flavoring 

1  C.  self-rising  flour  1  C.  fresh  or  frozen  coconut 

3  C.  plain  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  well.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after 
each  addition.  Sift  together  flours  and  beat  in  a  small  amount  at  a  time; 
add  flavoring  and  coconut.  Pour  into  a  well  greased  and  floured  tube 
pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  V/z  hours  or  until  a  toothpick  stuck  in  middle 
comes  out  clean. 


PISTACHIO  POUND  CAKE  June  Keathley 

1  box  yellow  butter  cake  mix  V4  C.  oil 

4  eggs  V*  C.  water 

8  oz.  sour  cream  1  pkg.  pistachio  pudding 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  bake  in  a  greased  tube  pan  for  45  minutes  at 
350°. 

73 


BANANA  NUT  POUND  CAKE  Ruby  Craddock 

1  C.  shortening  Vz  T.  salt 

1  stick  margarine  3  bananas,  mashed 

2  C.  sugar  3  T.  milk 

5  eggs  1 1.  banana  flavor 

3  C.  all  purpose  flour,  sifted  2 1.  vanilla  flavor 

1 1.  baking  soda  Vz  C.  chopped  nuts 

Combine  shortening,  margarine  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Add 
bananas.  Add  fiour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add  flavorings.  Bake  at 
325°  for  1  hour  and  15  minutes.  (Add  nuts  before  baking  if  desired).  Ice 
if  desired  with  Caramel  icing.  Icing: 

1  box  light  brown  sugar  1 1.  vanilla 

Vz  C.  margarine  Vz  box  confectioners  sugar, 

Vz  C.  heavy  cream  sifted 

Vz  t.  salt 

Bring  to  boil  first  5  ingredients.  Count  to  100  rapidly,  remove  from  heat 
and  blend  in  confectioners  sugar.  Spread  over  cake. 

BLACK  WALNUT  CHOCOLATE  POUND  CAKE  Sarah  Jordan 

2  sticks  butter  1  square  unsweetened 
Vz  C.  Crisco  chocolate,  melted 

3  C.  sugar  Vz  t.  salt 

3  C.  plain  flour  5  T.  cocoa 

5  eggs  1  C.  sweet  milk 

Vz  C.  black  walnuts  1 1.  black  walnut  flavoring 

Vz  t.  baking  powder 

1.  Cream  well  the  butter,  Crisco  and  sugar.  Beat  in  eggs  one  at  a  time.  2. 
Sift  together  3  times,  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  cocoa.  3.  Add  walnut 
flavoring  and  melted  chocolate.  Fold  in  chopped  black  walnuts.  4.  Bake 
in  well  greased  tube  pan  for  1  hour  and  55  minutes  at  275°.  Do  no  open 
oven  during  cooking! 


HEALTHY  POUND  DATE  Barbara  Warren 

2Vz  C.  flour  Vz  C.  light  margarine 

2  C.  sugar  Vz  C.  regular  margarine 

Vz  t.  salt  1 1.  vanilla  or  almond  extract 

I  soda  2  eggs 


Vz  t.  baking 
1  C.  plain  Ic 


low  fat  yogurt  1  egg  white 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  a  large  bowl.  Beat  with  mixer  at  high 
speed  for  3-4  minutes.  Pour  into  a  10  inch  bundt  pan  coated  with  non- 
stick vegetable  spray.  Bake  at  350°  for  about  1  hour.  Cool  upright  for  at 
least  30  minutes.  Invert  pan,  remove  cake  and  serve. 

74 


CHOCOLATE  POUND  CAKE 


Clara  Phillips 


V2  lb  butter 
V2  C.  Crisco 
3  C.  sugar 
5  eggs 
3  C.  flour 


Va  t.  baking  powder 
1/2 1.  salt 
4  T.  cocoa 
1  C.  milk 
1  T.  vanilla 


Cream  together  butter  and  Crisco.  Add  sugar  and  eggs.  Sift  dry  in- 
gredients together  and  add  vanilla  Add  alternating  with  milk  to  cream 
mixture.  Bake  in  tube  pan  at  325°  about  80  minutes.  Icing: 


Va  C.  butter,  melted 

2  T.  cocoa 

1  box  powdered  sugar 


1 1.  vanilla 

cream  or  milk  as  needed 


Melt  butter  and  cocoa  Add  sugar  and  vanilla.  Cream  to  spread. 


POUND  CAKE 

1  stick  margarine 
1  C.  Crisco 
3  C.  sugar 
6  eggs 

3  C.  plain  flour 
Vz  t.  salt 


Edith  Smitherman 


Vz  t.  baking  powder 
1 1.  vanilla 
1 1.  butter  flavoring 
3 1.  lemon  flavoring 
1  C.  milk 


Cream  sugar,  margarine,  Crisco  together  until  creamy,  add  eggs  one  at 
a  time.  Sift  together  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Add  dry  ingredients 
with  milk  a  little  at  a  time.  Add  flavoring.  Bake  at  325°  for  2  hours  or  less. 
For  chocolate  pound  cake  add  1/a  C.  cocoa  cut  flour  to  21/a  cups. 


MY  FAVORITE  POUND  CAKE 

1  C.  Crisco 

3  C.  sugar 

5  eggs 

3  C.  cake  flour 

1 1.  baking  powder 


Janelle  Long 


1  C.  milk 
1 1.  orange  flavor 
1 1.  vanilla 
10"  tube  pan 


Cream  together  Crisco  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  mix  well. 
Add  baking  powder  to  flour  ana  sift.  Then  add  flour  to  cake  batter  alter- 
nately with  milk.  Add  flavorings.  Bake  in  greased  &  floured  tube  pan  at 
325°  for  1  hour  and  15  minutes  or  until  cake  tests  done. 


75 


ONE  STEP  POUND  CAKE  Juanlta  Martin 

2V4  C.  flour  3  eggs 

Vz  t.  soda  1  C.  sour  cream 

Vz  t.  salt  1 1.  vanilla  flavoring 

2  sticks  butter  zest  of  1  lemon 

2  C.  sugar  1  C.  coconut,  optional 

Put  all  ingredients  into  mixer.  Mix  on  medium  speed  for  3  minutes. 
Grease  and  flour  tube  cake  pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  1  hour.  Preheat  oven. 

PEACH  POUND  CAKE  Phyllis  Walsh 

1 Vz  C.  oil  3  C.  self-rising  flour 

2  C.  sugar  3  C.  fresh  peaches,  chopped 

3  eggs  1  C.  nuts,  chopped 
2 1.  vanilla  1  C.  coconut 

Mix  in  order  listed.  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hours.  Icing:  1  pkg.  3  oz.  cream 
cheese,  6 1.  peach  puree  from  1  fresh  peach  in  blender,  and  V/z  c.  con- 
fectionery sugar. 


BLACK  WALNUT  POUND  CAKE  Mildred  A.  Little 

3  C.  sugar  3  C.  all  purpose  flour 

Vz  lb.  butter  or  margarine  1 1.  baking  powder 

Vz  C.  Crisco  1  C.  milk 

5  eggs  1  C.  chopped  black  walnuts 

Vz  t.  black  walnut  flavoring 

Cream  sugar,  butter  and  Crisco  until  light.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating  well  after  each  addition.  Add  flavoring  and  mix  well.  Mix  V*  C. 
flour  with  nuts  and  set  aside.  Add  flour  mixed  with  baking  powder  alter- 
nately with  milk,  starting  and  ending  with  flour.  Fold  in  flour  coated  nuts. 
Pour  into  a  tube  pan  that  has  been  greased  and  floured.  Bake  at  325° 
for  1  hour  and  30  minutes.  Do  not  open  oven  during  first  hour. 


CHRISTMAS  NUT  CAKE  Frances  Ennis 

11/2  lb.  walnuts,  unshelled  1  C.  grape  Juice 

IV2  lb.  pecans,  unshelled  4  C.  flour 

1  lb.  raisins  or  cherries  1 1.  baking  powder 

6  eggs  2  C.  sugar 

V*  lb.  butter 

Shell  nuts  and  set  aside.  Mix  eggs,  butter,  sugar  and  grape  juice.  Add 
flour  gradually  and  stir.  Lightly  coat  nuts  and  raisins  (or  cherries)  with 
flour.  Add  to  other  ingredients.  Bake  at  350°  for  2Vz  hours.  You  may  use 
half  raisins  and  half  cherries. 

76 


-MOTHERS  JAM  CAKE" 


Cora  Carter 


7  eggs 
2  C.  sugar 
2  sticks  butter 
4  C.  flour 

1  C.  buttermilk 

2  C.  mixed  jam,  damson,  peach 
and  strawberry 


2 1.  cinnamon 

2 1.  cloves 

2  C.  candled  cherries  and 

pineapple,  diced 
2  C.  chopped  nuts 
2 1.  soda  dissolved  In  buttermilk 
1 1.  allspice 


Roll  fruit  and  nuts  in  one  cup  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  beat  well.  Add  jam.  Add  milk  and  flour,  beginning  and  en- 
ding with  fiour.  Fold  in  fruit  and  nuts.  Makes  6  layers  in  8"  pans.  Bake  at 
325-350°  until  done.Caramel  filling:  1  lb.  light  brown  sugar  (2  cups),  2 
stick  margarine,  and  Vfe  C.  sweet  milk.  Cook  slow  until  dissolved.  Cook 
fast,  stirring  constantly.  Have  ice  water  ready  to  test  it  when  it  forms  a 
good  ball  that  will  clink  against  bowl.  Pour  Vs  of  mixture  over  2  egg 
whites  (well  beaten).  Cook  rest  of  it  until  it  is  brittle  when  tested.  Let  cool 
until  it  thickens  then  spread  on  layers. 


SEVEN  LAYER  CAKE 

1  stick  butter,  melted 

1  C.  graham  cracker  crumbs 

1  C.  coconut 

1-6  oz.  pkg.  chocolate  chips 


Lois  Tate 

1-6  oz.  pkg.  butterscotch  chips 
1  can  sweetened  condensed 

milk 
1  C.  chopped  nuts 


Use  13x8"  pan.  Mix  or  layer  in  order  given.  Bake  350°  for  30  minutes.  Let 
cool  Vz  hour.  Cut  in  squares. 


LEMON  GOOEY  BUTTER  CAKE 


Dottie  Smith 


1  box  lemon  cake  mix 
1  stick  margarine,  melted 
3  eggs 


8  oz.  cream  cheese 

1  box  confectioners  sugar 


Mix  cake  mix  and  margarine.  Add  1  egg  and  mix.  Will  be  very  thick.  Pat 
mixture  in  greased  and  floured  9x13"  pan.  Mix  cream  cheese  and  con- 
fectioners sugar  and  2  eggs.  Beat  with  mixer.  Pour  over  cake  mix.  Bake 
35  minutes  at  350°.  Let  cool  and  cut  in  squares. 


BANANA  BREAD  (OR  CAKE) 

1  box  Duncan  Hlnes  yellow 

cake  mix 
1  pkg.  Instant  vanilla  pudding 
%  C.  water 
1/2  C.  Wesson  oil 


Helen  Faulk 


4  eggs 

pinch  of  salt 

1  C.  mashed  bananas 

1  T.  vanilla 

Va  C.  nuts 


Mix  all  ingredients  and  pour  into  a  bundt  pan  for  cake  or  loaf  pans  for 
bread.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes. 


77 


DIFFERENT  CHEESE  CAKE  Judy  Poole 

10-Inch  cake: 

Use  10"  cake  pan,  3"  deep.  Also  a  12"  pan,  3"  deep.  Grease  the  baking 
pan  and  line  with  parchment  or  waxed  paper.  Arrange  pan  as  near  the 
center  of  the  oven  as  possible. 

3-8  oz.  pkgs.  cream  cheese  5  eggs 

1-3  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  %  t.  salt 

1 V4  C.  sugar  1  T.  vanilla 

1  T.  freshly  squeezed  lemon  5  C.  sour  cream 

Juice  2  T.  cornstarch 

USE  GLASS  MEASURING  CUP.  Beat  cream  cheese  and  sugar, 
preferably  with  flat  beater,  until  very  smooth,  (about  3  minutes).  Beat  in 
the  cornstarch.  Beat  in  the  eggs,  1  at  a  time,  scraping  down  sides  of 
bowl  until  smooth.  Add  the  lemon  juice,  vanilla  and  salt  and  beat  until 
mixed.  Pour  the  filling  into  the  prepared  pan.  Set  the  pan  into  the  larger 
pan.  Fill  larger  pan  with  at  least  1  inch  of  hot  water,  bake  in  preheated 
350°  oven  for  1  hour.  Turn  off  the  oven  and  allow  the  cake  to  cool  in 
oven  without  opening  the  door  for  1  hour.  Remove  to  racks  and  cool  to 
room  temperature.  Cover  with  plastic  wrap  and  refrigerate  overnight.  To 
unmold:  Run  a  thin-blade  metal  spatula  between  pan  and  cake,  make 
sure  to  press  well  against  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Place  pan  on  heated  bur- 
ner for  10-20  seconds,  moving  it  back  and  forth.  Place  plate  against  pan 
and  invert.  Remove  parchment  paper.  If  cake  does  not  release,  return  to 
the  burner  for  a  few  more  seconds.  Refrigerate  until  ready  to  frost  with 
White  Cream  Cheese  Icing  (recipe  follows). 

Icing: 

6  oz.  white  candy  melts  Va  C.  unsalted  butter 

1-8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  1  T.  fresh  lemon  Juice 

Melt  candy  melts  according  to  package  directions.  Allow  the  coating  to 
cool  slightly,  stirring  occasionally  (don't  let  it  set  up).  In  a  mixing  bowl, 
beat  the  cream  cheese  (preferably  with  a  flat  beater)  until  smooth  and 
creamy.  Gradually  beat  in  the  cooled  coating  until  smoothly  blended. 
Beat  in  butter  and  lemon  juice.  Ice  sides  of  cake  and  use  #21  decorator 
tip  to  pipe  around  top  &  bottom  of  cake.  Use  cherry  or  blueberry  pie  fill- 
ing or  make  your  own  strawberry  filling  for  top. 

PIG  PICKING  CAKE  Lana  Arndt 

Cake:  Icing: 

1  small  can  mandarin  oranges  1-8  oz.  Cool  Whip 

1  yellow  cake  mix  1  large  can  crushed  pineapple, 

1  C.  oil  don't  drain  Juice 

4  eggs  1  box  instant  vanilla  pudding 

Mix  all  together.  Bake  according  to  directions  on  cake  mix  box. 

78 


PUNCH  BOWL  CAKE  Grace  Glover 

1  angel  food  cake  SVz  oz.  evaporated  milk 

1 2  oz.  whipped  topping  Jar  of  strawberry  glaze 

16  oz.  sour  cream  1  qt.  fresh  strawberries,  sliced 

V*  C.  powdered  sugar  (add  sugar  as  needed) 

Break  cake  into  small  pieces,  place  in  large  bowl.  Mix  sour  cream, 
evaporated  milk,  whipped  topping  and  powdered  sugar  until  smooth. 
Fold  into  cake.  Add  strawberries  to  glaze.  Layer  the  cake  mixture  in  a 
large  punch  bowl  with  the  strawberry  mixture.  Chill  several  hours  before 
serving. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE  Jimmie  McClellan  &  Judy  Poole 

3  C.  brown  sugar  3A  C.  baking  cocoa 
1  C.  butter  or  margarine  1  T.  baking  soda 

4  eggs  Vz  t.  salt 

2 1.  vanilla  extract  1  V*  C.  sour  cream 

2%  all  purpose  flour  1  Vz  C.  boiling  water 

In  a  mixing  bowl,  cream  brown  sugar  and  butter.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Beat  on  high  speed  until  light  and 
fluffy.  Blend  in  vanilla  Combine  flour,  cocoa,  soda  and  salt;  add  alter- 
nately with  sour  cream  to  creamed  mixture.  Mix  on  low  just  until  com- 
bined. Stir  in  water  until  blended.  Pour  into  three  greased  and  floured  9" 
pans.  Bake  at  350°  for  35  minutes.  Cool  in  pans  10  minutes;  remove  to 
wire  rack  to  cool  completely.  Frosting: 

Vz  C.  butter  or  margarine  3  squares  (1  oz.  each) 

5  C.  confectioners  sugar  unsweetened  chocolate 
1  C.  (8  oz.)  sour  cream                      3  squares  (1  oz.  each) 

2 1.  vanilla  extract  semi-sweet  chocolate 

In  a  medium  sauce  pan,  melt  butter  and  chocolate  over  low  heat.  Cool 
several  minutes.  In  a  mixing  bowl,  combine  sugar,  sour  cream  and 
vanilla.  Add  chocolate  mixture  and  beat  until  smooth.  Frost  cooled  cake. 


ZUCCHINI  BREAD  CAKE  Carol  Poole 

3  eggs  2 1.  baking  powder 

1  C.  oil  1 1.  soda 

1  C.  sugar  1 1.  salt 

1  C.  brown  sugar  1 1.  cinnamon 

2  C.  grated  zucchini  3 1.  vanilla 

2  C.  flour  1  C.  chopped  nuts 

Beat  eggs.  Add  sugar,  oil  and  zucchini.  Mix  dry  ingredients  together. 
Add  gradually  to  egg  and  zucchini  mixture.  Add  vanilla  and  nuts.  Mix 
well.  Grease  and  flour  2  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  325°  for  1  hour. 

79 


CHOCOLATE  DELIGHT  CAKE 

1 1  oz.  cream  cheese 

2  sticks  margarine 

2  boxes  confectioners  sugar 

1-4  oz.  bar  of  German 

chocolate,  melted  In 

V*  C.  water 
V*  C.  shortening 


Judy  Poole 

3  egos 

2V*  C.  all  purpose  flour 

1 1.  baking  soda 


1 1.  salt 

1  C.  buttermilk 

1 1.  vanilla 


Cream  together  cream  cheese  and  margarine.  Add  confectioners  sugar 
and  melted  chocolate.  Beat  together.  Put  half  of  mixture  in  another  bowl 
and  cover.  This  will  be  used  later  as  frosting.  To  other  half  of  mixture, 
add  shortening  and  beat  well.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time  and  beat  well 
after  each  addition.  Mix  together  flour,  soda  and  salt  and  add  to  batter 
alternately  with  buttermilk  and  vanilla.  Pour  batter  into  3  greased  and 
floured  9"  pans.  Bake  in  a  350°  oven  about  35  minutes,  or  until  cake 
tests  done.  Cool  frost  with  reserve  frosting. 


HUMMINGBIRD  CAKE 

3  C.  all  purpose  flour 

2  C.  sugar 

1  t.  soda 

1  t.  salt 

1  t.  cinnamon 

IViC.  vegetable  oil 


Marguerite  Farrar 

3  eggs 

1V2t.  vanilla 

1-8  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple 

3  large  bananas,  crushed 

2  C.  pecans,  chopped 


Sift  dry  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl.  Add  all  other  ingredients  and  stir  until 
well  mixed.  Do  not  beat.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  10"  tube  pan. 
Bake  in  325°  oven  for  1  hour  and  15  minutes.  Cool  in  pan.  Frosting:  1-8 
oz.  cream  cheese,  1  stick  butter,  1  t.  vanilla,  1  box  10X  sugar.  Have 
cheese  and  butter  at  room  temperature.  Mix  all  together.  Beat  until 
smooth.  Spread  over  the  cooled  cake. 


FRUIT  CAKE 

2  lbs.  pecans,  chopped 
2  lbs.  dates,  chopped 
2  slices  red  pineapple 
2  slices  green  pineapple 


Lucille  Nantz 


1  C.  candy  cherries 

2  can  Eagles  brand  milk 
V*  C.  flour 

2  large  cans  coconut 


Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Bake  in  1  large  pan  or  3  small  pans  at  300* 
for  45  minutes  to  one  hour. 


80 


FRESH  APPLE  CAKE  Gene  Poole 

3  eggs,  beaten  2  C.  sugar 

1 V2  C.  Wesson  oil  1 1.  soda 

1 1.  vanilla  V4t.  salt 

3  C.  plain  flour,  sifted  3  C.  raw  apples,  diced 

1 1.  cinnamon  1  C.  coconut 

V*  C.  orange  juice  1  C.  chopped  pecans 

1  C.  nuts,  chopped 

Mix  above.  Bake  in  well  greased  and  floured  tube  pan  at  325°  for  1  hour 
15  minutes.  Sauce: 

1  stick  margarine  Vz  t.  soda 

1  C.  sugar  Vz  cup  buttermilk 

Melt  margarine  in  large  boiler.  Stir  ingredients  in  order  given.  Bring  to  a 
good  rolling  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  for  one  minute.  Pour  over  hot 
cake  white  it  is  still  in  pan.  Let  stand  for  1  hour  before  turning  out  of  pan. 


ANGEL  FOOD  FRUIT  &  CREAM  CAKE  Robbie  Scarborough 

1  large  angel  food  cake,  sliced        1-16  oz.  crushed  pineapple, 
horizontally  3  layers  In  It's  own  juice 

2  sm.  pkgs.  instant  vanilla  fresh  fruit,  strawberries, 
pudding,  sugar  free  figs,  kiwi,  etc. 

2  containers  light  Cool  Whip 

Mix  dry  pudding  mix  with  crushed  pineapple  and  fold  in  Cool  Whip.  Put 
plenty  Cool  Whip  and  pineapple  mixture  between  the  layers  of  cake. 
Then  frost  the  entire  cake,  filling  up  the  hole.  Decorate  with  lots  of  fresh 
fruit.  Easy  to  make  and  good  summer  dessert.  Also  pretty  decorated 
with  maraschino  cherries  and  holly  leaves  for  Christmas. 


DO  NOTHING  CAKE  Carol  Poole 

2  C.  plain  flour  1 1.  soda 

2  C.  sugar  Vz  t.  salt 

2  eggs  1  large  can  pineapple  with  juice 

1  T.  vanilla 

Mix  by  hand.  Pour  in  long  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  30-40  minutes.  Top- 
ping: 1  stick,  margarine,  %  C.  evaporated  milk,  and  1  C.  chopped  nuts. 
Lightly  boil  for  5  minutes.  Pour  over  cake. 

81 


ITALIAN  CREAM  CAKE  Judy  Poole 

1  stick  margarine  1  C.  buttermilk 
V2  C.  vegetable  shortening  1 1.  vanilla  extract 

2  C.  sugar  1  pkg.  frozen  coconut 
5  egg  yolks  1  C.  chopped  pecans 

2  C.  flour  5  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 
1 1.  soda 

Cream  margarine  and  shortening;  add  sugar  and  beat  until  mixture  is 
very  smooth.  Add  egg  yolks  and  beat  well,  combine  flour  and  soda;  add 
to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  buttermilk;  stir  in  vanilla  extract.  Add 
coconut  and  nuts.  Fold  in  egg  whites.  Pour  into  3  greased  and  floured  8" 
pans  or  2  9"  pans.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes.  Frosting: 

8  oz.  cream  cheese,  softened  1 1.  vanilla 

1  stick  margarine,  softened  1  C.  chopped  nuts 

1  box  powdered  sugar,  sifted 

Beat  cream  cheese  and  margarine  until  smooth.  Add  sugar  and  mix 
well.  Add  vanilla;  beat  well.  Stir  in  pecans.  Spread  on  cool  cake. 

PUMPKIN  CAKE  Marjorie  Glass 

1  pkg.  yellow  cake  mix  1  C.  pumpkin 
4  eggs  V«  C.  water 
Vz  C.  sugar  1 1.  cinnamon 
V2  C.  salad  oil  V2 1.  nutmeg 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Beat  about  5  minutes  with  mixer.  Bake  in  a 
greased,  floured  tube  pan  for  45-50  minutes  at  350°.  Cream  cheese 
icing  is  good  on  this  cake:  Combine  1-3  oz.  pkg.  softened  cream 
cheese,  1  stick  margarine,  1  box  powdered  sugar  and  1 1.  vanilla. 

ZUCCHINI  CAKE  Judith  Bryant 

3  eggs,  slightly  beaten  3  C.  all  purpose  flour 

2  C.  sugar  1 1.  soda 

1  C.  canola  or  vegetable  oil  V*  t.  baking  powder 

2  C.  grated  zucchini  1 1.  salt 

2 1.  vanilla  2 1.  cinnamon 

1  C.  raisins  1  C.  crushed  pineapple,  well 

1  C.  chopped  nuts  drained 

1  C.  chopped  dates 

Do  not  use  mixer.  Grease  &  flour  pan  well.  Place  waxed  paper  in  bottom 
of  pan.  Beat  eggs;  stir  in  oil,  sugar  and  vanilla.  Add  zucchini  and  stir 
well.  Combine  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  mixture.  Add  pineapple.  Com- 
bine nuts,  dates,  raisins  and  stir  well.  Pour  into  a  greased,  floured  10" 
tube  pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  1  hour  and  15  minutes,  or  until  done.  Cool  in 
pan  10  minutes,  then  go  around  sides  of  pan  with  a  flat  knife.  Invert  on 
wire  rack  to  cool.  Cake  is  very  moist  and  can  be  frozen  well. 

82 


OLD  FASHIONED  FRUIT  CAKE  Nezzie  Buchanan 

2  C.  sugar  %  t.  soda 

1  C.  butter  IV2 1.  cinnamon 

6  eggs  1  -1 5  oz.  box  raisins 

3  T.  brandy  flavoring  %  lb.  candied  cherries, 
1  C.  honey,  divided  chopped 

4  C.  all  purpose  flour  V*  lb.  candied  pineapple, 

1  T.  baking  powder  chopped 

1 1.  salt  1-1 V2  lb.  pecan  halves 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  flavoring,  and  %  C.  honey.  Sift  dry 
ingredients  together,  add  fruits  and  nuts,  stir  until  fruit  is  well  coated 
with  flour.  Combine  with  creamed  mixture.  Stir  until  well  mixed.  Pour  into 

2  greased  and  floured  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  275°  for  2V*  hours.  Take  out  of 
oven  and  spoon  remaining  Va  C.  of  honey  over  loaves.  Return  to  oven 
for  15  minutes.  Let  cool  on  rack  for  15  minutes.  Remove  from  pans. 
Wrap  and  store.  Yields  2-3lb.  loaves.  Can  be  stored  in  freezer  for  6 
months. 


PINEAPPLE  CARROT  CAKE  Gin  Moore 

2  C.  sifted  plain  flour  I-8V4  oz.  can  drained,  crushed 

1 1.  baking  powder  pineapple 

1 1.  vanilla  1%  C.  granulated  sugar 

1 1.  salt  2  C.  shredded  carrots 

2 1.  cinnamon  3  eggs 

1  C.  flaked  coconut  1  C.  vegetable  oil 

2 1.  baking  soda  1  C.  chopped  walnuts 

Grease  and  flour  a  13x9x2  pan.  Sift  flour,  baking  soda  and  salt  and  cin- 
namon in  large  bowl.  Make  a  well  in  the  center  and  add  sugar,  oil,  eggs 
and  vanilla;  beat  with  wooden  spoon  until  smooth.  Stir  in  carrots, 
coconut,  walnuts  and  pineapple  until  blended.  Pour  into  cake  pan  and 
bake  in  350°  for  45  minutes  or  until  center  springs  back  when  pressed. 
Cool  and  ice. 


CHRISTMAS  CAKE  Virginia  Helms  and  Bernice  Nelson 

1  C.  butter  IV2  C.  pecans 

1  %  C.  sugar  1 V2  C.  walnuts 

5  eggs  1  lb.  candid  cherries 

2  C.  sifted  flour  4  oz.  can  flake  coconut 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  after  each. 
Add  flour,  then  nuts.  Add  cherries  which  have  been  cut  in  half.  Add 
coconut.  Pour  into  greased  tube  pan  lined  in  bottom  with  brown  paper. 
Bake  for  3  hours  and  1 5  minutes  at  250  ° . 

83 


JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE  Geneva  Gibson 

2  stick  butter  or  margarine  1 1.  vanilla 

2  C.  sugar  1  C.  nuts 

5  eggs  1  C.  pineapple,  drained 

3  C.  flour,  all  purpose  1  C.  raisins 
1  C.  milk  1 1.  allspice 


Heat  oven  to  350°.  Cook  25-35  minutes.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
together  until  fluffy.  Beat  eggs  in  thoroughly,  one  at  a  time.  Mix  flour  into 
creamed  mixture  alternately  with  milk  and  vanilla.  Divide  batter  in  Vz.  Add 
in  one  part  of  batter  1  C.  nuts,  1  C.  pineapple,  1  C.  raisins  and  1  t. 
allspice.  Pour  in  remaining  pan.  Bake  and  when  cool  put  together  with 
Japanese  fruit  filling.Filling: 

2  C.  sugar  1  lemon  Juice  and  grated  rind 

2  T.  Corn  starch  juice  of  pineapple  and  water  to 

1  coconut,  approx.  2  C.  make  2  C. 

Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens  and  boils. 
Boil  1  minute.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  lemon  rind.  Cool.  Stir  in  coconut. 
Place  on  top  of  cake  and  between  layers.  We  eat  it  just  like  this,  but  you 
can  make  a  seven  minute  icing  for  sides  if  you  want. 


RED  VELVET  CAKE  Pat  Carpenter 

Vz  C.  Crlsco  1  C.  buttermilk 

2  eggs  1 1.  soda 

IV2  C.  sugar  1  T.  vinegar 

2  oz.  red  coloring  1  T.  vanilla 

3/a  t.  salt  2  T.  cocoa 
2V*  C.  cake  flour 

Cream  Crisco  and  sugar,  eggs,  and  coloring.  Mix  cocoa  into  paste  in  a 
cup.  Add  preceding.  Add  vanilla.  Pour  buttermilk  into  cup.  Stir  well.  Add 
to  flour  and  salt  alternately  with  milk.  Add  soda  and  vinegar.  Mix  well. 
Bake  at  350°  for  25  minutes.  Icing: 

2  stick  margarine  1  C.  sugar 
1 1.  vanilla 

Cook  following  until  thick  and  creamy: 

3  T.  cornstarch  1  C.  water 

Cool  water  and  starch;  mix  and  add  to  creamy  base.  Beat  well  like 
whipped  cream,  using  mixer  if  desired. 

84 


QUICK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE  Cora  Carter 

2  C.  flour  4  T.  cocoa 

2  C.  sugar  Vz  C.  buttermilk 

1  C.  water  2  eggs 

1  C.  oil,  brand  you  prefer  1 1.  soda 

1  stick  butter  dash  salt 

Mix  flour  and  sugar  in  bowl.  Mix  in  boiler  water,  oil,  butter,  and  4  T. 
cocoa.  Boil  one  minute,  pour  over  flour  and  sugar.  Add  buttermilk,  eggs, 
soda,  and  salt.  Bake  in  large  pan  which  has  been  greased  and  floured 
(does  not  work  in  layer  cake)  for  30  minutes  or  until  firm  at  350°.  Icing: 
4  T.  milk  1  stick  butter 

4  T.  cocoa  1 1.  vanilla 

Bring  to  a  boil  and  add  1  box  confectioners  sugar.  Spread  on  hot  cake. 

FRESH  APPLE  CAKE  Janelle  Long 

2  C.  sugar  Vz  t.  cinnamon 
IV2C.  oil                                           Vz\.  nutmeg 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  Vz  t.  cloves 

2 1.  vanilla  1  C.  pecans,  chopped 

3  C.  flour  3  C.  unpeeied  apples, 
1  Vz  t.  soda  finely  chopped 

1 1.  salt 

Beat  together  sugar,  oil,  eggs,  and  vanilla  Sift  all  dry  ingredients 
together  and  add  to  sugar  and  oil  mixture.  Mix  well.  Add  apples  and 
pecans.  Mix  until  well  distributed  in  batter.  Bake  in  greased  and  floured 
9x13  pan  at  325°  for  55  minutes.  Removed  form  oven  and  pour  butter- 
milk glaze  over  hot  cake.  Buttermilk  Glaze: 

1  C.  sugar  1  T.  white  Karo 

Vz  C.  buttermilk  1  stick  margarine 

Vz  t.  soda  Vz  t.  vanilla 

Mix  in  large  pot  and  boil  for  2-3  minutes.  Punch  holes  in  hot  cake  with  a 
fork  and  pour  glaze  over  it. 

GOOEY  CAKE  Judith  Bryant 

1  stick  margarine  2  eggs 

1  box  German  chocolate  1  box  powdered  sugar 

cake  mix  1 1.  vanilla 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  1  Vz  C.  chopped  pecans 

Melt  margarine.  Add  to  cake  mix.  Beat  one  egg  and  stir  into  mixture  until 
stiff.  Spray  glass  dish  (9x13)  with  Pam.  Spread  evenly  over  dish  and 
spread  nuts  over  this.  Mix  cream  cheese  with  one  egg  and  powdered 
sugar.  Pour  on  top  of  pecans.  Bake  45  minutes  at  350  . 

85 


DATE  CAKE  Zelda  DeCristoforo 

1  C.  boiling  water  1  egg 

1  C.  cut  up  dates  1 Vz  C.  flour 

1 1.  soda  1 1.  vanilla 

1  C.  sugar  Vz  C.  pecans 
3  T.  shortening,  oleo 

Mix  boiling  water,  cut  up  dates,  and  soda.  Let  stand  while  preparing. 
Combine  ingredients,  then  beat  in  date  mix  at  slow  speed  .(thin  batter). 
Bake  in  greased  pan  12x8'  for  25  minutes  at  375°.  Buttermilk  Icing: 

1  C.  sugar  V*  C.  oleo 
Vz  C.  buttermilk                                  Vz  t.  vanilla 
Vz 1.  soda 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  let  boil  for  2  minutes.  Pour  on  hot  cake. 
Make  icing  while  cake  is  baking.  Let  cool  for  about  5  minutes. 

HUMMINGBIRD  CAKE  Glendred  Griffin 

3  C.  plain  flour  1  Vz  C.  Crlsco  oil 

1 1.  soda  2  C.  chopped  bananas 

2  C.  sugar  1  C.  nuts,  walnuts 

1 1.  salt  1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

1 1.  cinnamon  V/z  t.  vanilla 

3  eggs,  beaten 

Mix  above  ingredients  with  fork  until  moist  and  all  flour  has  been  worked 
in.  Pour  into  a  greased  and  floured  tube  pan.  Bake  1  hour  and  20 
minutes  at  325°.  Remove  pan  from  oven  and  cool  on  rack.  When  cool, 
frost  with  cream  cheese  frosting.  Frosting: 

1-8  oz.  cream  cheese  1  box  confectioners  sugar 

1  stick  softened  margarine  1 1.  vanilla 

Soften  cream  cheese  and  margarine.  Beat  until  fluffy.  Add  sugar  and 
vanilla  Keep  cake  refrigerated. 

1  -2-3-4  CAKE  Dot  Rutledge 

1  C.  shortening  (or  use  Vz  C.  1  C.  milk 
shortening  ana  Vz  C.  oleo)  1 1.  baking  powder 

2  C.  sugar  Vz  t.  vanilla  flavoring 

3  C.  all  purpose  flour  Vz  t.  lemon  flavoring 

4  eggs 

Beat  shortening  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  flour  alternately  with 
milk.  Then  beat  in  the  flavorings.  (For  chocolate  pound  cake  use  V*  C. 
cocoa).  A  little  mace  gives  it  a  different  flavor  also.  Bake  350°  for  about 
an  hour. 

86 


LEMON  CHEESE  CAKE 


Virginia  Helms 


Vt  C.  crushed  graham  cracker 

crumbs 
Va  C.  sugar 
Va  C.  melted  butter 
1-8  02.  pkg.  cream  cheese 
2  T.  soft  butter 


3  eggs 
3  T.  flour 

1  C.  sugar 

Vs  C.  lemon  Juice 

2  T.  grated  lemon  rind 
%  C.  milk 


Mix  graham  cracker  crumbs,  Va  C.  sugar  and  Va  C.  melted  butter.  Mix 
together  and  press  into  a  9"  pie  pan.  Chill  well  so  it  won't  crumble.  Mix 
softened  cream  cheese  with  2  T.  soft  butter  and  cream.  Add  eggs  one  at 
a  time  and  beat  until  fluffy.  Sift  flour  with  1  C.  sugar  and  add  to  creamed 
mixture.  Mix  well.  Add  lemon  juice,  lemon  rind  and  milk.  Blend  together. 
Pour  mixture  into  chilled  crust.  Bake  in  a  350°  oven  until  set  and  golden 
brown.  45-50  minutes.  Cool  and  chill.  Serve  as  is  or  top  dessert  with  a 
strawberry  glaze.  Strawberry  Glaze: 


1-10oz.  pkg.  frozen 
strawberries,  thawed  and 
drained  (save  juice) 


2-5  T.  sugar,  depending  on 

sweetness  of  berries 
1  T.  corn  starch 


Blend  strawberry  juice  with  sugar  and  cornstarch.  Bring  to  a  boil  over 
medium  heat.  Stirring  constantly  until  thickened.  Add  berries  and  bring 
to  a  boil  again.  Cool  and  spoon  over  top  of  cheese  cake. 


CHESS  CAKE 

1  box  (2  layer)  yellow  cake  mix 

1  egg,  beaten 

1  stick  butter,  melted 


Maxie  King 


3  eggs 

1  box  powdered  sugar 

8  oz.  cream  cheese 


Mix  cake  mix,  beaten  egg,  and  melted  butter.  Pat  into  greased  and 
floured  9x13  dish.  Beat  the  3  eggs,  add  powdered  sugar  and  cream 
cheese.  Beat  well  and  pour  over  cake  mix  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  35- 
40  minutes.  NOTE:  You  can  tell  if  cake  is  done  by  moving  rack,  if  cake  is 
not  done  it  will  "shake"  in  the  middle.  Top  will  fair  as  it  cools. 


PLUM  GOOD  CAKE 

2  C.  self-rising  flour 

1  C.  sugar 

1 1.  each  cinnamon  and  cloves 

1  C.  oil 


Dot  Rutledge 

3  eggs  or  egg  substitute 

2  small  or  one  large  Jar  strained 

plums  (baby  food) 
1  C.  chopped  nuts 


Put  all  ingredients  in  a  bowl.  Mix  3  minutes  on  low  speed.  Bake  in 
greased  Bundt  pan  50  minutes  at  350°.  Cool  10  minutes  and  remove 
from  pan.  Glaze:  1  C.  confectioners  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Mix  until 
smooth  and  pour  over  cake  while  it  is  still  warm. 


87 


CHOCOLATE  ECLAIR  CAKE  Janelle  Long 

1  box  graham  crackers  4  C.  milk 

2  boxes  French  vanilla  Instant  1  large  Cool  Whip 
pudding 

Mix  pudding  with  milk  until  thick.  Add  Cool  Whip.  Mix  together  until  well 
blended.  Layer  a  9x13  pan  with  graham  crackers.  Cover  with  Vs  pudding 
mix,  another  layer  of  crackers  and  remaining  pudding  mix.  Top  with 
graham  crackers.  Refrigerate.  Chocolate  Topping: 

1/3  C.  cocoa  1 1.  vanilla 

1  C.  sugar  V*  margarine 

Va  C.  milk 

Boil  cocoa,  sugar,  and  milk  for  1  minute.  Add  vanilla  and  margarine.  Let 
set  until  cool.  Beat  until  thickened  and  loses  glossy  appearance.  Pour 
over  graham  cracker  top.  NOTE:  I  usually  make  topping  first  so  it  can 
cool  while  preparing  cake  mixture. 


1 4-CARAT  CAKE  Janelle  Long 

2  C.  plain  flour  2  C.  sugar 

2 1.  baking  powder  V*  C.  chopped  walnuts 

1Vat.  soda  11/2C.  oil 

1 V2 1.  salt  4  eggs 

2 1.  cinnamon  2  C.  finely  shredded,  pared 
I-8V2  oz.  crushed  pineapple,  carrots 

drained  1  -31/2  oz.  can  coconut 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  soda,  salt  and  cinnamon  in  mixing 
bowl.  Add  sugar,  oil  and  eggs.  Beat  at  medium  speed  1  minute.  Stir  in 
carrots,  pineapple,  walnuts  and  coconut.  Turn  into  3  greased  and 
floured  9"  cake  pans.  Bake  at  350°  for  40  minutes  or  until  cake  tests 
done.  Cool  in  pans  on  racks  for  10  minutes.  Remove  from  pans  and 
finish  cooling  on  racks.  Serves  12.  Prepare  cream  cheese  frosting. 
Cream  cheese  frosting: 

Vz  C.  butter  or  margarine  1 1.  vanilla 

1-8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese,  1-1  lb.  box  confectioners  sugar 

softened 

Cream  together  butter,  cream  cheese  and  vanilla  in  bowl.  Beat  at 
medium  speed  of  mixer.  Gradually  add  confectioners  sugar,  beating  un- 
til smooth  and  creamy.  If  mixture  is  too  thick  to  spread,  add  a  little  milk. 
Frost  between  layers  and  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

88 


RED  BEET  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

1 V*  C.  sifted  all  purpose  flour 

1  y2 1.  baking  soda 

Vz  t.  salt 

VAC.  sugar 

3  eggs 

1 1.  vanilla 


Dot  Rutledge 

1  C.  cooking  oil 

11/2  C.  pureed  cooked  beets 

2  oz.  unsweetened  chocolate 
(melted  and  cooled) 

sifted  confectioners  sugar 


Sift  together  flour,  baking  soda  and  salt;  set  aside.  Combine  sugar,  eggs 
and  oil  in  mixing  bowl.  Beat  with  electric  mixer  at  medium  speed  2 
minutes.  Beat  in  beets,  chocolate  and  vanilla.  Gradually  add  dry  in- 
gredients, beating  well  after  each  addition.  Pour  into  greased  13x9x2" 
pan  or  layer  pans.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  minutes  or  until  cake  tests  done. 
Cool.  Let  stand  overnight  to  improve  flavor.  Sprinkle  with  confectioners 
sugar. 


VANILLA  WAFER  CAKE 

1  C.  butter  or  margarine 

2  C.  sugar 
6  eggs 

1-12  oz.  box  vanilla  wafers, 
crushed 


Alva  Rice 


1-7  oz.  pkg.  flaked  coconut 
1  C.  chopped  pecans 
V2  C.  milk 


Cream  butter  or  margarine  and  sugar,  beat  until  smooth.  Add  eggs  one 
at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  one.  Add  vanilla  wafer  crumbs.  Add 
milk,  coconut,  pecans  and  vanilla  flavoring.  Pour  into  a  well  greased  and 
floured  tube  pan.  Bake  for  1  Va  hour  at  350-375° . 


HERSHEVS  SYRUP  CAKE 

1  C. sugar 

1  stick  margarine 

4  eggs 

1  C.  plain  flour 


Leslie  Smith 

1 1.  baking  soda 

1  pinch  salt 

1 1.  vanilla 

1-16  oz.  can  Hershey's  syrup 


Mix  above  ingredients  together,  pour  into  a  9x13"  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for 
35-45  minutes.  Over  medium  heat  cook  1  C.  sugar,  1  stick  margarine 
and  1-3  oz.  can  evaporated  milk  for  about  1  minute.  Add  Vz  C.  chocolate 
chips  and  1  C.  chopped  pecans.  Pour  over  hot  cake  and  refrigerate  for 
at  least  2  hours. 


89 


■THAT-  CHOCOLATE  CAKE  Zelda  DeCristoforo 

2  C.  sugar  1  C.  water 

2  C.  flour  V2  C.  buttermilk 

1  stick  oleo  1 1.  soda 

Vz  C.  Crisco  2  eggs 

4  T.  cocoa  1 1.  vanilla 

Mix  flour  and  sugar  in  large  container.  Bring  to  a  boil  oleo,  Crisco,  cocoa 
and  water  and  pour  over  sugar  and  flour  mixture.  Add  buttermilk,  soda, 
eggs,  and  vanilla  Pour  mixture  into  a  greased  and  floured  9x13"  pan 
and  bake  at  400°  for  25  minutes.  Pour  frosting  over  cake  while  hot. 
Frosting: 

1  stick  oleo  1  box  confectioners  sugar 

4  T.  cocoa  1  t.  vanilla 

6  T.  milk 

Bring  to  a  boil,  beat  until  smooth.  Pour  over  cake  while  hot. 


PEANUT  BUTTER  CANDY  Beverly  Doyle 

2  C.  peanut  butter,  crunchy  or  2%  C.  powdered  sugar 

smooth  1 2  oz.  chocolate  chips 

Vz  C.  plus  1  T.  butter,  melted 
and  divided 

Stir  together  peanut  butter,  Vz  C.  melted  butter  and  powdered  sugar. 
Press  mixture  in  bottom  of  9x13"  pan.  Melt  chocolate  chips  with  remain- 
ing butter.  Spread  on  top  of  peanut  butter  mixture.  Refrigerate  for  10 
minutes.  Store  at  room  temperature.  Cut  into  small  squares. 


MARTHA  WASHINGTON  CANDY  OR  Barbara  Long 

(CHOCOLATE  COVERED  CHERRIES) 

1  can  Eagle  brand  milk  1  qt.  pecans,  broken 

2  lb.  confectioners  sugar  24  maraschino  cherries, 
1/«  lb.  butter  or  margarine  drained    and  quartered 
1  T.  vanilla 

Cream  butter.  Add  sugar,  milk  and  vanilla.  Mix  with  hands  if  can't  use 
spoon.  Gradually  add  cherries  and  pecans.  Chill  in  refrigerator  until  hard 
enough  to  handle.  Roll  in  balls  and  let  harden  in  refrigerator.  Melt  1  pkg. 
semi-sweet  chocolate  and  V*  block  paraffin  in  double  boiler.  Dip  balls  to 
cover.  Place  on  waxed  paper  to  cool.  Place  in  covered  container. 

90 


BASIC  PASTRY  Judy  Poole 

1 Vz  C.  all  purpose  flour  Vz 1.  salt 

Vz  C.  shortening  3-4  T.  cold  water 

Combine  flour  and  salt;  cut  in  shortening  with  pastry  blender  until  mix- 
ture resembles  coarse  meal.  With  a  fork,  stir  in  enough  cold  water  to 
moisten  dry  ingredients.  Shape  into  ball  and  roll  dough  to  1/aa  thickness. 
Bake  at  425°  for  1 2-1 5  minutes. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES  Elma  Helms 

Vz  C.  margarine  1  egg 

Vz  C.  granulated  sugar  1  C.  peanut  butter 

Vz  C.  packed  brown  sugar  1  Vz  C.  self-rising  flour 
Vz  t.  vanilla 

Cream  together  the  peanut  butter,  margarine  and  sugars  until  light  and 
fluffy.  Add  vanilla  and  egg  and  beat  well.  Add  flour  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Shape  into  1"  balls  and  place  about  2"  apart  on  cookie  sheet.  Flatten 
with  fork  in  criss  cross  pattern.  Bake  in  375°  oven  for  10-12  minutes. 


ORANGE  NO-BAKE  COOKIES  Grace  Glover 

1-12  oz.  box  vanilla  wafers,  V*  C.  melted  butter 

crushed  1  -6  oz.  can  frozen  orange  Juice, 
1  C.  powdered  sugar,  sifted  thawed 

V*  C.  chopped  pecans  Vz  C.  shredded  coconut 

Combine  vanilla  wafer  crumbs  with  1  C.  powdered  sugar,  the  nuts,  but- 
ter, juice  and  coconut,  blending  well.  Shape  mixture  into  small  balls.  Roll 
balls  in  additional  sugar.  Freeze  on  cookie  sheet  until  about  10  minutes 
before  serving.  Makes  40  cookies. 


COWBOY  COOKIES  Janelle  Long 

1  C.  butter  or  margarine  1 1.  soda 

2  C.  plain  flour  2  eggs 

1  C.  white  sugar  1 1.  vanilla 

1  C.  brown  sugar  1  pkg.  chocolate  chips,  6  oz. 

2  C.  uncooked  oatmeal  1  C.  each  raisins,  nuts,  and 
Vz  t.  salt  coconut,  optional 

Blend  butter  until  soft.  Add  salt  and  vanilla.  Add  white  sugar  and  eggs 
one  at  a  time.  Mix  well.  Add  brown  sugar.  Add  flour  and  soda.  Mix  oat- 
meal and  other  ingredients.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  2"  apart  onto  greased 
cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350°  10-12  minutes  or  until  browned.  Cool  on 
cookie  sheet  for  2  minutes.  Remove  to  paper  towel  to  cool  completely. 
Recipe  can  be  doubled.  Yield  2  dz.  cookies. 

91 


STIR  "N"  DROP  SUGAR  COOKIES  Dot  Godfrey 

2  eggs  V*  C.  sugar 

%  C.  cooking  oil  2  C.  sifted  plain  flour 

2 1.  vanilla  2 1.  baking  powder 

1 1.  grated  lemon  rind  % 1.  salt. 

Heat  oven  to  400°  and  use  ungreased  baking  sheet.  Drop  batter  with 
tsp.  2"  apart.  Bake  8-10  minutes.  1.  Beat  eggs  with  fork  until  well 
blended.  2.  Stir  in  oil,  vanilla,  and  lemon  rind.  3.  Blend  in  sugar  until  mix- 
ture thickens.  4.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Stir  into  oil 
mixture.  After  baking,  remove  immediately  from  baking  sheet. 


CHRISTMAS  COOKIES  (SIMPLE)  Barbara  Long 

V2  C.  butter  1  C.  nuts 

2  T.  sugar  1  C.  cake  flour 

1 1.  vanilla 

Blend  butter  and  sugar.  Add  vanilla,  nuts,  and  cake  flour.  Mix  well.  Cut 
out  with  cookie  cutter.  Cook  30  minutes  at  300°.  Roll  in  confectioners 
sugar  after  cool. 


RICE  CRISPY  COCONUT  BALL  COOKIES  Barbara  Long 

1  C.  sugar  3  C.  rice  crlsples 

1  egg  '  Vz  t.  almond  flavoring 

1  C.  chopped  dates  V4  C.  chopped  nuts 
1  stick  oleo 

Cook  sugar,  egg,  dates,  and  oleo  for  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Removed  from  heat  and  add  rice  crispies,  almond  flavoring,  and  nuts. 
Roll  into  balls  and  then  roll  in  grated  coconut  (colored  if  desired). 


YUMMY  POTPOURRI  COOKIES  Dot  Rutledge 

1  C.  each  white  sugar,  brown  31/2  C.  flour 

sugar,  oleo  and  oil  1  C.  each  raw  oatmeal,  coconut, 

1  egg  Rice  Krispies,  and 

1 1.  each  salt,  vanilla,  cream  of  chopped  nuts 
tartar  and  soda 

Mix  in  order  given.  Drop  by  teaspoonsful  onto  baking  sheets.  Bake  12 
minutes  at  350°. 

92 


DATE  OATMEAL  COOKIES  Dot  Lee 

1  C.  sugar  2  C.  flour 

1  C.  brown  sugar  1 1.  salt 

1  C.  shortening  1 1.  baking  powder 

2  C.  Minute  oats  1 1.  soda 

2  eggs  1  C.  chopped  nuts 

1  -8  oz.  box  dates,  diced  V*  C.  raisins 

1 1.  vanilla 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening;  add  eggs.  Beat  well.  Sift  flour,  salt,  baking 
powder,  and  soda.  Add  gradually  to  sugar,  shortening,  and  egg  mixture. 
Add  other  ingredients  1  at  a  time,  mixing  well.  Bake  at  350  for  8-10 
minutes. 


FROZEN  FRUIT  CUPS  Faye  L  Helms 

1  pt.  sour  cream  sm.  bottle  chopped  maraschino 
1-8  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple  cherries 

and  juice  Vz  C.  pecans,  chopped 

2  medium  bananas,  cubed  Y*  C.  sugar 

or  crushed  Vz  bag  miniature 

1  T.  lemon  juice  Kraft  marshmallows 

1  can  fruit  cocktail,  drained 

Mix  all  ingredients.  Spoon  into  paper  muffin  cups  and  set  in  muffin  tins. 
Put  in  freezer  until  frozen.  Remove  from  muffin  tins  and  store  in  plastic 
bag  in  freezer.  Nice  treat  for  children  on  summer  days. 


(STRAWBERRY)  RUBY  RED  APPLES  Carol  Poole 

1  -3  oz.  strawberry  gelatin  1  C.  water 

Vz  C.  sugar 

Mix  in  sauce  pan;  sugar,  water,  and  gelatin.  Peel  and  quarter  5  cooking 
apples.  Precook  in  above  mixture  until  tender.  Put  into  a  casserole  and 
bake  about  20  minutes  at  325°.  May  be  topped  with  chopped  nuts. 
Freezes  nicely. 


CHEWIES  Marjorie  Glass-A  Family  Favorite! 

1  stick  butter  2 1.  baking  powder 

1  box  light  brown  sugar  Vz  t.  salt 

2  eggs  1 1.  vanilla 
2  C.  flour  nuts 

Mix  above  ingredients  and  pour  into  9x13"  pan.  Batter  will  be  very  thick. 
Bake  at  350°  for  25-30  minutes. 

93 


STRAWBERRY  PIZZA 

First  layer: 

IV2C.  plain  flour 

1  C.  margarine,  room  temp. 


Dot  Lee 

V2  C.  brown  sugar 

Ys  C.  chopped  pecans,  optional 


Blend  well.  Spread  on  large  pizza  pan.  Bake  at  400°  for  10-15  minutes. 
Cool. 

Second  layer:  9  oz.  Cool  Whip 

8  oz.  cream  cheese,  room  temp.        1  C.  sifted  powdered  sugar 

Spread  on  cooled  first  layer.  Top  with  3rd  layer. 


Third  layer: 

3  oz.  strawberry  Jell© 

4  T.  cornstarch 


1  C.  water 

V2  C.  sugar 

4  C.  sliced  strawberries 


Mix  jello,  sugar  and  V*  of  water.  Dissolve  corn  starch  in  other  Vfe  of  water. 
Cook  until  thick.  Cool.  Add  berries. 


STRAWBERRY  SAUCE 

12  oz.  frozen  strawberries,  or 
raspberries 


Janelle  Long 


Vz  C.  orange  juice 
V*  C.  sugar 


Place  all  ingredients  in  blender.  Blend  until  berries  are  ground  fine. 
Refrigerate.  Makes  2  cups.  Serve  on  cheesecake,  ice  cream,  pound 
cake,  etc. 


LEMON  LUSH 

Vz  C.  butter,  softened 

1  C.  flour,  plain 

Va  C.  chopped  nuts 

1-8  oz.  cream  cheese,  softened 

1  C.  confectioners  sugar 


Janelle  Long 

1-9  oz.  whipped  topping 

2-3  oz.  lemon  instant  pudding 

3  C.  milk 

nuts  for  topping 


Mix  butter,  flour  and  nuts  together  like  a  pie  crust.  Press  into  9x13'  pan. 
Bake  at  350°  for  15-20  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and  cool.  Mix  cream 
cheese  and  confectioners  sugar.  When  smooth  add  1  C.  whipped  top- 
ping. Pour  over  cooled  crust.  Mix  pudding  and  milk.  Beat  until  thick. 
Pour  over  cheese  mixture.  Frost  with  remaining  whipped  topping  and 
sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts. 

94 


CHEESE  DATE  FOLDOVERS  Gerry  McCoy 

Vz  C.  margarine  V*  t.  salt 

1  C.  grated  sharp  American  2  T.  water 

cheese  1  recipe  date  filling 
■p/sC.  sifted  flour 

Cream  butter  and  cheese  until  light.  Sift  flour  and  salt  together,  blend 
into  creamed  mixture.  Add  water  and  mix  well.  Chill  4-5  hours.  Date  fill- 
ing: Combine  one  package  chopped  pitted  dates,  Vz  C.  brown  sugar, 
and  V*  C.  water.  Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  occasionally,  till  the 
consistency  of  jam.  Cool.  Roll  dough  to  Vfe"  on  well  floured  board.  Cut 
with  2?A'  biscuit  cutter.  Place  1 Vfe 1.  filling  on  half  of  each  circle.  Fold  in 
half  and  seal  edges  with  tines  of  fork.  Bake  on  ungreased  baking  sheet 
at  375°  for  8-10  minutes.  Cool  slightly,  then  remove  from  pan.  Makes  2V6 
dozen.  (They  will  not  get  brown).  I  put  one  half  pecan  on  top  of  filling 
before  folding  over.  You  can  use  Vz  English  walnut. 


LEMON  BISQUE  Judy  Ferryman 

1-12  oz.  can  Carnation  1  box  vanilla  wafers,  crushed 

evaporated  milk  (save  1  C.  for  garnishing  top) 

1-3  oz.  lemon  jello  Juice  of  1  lemon,  or  more 
2  T.  sugar,  or  more  to  taste 

Thoroughly  chill  can  of  milk.  (Place  in  refrigerator  night  before  mixing 
bisque).  Make  jello  according  to  pkg.  directions.  Refrigerate  until  it 
begins  to  gel.  Squeeze  juice  from  lemon.  Pour  milk  into  mixer  bowl  and 
whip  until  it  almost  forms  peak.  (Will  make  large  bowl  almost  full).  Add 
sugar,  lemon  juice  and  jello.  Stir  well.  Put  vanilla  wafer  crumbs  in  bottom 
of  pyrex  dish.  Pour  mixture  over  crumbs.  Sprinkle  crumbs  on  top. 
Refrigerate. 


CHOCOLATE  CHERRY  BARS  Faye  L  Helms 

1  pkg.  fudge  cake  mix  Icing: 

1  can  pie  cherries  1  C.  sugar 

2  eggs  5  T.  butter,  or  margarine 
1 1.  almond  extract,  or  vanilla  Vz  C.  milk 

1-6  oz.  pkg.  semi-sweet 
chocolate  bits 

Grease  and  flour  9x13"  pan  (and  a  loaf  pan  if  you  don't  want  too  thick). 
Mix  cake  mix,  cherries,  eggs  and  flavoring  by  hand  and  pour  in  pans. 
Bake  25  minutes  at  350°.  Icing:  Bring  the  first  3  ingredients  to  a  boil. 
Boil  for  1  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Add  chocolate  chips.  Blend  till 
smooth.  Pour  over  warm  cake.  Cake  does  best  when  left  in  refrigerator. 

95 


PEANUT  BUTTER  DELIGHTS 


Janelle  Long 


2  C.  sugar 

3  T.  cocoa 
1  T.  vanilla 

1  T.  white  Karo  syrup 
1  stick  margarine 


Vz  C.  milk 

1  C.  peanut  butter  (creamy  or 

crunchy) 
3  C.  uncooked  oatmeal 


Mix  first  6  ingredients  together  in  large  sauce  pan.  Bring  to  boil.  Boil  1 
minute,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  peanut  butter. 
Stir  until  peanut  butter  is  blended  in  and  mixture  is  smooth.  Add  3  C. 
oatmeal.  Mix  well  until  all  oatmeal  is  well  covered  with  chocolate  mixture. 
Drop  by  teaspoon  onto  waxed  paper  (or  foil).  Let  set  until  cold  and  firm. 
Store  in  airtight  container. 


BREAD  PUDDING 

3  C.  milk 

3  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

3  C.  toasted  bread  cubes 

Vz  C.  sugar 

V*  C.  melted  butter 


Virginia  Helms 

1  T.  grated  lemon  rind 

Va  t.  salt 

Vz  C.  seedless  raisins 

grated  nutmeg 

lemon  sauce  (recipe  follows) 


Combine  milk  and  eggs.  Pour  over  bread;  stir  in  sugar,  butter,  lemon 

rind,  salt,  and  raisins.  Turn  mixture  into  a  greased  2-qt.  baking  dish. 

Sprinkle  with  nutmeg.  Place  dish  in  a    shallow  pan.  Pour  hot  water 

around  dish  to  depth  of  1  inch.  Bake  at  350°  for  50-55  minutes,  or  until  a 

knife  inserted  in  center  comes  out  clean.  Serve  warm  or  cold  with  lemon 

sauce.  Makes  6-8  servings.  Lemon  sauce: 

VsC.  sugar  2  T.  butter 

1  T.  corn  starch  Vz 1.  grated  lemon  rind 

1  C.  water  2  T.  lemon  Juice 

In  a  small  saucepan,  blend  sugar  and  corn  starch  with  water,  stirring  un- 
til smooth.  Bring  to  boil  over  medium  heat,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  2 
minutes.  Stir  in  butter,  lemon  rind  and  juice.  Serve  warm  over  bread 
pudding.  Makes  about  1  cup  sauce. 


CRANBERRY-OATMEAL  DELIGHT 

1-16  oz.  can  whole  cranberry 

sauce 
1 Vz  C.  chopped  cooking  apples 
1  C.  regular  oats,  uncooked 
Va  C.  all  purpose  flour 


Alva  Rice 


Vz  C.  packed  brown  sugar 
Va  C.  melted  butter 
1 1.  salt 
Vz  C.  chopped  pecans 


Combine  sauce  and  apples.  Spoon  into  buttered  baking  dish.  Combine 
rest  of  ingredients  and  spread  over  cranberry  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for 
50  minutes. 


96 


LEMON  BARS  Frances  Ennis 

Base:  Filling: 

2  sticks  margarine  4  eggs 

2  C.  flour  2  C.  sugar 

1/a  C.  sugar  4  T.  flour 

V*  t.  salt  Vi  t.  baking  powder 

7  T.  lemon  juice 

Base:  Cut  together  margarine,  flour,  sugar,  &  salt.  Press  into  a  9x12" 
pan.  Bake  20  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Filling:  Mix  by  hand  4  eggs, 
sugar,  flour,  baking  powder,  &  lemon  juice.  Pour  over  base.  Return  to 
oven.  Bake  about  1  hour  more.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Cool  and 
cut  into  squares. 

FANCY  GRAHAMS  Alva  Rice 

24  graham  crackers  2  C.  brown  sugar 

1  stick  butter,  melted  1  C.  chopped  nuts 

Make  a  single  layer  of  crackers  on  a  greased  cookie  sheet.  Combine 
butter,  sugar,  and  nuts.  Spread  over  crackers.  Bake  at  350°  for  12 
minutes.  Cool  and  lift  from  pan.  Break  into  halves,  if  desired.  Yields:  24 
whole  pieces. 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  CUP  CAKES  Faye  L  Helms 

V*  C.  butter  (or  margarine)  1  Vz  t.  vanilla 

1  Va  C.  sugar  1  V»  C.  pecans,  chopped 

5  egg  yolks  1  Va  C.  white  raisins 

3 1.  baking  powder  1  large  bottle  maraschino 

1  box  graham  cracker  crumbs  cherries 

1  Vz  C.  milk  5  egg  white,  slightly  beaten 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks.  Beat  in  one  at  a  time.  Add 
baking  powder.  Add  milk  and  graham  cracker  crumbs,  alternately.  Add 
vanilla  flavoring.  Add  cherries,  chopped  nuts,  and  raisins  (mix  raisins 
with  a  little  flour  before  adding).  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Fill 
paper  muffin  cups  2A'  full.  Set  in  muffin  tins  and  bake  approximately  15 
minutes  or  until  done  at  350°.  Makes  about  36.  (Can  be  iced  if  desired 
with  favorite  chocolate  icing). 

CHERRIES  IN  THE  SNOW  Dot  Rutledge 

1  -8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  cherry  pie  filling 

1  C.  confectioners  sugar  angel  cake 

large  container  Cool  Whip 

Cream  sugar  and  cream  cheese  together.  Add  Cool  Whip.  Break  cake 
into  bite-size  pieces  and  line  a  9x13"  pan  or  dish.  Spread  w/cream 
cheese  mixture.  Top  w/cherry  pie  filling.  Sprinkle  with  coconut  if  desired. 

97 


BLACK  EYED  SUSAN 


Barbara  Long 


1  lb.  sharp  cheese,  grated 
3  C.  plain  flour 
V2  lb.  butter  or  margarine 
1 1.  salt 


dash  red  pepper 
1  large  pkg.  pitted  dates 
Vz  lb.  pecan  halves 
confectioners  sugar 


Cream  cheese,  flour,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  as  for  a  pie  crust.  Roll  out, 
being  careful  to  get  thin  enough.  Cut  out  with  biscuit  cutter.  Stuff  date 
with  pecan  half  and  place  on  each  round,  fold  over  and  press  edges 
together.  Place  on  cookie  sheet  and  bake  at  350°  until  done  (not 
brown).  When  slightly  cool,  sift  confectioners  sugar  over  each.  Store  in 
covered  container. 


PUMPKIN  CRISP 

1  ig.  can  pumpkin 

1  Ig.  can  evaporated  milk 

3  eggs 

1  C.  copped  nuts 

%  C.  sugar 


June  Keathley 

2  sticks  melted  and  cooled 

margarine 
Vz  t.  cinnamon,  mace,  and  your 

favorite  spices 
1  box  yellow  cake  mix 


Line  bottom  and  sides  of  9x13*  pan  with  waxed  paper.  Mix  pumpkin, 
milk,  sugar,  eggs,  and  spices  together  and  pour  into  pan.  Pour  dry  cake 
mix  over  mixture.  Pat  nuts  onto  mix  evenly.  Spoon  melted  and  cooled 
butter  over  nuts.  Bake  at  350°  for  50-60  minutes.  Invert  onto  tray  and 
peel  off  waxed  paper.  Mix  frosting:  8  oz.  cream  cheese,  %  C.  Cool  Whip, 
Vz  C.  powdered  sugar.  Spread  over  base  mixture  and  refrigerate. 


PECAN  CHEWIES  (BROWNIES) 

1  C.  sugar 

1  C.  brown  sugar 

1  stick  margarine 

2  beaten  eggs 

2  C.  sifted  all  purpose  flour 


Frances  Jameson 

1  t.  baking  powder 
1  t.  vanilla  flavoring 
1  C.  finely  chopped  nuts  or 
pecans 


Heat  sugars  and  margarine  together.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  rest  of 
ingredients.  Spoon  batter  into  a  greased  and  lightly  floured  15x10x1" 
pan.  The  batter  will  be  thick  and  hard  to  spread.  Bake  at  350° 
(preheated)  for  25  minutes.  Note:  make  sure  your  margarine  is  the  good 
for  baking  kind. 


98 


CHOCOLATE  LOVERS  DELIGHT  Gerry  McCoy 

1  -1 8V4  oz.  chocolate  fudge  cake  1  -1 2  oz.  ctn  thawed,  frozen 
mix  whipped  topping 

1  -6  oz.  pkg.  Instant  chocolate  6  Heath  candy  bars,  (1 .4  oz. 
pudding  mix  ea.),  crushed 

Bake  cake  according  to  directions.  Cool.  Prepare  pudding  according  to 
directions  and  set  aside.  Crumble  cake,  reserving  V2  C.  Place  half  of  the 
remaining  cake  crumbs  in  bottom  of  41/2  or  5  qt.  glass  bowl,  half  of  the 
pudding,  half  of  the  whipped  topping  and  half  of  the  crushed  candy 
bars.  Repeat  the  layers  of  cake,  pudding,  and  whipped  topping.  Com- 
bine remaining  crushed  candy  bars  with  reserved  cake  crumbs  and 
sprinkle  over  top.  Refrigerate  4-5  hours  before  serving.  Yield:  8-10  serv- 
ings. 

7  MINUTE  WHITE  ICING  Dot  Godfrey 

1  unbeaten  egg  white  Vz  t.  vanilla 

7/8  C.  sugar  V*  t.  baking  powder 

3  T.  cold  water 

Put  egg  white,  sugar,  and  water  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Place  over  boil- 
ing water.  Beat  with  egg  beater  or  electric  hand  mixer  for  7  minutes  or 
until  thick.  Take  from  burner,  add  flavoring  and  beat  until  thick  and 
nearly  cold.  Add  baking  powder  and  continue  to  beat  until  thick  enough 
to  spread  on  cake. 

LEMON  TARTS  Cora  Carter 

1  C.  sugar  1  stick  plus  1  T.  butter,  melted 

2  eggs  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon 

Stir  sugar  and  eggs  well,  then  add  melted  butter  and  lemon  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  lemon.  Pour  mixture  into  unbaked  pie  crust  in  muffin  tins. 
Bake  at  325-350°  for  20-30  minutes. 


CHERRY  TARTS  Janelle  Long 

2  sticks  margarine  1 1.  vanilla 

IV2  C.  sugar  1 1.  lemon  (or  orange)  flavoring 

4  beaten  eggs  1  can  cherry  pie  filling 

2  C.  plain  flour 

Cream  margarine  and  sugar  together.  Add  eggs,  mix  well.  Add  flavor- 
ings and  flour.  Spread  batter  in  a  greased  and  floured  pan. 
(161/2x101/2x1")  Mark  batter  with  a  knife  into  24  or  28  squares.  Spoon  pie 
rilling  into  center  of  each  square.  (I  used  a  9x13  pan).  Bake  at  350°  35- 
40  minutes  or  until  golden.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Cool  before 
cutting  into  squares. 

99 


OLD  FASHIONED  RAISIN  BARS 


Janelle  Long 


1  C.  seedless  raisins 

Va  C.  water 

Va  C.  shortening 

1  C.  sugar 

2  eggs 


1 1.  vanilla 

1%  C.  self-rising  flour 

1 1.  cinnamon 

%  t.  nutmeg 

1  C.  chopped  pecans 


Heat  oven  to  375°.  Grease  9x13"  pan.  Boil  raisins  in  Va  C.  water  for  5 
minutes.  Add  shortening  and  stir  until  melted.  Add  sugar,  eggs,  and 
vanilla,  mixing  well.  Blend  in  flour  and  spices.  Stir  in  pecans.  Spread  in 
prepared  pan.  Bake  at  375°  for  15-20  minutes.  While  warm  spread  with 
frosting  made  of  2  C.  confectioners  sugar,  %  t.  salt,  1/a  t.  vanilla  and  3  T. 
milk.  Cool  and  cut  into  24  bars. 


WEIGHT  WATCHERS  DESSERT 

1-8  oz.  carton  whipped  topping 
1-12  oz.  carton  cottage  cheese 
1  small  pkg.  orange  Jello 


Edith  Starnes 

1-8  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple, 

well  drained 
1-11  oz.  can  mandarin  oranges, 

well  drained 


Mix  whipped  topping  and  jello.  Add  other  ingredients  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Refrigerate.  For  lower  fat  and  calories  use  low  fat  topping 
and  cottage  cheese  and  sugar  free  jello. 


CREAM  CHEESE  CUP  CAKES 

3-8  oz.  cream  cheese,  softened 
1  C.  sugar 

VAX.  vanilla 
5  eggs 


Dottie  Smith/Gladys  Harris 


2  T.  sugar 

1  C.  sour  cream 

%  t.  vanilla 


Use  electric  mixer.  Combine  cream  cheese,  sugar,  and  vanilla  Mix  well. 
Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Pour  mixture 
into  24  paper  cupcake  holders  (in  muffin  tins).  Bake  45  minutes  at  300°. 
Remove  from  oven.  Cool  5  minutes.  Top  each  one  with  a  small  amount 
of  sour  cream  mixture.  Return  to  oven  and  bake  5  more  minutes. 


GLAZED  FRUIT 

2-20  oz.  cans  pineapple 
2  small  cans  mandarin  oranges 
1-20  oz.  can  sliced  peaches 
1-20  oz.  can  sliced  pears 
1  Ig.  pkg.  of  vanillia  pudding, 
(not  instant) 


Dottie  Smith 

3-4  bananas,  sliced 
Vs-Vfc  C.  sliced  maraschino 

cherries  or  1  C.  fresh 

strawberries 
2  C.  reserved  pineapple  and 

mandarin  orange  Juice 


Drain  fruit  well.  Make  pudding  using  juice  instead  of  milk.  Pour  pudding 
over  fruit  while  hot.  Refrigerate  overnight.  Put  in  sliced  bananas  just 
before  serving.  This  fruit  combo  keeps  in  refrigerator  for  a  week. 


100 


Cooking  for 
a  Crowd 


CHILI  BURGERS  (SERVES  50)  Johnnie  Martin 

7V2  lbs.  around  beef  1 0  cans  condensed  tomato 

1 V*  qt.  chopped  onion  soup,  or  sauce 

11/4  qt.  chopped  celery,  optional  1  C.  or  more  water 
5  T.  chili  powder 

In  heavy  skillet,  brown  meat  well;  reduce  heat  and  add  onions,  celery, 
and  chili  powder.  Cook  until  vegetables  are  tender.  Add  soup  &  water. 
Cook  about  10  minutes  to  blend  flavors.  Stir  occasionally.  (This  can  be 
used  on  hot  dogs  as  well  as  a  mixture  for  buns). 


TEA  SYRUP  (CONCENTRATE)  Carroll  Flowe 

6  C.  sugar  1 2  family  size  tea  bags 

1  gallon  water 

Heat  water  to  boiling.  Add  sugar  and  stir  until  completely  dissolved. 
Bring  back  to  hard  boil.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  tea  bags.  Steep  for  20 
minutes.  To  serve  dilute  syrup  as  follows:  1  part  syrup  to  4  parts  water. 
Makes  1  gallon  syrup.  Will  serve  75  or  more.  Can  be  kept  in  the 
refrigerator  3  weeks  or  more,  or  in  the  freezer  indefinitely.  A  good  way  to 
freeze  is  to  use  ice  cube  pans  to  freeze  it  in.  You  can  use  just  what  you 
need  that  way,  without  thawing  the  whole  container. 


101 


Breads  *L  Rolls 


BANANA  NUT  BREAD  Carolyn  B.  Vanderburg 

1  C.  sugar  Vz  t.  soda  mixed  In  4  T. 

1  stick  oleo  or  butter,  melted  buttermilk 

4  bananas  mashed  fine  1  pinch  of  salt 

2  C.  sifted  flour,  sift  before  1  C.  chopped  nuts,  optional, 
measuring  or  at  least  Vz  C. 

1 1.  baking  powder  2  eggs 

Beat  eggs  together,  then  add  bananas,  then  butter,  nuts,  then  sift  flour, 
sugar,  and  salt  together  again.  Mix  liquid  ingredients  into  flour  mixture 
and  bake  in  300°  oven  for  50-60  minutes. 


BANANA  NUT  BREAD  Faye  Helms 

1  pkg.  banana  bread  mix  1  Jar  Smuckers  walnut  topping 

2  sm.  ripe  bananas,  mashed 

Prepare  mix  according  to  pkg.  directions.  Add  bananas.  Add  walnut  top- 
ping. Grease  and  flour  loaf  pan  or  muffin  tin.  Bake  at  350°  until  pick 
comes  out  clean.  You  can  use  a  cooking  spray  on  pans. 


BANANA  NUT  BREAD  Sarah  Jordan 

2  C.  sifted  flour,  plain  3-4  large  ripe  bananas,  mashed 

2  C.  sugar  2  whole  eggs 

1 1.  soda  V«  C.  vegetable  oil 

1 1.  salt  1  C.  chopped  nuts 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients.  Beat  eggs  and  add  to  oil.  Then  add  to  dry  in- 
gredients. Add  mashed  bananas.  Spray  2  loaf  pans  and  fill  %  full.  Bake 
1  hour  at  325°.  Remove  at  once  and  wrap  in  aluminum  foil  while  still 
warm. 

BREAKFAST  ROLLS  Nancy  Hudson 

butter  1-3  oz.  pkg.  butterscotch 
1  C.  walnuts  or  pecans,  pudding  mix,  not  Instant 

chopped  Va  C.  butter 

1  pkg.  frozen  dinner  rolls,  Vz  C.  brown  sugar 

(Rhodes) 

Butter  bundt  cake  pan  heavily  and  cover  the  bottom  with  %  C.  chopped 
nuts.  Place  frozen  rolls  around  the  pan  and  sprinkle  with  dry  pudding 
mix.  Combine  butter  and  brown  sugar  and  drizzle  this  mixture  over  the 
rolls  and  sprinkle  with  remaining  nuts.  Place  in  cold  oven  overnight. 
Remove  pan  from  oven.  Heat  oven  to  325°.  Return  pan  to  oven  and 
bake  for  30  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and  let  rolls  set  in  pan  for  2 
minutes.  Invert  onto  serving  plate. 

103 


BUTTERSCOTCH  BANANA  BREAD  Johnnie  Martin 

31/2  C.  all  purpose  flour  Vz  C.  margarine,  melted 

4 1.  baking  soda  2  eggs 

V/z  t.  ea.  ground  nutmeg  and  Vz  C.  milk 

cinnamon  2%  C.  chopped  pecans 

1 1.  salt  1-12  oz.  pkg.  butterscotch 
2  C.  mashed  ripe  bananas  morsels 

IV2C.  sugar 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Grease  and  flour  2  loaf  pans  (8x4  or  9x5).  In  large 
bowl  combine  first  5  ingredients.  In  large  bowl,  beat  bananas,  sugar, 
eggs,  and  margarine  until  mixture  is  creamy.  Add  flour  mixture  alter- 
nately with  milk.  Beat  only  to  blend.  Stir  in  2  C.  pecans  and  butterscotch 
morsels.  Spoon  batter  into  prepared  pans.  Sprinkle  with  remaining 
pecans.  Bake  for  60  minutes.  Check  after  35  minutes  and  if  loaves  are 
browning  too  fast,  cover  with  foil  and  continue  to  cook.  Cool  in  pan  on 
wire  rack  for  15  minutes  before  removing  from  pan. 

BANANA  RAISIN  MUFFINS  Juanita  Martin 

1  egg,  slightly  beaten  Vz  t.  ground  cinnamon 

I  Vz  small  bananas,  mashed  Va  t.  ground  cloves 
Va  C.  skim  milk  V*  C.  raisins 

2 1.  vegetable  oil  %  C.  unsifted  all  purpose  flour 

I I  baking  powder 

Mix  all  the  above  ingredients.  Stir  just  until  flour  is  moistened.  Fold  in 
raisins.  Spoon  batter  into  six  2Vz"  nonstick  muffin  pans.  Bake  in 
preheated  oven  (425°)  for  20  minutes  or  until  brown. 

BROCCOU  CORN  BREAD  Elma  Helms 

4  eggs  (or  2)  1  stick  margarine 

10  oz.  pkg.  frozen  broccoli  1  box  corn  meal  muffin 

1  C.  cottage  cheese  mix,  (Jiffy) 

1  onion 

Beat  eggs.  Cook  &  drain  broccoli.  Melt  margarine.  Mix  all  ingredients 
together.  Bake  in  a  9x13"  pan  at  400°  for  about  45  minutes  or  til  brown. 

BOJANGLES  BISCUITS  Carroll  Flowe 

2  C.  flour,  self-rising  Vz  C.  shortening 
2 1.  powdered  sugar  1  C.  buttermilk 

2 1.  baking  powder  1  stick  melted  butter 

Mix  dry  ingredients  until  well  blended.  Add  shortening.  Mix  until  it  is  like 
cornmeal.  Add  buttermilk.  Do  not  over  mix.  Roll  out  dough  to  Vz'  thick- 
ness and  cut  with  large  cutter.  Dip  biscuits  in  butter  and  place  on  baking 
sheet.  Bake  at  400°  until  golden  brown. 

104 


BUMBLE  BEE  BREAD 

2-10  count  cans  biscuits 
VAC.  brown  sugar 
1 1.  cinnamon 


Sarah  L  Foard 


IV2  sticks  margarine 
V2  C.  chopped  pecans 


Cut  biscuits  in  quarters.  Combine  sugar,  cinnamon,  margarine  and 
pecans  in  sauce  pan:  bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  Vz  sugar  mixture  in  greased 
bundt  pan.  Add  1  can  cut  biscuits.  Pour  1/a  sugar  mixture  over  biscuits. 
Add  second  can  cut  biscuits.  Pour  remaining  Va  sugar  mixture  over  bis- 
cuits. Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes.  Cool  in  pan  for  10  minutes.  Turn  out 
in  cake  plate  and  enjoy  while  warm. 


CARROT  BANANA  BREAD 

V2  C.  butter  or  Crlsco  oil 

1  C.  brown  sugar 

2  eggs,  or  egg  substitute 

1  C.  mashed  bananas 

2  C.  self-rising  flour 


Dot  Rutiedge 


V2  C.  chopped  nuts 
1  C.  grated  carrots 
V2 1.  cinnamon 
1/tt.  salt 


In  large  bowl,  cream  oil  with  sugar  well.  Beat  in  egg  substitute.  Mash 
bananas  in  small  bowl.  Mix  flour,  cinnamon,  and  salt.  Blend  flour  mixture 
alternately  with  bananas  into  first  mixture.  Stir  in  carrots  and  nuts.  Turn 
into  greased  or  sprayed  9x5x3"  loaf  pan.  Bake  350°  for  about  an  hour  or 
until  tester  comes  out  clean.  Cool  10  minutes  and  remove  from  pan. 
Great  for  breakfast  or  toasted. 


CHEESE  BISCUITS 

1  C.  butter  or  margarine, 
2  sticks 

2  C.  plain  flour 
Va  t.  salt 


Johnnie  Kennon/Mary  Atkinson 

2  C.  grated  cheese,  (extra 
sharp  Cheddar  Is  good) 
Va  t.  red  pepper 


Mix  all  together  and  work  like  dough.  Divide  dough  into  four  pieces  and 
roll  each  piece  like  a  plump  weenie  to  about  10-11  inches  long.  Then 
wrap  each  roll  in  wax  paper  and  refrigerate  until  firm  or  overnight.  Slice 
cross  ways  in  about  Vs  inch  slices  and  place  on  lightly  greased  cookie 
sheet,  not  too  close  together.  Bake  at  375°  for  about  20-25  minutes  or 
until  light  brown.  They  will  darken  as  they  cool.  Nuts  my  be  added  to 
dough  or  place  on  top  before  baking.  Makes  about  85-90  party  biscuits. 

105 


COFFEE  CAKE 


Virginia  Helms 


Vz  C.  butter  or  margarine, 

softened 
%  C.  shortening 
VAC.  sugar 
2  large  eggs 

1-8  oz.  carton  sour  cream 
2  C.  all  purpose  flour 
1 1.  baking  powder 


Vz  t.  baking  soda 

Vz  t.  salt 

1 1.  vanilla  extract 

Vz  C.  chopped  pecans 

2  T.  sugar 

1 1.  ground  cinnamon 

powdered  sugar 


Beat  butter  and  shortening  at  medium  speed  with  an  electric  mixer 
about  2  minutes  or  until  creamy.  Gradually  add  1 V*  C.  sugar,  beating  at 
medium  speed  5-7  minutes.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  just  until 
yellow  disappears.  Add  sour  cream,  mixing  until  blended.  Combine  flour 
and  next  3  ingredients;  gradually  add  to  butter  mixture,  mixing  until 
blended.  Stir  in  vanilla.  Spoon  half  of  batter  into  greased  and  floured  8" 
tube  pan.  Combine  pecans,  2  T.  sugar,  and  cinnamon;  sprinkle  half  of 
mixture  over  batter.  Repeat  procedure  with  remaining  batter  and  pecan 
mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  55  minutes.  Cool  in  pan  on  wire  rack  10-15 
minutes;  remove  from  pan,  and  let  cool  completely  on  wire  rack. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Yield:  1-8"  cake. 


CORNBREAD  DRESSING 

6  C.  crumbled  cornbread 
4  C.  crumbled  loaf  bread 
1  C.  finely  chopped  celery 
Va  C.  finely  chopped  onion 
Vz  C.  margarine 


Judy  Poole 


2 1.  salt 

2 1.  sage 

3  eggs,  beaten 

2  C.  chicken  broth 


Mix  together  crumbled  breads.  Saute  celery  and  onion  in  margarine; 
add  to  bread  along  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sage.  Mix  well  before  adding 
eggs  and  chicken  broth.  Mix  until  very  moist.  Bake  in  a  9x13"  pan  at 
400°  for  30-45  minutes. 


HAWAIIAN  BANANA  BREAD 

2  C.  plain  flour 
1 1.  soda 

1 1.  cinnamon 
1 1.  salt 

3  eggs 


Faye  McDonald 

3  medium  bananas,  mashed 

2 1.  vanilla 

IV2C.  sugar 

1  C.  nuts 

1  Vz  C.  vegetable  oil 

1  -8  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple 


Combine  dry  ingredients.  Stir  in  nuts,  set  aside.  Combine  remaining  in- 
gredients. Stir  in  dry  ingredients.  Mix  until  all  is  moistened.  Put  in  2 
greased  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  350°  for  50  minutes  or  until  done.  For  a  glass 
pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  50  minutes  or  1  hour. 


106 


ICE  BOX  YEAST  ROLLS 


Mildred  A.  Little 


V*  lb.  butter,  melted 
Va  C.  sugar 

3  eggs,  beaten  slightly 
V2 1.  salt 


1  pkg.  active  dry  yeast 
1  C.  lukewarm  water 
4  C.  plain  flour 


Cream  butter;  add  sugar,  eggs,  and  salt.  Dissolve  yeast  in  lukewarm 
water.  Add  flour  and  water  alternately.  Cover  bowl  and  place  in 
refrigerator  overnight.  Next  morning  roll  out  and  cut  out  pie  shape 
wedges.  Roll  each  piece  beginning  with  wide  end.  Place  on  greased 
cookie  sheet.  Let  rise.  Bake  at  350  for  12-15  minutes.  Dough  will  keep 
in  refrigerator  for  about  2  weeks. 


LEMON  TEA  BREAD 

Vz  C.  milk 

2  eggs 

1  C.  sugar 

Vs  C.  melted  margarine 

1 1.  lemon  flavoring 

Glaze: 

V*  C.  sugar 


Dot  Lee 


1Va  T.  grated  lemon  peel 

VAC.  plain  flour 

1  i  baking  powder 

1 1.  salt 

Vs  C.  chopped  pecans 


3  T.  lemon  juice 


Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Grease  81/sx41/2"  loaf  pan.  Combine  milk,  eggs, 
margarine,  lemon  peel,  and  extract.  Beat  at  medium  speed  until 
blended.  Add  dry  ingredients;  beat  at  low  speed  until  mixture  is  smooth. 
Fold  in  pecans.  Pour  into  loaf  pan.  Bake  45-50  minutes,  or  until  toothpick 
tests  doneness.  Meanwhile,  combine  sugar  and  lemon  juice  for  glaze. 
Place  bread  in  pan  on  cooling  rack  to  cool.  Slowly  pour  on  glaze  while 
bread  is  still  hot.  Let  stand  10  minutes  in  pan;  remove  to  cool  com- 
pletely. Yield:  16V&  (1  inch)  slices  (165  calories  per  slice). 


MEXICAN  CORNBREAD 

V2  C.  cooking  oil 

1  C.  sour  cream 

1  C.  cream  style  corn 

IV2  C.  self-rising  cornmeal 

1 1.  salt 


Judy  Poole 


1 1.  baking  powder 
2  eggs,  beaten 
3-4  jalapeno  peppers 
2  C.  grated  sharp  Cheddar 
cheese 


Mix  cornmeal,  salt,  and  baking  powder.  Add  all  other  ingredients  and 
mix  well.  Bake  in  9x13"  pan  at  350°  for  45  minutes. 


107 


MISSISSIPPI  CORNBREAD  Alva  Rice 

1  C.  cornmeal  mix  1  C.  sour  cream 

Vz  C.  cooking  oil  2  eggs 

Vz  C.  cream  style  corn  2  T.  diced  onion 

Mix  together  and  pour  into  8x8"  baking  dish.  Bake  at  425°  about  25-30 
minutes  until  brown. 

MISSISSIPPI  CORNBREAD  Janelle  Long 

1  C.  yellow  cornmeal  1  C.  sour  cream 

3  T.  baking  powder  2  eggs 

1 Vz 1.  salt,  can  cut  to  Vz 1.  1 -8V2  oz.  can  cream  style  corn 

Vi  C.  sugar  1  small  onion,  finely  chopped, 

Vz  C.  oil  optional 

Preheat  oven  to  375°.  Mix  all  ingredients  in  large  bowl.  Bake  in  greased 
cast  iron  skillet  (121),  or  in  9'  square  baking  pan,  for  35  minutes.  Recipe 
can  be  doubled. 


MORAVIAN  SUGAR  CAKE  Dot  Rutledge 

6  T.  melted  margarine  1  pkg.  dry  yeast 

Vz  C.  seasoned  mashed  1  egg 

potatoes  Vz  t.  salt 

Vz  C.  sugar  2V2  C.  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  in  Vz  C.  warm  water  for  5  minutes.  Beat  all  ingredients  well 
with  an  electric  mixer,  except  one  cup  of  flour.  Then  add  the  one  cup 
flour  and  mix  with  a  spoon.  Put  dough  into  a  greased  bowl  and  let  rise  2 
hours  or  until  double  in  bulk  (it  can  be  put  in  a  85°  oven  to  rise).  Punch 
down  and  spread  in  a  9x13"  pan.  Let  rise  Vz  hour.  Sift  Vz  C.  brown  sugar 
and  Vz  L  cinnamon.  Make  about  24  holes  with  little  pats  of  cold  mar- 
garine in  the  dough.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixture.  Bake 
about  20  minutes  at  400°. 


OATMEAL  MUFFINS  Barbara  Helms 

1  C.  quick  cook  oats  Vz  C.  brown  sugar 

1  C.  buttermilk  1 1.  baking  powder 

1  egg  or  2  egg  whites  Vz  t.  soda 

Vz  C.  plain  flour  Vz  C.  canola  or  corn  oil 
Vz  t.  salt 

Soak  oats  in  buttermilk  approximately  1  hour.  Add  egg  and  sugar.  Beat 
well.  Add  dry  ingredients  and  oil.  Pour  into  greased  muffin  tins  and  bake 
at  400°  for  approximately  20  minutes.  Makes  16  muffins.  Batter  may  be 
store  in  refrigerator  and  used  as  needed. 

108 


OLD  TIMEY  CORN  BREAD  Carroll  Flowe 

2  C.  cornmeal,  white  1 1.  baking  powder 

1 1.  salt  2 1.  melted  shortening 

V2 1.  baking  soda  1  C.  or  more  buttermilk 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  Add  buttermilk  (enough  to  make  a  good  consis- 
tency batter).  Add  melted  shortening.  Pour  into  a  large  frying  pan  that 
has  been  greased  on  the  sides  and  1  v&  T.  shortening  has  been  melted 
in  the  bottom.  While  pan  is  still  hot,  sprinkle  bottom  with  cornmeal.  Again 
while  pan  is  still  very  hot,  add  batter*.  Remove  from  hot  burner  to  oven. 
Bake  at  400°  until  golden  brown  and  firm  to  touch.  *  You  may  need  to 
add  water  to  batter  if  it  has  gotten  too  stiff. 

ONION-CHEESE  BREAD  Judy  Perryman 

1  T.  margarine  1  C.  (4  oz.)  shredded  sharp 

Vz  C.  chopped  onion  Cheddar  cheese,  divided 

1  Vz  C.  biscuit  mix  V4  C.  milk 

2  T.  parsley,  chopped  1  T.  margarine,  melted 
1  egg,  beaten 

Melt  1  T.  margarine  in  a  small  skillet,  add  onion,  and  cook  until 
transparent.  Combine  onion,  biscuit  mix,  parsley,  egg,  Vz  C.  cheese,  and 
milk.  Stirring  just  until  moistened.  Spoon  into  lightly  greased  8"  square 
baking  pan;  sprinkle  with  remaining  cheese.  Drizzle  with  1  T.  melted 
margarine.  Bake  at  400°  for  15-30  minutes  or  until  golden  brown.  6-8 
servings. 

PUMPKIN  BREAD  Dot  Rutledge 

3Vz  C.  all  purpose  flour  2  C.  pumpkin 

3  C.  sugar  1  C.  oil 

2 1.  soda  %  C.  water 

1 1.  each  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and        1  C.  nuts 
salt  1 1.  vanilla 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  Make  a  well.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Pour  into  2 
loaf  pans  that  have  been  sprayed  w/Pam.  Bake  at  350°  50-60  minutes. 

RAISIN  BRAN  MUFFINS  Sarah  Jordan 

1  -1 5  oz.  raisin  bran  2 1.  soda 

3  C.  sugar  1  at.  buttermilk 

5  C.  plain  flour  1  C.  vegetable  oil 

2 1.  salt  4  eggs,  beaten 

Mix  bran,  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  soda.  Add  beaten  eggs,  oil  and  butter- 
milk. Mix  well  and  bake  in  oiled  muffin  tins  at  400°  for  15-20  minutes.  I 
add  extra  raisins  and  cinnamon  to  taste  and  sometimes  chopped  nuts! 
Mixture  will  keep  well  in  refrigerator  several  weeks. 

109 


SASSY  CINNAMON  MUFFINS 


Martha  Sayers 


11/s  C.  self-rising  flour 
Vz  C.  sugar 
Va  C.  brown  sugar 
Vz 1.  cinnamon 


e<?9 


1  e< 

Vz  £  oil 

Vz  C.  milk 

Vz  C.  chopped  nuts 


Mix  together  the  four  dry  ingredients.  Mix  the  3  liquid  ingredients.  Stir 
into  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  chopped  nuts.  Put  into  paper-lined 
muffin  tins,  (makes  12)  Bake  at  400°  for  20-25  minutes.  Don't  overbake, 
just  until  lightly  browned. 


SOUTHERN  SPOON  BREAD 

1  C.  cornmeal 

2  C.  boiling  water 
2  C.  milk 

1 1.  salt 


Dot  Rutledge 


2  well-beaten  eggs  (or  egg 

substitute) 

1  T.  melted  butter 

V/z  t.  baking  powder 


Scald  meal  in  water.  Add  milk,  salt  and  eggs.  Beat  well.  Add  melted  but- 
ter and  baking  powder.  Pour  into  oiled  baking  dish  (8  or  9").  Set  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water.  Bake  in  a  350°  oven  for  one  hour.  Serve  from  baking  dish 
with  spoon. 


VEGETABLE-BACON  MONKEY  BREAD 


Johnnie  Martin 


3-10  oz.  cans  refrigerated 

buttermilk  biscuits 
Vz  C.  margarine,  melted 
Vz  C.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


Vz  lb.  bacon,  cooked  and 
crumbled 

1  small  onion,  chopped 
1  small  green  pepper,  chopped 


Cut  biscuits  into  quarters,  dip  each  piece  into  margarine  and  layer  Va  in 
a  lightly  greased  10"  bundt  pan.  sprinkle  with  half  of  bacon,cheese, 
onion,  and  green  pepper.  Repeat  layers  until  all  ingredients  are  used, 
ending  with  biscuits.  Bake  at  350°  for  40-45  minutes  or  until  done. 


ZUCCHINI  BREAD 

2  C.  flour 
2  C.  sugar 

2  C.  shredded  zucchini 
1  C.  vegetable  oil 

3  eggs 


Barbara  Warren 


3 1.  cinnamon 
Va  t.  baking  powder 
2 1.  baking  soda 
1  C.  chopped  nuts 
2 1.  vanilla 


Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  oil.  Beat  well.  Add  zucchini  and  flour  sifted 
with  dry  ingredients.  Add  vanilla  and  nuts.  Pour  into  2  loaf  pans  that 
have  been  floured  and  greased.  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour. 


110 


ZUCCHINI  BREAD 

2V2  C.  flour 
3  eggs 
1 1.  salt 

1  T.  vanilla 

2  C.  zucchini  grated 
1  C.  nuts 


Dottie  Smith 


1  C.  oil 

3  C.  plain  flour 

Va  T.  soda 

V*  t.  baking  powder 

1  T.  cinnamon 


Mix  together  all  ingredients.  Bake  at  350°  until  brown,  in  loaf  pan  or  muf- 
fin tins,  approximately  1  hour. 


TURKEY  DRESSING 

medium  size  pan  corn  bread 
4  sliced  toasted  bread 
4  stalks  celery,  chopped 
1  large  onion 
6  eggs,  beaten 


Pat  Carpenter 


Va  C.  butter 

salt,  pepper  and  sage  to 

taste  (lots) 
stock  from  turkey 


Mix.  Keep  dressing  soft.  Bake  slowly  for  1  hour  at  325-350°.  Serves  8. 


111 


Index 


Index 


Appetizers 

Asparagus  Roll-Ups,  4 

Cheese  Appetizer,  4 

Cheese  Stuffed  Apples,  5 

Cottage  Cheese  Dip,  5 

Fruit  Dip,  5 

Ham  Biscuits,  5 

Lemon  Fruit  Dip,  5 

Pimento  Cheese  Spread,  6 

Sandwich  Spread,  6 

Sausage  Balls,  6 

Snack  Dills,  26 

Spinach  Balls,  7 

Spinach  Dip,  7 

Spinach  Things,  6 

Sweet  &  Sour  Party  Meatballs,  7 

Vegetable  Dip,  7 

Vegetable  Sandwich  Spread,  8 

Yogurt-Dill  Dressing,  8 

B 

Bars 

Chewies,  93 

Chocolate  Cherry  Bars,  95 

Lemon  Bars,  97 

Old  Fashioned  Raisin  Bars,  100 

Pecan  Chewies  (Brownies),  98 

Beverages 

Easy  Punch,  1 

Hot  Spice  Tea,  1 

Hot  Spiced  Cider,  4 

Instant  Russian  Tea,  2 

Mint  Punch,  1 

Old  Fashioned  Eggnog,  3 

Peanut  Butter  Shaker,  1 

Pink  Punch,  4 

Russian  Tea,  2, 3 

Slush,  3 

Tea  Syrup  (Concentrate),  101 

Bread 

Banana  Nut  Bread,  104 
Bojangles  Biscuits,  105 


Broccoli  Corn  Bread,  105 
Bumble  Bee  Bread,  106 
Butterscotch  Banana  Bread,  105 
Carrot  Banana  Bread,  106 
Cheese  Biscuits,  106 
Cornbread  Dressing,  107 
Hawaiian  Banana  Bread,  107 
Lemon  Tea  Bread,  108 
Mexican  Cornbread,  108 
Mississippi  Cornbread,  109 
Old  Timey  Cornbread,  110 
Onion-Cheese  Bread,  110 
Pumpkin  Bread,  110 
Southern  Spoon  Bread,  111 
Vegetable-Bacon  Monkey 

Bread,  111 
Zucchini  Bread,  111, 112 


Cake 

1-2-3-4  Cake,  86 
14-CaratCake,  88 
Angel  Food  Fruit  &  Cream 

Cake,  81 
Banana  Bread  (Or  Cake),  77 
Banana  Nut  Pound  Cake,  74 
Black  Walnut  Chocolate 

Pound  Cake,  74 
Black  Walnut  Pound  Cake,  76 
Chess  Cake,  87 
Chocolate  Cake,  79 
Chocolate  Delight  Cake,  80 
Chocolate  Eclair  Cake,  88 
Chocolate  Pound  Cake,  75 
Christmas  Cake,  83 
Christmas  Nut  Cake,  76 
Coconut  Pound  Cake,  73 
Coffee  Cake,  107 
Cold  Oven  Pound  Cake,  72 
Cream  Cheese  Cup  Cakes,  100 
Crusty  Cream  Cheese 

Pound  Cake,  73 
Crusty  Pound  Cake,  73 
Date  Cake,  86 
Different  Cheese  Cake,  78 
Do  Nothing  Cake,  81 
Five  Flavor  Pound  Cake,  72 
Fresh  Apple  Cake,  81,  85 
Fruit  Cake,  80 


Gooey  Cake,  85 
Graham  Cracker  Cup  Cakes,  97 
Healthy  Pound  Cake,  74 
Hershey's  Syrup  Cake,  89 
Hummingbird  Cake,  80, 86 
Italian  Cream  Cake,  82 
Japanese  Fruit  Cake,  84 
Lemon  Cheese  Cake,  87 
Lemon  Gooey  Butter  Cake,  77 
Moravian  Sugar  Cake,  1 09 
"Mothers  Jam  Cake*,  77 
My  Favorite  Pound  Cake,  75 
Old  Fashioned  Fruit  Cake,  83 
One  Step  Pound  Cake,  76 
Peach  Pound  Cake,  76 
Pig  Picking  Cake,  78 
Pinepaple  Carrot  Cake,  83 
Pistachio  Pound  Cake,  73 
Plum  Good  Cake,  87 
Pound  Cake,  75 
Pumpkin  Cake,  82 
Punch  Bowl  Cake,  79 
Quick  Chocolate  Cake,  85 
Red  Beet  Chocolate  Cake,  89 
Red  Velvet  Cake,  84 
Scripture  Cake,  71 
Seven  Layer  Cake,  77 
That"  Chocolate  Cake,  90 
Vanilla  Wafer  Cake,  89 
Whip  Cream  Pound  Cake,  72 
Zucchini  Bread  Cake,  79 
Zucchini  Cake,  82 

Candles 

Buck  Eyes,  23 

Martha  Washington  Candy,  90 

Peanut  Butter  Candy,  90 

Potato  Candy,  26 

Puppy  Chow,  26 

Casserole 

Cranberry  Casserole,  53 
Crock  Pot  Macaroni  & 

Cheese,  43 

E-Z  Fried  Rice  (Shrimp),  43 
Grates  Raw  Sweet  Potato 

Pudding,  47 
Grits  Casserole,  54 
Hamburger  Dish,  39 
Pineapple  Au  Gratin,  43 
Pineapple  Casserole,  55 


Pineapple  Cheese  Casserole,  55 
Pizza  Spaghetti  Casserole,  55 
Rice  Casserole,  56 
Simple  Fry  Rice,  43 
Spaghetti  Casserole,  56 
Sweet  Potato  Souffle,  48 
Two  Meat  Pasta,  42 

Casserole,  Beef 

Goulash,  39 

Hamburger  Casserole,  53 
Southwestern  Meat  & 
Potato  Stew,  44 
Taco  Casserole,  60 

Casserole,  Chicken 

Chicken  &  Rice  Casserole,  52, 53 
Chicken  Cashew  Nut 
Casserole,  52 

Chicken  Cass.,  49,  50,  51,  52 
Chicken  Rice,  33 
Easy  Chicken  Casserole,  52 
Hot  Chicken  Salad,  33,  35 

Casserole,  Fish 

Shrimp  and  Rice  Casserole,  55 

Casserole,  Turkey 

Leftover  Turkey  Casserole,  60 

Casserole,  Vegetable 

Asparagus  Casserole,  48 
Baked  Beans,  29 
Broccoli  Casserole,  48, 49 
Broccoli,  Cheese,  Rice 

Casserole,  49 
Creamy  Squash  Casserole,  57 
Crowd  Pleasing  Poatoes,  45 
Easy  Cheddary  Scalloped 

Potatoes,  44 
Goldenrod  Bean  Casserole,  48 
Hash  Brown  Casserole,  54 
Potato/Spinach  Casserole,  54 
Pumpkin  Casserole,  54 
Squash  and  Stuffing 

Casserole,  56 
Squash  Casserole,  57,  58 
Squash  Casserole  Parmesan,  58 


Sweet  Potato  Casserole,  58, 59 
Tasty  Tomato  Bake,  47 
Vegetable  Casserole,  60 

Cookies 

Christmas  Cookies  (Simple),  92 
Cowboy  Cookies,  91 
Date  Oatmeal  Cookies,  93 
Francy  Grahams,  97 
Orange  No-Bake  Cookies,  91 
Peanut  Butter  Cookies,  91 
Peanut  Butter  Delights,  96 
Rice  Crispy  Coconut 

Ball  Cookies,  92 
Stir  "Na  Drop  Sugar  Cookies,  92 
Yummy  Potpourri  Cookies,  92 


Dessert 

(Strawberry)  Ruby  Red 

Apples,  93 
Basic  Ice  Cream(No  Eggs),  61 
Black  Eyed  Susan,  98 
Bread  Pudding,  96 
Cheese  Date  holdovers,  95 
Cherries  in  the  Snow,  97 
Cherry  Tarts,  99 
Cherry-Nut  Ice  Cream,  61 
Chocolate  Lovers  Delight,  99 
Cranberry-Oatmeal  Delight,  96 
Frozen  Fruit  Cups,  93 
Fruit  Cobbler,  62 
Glazed  Fruit,  100 
Homemade  Ice  Cream,  61 
Lemon  Bisque,  95 
Lemon  Lush,  94 
Lemon  Tarts,  99 
Pumpkin  Crisp,  98 
Quick  Cobbler,  63 
Quick  Peach  Cobbler,  63 
Strawberry  Ice  Cream,  62 
Strawberry  Pizza,  94 
Tutti  Fruitti  Ice  Cream,  62 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream,  61 
Weight  Watchers  Dessert,  100 


Frosting 

7  Minute  White  Icing,  99 


Jams 

Heavenly  Jam,  24 
Hot  Pepper  Jelly,  25 
Unusual  Peach  Preserves,  27 

M 

Main  Dish,  Beef 

Beef  Stroganoff,  31 
Beef  With  Asparagus,  30 
Chili  Burgers,  101 
Chili  Meatballs,  37 
Dixon's  Kansas  City  Chili,  36 
Enchiladas  Acapulco,  37 
Ground  Beef  Pie,  30 
Lasagna,  39, 40 
Oven  Beef  Stew,  30 
Sukiyaki  (Japan),  46 
Swiss  Bliss,  46 

Main  Dish,  Chicken 

3-Cup  Chicken,  32 
Baked  Chicken,  32 
Baked  Chicken  Parmesan,  32 
Chicken  David,  34 
Chicken  Dumplings,  35 
Chicken  Enchiladas,  31 
Chicken  or  Turkey  Curry,  36 
Chicken  Pie,  35, 36 
Chinese  Barbecue  Chicken,  29 
Crispy  Baked  Chicken,  34 
Curried  Chicken,  33 
Easy  Crust  Chicken  Pie,  34 
Lemon  Herb  Chicken,  32 
Lemon  Parmesan  Chicken,  33 
Melt-ln-Your-Mouth  Chicken 

Pie,  35 
Poppy  Seed  Chicken,  34 
Slow  cooker  Brunswick  Stew,  31 

Main  Dish,  Eggs 

Egg/Cheese  Souffle,  41 
Cinderella's  Magic  Quiche,  45 
Italian  Frittata,  29 
Rosemary's  Teased  Eggs,  41 


Main  Dish,  Fish 

Baked  Fish  Draughon,  38 
Crab-Shrimp  Quiche,  38 
Lew  Country  Boil,  40 
Salmon  Loaf,  45 
Stir  Fry  Prawns  (Shrimp),  46 

Main  Dish,  Pork 

Ham  Pie,  39 

Main  Dish,  Turkey 

Honey  Grilled  Turkey 
Tenderloins,  47 

Main  Dish,  Vegetable 

Easy  Garden  Vegetable  Pie,  29 

Miscellaneous 

Cranberry  Chutney,  24 
Mom's  Pear  Honey,  26 
Noodle  Nests,  25 
Play  Dough,  27 
Strawberry  Figs,  26 
Turkey  Dressing,  112 

Muffins 

Banana  Raisin  Muffins,  105 
Oatmeal  Muffins,  109 
Raisin  Bran  Muffins,  110 
Sassy  Cinnamon  Muffins,  111 

P 

Pickles 

Beet  Pickles,  23 
Candy  Pickles,  23 
Cheap  Easy  Pickles,  25 
Frozen  Pickles,  24 
Kosher  Dill  Pickles,  25 

Pie 

Apple  Pie,  71 

Apple  Pie  W/Bread  Strips,  69 

Baked  Caramel  Custard,  71 


Basic  Pastry,  91 

Best  Coconut  Pie,  65 

Best  Pecan  Pie,  64 

Brown  Sugar  Pie,  70 

Caramel  Pie,  64 

Cherry  Cheese  Pie,  64 

Chocolate  Cream  Pie,  70 

Chocolate  Pecan  Pie,  66 

Coconut  Cream  Pie,  68 

Coconut  Custard  Pie,  63, 69 

Coconut  Pie,  66 

Japanese  Fruit  Pie,  66, 69 

Kentucky  Derby  Pie,  67 

Lemon  Chess  Pie,  65 

Low  Fat  Lemon  Meringue  Pie,  68 

Million  Dollar  Pie,  66 

No  Fool  Pie,  69 

■O  So  Easy*  Pecan  Pie,  65 

Paulette's  Chocolate  Chew 

Pie,  67 
Peanut  Butter  Pie,  64 
Pecan  Pie,  67,  68,  70 
Pineapple  Pie,  66 
Strawberry  or  Cherry  Nut  Pie,  63 
Super  Easy  Apple  Pie,  65 
Sweet  Potato  Pie,  70 
Vinegar  Pie,  67 


Rolls 

Breakfast  Rolls,  104 
Ice  Box  Yeast  Rolls,  1 08 

S 

Salads 

Bean  Salad,  21 
Blueberry  Salad,  15 
Cabbage  Salad,  20 
Cherry  Coke  Salad,  19 
Cherry  Nut  Salad,  14 
Cherry  Salad,  20 
Chinese  Cole  Slaw,  1 0 
Christmas  Ribbon  Salad,  16 
Christmas  Rice,  12 
Congealed  Strawberry  Salad,  13 
Cottage  Cheese  Salad,  14 
Cranberry  Crunch,  17 
Cranberry  Salad,  18 
Cucumber  Cheese  Salad,  19 


Cucumber  Salad,  1 4  Vegie  Bars,  1 1 

Curried  Fruit,  37 
Curried  Fruit  Compote,  24 
Frozen  Fruit  Salad,  17 
Frozen  Pineapple- 
Cranberry  Salad,  17 
Fruit  Velvet,  19 
Grapefruit  Aspic,  15 
Ice  Box  Slaw,  12 
Layered  Ribbon  Salad,  16 
Lemon  Dill  Rice,  11 
Marinated  Pineapple  Chunks,  41 
Marinated  Slaw,  10 
Marinated  Vegetable  Salad,  15 
One  Gallon  Slaw,  9 
Orange  Salad,  13 
Orange  Spiced  Peach  Salad,  16 
Oriental  Slaw,  12 
Oven  Chicken  Salad,  18 
Overnight  Slaw,  12 
Pasta  Salad,  17 
Pineapple  Chicken  Salad,  18 
Potato  Salad,  13 
Pretzel  Salad,  20 
Sherry  Wine  Fruit,  38 
Strawberry  Pretzel  Salad,  18 
Strawberry  Salad,  19 
Tasty  Stewed  Apples,  1 1 
Veg  Salad,  14 
World's  Best  Broccoli  Salad,  20 

Sauces 

Flank  Steak  Marinate  Sauce,  42 
Jezebel  Sauce,  25 
Spaghetti  Sauce,  44 
Strawberry  Sauce,  94 

Soups 

Oyster  Stew,  9 
Salmon  Stew,  9 


Vegetables 

Baked  Paprika  Potatoes,  42 
Black  ana  White  Beans,  10 
Corn  Pudding,  13,42 
Glazed  Beets,  10 
Sneaky  Squash  Pie,  9 
Squash  Squares,  46 


00036759846 

FOR  USE  ONLY  IN 
THE  NORTH  CAROLINA  COLLECTION 


