OUR  NEW  ENGLAND  FAMILY 

Rlcipls 


Compiled  by 
MR5.  FRANCI5  JARVI5  PATTEN 


Copyright,  1910,  by 
National  Society  of  New  England  Women. 


TOBIAS    A.  WRIGHT 
ISO    Bt-EECKER    STREET,    N.  Y. 


©Ci,A283687 


Index 

WHAT  DOL5  COOKERY  MEAN       ...  5 

BREAD   7 

BREAKFAST,  LUNCHEON  AND  TEA       .      .  12 

CAKE   34 

CANDY   51 

COOKIE5,  GINGERBREAD,  ETC.     ...  54 

GRANDMOTHER'5  COOKING  (Poem)     .      .  70 

DE55ERT5   71 

FISH   78 

ICES,  CREAM,  PUNCHES         ....  84 

PICKLES   92 

PIE   97 

PRESERVES   103 

PUDDINGS   109 

SALADS   121 

SOUPS   127 

LIST  OF  MEMBERS   131 


LDITION  LIMITLD 
TO  500  SIGNED  COPIES 


"  It  means  the  knowledge  of  all  fruits,  herbs, 
balms  and  spices,  and  of  all  that  is  healing  and 
sweet  in  fields  and  groves  and  savory  in  meats. 

It  means  carefulness,  inventiveness,  watch- 
fulness, willingness  and  readiness  of  appliance. 

It  means  the  economy  of  our  great-grand- 
mothers and  the  science  of  modern  chemists. 

It  means  much  tasting  and  no  wasting. 

It  means  English  thoroughness,  French  art 
and  Arabian  hospitality. 

It  means,  in  fine,  that  you  are  to  be  perfectly 
and  always  ladies  (loaf-givers).  And  as  you  are 
to  see  that  everybody  has  something  pretty  to 
put  on,  so  you  are  to  see  that  everybody  has 
something  nice  to  eat." 

Ruskin 


5 


HERE  IS  BREAD  which  strengthens  man's  heart, 
and  therefore  called  the  Staff  of  Life. 
Matthew  Henry 


Bread 

Melt  one  tablespoon  lard  in  two  cups  hot  milk.  Add  cup 
warm  water.  Pour  this  over  half  cup  sugar,  and  tea- 
spoon salt.  Stir  in  flour  until  milk  is  sufficiently  cool  to 
allow  addition  of  yeast.  Dissolve  half  a  compressed  yeast 
cake  in  half  cup  cold  water  in  which  is  a  pinch  of  salt; 
stir  this  into  the  mixture,  stiring  in  enough  flour  to  knead  no^ 
too  hard.  If  you  have  no  bread  mixer,  always  use  a  knife  to 
stir  bread.  Let  rise  over  night.  Knead  in  two  loaves.  Let 
it  rise  to  top  of  bread  pans,  and  bake  brown  on  all  sides. 

Mrs.  Edward  W.  Peet 

W\tAz  WbtRt  ^reaH 

Two  quarts  entire  wheat  flour,  before  sifting,  half  cup  sugar, 
one  quart  water,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  compressed  yeast 
cake,  dissolve  yeast  cake  in  part  of  the  water,  stir  sugar, 
salt  and  flour  together,  adding  yeast  and  remainder  of  flour. 
Set  in  warm  place.     When  the  bread  has  risen  to  twice 


7 


its  original  size,  stir  down  and  place  in  tins  for  baking, 
allowing  it  to  rise  a  second  time.  Bake  slowly  an  hour  or 
more.    Makes  two  loaves. 

Florence  Fuller  Saunders    (Mrs.  H.  R.) 

Cup  milk,  cup  sugar,  pint  flour,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons 
butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  sifted  in  flour.  Beat 
the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  butter,  then  milk,  then 
flour,  and  last  three  or  four  cups  huckleberries  dredged 
with  a  part  of  the  flour. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Wallace 

Q^fi 

WUtt  Cora  JHeal  ^reati 

Cream  a  piece  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  one  tea  cup 
sugar,  two  eggs  (not  separated)  and  one  pint  sweet  milk. 
In  a  separate  bowl  mix  two  cups  flour,  two  cups  white  Indian 
meal,  four  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt. 
Mix  well.  Bake  from  thirty-five  to  forty-five  minutes  in 
moderate  oven.  This  recipe  makes  twelve  gems  and  a  small 
round  loaf,  or  two  large  pans.  If  preferred,  two  teaspoons 
cream  tartar  and  one  of  soda  may  be  used  in  place  of  baking 
powder.  This  old  New  England  recipe  has  never  before 
been  published.  Guaranteed, 

Mrs.  H.  I.  Ostrom 


8 


(Bin  JFasMoncIi  ^vmn  ^reaU 

One  quart  rye  and  a  pint  Indian  meal,  small  teaspoon  soda, 
a  third  of  a  compressed  yeast  cake,  heaping  teaspoon  salt, 
tablespoon  molasses,  two  tablespoons  sugar.  Mix  with  tepid 
water,  rise  over  night,  or  till  lightly  raised.  Stir  in  table- 
spoon melted  lard.  Steam  three  hours  in  a  pudding  mould 
and  bake  in  oven  slowly  two  or  more  hours. 

Mrs.  William  J.  Patterson 

JQut  Proton  ^reaU  for  sanUtoic()e2i 

Three  cups  graham  flour,  cup  white  flour,  cup  molasses, 
large  cup  milk,  teaspoon  soda,  salt,  three-fourths  cup 
chopped  nut  meats.  Bake  in  slow  oven  at  first,  then  in  a 
quicker  oven.    Bake  one  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Tappan 

Two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  cup 
milk  or  cup  milk  and  water,  salt.  First  wet  the  spoon  in 
liquid,  take  up  one  spoonful  of  mixture  at  a  time.  Do  not 
cover  tightly  after  placing  in  kettle.  Try  with  a  straw  to 
determine  when  cooked. 

Mrs.  Dearborn  J.  Adams 

{^6 

^00tott  ^rotDU  -^reaU 

One  cup  each  of  flour,  rye  meal,  and  Indian  meal,  two- 


9 


thirds  cup  molasses,  two  cups  milk,  two  teaspoons  soda. 
Dissolve  soda  in  molasses.    Steam  three  hours. 

Lizzie  Woodbury  Law 

0ra|)am  ^reaU 

Two  cups  thick  sour  milk,  two  teaspoons  soda,  spoons  little 
more  than  heaping,  teaspoon  salt,  half  cup  molasses,  very 
coarse  graham  flour.  To  secure  best  results,  it  is  better  to 
beat  teaspoon  soda  in  each  cup  of  the  milk  as  measured, 
holding  cup  over  mixing  bowl,  as  it  will  froth  over.  With 
a  dry  spoon,  measure  the  soda  for  second  cup  and  repeat. 
Stir  in  salt  and  molasses,  and  enough  Graham  flour  to 
make  it  too  stiff  to  pour.  Turn  at  once  into  bread  pan, 
which  has  buttered  paper  on  bottom.  Bake  an  hour  in 
moderate  oven.  Same  mixture  baked  in  patty-pans  makes 
excellent  muffins.  Seeded  and  floured  raisins  may  be 
stirred  into  the  loaf  before  turning  in  pan. 

Mrs.  D.  O.  Wickham 

entire  ^()eat  ^reaU 

Four  cups  entire  wheat  flour,  two  cups  milk,  cup  molasses, 
teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  teaspoon  salt. 
Steam  two  hours.  Remove  loaves  from  steamer.  Butter 
the  tops.    Bake  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Reuben  W.  Ross 


10 


Eire  ^muit 

Beat  while  warm,  a  cup  boiled  rice,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two 
teaspoons  white  sugar,  cup  sweet  milk,  half  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  cup  flour,  or  enough  for  a  soft  dough,  two  tea- 
spoons butter.  Mix  and  bake  quickly.  Very  delicate  and 
delicious. 

Mrs.  Frank  B.  Orr,  Chicago,  111, 
Colony  Twelve 

^8 

Quart  flour,  three  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  tea- 
spoon butter,  one  of  sugar,  pinch  salt.  Mix  with  milk  or 
water. 

Mrs.  Dearborn  J.  Adams 


II 


MODERN  DOCTORS  differ  quite 
As  to  eating  day  or  night. 
Thus  we  cannot  go  astray 
If  we  eat  both  night  and  day. 


Breakfast,  Luncheon  and  Tea 

Take  pieces  of  veal  from  chops  or  cutlet.  Cut  them  two 
and  a  half  by  four  inches.  Pound  very  thin.  For  each 
veal  bird  have  a  bit  of  salt  pork  an  inch  square,  chop  fine 
and  mix  with  scraps  of  meat  left  on  the  bones.  Add 
small  piece  of  onion  or  onion  juice,  parsley,  lemon  juice, 
salt,  pepper;  add,  after  chopping,  one-third  as  much  rolled 
cracker  as  mixture.  Spread  mixture  over  on  each  veal 
roll,  pin  with  toothpick,  roll  in  flour.  Fry  in  part  butter 
and  lard  a  light  brown;  turn  them,  add  cup  hot  water, 
stew  gently  fifteen  minutes,  covering  closely.  Add  milk 
or  cream,  stirring  about  ten  minutes,  serve  hot,  and  pour 
over  the  gravy. 

Fanny  R.  Grisvvold  Ely  (Mrs.  Horace  S.) 

lamb  en  (tu&&evolt 

Brush  lamb  chops  with  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
Brown  in  spider.     Parboil   three-fourths  cup   carrot  till 


12 


nearly  soft.  Drain,  fry  in  bacon  fat,  to  which  has  been 
added  three-fourths  tablespoon  chopped  onion.  Put  chops 
in  casserole,  add  the  carrots,  one  cup  potato  balls,  two 
cups  thin  brown  sauce  or  water,  three  tablespoons  sherry, 
salt,  pepper.  Cook  till  potatoes  are  done.  Add  twelve 
small  onions  {which  have  been  cooked).  Simmer  one  hour 
on  back  of  range. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Roberts 

Half  a  can  tomatoes,  four  eggs,  bacon.  Drain  tomatoes, 
add  two  tablespoons  moist  bread  crumbs,  small  piece 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  boiling  down  till  quite  thick. 
Scramble  the  eggs,  and  when  almost  cooked  stir  in  the 
tomato  sauce.  Serve  on  hot  platter  garnished  with  bacon 
fried  crisp. 

Sara  A.  Palmer 

Cut  in  small  pieces  a  year  old  fowl,  cleanse  thoroughly, 
place  in  cold  water.  Put  in  frying  pan  five  slices  clear 
fat  pork,  fry  brown.  Lightly  wipe  chicken,  rubbing  salt 
and  pepper  over  each  piece.  Lay  thickest  parts  of  fowl 
in  pan  first  and  then  the  remainder.  Cover  closely,  steam- 
ing till  tender.  If  water  "dries  out"  replenish  with  table- 
spoon full  and  cover.  When  chicken  is  cooked,  remove 
pieces  to  first  layer,  pressing  each  down  into  the  hot  fat. 


13 


brown  quickly  on  both  sides,  placing  each  portion  on  a 
platter,  as  browned. 

Into  the  hot  frying  pan  pour  a  quart  of  milk,  two  heaping 
tablespoons  thickened  flour,  salt.  Slice  a  loaf  of  bread,  but- 
ter each  piece,  lay  each  slice  in  the  pan,  allowing  gravy  to 
boil  up  once,  over  it.  Lift  out,  and  place  on  chicken. 
Over  all  pour  remaining  hot  gravy  and  serve.  This  should 
not  take  over  an  hour. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Shute 

CiUer  ^oUeU  })ain 

Wash  a  lean  ham,  allowing  it  to  remain  in  cold  water 
twenty-four  hours.  Wipe  dry,  place  in  an  agate  kettle  with 
cider  to  more  than  cover.  Cook  slowly,  allowing  fifteen 
minutes  to  each  pound.  Keep  ham  in  cider  till  cold. 
Remove  skin,  wipe  very  dry.  This  is  delicious  for  luncheon 
or  Sunday  evening  supper. 

Mrs.  Chandler  Smith 

CnrneU  ^tti  ^ael) 

Mash  hot  boiled  potatoes.  Take  equal  quantity  of  chopped 
corned  beef  and  potato.  Melt  small  piece  butter  in  the 
pan,  put  in  hash,  dash  onion  juice,  salt,  pepper.  Moisten 
with  little  water  and  bits  of  butter  on  top.  When  heated, 
set  back  on  range  and  brown  slowly. 

H.  C.  P. 


14 


JKeat  loaf 

Three  pounds  rare  beef  or  veal  chopped  fine,  a  cup  cracker 
crumbs,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  pepper,  three  salt,  one 
sage.  Mix  and  press  into  a  dish.  Bake  two  hours.  If 
veal  is  used  add  one-fourth  pound  pork  chopped  fine. 

S.  F.  M. 

^eal  loaf 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  the  best  part  of  the  lean 
and  fat  of  a  leg  of  veal,  six  small  crackers  pounded  fine, 
piece  of  butter  size  of  egg,  two  eggs,  tablespoon  salt,  tea- 
spoon pepper,  nutmeg,  parsley,  and  slice  of  salt  pork. 
Work  the  whole  into  the  form  of  a  bread  loaf,  with  bits 
of  butter  on  top,  grating  crusts  of  bread  over  it.  Put  in 
a  dripping  pan  with  water,  bake  about  two  hours. 

Mrs.  William  H.  Hotchkin 

Crtpe  a  la  Creole 

Two  pounds  honeycomb  tripe,  same  of  sweet  green  peppers, 
one  can  mushrooms,  Spanish  onion,  one  can  tomatoes, 
tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour.  Cut  two  pounds 
tripe  in  "finger  strips,"  boiling  till  tender.  Drain,  add 
cooked  tripe  to  the  vegetable  mixture,  which  has  been 
made  meanwhile  in  a  separate  kettle.  Chop  fine  the 
onions,  peppers  and  mushrooms.  Rub  tomatoes  through 
a  sieve.     Cook  all  together,  butter  and  flour  added  last 


15 


to  thicken.  Cook  slowly  all  the  afternoon  after  tripe  has 
been  added.  It  may  be  heated  in  chafing  dish  for  a  late 
supper,  but  must  be  prepared  in  the  morning  as  it  requires 
long  simmering.    No  salt  or  pepper  required. 

Mrs.  Minton  Dyke  Clark 

Take  a  young  chicken,  split  it  down  the  back,  place  in  a 
pan,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  two  large  basting  spoons 
olive  oil.  Sprinkle  a  little  thyme,  and  allow  it  to  stand 
two  hours.  Roast  forty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven,  basting 
often  with  the  oil.    A  delicious  way  to  serve  chicken. 

Jane  Damon  Bolander 

Earebit  l^ubstitute 

For  each  egg,  allow  tablespoon  milk,  and  tablespoon  grated 
cheese,  salt  and  mustard.  To  have  mixture  very  creamy, 
use  a  revolving  beater  to  the  yokes  and  whites.  Turn 
them  in  the  blazer  or  omelette  pan  with  tablespoon  butter, 
salt,  mustard  and  cheese,  stirring  constantly  till  eggs  have 
thickened  and  cheese  melted.  The  dish  is  useful  for 
small  teas  or  luncheon.  A  dash  of  paprika  improves  the 
eggs. 

Elizabeth  Fuller  'Putney 


i6 


^arJine  EareMt 

Make  a  Welsh  rarebit  in  usual  manner,  but,  just  before 
it  is  done,  stir  in  six  small  sardines,  which  have  been 
skinned  and  reduced  to  a  coarse  paste. 

T.  M.  W. 

Cracker  IJuffs 

Take  the  old  fashioned  crackers  that  split  easily,  split 
and  soak  ten  minutes  in  cold  water.  Remove  carefully 
and  place  on  a  granite  pie  plate,  laying  a  large  piece  butter 
on  each  cracker.  Leave  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes.  With 
the  addition  of  a  little  grated  cheese  they  are  excellent 
with  a  salad.  A  spoonful  of  jelly,  may  be  served  with 
coffee.  Their  simple  origin  is  never  suspected  as  they 
closely  resemble  or  suggest  puff  paste.  Try  these  for  an 
afternoon  tea. 

Mrs.  Duane  H.  Clement 

%^ 

liquiDi  in  to|)u]^  to  ^oil  a  j)am 

Quart  vinegar,  half  cup  mustard,  four  large  onions,  pinch 
of  allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  three  small  peppers. 
This  mixture  adds  a  fine  flavor  to  the  ham. 

Mrs.  Marcia  Brooks  Cutler 

%^ 

p:a£ffiiacl)tt6etts  "EareiJit" 

A  pound  and  a  half  American  cheese,  one  egg,  half  a 
cup  sweet  cream.    Walnut  of  butter,  pinch  soda,  liberal 


17 


sprinkling  paprika,  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Wal- 
nut of  butter  in  a  hot  sauce  pan  or  chafing  dish  and  finely 
cut  cheese;  when  it  can  be  smoothly  stirred,  add  the  egg 
and  cream,  lastly  paprika  and  sauce.  Stir  evenly  till  smooth. 
Serve  on  hot  toast.  A  Spanish  onion  and  two  large  toma- 
toes stewed  together  and  added  to  the  rarebit,  well  stirred 
in,  just  before  serving,  makes  it  into  a  Rhiktumdiddy T 
Serve  on  toast  same  way.    Piquant  and  unusual. 

Mrs.  Minton  Dyke  Clark 

Coffee 

It  is  essential  to  use  none  but  a  good  grade  of  coffee  to 
secure  best  results.  A  generous  tablespoon  coffee,  not 
ground  too  fine,  for  each  cup;  mix  with  white  of  one  egg. 
After  the  mixture  is  put  into  the  coffee  pot,  pour  over  boiling 
water.  A  cup  to  each  tablespoon  coffee.  Let  it  boil  not 
over  five  minutes.  Stir  and  place  on  back  of  range  five 
minutes  and  serve  at  once. 

E.  W.  G. 

;p:acaroni  CreameU 

One-fourth  pound  macaroni  broken  in  three  inch  lengths, 
add  three  pints  boiling  salted  water.  Boil  till  soft.  Drain 
through  a  collander,  pouring  cold  water  through  to  cleanse 
and  prevent  macaroni  from  sticking.  Cut  in  inch  pieces 
and  cover  with  white  sauce  in  a  baking  dish.  Add  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt.    Mix  three-fourths  cup  bread  crumbs 


i8 


with  one-third  cup  melted  butter,  spread  over  top,  baking 
till  crumbs  are  brown. 

Lydia  Day 

'-^^ 

One  cup  minced  ham  seasoned  with  mustard.  Stir  one 
egg  with  one  and  one-half  cups  white  sauce,  layer  of 
macaroni,  sprinkled  with  ham  and  sauce.  Crumb  and 
butter  top.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Serve  at  once.  Emergency 
dish. 

LiLLA  M.  Briggs 

jFor  breakfast 

Use  ripe  tomatoes  and  a  little  cold  broiled  or  boiled  ham. 
Chop  ham  fine,  using  about  three-fourths  cup.  Place  ham 
and  tomatoes  in  sauce  pan,  peeled  and  cut.  Add  half  tea- 
spoon butter,  cooking  few  minutes.  Add  the  beaten  eggs, 
thoroughly  mix  and  cook  till  eggs  are  set;  season.  Serve 
on  hot  toast,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley. 

Mrs.  Henry  Emerson 

«^ 

Etce  (^otilaBi]^ 

Two  cups  cold  boiled  rice,  half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  half 
pound  American  cheese,  two  cooked  sausages,  cut  fine,  two 
slices  onion,  paprika,  salt,  pepper.  Heat  tomatoes  and 
onions,  add  rice,  cheese,  sausage  and  seasoning.  Serve 
on  buttered  toast  or  plain. 

J.  G.  V.  V. 


19 


lillm  for  J3at/ ^|)eUg 

Take  meat  from  the  breast,  first  and  second  joint  of  a 
roasting  chicken.  Cover  in  saucepan,  with  cold  water.  Add 
two  small  onions,  and  cover,  boiling  slowly  till  chicken  is 
tender.  Remove  from  the  liquid,  cut  in  dice.  Thicken  the 
stock  with  two  tablespoons  flour  and  three  of  butter,  adding 
to  stock  cautiously.  When  boiled  three  minutes,  add  a  cup 
of  cream,  and  yolks  two  eggs.  Cook  a  minute,  remove 
from  fire  and  pour  it  over  the  chicken. 

Mrs.  William  H.  Osborne 

(0reen  Corn 

Green  corn  is  made  hard  and  yellow,  usually,  by  too  much 
boiling.  It  should  be  put  into  boiling  water  and  remain  but 
four  minutes  after  coming  to  a  boil  again.  One  minute  be- 
fore removing,  throw  in  a  handful  of  salt.  If  salt  is  sooner 
added,  it  makes  the  corn  tough. 

Mrs.  D.  O.  Wickham,  Cleveland,  Ohio 

CauUflotoer 

Cauliflower  will  be  whiter  and  richer  if  boiled  in  half  water 
and  half  milk,  instead  of  all  water. 

P. 

(0ranUm0tf)er*fii  €^59;  Coaeit 

Slice  bread  not  too  thin,  stale  bread  is  best.  Beat  one  egg, 
one-half  teaspoon  sugar,  and  one  cup  milk.  Place  in  a  pan 
sufficient  butter  to  fry  the  bread.     Dip  each  slice  in  the 


20 


batter  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Very  nice  breakfast  dish  or 
Sunday  night  tea. 

Mrs.  John  Littleton  Lyon 

Boil  four  eggs  hard.  Chop  the  whites,  grate  yolks.  Butter 
slices  of  toasted  bread,  pour  over  a  milk  sauce  thickened 
with  flower,  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Add 
the  whites  and  sprinkle  grated  yolks  over  the  top. 

Mrs.  Francis  Jarvis  Patten 

Allow  four  tablespoons  milk  to  one  egg,  beat  thoroughly, 
put  in  double  boiler,  with  little  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  on 
toast. 

Mrs.  Annette  L.  Place 

^fnUiiJtUual  ©melette 

Beat  one  egg,  pinch  salt,  teaspoon  cold  water,  turn  into  a 
buttered  pan,  and  fold  over. 

J.  G.  V.  V. 

5^  ^4 

Caraccas  (^ffssi  a  la  ^undl^tne 

Put  in  a  skillet,  one-half  cup  stewed  tomatoes,  two  chopped 
hard  boiled  eggs,  one  heaping  tablespoon  grated  cheese, 
one  cup  chopped  boiled  ham,  pinch  paprika.  Cook,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  smooth,  add  a  beaten  egg,  after  which 


21 


cook  about  half  a  minute.  Spread  on  pieces  "toast  and  serve 
immediately.  Will  be  sufficient  for  six  people.  This  dish 
for  tea  has  found  great  favor  with  all  who  taste  it. 

Cynthia  Westover  Alden 

^€ 

effff  Cutlets 

For  each  cutlet  allow  one  hard  boiled  egg,  chopped  fine, 
tablespoon  bread  crumbs,  tablespoon  grated  cheese,  pinch 
curry  powder,  pepper,  salt.  Mix  ingredients  with  beaten 
yolk  of  a  raw  egg.  Shape  like  cutlet.  Dip  in  white  of  egg 
and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  brown.    Serve  very  hot. 

Marguerite  T.  Doane 

^ 

JJineapple  ©mclet 

To  four  well  beaten  eggs  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
powdered  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  lemon  juice.  Put  mto 
the  pan  in  which  the  omelet  is  to  be  cooked  a  large  table- 
spoonful  butter.  When  it  bubbles,  pour  in  the  eggs.  When 
the  eggs  have  become  firm  and  nicely  browned  on  one 
side,  place  in  the  center  two  large  tablespoonsfuls  shredded 
pineapple,  sweetened.  Fold  the  omelet  over,  turn  on  a  hot 
dish,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Malcolm  McLean 

Cfffffi  la  Clumbalfi; 

Select  green  peppers  of  small  size.  Plunge  in  boiling 
water.     Remove  skins.     Cut  around  the  stems  and  seeds. 


22 


Set  in  small  gem  pans.  Break  an  egg  in  each,  baking  in 
moderate  oven  twelve  minutes  until  egg  is  set.  Serve  on 
toast  with  lemon  sauce. 

Marguerite  T,  Doane 

One  cup  lean  ham,  boiled  and  chopped.  Four  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  milk  or  cream,  dash  of  pepper.  Put  in  a  frying 
pan  a  tablespoon  butter,  add  the  ham.  Stir  until' brown. 
Beat  eggs,  add  milk  and  pepper,  pour  into  pan,  stirring 
constantly  until  done.  It  can  be  rolled  and  garnished  with 
parsley.    Quick  breakfast  or  lunch. 

Mrs.  Porter  D.  Ford 

^6 

One  teaspoon  flour,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  two  teaspoons 
French  mustard,  two  beaten  yolks,  little  salt.  Mix  and 
pour  in  a  saucepan,  in  which  a  large  piece  butter  has  been 
melted.  Add  little  hot  water.  Stir,  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Pour  mixture  on  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  lengthwise. 

S.  E.  B. 

©SS  Croquettes 

For  a  luncheon  dish  take  hard  boiled  eggs,  roll  in  crumbs 
and  cook  in  deep  fat.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Scott 

Add  a  few  grains  salt  to  the  stiff  beaten  white  of  an  egg. 


23 


Place  in  a  buttered  ramekin.  ^  Put  a  small  piece  butter  in 
centre  of  "white"  and  an  unbroken  yolk  on  top.  Cover 
and  cook  in  pan  of  boiling  water  three  or  four  minutes. 

Mrs.  F.  F.  Grant  (Helen  Glidden  Grant) 

^5 

Soak  a  cup  bread  crumbs  in  two  cups  milk.  Add  three 
well  beaten  eggs,  two  cups  grated  cheese,  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  pinch  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 
hot  water.  Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish.  Cook  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Starr 

Three  ounces  cheese,  three  of  flpuf,  yolk  one  egg,  three 
ounces  butter,  little  water,  cayenne  and  salt.  Stir  the  bat- 
ter well  with-. the  flour.  Add  grated  cheese,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Mix  all  with  the  egg  to  a  stiff  paste.  Handle  as  lit- 
tle as  possible.    Cut  dough  into  sticks.    Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Marguerite  T.  Doane 

Soften  a  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  in  cup  hot  milk,  and 
tablespoon  butter  ten  minutes.  Stir  in  half  a  cup  grated 
cheese,  a  beaten  egg,  half  teaspoon  salt,  cayenne.  Cook 


24 


three  minutes  in  blazer  or  omelette  pan.  Serve  on  hot 
crackers. 

Mrs.  Chandler  Smith 

C|)eefiie  jFontitt 

Half  pound  grated  cheese,  cup  bread  crumbs,  three  eggs 
beaten  light,  two  cups  milk,  lump  butter  size  of  walnut, 
half  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  a 
buttered  dish. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Hatch 

Cheese  |}ttUUmg: 

Place  slices  of  toasted  bread  in  baking  dish,  one-fourth 
cup  grated  cheese,  salt,  red  pepper.  Cover  with  lay^  of 
toasted  bread.  Pour  over  milk.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 
Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Annette  L.  Place 

5(^5 

Mash  fine,  cream  or  yellow  cheese,  adding  little  cream, 
pepper  salt,  and  a  small  Spanish  pepper  cut  fine.  Put  in 
creases  of  celery  stalks.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

L.  C.  S. 

Cnmato  Eareiitt 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  of  ^our.  When 
blended  add  slowly  three-fourths  cup  rich  milk.  When 
mixture  boils,  add  a  cup  stewed  tomato  strained-  and  c^e- 


25 


eighth  teaspoon  soda,  two  slightly  beaten  eggs,  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  half  of  mustard,  two  cups  finely  cut  cheese. 
When  cheese  is  melted  serve  on  toast. 

Marion  Chase  Baker 

Boil  peppers  till  soft.  Mix  corn  with  salt,  peppers, 
generous  lump  of  butter,  and  heat  through.  Fill  peppers 
with  the  mixture.  Lay  bread  crumbs  on  each  pepper  and 
a  thin  slice  of  bacon.  Place  in  baking  dish  half  filled 
with  water,  cook  in  hot  oven.  Serve  with  or  without  a 
cream  sauce. 

Mrs.  Helen  W.  Bice 

^urpme  Comatoes 

Cut  a  slice  from  top  of  six  smooth  tomatoes,  remove  pulp. 
Break  an  egg  in  each,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs^  and 
butter.    Replace  top,  bake  in  a  pan  filled  with  hot  water. 

Mrs.  Annette  L.  Place 

Pare  and  slice  thin  six  white  potatoes,  immerse  in  cold 
water.  Drain  and  put  in  a  pudding  pan.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  pint  sweet  milk.  Add  piece 
butter.    When  potatoes  are  cooked,  serve.  - 

Mrs.  Malcolm  McLean 


26 


potato  pu5s 

Two  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes,  stir  in  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  salt.  Beat 
well,  bake  till  brown  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Annette  L.  Place 

Potatxirs  f  mproUfU 

Use  large  smooth  potatoes,  cut  in  half,  remove  nearly  all 
potato  leaving  but  little  attached  to  the  skin.  Stuli'  the 
cavities  with  sausage  meat.  Fasten  the  two  parts  of  the 
potatoes  together  with  the  white  of  on  egg.  Tie  them  and 
.   bake.    Serve  verv  hot. 

-AI.  C.  C. 

Potatotsi  i^tnps 

-  Peel  potatoes,  cut  in  strips,  immerse  in  cold  water  an  hour. 
Dry  with  napkin.  Dip  each  strip  in  melted  butter,  laying 
in  baking  pan,  add  salt  and  pepper.    Brown  lightly. 

Mrs.  Chandler  Smith 

*^ 

potatoes  .3.11  t^ratm 

Dice  cold  potatoes.  Make  a  cream  sauce  by  melting  two 
two  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoon 
ilour,  half  cup  milk,  stirring  gradually  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Place  potatoes  in  an  earthen  baking  dish,  pour  over  the 
sauce,  cover  with  thick  layer  American  cheese,  grated. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  till  cheese  is  browned.     This  is  one  of 


27 


the  daintiest  and  most  healthful  methods  of  cooking  pota- 
toes, as  one  secures  the  nutritive  value  of  potatoes,  milk, 
cheese  and  butter. 

Mrs.  Duane  H.  Clement 

^ 

potato  ^ottffee 

Two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  white  or  sweet,  one  beaten 
egg,  milk  and  butter,  beat  well,  spread  lightly  on  a  deep, 
buitered  pie  plate,  and  brown.  Sweet  potato  this  way  is 
delicious  and  fluffy  in  appearance. 

Mrs.  Minton  Dyke  Clark 

^ausap  tDitl^  ^Beltiet  ^auce 

Two  pounds  sausages.  Pint  of  white  wine  in  a  cold  pan, 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil  put  in  the  sausages,  cooking  eight 
minutes.    Remove  from  the  fire. 

^aute 

Dissolve  one  teaspoon  Liebig's  in  a  bowl  containing  three- 
fourths  pint  water.  Pour  into  the  pan,  from  which  have 
been  removed  the  sausages  and  wine,  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter, one  of  flour.  When  butter  melts,  return  wine  to  the 
pan,  cooking  four  minutes.  Add  water  in  which  the  Liebig 
Extract  has  been  dissolved,  cook  ten  minutes,  add  the 
sausages,  salt  to  taste.  Mix  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  stir 
into  the  mixture.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  a  tablespoon 
butter.    A  good  recipe  for  a  chafing  dish. 

Mrs.  J.  WooLSEY  Shepard 


28 


43o£iton  ^afeeU  ^cans 

Parboil  one  quart  beans,  add  a  tablespoon  molasses,  tea- 
spoon salt,  pinch  of  saleratus  in  bottom  of  bean  pot.  Add 
beans  with  three-fourths  pound  salt  pork.  Cover  with 
water.    Bake  all  day  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Dearborn  J.  Adams 

5^ 

One  and  a  half  cups  granulated  sugar,  half  cup  cold  water. 
Boil  until  it  "threads"  from  the  spoon.  Cut  five  marsh- 
mallows  in  fine  pieces  and  stir  in  till  smooth.  Pour  in 
slowly  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  adding  a  cup  of 
chopped  English  walnut  meats  and  five  tablespoons  shred- 
ded cocoanut.    Drop  on  Baronet  wafers.    Brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  Alexander  Cook 

One  pound  figs,  one  pound  English  walnuts,  half  pound 
dates  and  confectioner's  sugar.  Chop  figes,  dates  and  wal- 
nut meats.  Work  on  a  board  dredged  with  sugar,  till  well 
kneaded.  Form  into  small  rolls,  and  cut  in  slices,  drop- 
ping each  piece  in  sugar.  Rolled  in  wax  paper,  these 
sweets  will  keep  many  days  if  not  eaten. 

Mrs.  Duane  H.  Clement 

5^ 

^tttcfe  i^ttpper  ^is|) 

Have  ready  a  finnan  haddie  that  has  been  dropped  in  boil- 
ing water.     Remove  bones  and  skin  and  press  the  meat 


29 


through  a  sieve.  Cook  in  a  blazer  with  teaspoon  cream, 
tablespoon  butter,  salt,  paprika,  lemon  juice  and  pepper. 
Stir  till  thickens.    Spread  on  wafers, 

H.  C.  P. 

eurikisl)  Dflt3:|)t 

Let  two  ounces  sheet  gelatine  soak  in  one  cup  hot  water 
for  two  hours.  Boil  the  gelatine  with  two  pounds  white 
sugar  and  cup  water  twenty-nve  minutes.  Add  rind  and 
juice  of  two  oranges  and  one  lemon  ten  minutes  before  it  is 
done;  add  three  tablespoons  sherry  or  brandy  and  three- 
fourths  cup  pecan  nuts.  Wet  pans  with  cold  water,  pour 
in  the  mxixture  about  three-fourths  an  inch  thick.  Let  re- 
main till  quite  firm.  Dust  a  board  with  confectioner's  sugar 
and  turn  out  mixture.  Cut  in  squares,  rolling  each  piece  in 
the  sugar.  It  is  better  to  make  the  day  before  using. 
Delicious. 

Mrs.  William  ^L  Whitney,  Brooklyn. 
Colony  Eight. 

for  ^ittX't^tRtxt  1^ upper 

Cut  in  pieces,  skin  and  bone,  three  Yarmouth  bloaters. 
Mix  with  them  chopped  celery,  oil,  and  vinegar.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

H.  C.  P. 

(S^^  %^ 

for  a  C!)n5tma£i'-ntg:^t  Supper 

Toast  slices  of  graham  bread  from  which  the  crusts  have 
been  cut,  spread  \sdth  butter,  divide  each  slice,  placing 


30 


a  piece  of  anchovy  on  each.  Add  a  few  drops  lemon 
juice,  sprinkle  with  cayene  and  heat  in  the  oven. 

P. 

5^ 

harlequin  ^anUtDic!) 

Have  ready  a  loaf  (each  of  same  size,  if  possible)  of  white 
and  graham  bread.  Melt  butter  in  a  bowl,  placing  same 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Butter  each  loaf,  cutting  slices 
very  thin,  placing  white  and  graham  together.  Trim  off 
all  crusts,  cut  diagonal.  These  are  very  dainty  to  serve 
with  salad. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Shute 

^€ 

(^reen  |3epper  ^antfiutc^ 

Thoroughly  mix  two  tablespoons  oil,  one  tablespoon  vine- 
gar, teaspoon  salt,  little  pepper,  one  small  onion  sliced  fine 
and  a  chopped  green  pepper.  Allow  this  to  remain  two 
hours  before  using.  Spread  a  slice  of  bread  with  cream 
cheese,  adding  the  green  pepper  mixture.  Cut  in  squares. 
One  slice  makes  two  sandwiches. 

L.  C.  K. 

«^  5^ 

^toeet  ^anHtoicl) 

Spread  between  very  thin  slices  of  brown  bread  a  fruit 
marmalade,  then  cream  cheese. 

H.  C.  P. 


31 


CI)eefi!e  anl^  Cress  ^antitoici) 

Spread  thin  buttered  brown  bread,  with  cream  cheese,  and 
between  two  shces  thus  prepared,  a  few  leaves  of  cress 
which  have  been  dipped  in  French  dressing. 

Mrs.  Chandler  Smith 

5^ 

iltlastttrtium  i^anUtoul^ 

Axplate  of  nasturtium  sandwiches  is  attractive  for  a  veranda 
or  tea.  Spread  thin  white  slices  of  bread  with  butter  and 
very  tender  nasturtium  leaves  and  flowers,  dressed  with  a 
little  mayonnaise.  Should  edges  of  leaves  and  flowers  pro- 
ject, so  much  the  better.  Garnish  plate  with  the  flowers 
and  leaves. 

H.  C.  P. 

Catotare  ^anUtoit^ 

Half  a  pound  best  caviare,  turn  into  a  soup  plate. 
Squeeze  over  it  the  juice  of  a  fresh  lemon  by  drops,  alter- 
nating with  olive  oil.  Beat  till  paste  is  firm.  Pounded 
almonds  may  be  added  if  desired.  Omit  butter.  Spread 
mixture  quite  thickly  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Mrs.  T.  F.  McDonald 

jfilUnff  for  ^antitutcl) 

One  pound  each  of  Brazil  nuts,  English  walnuts,  filberts, 
hazelnuts,  dates,  figs  and  raisins.  Steam  the  fruit  till  soft. 
Stone  dates  and  raisins.  Chop  all  together  in  a  fine  mass. 
Steam  in  a  double  boiler  four  or  five  hours  till  thoroughly 


32 


cooked.  Put  in  glasses,  seal  air  tight.  Convenient  to  have 
in  an  emergency. 

Mrs.  William  H.  Chaney,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Colony  Four. 

Chop  olives,  mix  with  mayonnaise,  spread  between  thin 
slices  white  buttered  bread. 

Mrs.  Chandler  Smith 

Cheese  i^anUiotclb 

One  hard  boiled  egg,  quarter  of  a  pound  grated  American 
cheese,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  of  pepper,  half  of  mustard, 
one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  one  tablespoon  vinegar  or 
cold  water.  Crumble  yolk  of  egg,  add  butter  till  smooth, 
then  the  seasoning  and  cheese,  mixing  each  well.  Add  the 
vinegar.  Spread  between  biscuits  or  thin  slices  bread.  One 
could  not  wish  for  a  better  sandwich. 

Mrs.  Frank  Churchill 


33 


HE  THAT  wiZ  hsve  s  cake  Cul  of  v.-heat, 
Must  needs  ;£rr/  a:  the  gri-ding 


Cake 


^iRtk  Chocolate  Cafet 

cup  bu::er,  :^ 

ergs,  two  a.zd  a  ha'i  cups  grated  chocolate  dissolved  in 
two-thirds  cup  boiiiug  vrater,  scant  tea  so::r.  s:oa.  two 
cups  nour,  vaniiia  davorinr,    Eake  in  twc  layers. 

for  Jillms  anti  f rostmj 

Two  cups  sugar,  :ne-::urth  cake  chicoiate.  cup  boiling 
water,  butter  size  an  egg.  Eoil  till  thickens  a  little.  Re- 
mo%-e  from  nre.    Stir  till  thick  enough  to  spread. 

Mrs.  fosEPH  D.  Bryant 

4ir>8  .jt 

'Z-ttiicfaark  Cake  ~ 

Five  eggs,  n  e  oieces  :v;-:e'oack  crumbed,  teaspoon  baking 

powder,  teaso::n  allsoioe,  teaspiin  cinnamon,  cnp  grann- 
lated  sugar,  half  p:und  chcpped  English  walnuts.  Whites 
of  the  £ve  eggs  beaten  stih,  -vhiooei  -vith  sugar,  Put  the 
other  ingredients  in  a  set:arate  h;wl,  stirring  all  tiretner. 


34 


Add  whites  of  eggs  last.  Bake  in  two  large  tins.  When 
cold  spread  whipped  cream  between  layers  and  on  top. 

Beth  Kerley 

Gutter  Cttp  Cake 

Three-fourths  cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  yolks 
of  eight  eggs,  one  whole  egg,  half  cup  milk,  two  of  flour, 
half  teaspoon  soda,  one  and  a  half  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
salt,  mace,  or  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  the  eggs,  then  niilk,  flavoring.  (Sift  soda  and 
cream  tartar  in  flour,  add  two  even  cups) 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Goodale 

But  Cai^e 

Cream  half  cup  butter  and  one  sugar,  whites  three  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  half  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  half  teaspoon  soda,  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  Frost, 
placing  half  a  walnut  on  each  square. 

Mrs.  Elias  J.  Pattison,  Boston. 

^5 

^lueberrp  Cafee  from  JHatne 

One  egg,  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Large  cup 
sweet  milk,  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 
Pint  and  a  half  of  blueberries.  Flour. 

Mrs.  Jasper  Cairns 


35 


(Bin^tv  ^rop  Cake 

One  cup  butter,  two  sugar,  one  black  molasses,  cup  sour 
milk  ("clabber"),  four  or  five  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  two 
teaspoons  soda,  four  teaspoons  ginger.  This  batter  is 
unique,  as  it  can  remain  in  an  ice  box  and  the  cakes  baked 
from  time  to  time,  making  it  convenient  to  serve  for  the 
unexpected  guest.  I  have  baked  cakes  from  this  batter 
sz'x  weeks  after  it  was  made  and  they  were  delicious. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk, 
add  salt  and  molasses.  Beat  eggs  well  before  adding  to 
the  batter,  sift  ginger  into  the  first  cup  of  flour.  Add  flour 
a  cup  at  a  time,  till  stiff  as  can  be  stirred.  Drop  batter 
from  a  teaspoon  into  pan  for  baking,  using  care  to  have 
spoon  full  of  batter  well  separated,  as  they  puff  up  and 
spread  as  they  bake. 

Mrs.  Minton  Dyke  Clarke 

^5 

familp  potttiU  Cake 

One  pound  each  of  flour  and  sugar,  half  pound  butter,  five 
eggs,  cup  of  cream,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  Richard  P.  Holeman,  Riverton,  N.  J. 
Colony  Fifteen 

PellolB  ^npl  Cake 

Whites  seven  eggs,  yolks  of  five,  one  and  a  fourth  cups 
sugar,  cup  flour,  scant  one-third  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
pinch  of  salt  added  to  whites  before  beating,  flavor  to 


36 


taste.  Sift  and  measure  flour  and  sugar,  and  set  aside. 
Break  the  eggs,  placing  whites  and  yolks  in  separate 
bowls.  Beat  yolks  very  stiff,  whip  whites  to  a  foam,  add 
cream  tartar  and  whip  till  stiff.  Add  sugar  to  whites  and 
beat  in  three  yolks,  flavor  and  again  beat,  add  flour, 
beaten  in  lightly.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  from  twenty  to 
forty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Leverett  F.  Crumb 

Com  ^tarcl^  Calie 

Scant  half  cup  butter,  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  tea- 
spoon almond  extract,  half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half 
cups  flour,  two  tablespoons  corn  starch,  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  whites  two  eggs.  Mix  in  the  order  given,  mixing 
corn  starch  and  powder  with  the  flour.   Bake  in  shallow  pans. 

Mrs.  Thomas  M.  Taylor 

*Beii3  ^nsIanU  election  Ca^ie 

Two  pounds  flour,  one  and  a  half  pounds  sugar,  one-half 
pound  lard,  eleven  ounces  butter,  three-fourths  pint  milk, 
one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one-half  pint  water,  three 
eggs,  grated  peel  one  lemon,  one  wine  glass  rum,  mace, 
half  teaspoon  soda,  one  pound  seeded  raisins,  half  pound 


*  Editor's  Note.— In  New  England  in  olden  times,  luncheon  was 
served  by  the  ladies  at  elections.  Here  the  name  originated  and  this 
formula  was  used. 


37 


citron.    Mix  at  night,  place  in  pans.    Bake  in  the  morning. 

Slow  oven.  Mrs.  Chas.  D.  Van  Winkle,  Brooklyn 

Colony  Eight 

^8  ^5 

|)artforli  Election  Cake 

In  one  cup  warm  milk  and  one-half  Fleishman's  yeast 
cake,  put  in  sufficient  flour  for  a  rather  stiff  batter.  When 
light,  add  a  generous  cup  butter;  after  beating  to  a  cream, 
add  the  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  four  beaten  eggs,  two  table- 
spoons brandy,  nutmeg,  little  mace,  one  large  cup  seeded 
raisins,  citron.  After  thoroughly  mixing,  place  in  well 
buttered  pans  and  leave  till  light  enough  to  bake.  If 
necessary,  add  flour  to  make  right  consistency  to  drop 
from  a  spoon. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Hobron 

One  pound  each  of  flour,  sugar  and  butter.  Ten  eggs, 
wine  glass  half  sherry,  half  brandy,  one  nutmeg.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  together  till  very  light,  add  beaten  yolks, 
then  half  the  flour  in  which  nutmeg  has  been  grated,  the 
liquor,  remaining  flour  and  whites  well  beaten.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  in  patty  pans. 

Mrs.  Horace  S.  Ely 

Porifc  Cake 

One  pound  pork,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  currants, 
eight  eggs,  two  cups  molasses,  three  cups  sugar,  four  cups 


38 


flour.  Chop  pork  very  fine,  mix  with  sugar  and  eggs,  add 
molasses,  flour,  raisins  and  currants. 

f  nitt  Coffee  Cafee 

One  cup  each  sugar,  butter,  molasses,  strong  coffee.  One 
egg,  small  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace. 
Two  pounds  seeded  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  half 
pound  citron,  half  pound  figs,  teaspoon  soda.  Three  and 
one  half  cups  flour.    Flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Leverett  F.  Crumb 

^6 

Cream  ^pouffe  Cafees 

Two  eggs,  cup  cream,  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  and  a 
half  cups  flour,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
salt.  Break  eggs  in  a  measuring  cup  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Add  cream,  overflowing  the  cup.  In  a  bowl,  put  the 
sugar  and  salt,  pouring  over  them  the  cream  mixture, 
stir  till  blended.  Sift  powder  twice  with  the  flour,  stirring 
all  together  five  minutes.  Butter  and  lightly  flour  the 
patty  pans,  bake  thirty  minutes.  When  cool,  ice  the  little 
cakes  with  thirteen  teaspoons  powdered  sugar  and  white 
one  egg.  Stir  till  thick.  These  are  delicious  with  ice 
cream. 

Mrs.  Jacob  Hess 

5^ 

Cream  Catie 

Cup  sugar,  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately, 
cup  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  salt. 


39 


Cream  f  tllms 

Pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  half  cup  sugar,  scant  half  cup 
flour,  vanilla,  boil  the  milk,  add  the  ingredients.  Tear 
open  the  cake  and  spread  in  the  cream. 

Mrs.  Richard  Henry  Greene 
.j«  S 

i^ponjc  Cake 

Four  eggs,  cup  sugar,  cup  flour,  tea  spoon  baking  powder, 
half  tea  spoon  lemon  extract.  Beat  eggs  without  separ- 
ating, then  sugar  flour  and  baking  powder.  Pour  at  once 
into  tins,  baking  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  B.  Franklin  Hibbard 

Q^S 

^Ittebrrrp  Cakt 

Two  cups  flour,  one  milk,  half  sugar,  one  egg,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  pint  blue  berries.  Ser\^e  hot  with 
butter.  !sIarion  Chase  Baker  'Mrs.  G.  M.) 

.j<  .J* 

EaiseJi  Loaf  Cafee 

One  and  a  half  cups  milk,  cup  sugar,  one  cup  yeast,  add 
flour  for  stiff  batter.  When  very  light,  cream  one  cup 
sugar,  and  one  cup  butter.  Add  yolks  two  eggs  and  white 
of  one  (using  the  remaining  white  for  frosting).  Mix  with 
the  light  batter.  In  the  morning  add  cup  seeded  raisins, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water,  %  grated 
nutmeg,  and  pour  into  two  large  or  three  small  circular 
baking  tins.    Let  stand  in  warm  place  one  hour  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Augustine  Sackett 


40 


Light  Part.  One-third  cup  butter,  three-fourths  cup  sugar 
half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-quarter  cups  flour,  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  whites  two  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
Dark  Part.  One-third  cup  butter,  half  cup  sugar,  half 
cup  molasses,  one-fourth  cup  milk,  one  and  one-fourth 
cups  flour.  Yolks  two  eggs,  one  whole  egg  added,  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cloves,  cin- 
namon and  little  nutmeg.  Stir  together  in  one  pan  and 
bake. 

Lizzie  Woodbury  Law 

^€ 

Cream  Sponge  Cake 

Beat  one  egg  five  minutes,  add  two  eggs  and  beat;  one 
cup  sugar,  beat  again;  add  one  cup  sifted  flour  in  which  is 
a  teaspoon  baking  powder,  add  one  teaspoon  salt.  Mix, 
beating  thoroughly.  Then  stir  in  half  cup  hot  milk,  tea- 
spoon lemon  extract.    Use  egg  beater  instead  of  spoon. 

Mrs.  Frank  Nichols,  Boston 

£)eUcate  Cai^e 

One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  milk,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour.  One  good  size  tea  spoon  baking 
powder.    Whites  three  eggs. 

Mrs.  J.  D,  Bryant 

Spouffe  Catte 

Ten   eggs,  their  weight  in  sugar,  and  half  their  weight 


41 


in  flour.  Juice  and  rind  of  one  grated  lemon.  Bake  in 
quick  oven. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Hobron 

5^ 

*^onation  Cake 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  cup  milk,  two 
cups  chopped  raisins.  Four  cups  flour,  teaspoon  soda,  two 
teaspoons  cream  tartar  sifted  with  flour.  Half  teaspoon 
nutmeg,  one  of  cinnamon  and  two  tablespoons  brandy 
or  wine.  Beat  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  well  beaten, 
milk,  flour,  then  raisins  dredged  with  flour. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Wallace 

C|)OCDlate  Catic 

Melt  two  squares  chocolate  with  butter  size  of  an  egg. 
One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  milk,  salt,  teaspoon  vanilla, 
scant  cup  flour,  with  a  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  and  half 
a  teaspoon  soda.    Two  eggs  beaten  in  one  at  a  time. 

Mrs.  Albert  H.  Bickmore 

Whitt  iHottntatn  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  whites  seven  eggs, 
well  beaten,  two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour. 


*  Editor's  Note.— In  the  original  recipe  published  in  cook  book 
of  1812,  this  recipe  calls  for  four  eggs,  but  states  that  when  made  for 
donation  to  ministers  only  two  eggs  were  used. 


42 


cup  corn  starch,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  Bake  in 
jelly  cake  tins. 

frofiitins  for  abolie 

Beat  whites  three  eggs  with  sugar,  not  quite  as  stiff  as  for 
usual  frosting.  Spread  between  the  cake,  add  grated 
cocoanut.  Put  cakes  together.  Arrange  cocoanut  in  high 
mountain  on  top. 

Florence  L.  Adams 

5^ 

loaf  Caike 

Three  coffee  cups  milk,  two  sugar,  one  yeast,  add  flour 
sufficient  for  stiff  batter.  When  light  add  two  cups  sugar, 
two  cups  butter  (or  one  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed),  whites 
three  eggs,  two  nutmegs.  Let  it  raise  (like  bread).  Add 
raisins  and  citron.    Makes  four  large  loaves. 

Mrs.  Jasper  Cairns 

^5 

Citron  Caike  or  But  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  cup  milk, 
three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavoring, 
cup  chopped  nut  meats  dredged  with  flour. 

Mrs.  Benjamin  A.  Jackson 

^mall  IJounli  Caikes 

Three  fourths  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  cup  of  flour, 
with  teaspoon  baking  powder  sifted  in,  salt,  four  eggs. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  one  egg  at  a  time,  alter- 


43 


nating  with  little  of  the  flour.  Bake  in  small  muffin  pan 
in  quick  oven.    This  rule  is  not  good  for  loaf  cake. 

Mrs.  Wm.  R.  Eakins 

€pceUetit  ^ponffe  Cake 

Three-fourths  pound  powdered  sugar,  seven  eggs,  six 
ounces  flour,  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Boil  sugar  in 
four  tablespoons  water.  Beat  eggs  separately,  then  mix, 
and  pour  boiling  sugar  over  them.  Add  lemon  and  flour 
as  quickly  as  possible.  Bake  in  quick  oven  twelve  or 
fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  S. 

Coffee  Cafee 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter  and  three-fourths  sugar,  two 
beaten  eggs,  half  cup  molasses,  one  and  one-half  cup 
flour,  half  cup  cold  coffee,  half  cup  seeded  raisins,  three- 
fourths  teaspoon  allspice,  one-half  of  soda.  Oven  not  to 
hot. 

Mrs.  T.  Y.  Crowell 

^( 

©ranje  Cake 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  leaving  one  white  for  frosting. 
Beat,  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  little  salt,  juice  and 
grated  rind  one  orange,  teaspoon  extract  lemon,  half  cup 
cold  water,  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix 
in  two  cups  flour.    Bake  in  three  layers. 


44 


jFtlUttff 

Juice  and  grated  rind  one  orange,  two  and  a  half  cups 
powdered  sugar,  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  white  one  egg. 
Beat  well,  place  between  each  layer  and  on  top. 

Mrs.  Richard  Henry  Greene 

fl^S 

Caramel  laper  Cafee 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  cup  milk,  three  cups 
flour,  four  teaspoons  baking  powder,  beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs,  teaspoon  vanilla.    Bake  in  three  layers. 

jfrofitms:  anil  JFtllms; 

One  and  one-fourth  cup  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  white 
sugar  one-fourth  cup  water,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cream  tar- 
tar. Boil  to  thread  240°.  Pour  over  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs.    Beat  till  cold.     Add  half  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Roberts 

5^  ?^ 

Four  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  cup  butter,  cup 
sugar,  cup  cider,  ground  cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  tea- 
spoon saleratus;   dissolve   saleratus  in  little  warm  water. 


*  Editor's  Note. — This  formula  was  used  for  cake  made  especially 
for  house  raising  events. 


45 


Pour  in  the  cider  and  stir  into  the  cake.  Bake  in  hot 
oven.    If  quantity  be  too  large  the  recipe  may  be  divided. 

Mrs.  George  Beveridge,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 
Colony  Seven 

^8 

(!5ranli mother's  fruit  Caie 

Soak  over  night  a  cup  dried  apples,  chopped.  Simmer  in 
one  cup  molasses  for  five  or  six  hours  till  thick  and  fruity. 
Add  cup  sugar,  third  cup  butter,  half  cup  sour  milk,  one 
egg,  teaspoon  soda,  two  of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  mace, 
two  cups  flour,  cooked  apples.  Bake  from  forty  to  sixty 
minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Favorite  wedding  cake  in 
nineteenth  century.  Mrs.  Thomas  R.  Almond 

|^0t  ^ater  ;§)poag:e  Cafee 

Cream  yolks  six  eggs,  and  two  cups  sugar.  Beat  whites  of 
eggs  stiff  and  dry.  With  the  yolks  and  sugar  stir  half  a 
cup  boiling  water,  juice  and  grated  rind  small  lemon,  the 
whites  beaten,  and  two  cups  pastry  flour. 

Fanny  R.  Griswold  Ely 

^8 

l^mptttre  Catie 

One  cup  (Judges  V.  25) 

Three  and  one-half  (I.  Kings,  IV.  22) 
Three  cups  (Jeremiah  VI.  20) 

Two  cups  (I.  Samuel  XXX.  12) 


46 


Two  cups  (I.  Samuel  XXX.  12) 

One  cup  (Genesis  XXIV.  17) 

One  cup  (Genesis  XXIV.  17) 

Six  (Isaiah  X.  14) 

One  tablespoon        (Exodus  XVI.  21) 
Spices  to  taste         (I.  Kings,  X.  10) 

Follow  Solomon's  advice  for  making  good  boys,  and  you 
will  have  good  cake.  *(Psalms  XIII.  14). 

Mrs.  Duane  H.  Clement 

5^ 

Sponge  Cafee 

Eighteen  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pounds  pulverized  sugar, 
half  pound  flour,  juice  and  a  handful  grated  lemon  rind. 
Beat  eggs  separately.  Add  sugar  and  yolks,  juice  and 
rind  of  lemon,  then  the  whites  of  eggs.  Flavor  to  taste. 
Add  flour  last,  beating  in  very  lightly.  This  cake  has  al- 
ways taken  the  prize. 

Mrs.  W.  W,  Andrews,  Cincinnati,  Ohio 

JJerfect  fruit  Cate 

Stand  in  warm  water  over  night  three  cups  dried  apples. 
Strain  off  the  water.  Chop  apples,  and  simmer  two  hours 
in  three  cups  molasses.  Add  two  eggs,  cup  sugar,  cup 
milk,  half  cup  butter,  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  two  of  cloves,  two  of  nutmeg,  one 
package  currants,  one  package  seedless  raisins,  and  enough 

*Should  read  Proverbs  XXIII.  14 


47 


I 


flour  to  let  batter  drop.  Bake  steadily  four  hours  in  mod- 
erate oven.    Dry  out  in  oven.    This  recipe  fills  two  pans. 

Mrs.  L.  Frank  Barry 

Slpple  ^auce  Cafee 

Cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  apple 
sauce,  slightly  sweetened,  cup  raisins,  two  of  flour,  teaspoon 
soda,  half  teaspoon  cloves,  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoon  nutmeg,  salt,  five  cents  worth  preserved  citron. 
Mix  baking  soda  with  apple  sauce  before  adding. 

Julia  P.  Hull 

Caramel  Cattc 

One  egg,  cup  sugar,  tablespoon  butter,  two-thirds  cup  milk, 
two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  cakes 
grated  chocolate.    Bake  in  layers. 

filUng: 

Two  cups  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two-thirds  cup  milk, 
and  boil  four  minutes.  Vanilla.  Cool  and  spread  between 
layers. 

Mrs.  Albert  S.  Newcomb 

CI)Dcolate  ftlltng: 

Pour  into  a  double  boiler,  a  cup  milk,  half  cup  cold  water, 
cup  sugar.  When  it  boils  add  heaping  .tablespoon  corn 
starch,  two  of  cocoa,  made  smooth  in  little  water.  As  it 
begins  to  thicken,  remove  from  fire,  and  stir  in  one  well 
beaten  egg. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Peet 


48 


|)artf0ti[  Election  Cafee 

Four  and  a  half  pounds  flour,  two  and  a  half  sugar,  two 
and  one  quarter  butter,  half  ounce  grated  nutmeg,  one- 
half  pound  sliced  citron,  half  ounce  mace,  tumbler  of 
brandy  and  sherry  mixed,  two  pounds  raisins,  four  eggs. 
At  noon  begin  making  this  cake.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
adding  quart  warm  milk  and  either  half  pint  brewers'  yeast, 
or  cake  and  a  half  compressed  yeast.  Beat  mixture  well. 
Cover  pan  with  thick  towel  and  set  in  warm  place  to  rise. 
At  night,  add  sugar,  spices  and  eggs.  Put  pan  in  moder- 
ately warm  place  for  second  rising.  In  the  morning  early, 
add  fruit,  wine,  grated  lemon  peel,  half  teaspoon  extract  of 
rose.  Pour  into  pans  lined  with  buttered  paper,  and  stand 
an  hour.  This  rule  makes  seven  loaves,  which  require 
from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half  to  bake,  according  to 
oven.  Half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water, 
stirred  into  the  batter  just  before  it  is  put  into  pans,  is  an 
improvement. 

Mrs.  William  K.  Tillotson. 

Half  pint  sugar,  white  one  egg.  Boil  sugar  in  four  table- 
spoons water  till  it  "spins  a  thread  "  about  four  minutes. 
Pour  over  the  beaten  white  and  stir  a  little. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  S. 


49 


-iSoileU  Jrofittna: 

One  cup  sugar,  six  tablespoons  water.  Let  boil  until  it  be- 
gins to  "spin,"  stir  in  slowly  beaten  white  one  egg. 

Mrs.  Joseph  D.  Bryant 

Make  an  icing  with  one-fourth  cup  pineapple  juice  and  cup 
sugar,  boiled  together.  Stir  in  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Re- 
move from  fire.  Pour  very  slowly  over  the  hot  syrup  the 
white  of  an  egg,  beaten  stiff.  Beat  steadily  till  frosting  is 
nearly  cold,  when  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  F.  F.  Grant 

%^ 

filling:  for  ©nfiitoecteneU  Cratttcrc 

Roquefort  cheese,  moistened  with  sherry,  spread  between 
thin  crackers,  makes  a  dainty  bit. 

Mrs.  Frank  M.  Jaqua 

iHrs;.  ^rttpit'fi!  ^Fumblefi,  1775 

Two  and  a  half  pounds  flour,  two  pounds  butter,  two 
pounds  sugar,  six  eggs,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  glass  of 
wine.  Vinegar  from  pickled  peaches  is  a  satisfactory 
substitute  for  wine. 

Helen  L.  Miller.  Utica.  N.  Y. 
Colony  Nine 


50 


Candy 

iftlectat  CanUp 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  half  cup  Karo  com  syrup,  half 
cup  water,  whites  two  eggs.  Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  water 
till  brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Remove  mixture  from 
the  fire,  add  the  beaten  whites  slowly.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Add  chopped  English  walnuts  if  desired,  beat  till  very 
stiff.    Drop  on  wax  paper  in  hard  lumps. 

Mary  C.  Seward 

Chocolate  jFuUp 

Cup  creamy  milk,  cup  Baker's  unsweetened  chocolate,  three 
cups  granulated  sugar,  butter  the  size  English  walnut,  pinch 
salt,  few  drops  vanilla.  Stir  milk  and  sugar  together,  when 
hot  add  chocolate,  boiling  fifteen  minutes.  Add  butter,  salt 
and  vanilla.  When  thick,  pour  on  buttered  tins,  cut  in 
squares. 

Edith  A.  Brockett 

5^ 

jFlag;  CanUp 

Take  any  quantity  desired  of  maple  sugar,  add  a  little 
water,  and  grate  in  sweet  flagroot.     Boil  till  it  will  harden 


51 


in  cold  water,  pour  on  a  buttered  platter,  crease  in  squares. 
An  excellent  substitute  for  the  old  fashioned  sugared  sweet 
flag. 

Mrs.  Annette  L.  Place 

•^ft 

Jlaple  Cream 

Two  cups  maple  sugar,  half  cup  cream.  Let  it  boil  until 
it  "  hairs,"  then  stir  in  a  cup  of  butternuts.  Pour  on  but- 
tered tin,  cut  in  squares  when  almost  cold. 

Mrs.  Annette  L.  Place 

JHapIc  Cream  CanUp 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  half  cup  milk,  butter,  size  of  wal- 
nut, teaspoon  vanilla,  small  cup  English  walnuts.  Boil 
sugar  and  milk  eight  minutes.  Add  butter,  nuts,  flavoring. 
Boil  all  together.    Remove  from  fire,  stirring  till  creamy. 

Mrs.  William  M.  Whitney,  Brooklyn 
.  Colony  Eight 

Proton  ^tiffar  anti  Jftlut  CanUp 

One  pound  walnuts,  chopped  fine.  One  pound  brown 
sugar,  one  fourth  cup  butter,  half  cup  cream  or  milk. 
Boil  till  thick  (not  brittle).  Remove  from  fire,  add  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  whip  till  light,  pour  in  pan  just  before  it 
hardens. 

Mrs.  Sarah  E.  Bourne 


52 


Two  cups  brown  sugar  in  chafing  dish.  Stir  in  enough 
condensed  milk  to  make  a  thick  paste.  Add  little  warm 
water  as  possible  to  prevent  burning.  When  thoroughly 
heated,  add  butter  size  of  a  large  egg.  Test  in  water, 
when  the  bubbles  break  on  the  boiling  mixture.  Fudge 
should  "  fudge "  in  the  water.  Remove  from  fire.  Beat 
till  candy  sugars  around  edges.  If  nuts  are  to  be  added, 
beat  them  in.  If  chocolate  fudge  is  to  be  made,  add  two 
squares  Baker's  chocolate  with  the  warm  water.  Turn 
in  buttered  pan,  mark  in  squares,  when  slightly  cool.  If 
fudge  is  beaten  too  long,  it  becomes  hard  and  cannot  be 
turned  out  smoothly.  A  New  England  College  recipe  and 
easy  to  make. 

V.  O. 

JJeanttt  CanUp 

Roll  shelled  peanuts  very  fine.  To  one  cup  nuts  allow 
a  cup  granulated  sugar.  Put  sugar  in  a  smooth  lined 
sauce  pan  over  a  hot  fire  and  melt  quickly  stirring  con- 
stantly. Place  rolled  nuts  in  shallow  dish  in  oven  to  heat. 
Keep  tins  well  buttered  and  hot  on  back  of  range.  As 
soon  as  sugar  is  melted  and  begins  to  color  slightly,  pour 
in  the  hot  peanuts,  and  remove  from  fire  at  once,  pouring 
into  the  buttered  pans  in  thin  layers.  As  soon  as  candy 
is  cold,  it  can  be  broken  into  in  thin,  crisp  chips. 

Mrs.  William  M.  Whitney,  Brooklyn. 
Colony  Eight 


53 


VARIETY  ALONL  gives  |oy. 
The  sweetest  meats,  the  soonest  cloy. 


Cookies,  Corn  Bread,  Cakes,  Doughnuts, 
Gingerbread,  Muffins,  Waffles 

3f(il)nnp  Cake 

One  pint  scalded  Indian  meal,  thinned  with  creamy  milk, 
tablespoon  and  a  half  of  sugar,  half  teaspoon  salt.  Fry 
in  butter. 

Mrs.  Benjamin  A.  Jackson 

Beto  CnfflanU  jfrieU  Cakes 

Do  not  confuse  these  with  "  doughnuts,"  which  are  made 
of  dough,  raised  with  yeast.  Beat  an  egg  in  mixing  bowl, 
add  one  and  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  cinnamon,  nutmeg, 
salt,  cup  sour  milk,  tablespoon  melted  lard.  Sift  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  cream  tartar  in  three  cups  flour,  and  tea- 
spoon soda.  Stir  ingredient^  together,  adding  more  flour  if 
necessary.  Flour  the  board,  cut  about  a  fourth  of  the 
dough  for  each  rolling.  Use  round  biscuit  cutter,  and  top 
of  salt  shaker  to  cut  a  hole  from  the  center.    Melt  and 


54 


strain  equal  parts  hot  lard  and  suet,  fry  the  cakes  in 
mixture  turning  them  frequently.  It  is  better  for  one 
person  to  fry  and  one  to  roll. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Peet 

if*itit  Cookies 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  table- 
spoon molasses,  three  tablespoons  warm  water,  two  and 
three-fourths  cups  flour,  teaspoon  soda,  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, cup  chopped  raisins,  cup  nut  meats.  Drop  from 
spoon  on  well-buttered  baking  pan. 

LiLLA  Manning  Briggs 

Cootiies 

One  cup  butter,  two  sugar,  two  eggs,  cup  sweet  milk,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Enough  flour  to  mix.  Knead, 
roll  and  cut. 

Mrs.  William  W.  Crossley 

^Intfiie  ^ecH  Coofetes 

Quart  flour,  measuring  cup  butter,  cup  granulated  sugar, 
three  eggs,  four  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  anise  seed.  Thoroughly  mix  butter,  flour  and 
anise  seed,  add  sugar.  Beat  eggs  till  light  and  add.  Roll 
thin  and  cut  in  a  leaf  pattern  cookie  cutter.  Moisten  top 
each  cake  with  a  little  milk.  Sprinkle  over  granulated 
sugar.    Bake  in  hot  oven.  Delicious. 

GERTRUDE  F.  Hess  (Mrs.  Jacob),  Philadelphia.  Penn. 


55 


^tttprtge  §)U^^v  Coofeieg 

One  and  a  half  cups  brown  sugar,  two,  eggs,  two-thirds  cup 
shortening,  half  cup  sour  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, half  teaspoon  soda,  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  grated  nut- 
meg, enough  flour  for  soft  dough.  Sugar  the  tops  and  roll 
thin. 

Cup  chopped  raisins,  half  cup  sugar,  half  cup  water,  tea- 
spoon flour. 

Mrs.  Edward  J.  Pattison,  Boston,  Mass. 

^6 

^ptUer  Corn  Catte 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  spider,  turning  all  around 
that  butter  may  cover  bottom  and  sides.  Sift  together  a 
cup  golden  Indian  meal,  cup  flour,  teaspoon  salt,  a  fourth 
cup  sugar,  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Beat 
an  egg,  adding  half  cup  milk.  Mix  all  quickly.  Pour 
into  hot  spider.  Bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Turn 
spider  down  on  large  plate.  Carry  to  the  breakfast  table 
whole. 

Mrs.  Thomas  French,  Jr.,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 
Colony  Two 

JHolasigcfii  Caike 

One  cup  molasses,  cup  sugar,  cup  butter  or  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  three  eggs,  cup  milk,  small  teaspoon  saleratus,  dis- 


.56 


solved  in  milk,  cinnamon,  cloves,  three  cups  flour.  Melt 
the  butter  and  lard,  and  add  flour  last. 

Mrs.  George  Beveridge,  Brooklyn 
Colony  Eight 

Epc  pan  Cafees 

Two  cups  rye  meal,  cup  flour,  four  large  greening  apples, 
half  teaspoon  saleratus,  four  large  tablespoons  sugar,  two 
eggs.  Chop  apples.  Mix  with  sweet  milk  a  batter  stiffer 
than  for  griddle  cakes.    Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mary  C.  Sherman 

€rt£ip  (linger  Cafee 

One  and  a  half  pounds  flour,  half  pound  lard,  half  pound 
granulated  sugar,  pint  molasses,  four  tablespoons  ginger, 
tablespoon  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon. 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Shute 

5^  5^ 

i)oft  ^mg:cr  ^reaH 

One  egg,  two-thirds  cup  molasses  filled  up  with  sugar,  half 
cup  butter  filled  with  boiling  water,  teaspoon  soda,  scant 
cup  flour.    Spice  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Albert  H.  Bickmore 

lape  ^rop  Caik^fi 

Cup  rye,  cup  flour,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  egg,  tea^^^ 
spoon  baking  powder,  salt,  milk   sufficient  to  make  the 


57 


mixture  drop.  Drop  from  teaspoon  into  deep  hot  fat. 
Drain  on  paper. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Ayers 

One-third  cup  butter,  one-fourth  cup  molasses,  cup  flour, 
cup  chopped  walnuts,  one-third  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  salt.    Bake  in  thin  sheets  on  buttered  tms. 

Mrs.  H.  Herbert  Knowles 

Three  heaping  cups  bread  dough,  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  half 
cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  half  cup  milk,  cinnamon,  half 
cup  currants.  Mix  well.  If  too  soft  to  shape,  add  flour. 
Let  raise  till  light.  Mould  in  buns,  and  raise  in  pan  till 
very  light.  When  nearly  baked,  wet  tops  with  sugar  and 
milk. 

I\Irs.  Edward  A.  Tuttle 

One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  half  cup  flour, 
two  squares  chocolate,  cup  chopped  walnuts,  vanilla. 
Spread  on  shallow  buttered  pans.  Crease  in  small  squares 
before  cool. 

Mrs.  Francis  Jarvis  Patten 

5^ 

Four  eggs,  pint  sugar,  cup  butter,  cup  sweet  milk,  pint 
and    a    half    flour,    two    teaspoons    baking    powder,  one 


58 


cloves,  one  cinnamon,  grated  nutmeg.  Reserve  the  two 
whites  for  frosting.    Bake  in  square  tins. 

Mrs.  Frank  Churchill 

5^  4^ 

Coolitefi; 

Cream  a  cup  butter  with  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar; 
three  beaten  eggs,  cup  seeded  and  chopped  raisins  and 
nuts,  teaspoon  soda  in  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  hot 
water,  teaspoon  cinnamon  in  three  and  one-fourth  cups 
flour,  leaving  a  little  flour  in  which  to  roll  raisins  and 
nuts.    Drop  from  a  spoon  on  buttered  pan  and  bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  B.  Franklin  Hibbard. 

^ate  Coofeiesi 

One  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  large  cup  chopped 
dates,  salt,  half  teaspoon  vanilla,  half  teaspoon  cassia, 
one  egg.  Beat  all  together.  Add  teaspoon  soda,  two 
cream  tartar,  in  two  cups  flour  and  sift.  Add  lastly, 
half  cup  of  milk  (or  water).  Use  sufficient  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  dough. 

Mrs.  Frederick  Nichols,  Boston,  Mass. 
^Hrg*  Beto  C^nslants  Corn  ^mU 

Cup  flour,  half  cup  yellow  corn  meal,  cup  milk,  egg, 
three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  half  cup  sugar,  sift  flour 
and  powder  together,  add  the  meal.     Cream  a  teaspoon 


59 


butter  with  flour  and  meal,  beaten  egg,  meal  last.  Bake 
about  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  John  Lyttleton  Lyon 

t(^^ 

Corn  Cafee 

One  cup  corn  meal,  cup  flour,  two  small  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  half  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  cup  milk,  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  salt.    Add  butter  last. 

Emma  G.  Beveridge  (Mrs.  Geo.),  Brooklyn 
Colony  Eight 

Two-thirds  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  tablespoon  ginger, 
two  eggs,  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder.    Spread  on  well  buttered  shallow  pans. 

Mrs.  Thomas  M.  Taylor 

§)oft  (^iufferbteati 

Half  cup  molasses,  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup 
melted  butter,  half  cup  sour  milk,  half  teaspoon  "Cow 
Brand  "  soda,  (if  milk  be  very  sour,  use  three-fourths  tea- 
spoon), well  beaten  egg,  half  teaspoon  powdered  ginger, 
half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  cup  flour,  heaping  teaspoon  mo- 
lasses. Pour  molasses  in  mixing  bowl,  add  sugar,  melted 
butter,  egg,  stirring  constantly.  Dissolve  soda  in  little  cold 
water,  adding  the  half  cup  sour  milk;  add  this  mixture  part 


60 


at  a  time  to  molasses  mixture.  More  stirring.  Add  flour, 
baking  powder,  ginger,  cinnamon.  Beat  one  hundred  times. 
Pour  into  deep  pie  dish  lined  with  buttered  paper.  It 
easily  burns,  so  have  pan  and  paper  well  buttered.  Mod- 
erate oven  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Benjamin  N.  Scudder 

^5 

Two  beaten  eggs,  cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  five 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  eight  teaspoons  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  three  cups  flour,  one  and  a  half 
cups  huckleberries.  Mix  well,  pour  into  large  square  pan. 
Bake  half  an  hour  in  hot  oven.  Do  not  cut  the  cake,  but 
break  it  as  served. 

Mrs.  Sara  T.  Kinney 

^ttcfeleberrp  Cakes 

Pint  sifted  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-fourth 
cup  butter,  half  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  yolk  and  white  beaten 
separately,  cup  milk,  cup  huckleberries.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  yolk,  milk,  flour,  white  of  egg,  berries.  Bake  in 
gem  pans,  If  boiled  two  hours  in  a  tightly  closed  pail 
makes  nice  pudding. 

Mrs,  Richard  P.  Holeman,  Riverton,  N.  J. 
Colony  Fifteen 


6i 


Wixi%  farm    -^SreaMast  Czkt 

Cream  two  eggs,  and  one-fourth  cup  sugar.  Dissolve  a  tea 
spoon  soda  and  one  of  salt  in  cup  of  sour  milk,  add  one  of 
sweet  milk,  one  and  two-thirds  cup  granulated  corn  meal, 
and  one-third  cup  flour.  IMelt  in  a  deep  pan  two  table- 
spoons butter,  using  plenty  on  sides  of  pan.  Pour  in  the 
batter,  add  a  cup  of  cream;  do  not  stir.  Bake  from  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes.  When  cooked  there  should  be  a  layer 
of  custard  through  the  cake. 

E.  Marguerite  Lindley 

E^m  ^nslanU  iHolasses  Caike 

Cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  cup  sugar,  cup  cold  water, 
half  cup  butter,  three  cups  white  flour,  two  eggs,  salt. 
Dissolve  teaspoon  soda  in  the  water.  Add  pinch  cinna- 
mon, cloves  and  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  Albert  S.  Xewcomb 

i^quafi^  Caferfi! 

Cup  sifted  squash,  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  egg,  table- 
spoon sugar,  tablespoon  butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powd- 
er, half  teaspoon  salt. 

Mrs.  Richard  P.  Holeman,  Riverton,  N.  J. 
Colony  Fifteen 
^         ^  ^ 

EI)otie  SFslanU  3rol)niip  Cafee 

Heat  in  the  oven  in  a  mixing  dish  five  minutes,  cup  white 
Indian  meal  and  half  teaspoon  salt.     Pour  over  boiling 


62 


water  for  a  thick  batter,  small  piece  butter,  teaspoon 
sugar,  two  tablespoon  milk.  Cover  and  let  stand  a  while. 
Fry  on  griddle  with  plenty  of  fat  of  half  butter  and  half 
lard.  Drop  by  spoon  fulls,  pressing  each  cake  flat  with 
spoon.  Just  before  turning,  place  a  bit  of  butter  in  the 
centre  of  each  cake.  After  turning  it  is  well  to  set  them 
to  the  back  of  the  range  as  they  need  much  cooking. 
Serve  with  syrup.  They  are  excellent  split  and  toasted, 
and  served  as  cream  toast. 

Grace  Peckham  Murray. 

(3in%tx  Cootiiefii 

Seven  cups  sifted  flour,  one  sugar,  one  molasses,  teaspoon 
soda,  tablespoon  vinegar,  one  egg,  heaping  tablespoon  gin- 
ger. Put  flour  in  mixing  bowl,  making  a  depression  in  the 
centre,  turning  ingredients  into  this  hollowed  space..  Dis- 
solve soda  in  little  warm  water,  knead  dough  well,  with 
hands.  If  too  stiff,  add  little  molasses.  Roll  i^m,  cut 
out,  bake  quickly  in  hot  oven.  A  family  recipe  in  use 
over  fifty  years. 

Mrs.  Homer  Irvin  Ostrom. 

Corn  jfrttters 

Six  grated  ears  corn,  two  eggs,  beaten  separately,  table- 
spoon flour,  two  tablespoons  milk,  pinch  baking  powder 
salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  James  E.  Burns. 


63 


Ctttllerfi; 

One  tea  cup  sugar,  one  butter,  one  sweet  milk,  four  eggs, 
nutmeg,  flour  to  make  sufficiently  stiff  to  roll  out. 

Effie  M.  Rockwell. 

Half  pound  butter,  six  eggs,  half  pound  powdered  sugar, 
twelve  tablespoons  corn  starch,  four  tablespoons  flour,  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Sift  flour,  powder  and  cornstarch  together 
four  times,  add  the  eggs  beaten  light  with  the  sugar  and 
butter,  vanilla.    Bake  in  gem  pans.    These  are  excellent. 

Mrs.  Francis  Jarvis  Patten. 

Eeec^  Cake  or  f  nUian  jHeal  £)rop  Cafee 

Scald  cup  white  Indian  meal,  containing  teaspoon  sugar, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  and  boiling  water  to  make  a 
thick  batter.  Cool  a  little,  add  a  well  beaten  egg,  heaping 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Drop  from  spoon  into  boiling 
fat  and  fry  brown  or  mould  in  balls.    Cook  thoroughly. 

Grace  Peckham  Murray. 

%^ 

One  cup  sugar,  tablespoon  melted  butter,  two  eggs,  salt, 
nutmeg,  cup  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.    If  "  Presto  "  flour  is  used,  no  bak- 


64 


ing  powder  is  required.  Flatten  the  dough  with  hands, 
do  not  use  rolling  pin,  cut  out  with  doughnut  cutter. 

Mrs.  John  Lyttleton  Lyon. 

One  cup  sugar,  half  teaspoon  salt,  nutmeg,  cup  sour  milk 
(not  too  old),  teaspoon  boiling  lard.  Break  an  egg  into 
above  ingredients.  Use  sufficient  flour  to  easily  handle, 
sift  in  a  level  teaspoon  soda,  and  scant  half  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar.    Roll  out.    Cut  half  an  inch  thick. 

Mrs.  Warren  L.  Goss,  Rutherford,  N.  J. 
Colony  Six. 

^8 

One  cup  flour,  salt,  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  table- 
spoon sugar,  two  tablespoons  shortening,  enough  milk  to 
make  a  batter,  three-fourths  cup  blue  berries,  rolled  in 
flour.    This  recipe  makes  eight  gems. 

Florence  Fuller  Saunders  (Mrs.  H.  R.). 

^8 

©atmeal  Oems 

Two-thirds  cup  (Quaker  Oats)  oatmeal,  filling  cup  nearly 
full  with  water,  remain  over  night.  In  the  morning  beat 
an  egg,  add  oatmeal,  two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk,  table- 
spoon sugar  (omit  if  preferred),  butter,  size  of  a  .  large 
hickory  nut,  teaspoon  salt,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking 


65 


powder,  sifted  in  flour  enough  to  make  little  stifEer  than 
griddle  cakes.    Bake  in  heated  gem  pans  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Duane  H.  Clement. 

©atmeal  loafers 

-  Two  eggs,  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  two  and  a  half  cups 
uncooked  Quaker  Oats.  Drop  with  teaspoon  on  buttered 
tin  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Robert  T.  Marsh. 

a.pple  Jlttffins! 

One  egg,  cup  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups  flour,  three-fourths 
cup  sugar,  four  finely  sliced  apples,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  tablespoon  butter.    Apples  should  be  added  last. 

Mrs.  Lovey  S.  Holden. 

5^  « 

Two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  cup  milk, 
one  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking  powder,   pinch  salt. 
Bake  a  delicate  brown  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  William  Watson,  Coronardo,  Col. 
Colony  Five 

Corn  Jlttffins 

Cup  and  a  half  yellow  meal,  same  of  white  flour,  table- 


66 


spoon  baking  powder,  cup  sugar,  half  cup  lard,  two  eggs, 
salt,  vanilla.    Mix  with  cold  water. 

Mrs.  Dearborn  J.  Adams. 

^€ 

^reaMast  JHuffins 

One  egg,  three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  tablespoon  sugar, 
cup  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  teaspoon  soda, 
two  cups  flour. 

Mrs.  B.  Franklin  Hibbard. 

Mix  two  cups  Dr.  Johnson's  Educator  Bran,  with  scant 
cup  flour,  two  teaspoons  saleratus,  salt.  Add  one-third 
cup  molasses,  cup  milk.  Pour  into  a  well  greased  muffin 
tin.    Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Excellent. 

Mrjs.  Frank  M.  Soule,  Montclair,  N.  J. 
Colony  Three 

i 

5^ 

CtDin  JHountain  ^reaikfast  JHuffins 

Four  level  tablespoons  butter,  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  an 
egg,  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  flour,  three  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg, 
flour,  milk,  pinch  of  salt. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Tappan 


67 


Two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  butter,  two  eggs,  three  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

L.  C.  S. 

^€  ^8 

Wn  Wtt& 

One-fourth  pound  butter,  same  of  sugar,  two  eggs.  Beat 
butter  to  a  cream,  gradually  beating  in  the  sugar,  then 
eggs,  beaten  separately.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  Lap- 
lander pans, 

Mrs.  William  E.  Fuller,  West  Union,  Iowa 

Half  pint  molasses,  half  cup  butter,  after  being  melted, 
tea  spoon  soda,  dissolved  in  little  warm  water.  Teaspoon 
ground  ginger,  salt.  Leave  on  ice  all  night.  Roll  thin, 
cut  out  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Isadore  A.  Cameron 

^C0tc!)  JHacaroons 

Cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  even  tablespoon  butter,  two  cups 
oatmeal  or  rolled  oats,  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  almond  extract,  half  cup  chopped 
peanuts.  Stir  well,  drop  from  a  teaspoon,  about  two  inches 
apart  on  a  buttered  tin.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  slow 
oven.  If  nuts  are  not  desired,  use  half  cup  more  oats. 
This  formula  makes  about  fifty  cakes. 

Mrs.  William  M.  Whitney,  Brooklyn 
Colony  Eight 


68 


\ 


Quart  flour,  teaspoon  salt,  two  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  tablespoon  melted  butter,  two  eggs,  one  and  a 
half  pints  milk.  Mix  till  a  soft  batter  drops  from  spoon. 
Have  waffle  irons  hot  and  well  greased  each  time.  Fill 
iron  two-thirds  full.  Close  it,  when  brown  turn  on  other 
side. 

Florence  Guernsey 

esff  Eoiis 

Two  eggs,  two  cups  flour,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  small  piece 
butter.    Beat  well.    Bake  in  roll  pan  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Isadore  A.  Cameron,  Augusta,  Maine. 

^antf  Carts 

One  and  a  half  pounds  butter,  two  pounds  sugar,  three 
pounds  flour,  an  egg.  Mix  like  cookies.  Roll  thin.  Brush 
with  white  of  egg,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Cut  out  diamond 
shape  and  in  each,  place  three  blanched  almonds. 

Mrs.  Theodore  F.  McDonald 

8^ 

One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  milk,  'teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one  egg.    Sufficient  flour  to  roll  out. 

Mrs.  William  Wilson  Crossley 


69 


A  pinch  of  this  and  a  handful  of  that, 
Our  grandmother's  old  time  cooking  : 

With  each  receipt  in  her  mind  quite  "pat," 
A  guess  without  e'er  looking. 

But  now  no  kitchen  is  quite  complete 
Without  good  scales  and  measures, 

And  grains  and  ounces  must  suit  receipt, 
While  patent  pans  are  treasures. 

A  new  broom  splint  was  her  only  test 

Of  a  baking  loaf's  condition ; 
Thermometers,  clocks,  she  would  think  a  jest 

Unknown  to  a  cook's  commission. 

And  yet,  notwithstanding  our  new-day  lore, 

Our  hygiene  and  invention. 
No  skill  can  equal  that  of  yore, 

With  no  set  rules  to  mention. 

We  sigh  for  a  taste  of  a  vanished  bliss, 
As  with  longing  eyes  we're  looking — 

A  handful  of  that  and  a  pinch  of  this. 
Dear  grandmother's  old  time  cooking. 


70 


DL55LRT5,  my  friends,  do  a  mission  fulfill. 
They  add  to  the  dinner,  and  also  the  bill 


Desserts 

One  cup  milk,  one  rounded  tablespoon  sugar,  one  egg. 
If  milk  has  been  in  ice  chest,  it  is  better  to  warm  on  the 
range.  Stir  in  the  sugar  to  dissolve  while  eggs  are  beaten 
with  Dover  beater,  yolks  and  whites  together.  When  eggs 
are  well  beaten  stir  in,  add  grated  nutmeg,  or  a  flavoring. 
The  old  New  England  way  was  nutmeg.  These  pro- 
portions may  be  multiplied  at  pleasure.  Custard  may 
also  be  baked  in  cups  set  in  a  pan  of  warm  water,  which 
bakes  more  evenly  and  does  not  whey  as  easily.  To  use 
condensed  milk  is  not  New  England,  but  quite  as  good. 
Pour  little  condensed  milk  in  a  dish  adding  sugar  to  give 
desired  sweetness.  Measure  and  use  one  beaten  egg  for 
each  cupful,  flavor.    Bake  according  to  directions  above. 

Mrs.  D.  O.  Wickham 
Cleveland,  Ohio 

5^ 

Jloattns  STsilaiilSfii 

Put  one  quart  milk  in  double  boiler.  After  beating  whites 
four  eggs  very  light,  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  the  boiling 


71 


"1 


milk,  then  dip  out  and  place  on  a  dish.  Stir  into  the 
boiling  milk  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  little  salt,  yolks 
four  eggs  beaten.  Cook  till  thick  as  cream,  when  cool 
add  flavoring.  Place  in  a  dish  with  beaten  whites  on  top. 
(If  desired  thicker,  add  teaspoon  cornstarch.) 

Mrs.  Benjamin  A.  Jackson 

iFrtttt  Spouse 

Dissolve  instantly  one  envelope  minute  gelatine  in  one 
cup  boiling  water.  Add  cup  sugar  and  sufficient  rasp- 
berry, strawberry,  or  any  rich  fruit  juice  to  make  one  pint 
liquid.  When  beginning  to  jelly,  beat  in  the  whipped 
whites  two  eggs.  Pour  in  a  mould,  place  on  ice.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Elias  J.  Pattison,  Boston,  Mass. 

CI)ocoIate  ^laiu  iHan^e 

One  quart  milk,  one-third  package  gelatine,  four  squares 
Baker's  chocolate,  cup  sugar,  two  teaspoons  vanilla.  Soak 
gelatine  in  milk  fifteen  minutes.  Melt  chocolate  in  a  bowl 
set  in  tea  kettle  till  perfectly  soft.  Pour  milk  and  gela- 
tine in  double  boiler.  When  hot  add  chocolate  and  sugar. 
Cook  till  blended.  Strain,  add  vanilla.  Pour  in  mould. 
Make  day  before  using.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Samuel  B.  Goodale 


72 


( 


<Bvm%t  jFloat 

Mix  one  quart  water,  juice  and  pulp  two  lemons,  one  cup 
sugar,  heat  sufficiently  to  dissolve  sugar.  Strain,  bring  to 
boil.  Add  four  tablespoons  cornstarch  mixed  with  little 
cold  water,  stir  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  When  cold,  pour 
it  over  five  oranges,  cut  in  pieces.  Over  the  top  spread 
beaten  whites  three  eggs,  sweetened  with  three  tablespoons 
sugar  and  vanilla  flavoring.    Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Richard  Henry  Greene 

«^ 

pineapple  Cream 

Heaping  dessertspoon  gelatine  (Knox,  if  possible),  soaked 
in  three-fourths  cup  cold  water  thirty  minutes.  Put  to 
boil  with  a  scant  half  cup  granulated  sugar  and  small 
cup  apple  juice.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  add  full  cup 
chopped  pineapple,  and  juice  half  a  lemon.  When  begins 
to  jelly,  add  half  pint  whipped  cream.  Place  on  ice. 
Serve  very  cold. 

Mrs.  William  E.  Fuller 

1^ 

But  M)  CttStarU 

JVut  Whips.  Cup  fine  sugar,  two  eggs,  half  cup  chopped 
walnut  meats.  Beat  the  two  whites  very  stiff,  carefully 
stir  in  sugar  and  nuts.  Drop  by  spoonfulls  on  greased 
pan.  Brown  in  slow  oven,  add  the  custard  and  whipped 
cream  on  top. 

Custard.     Two  cups  milk,   yolks  two   eggs,   four  table- 


73 


spoons  sugar,  half  teaspoon  vanilla,  pinch  salt.  Scald  milk, 
beat  sugar,  salt  and  yolks,  pour  in  gradually  the  milk, 
stirring  constantly.  Cook  in  double  boiler  till  thickens. 
Strain,  add  vanilla  when  chilled.  May  be  served  in  fancy 
dish  or  in  tall  glasses. 

Mrs.  Richard  Henry  Greene 

^tratoierrp  Cream 

Soak  an  hour  two  tablespoons  gelatine  in  five  tablespoons 
boiling  water,  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  six  tablespoons 
sugar,  half  pint  crushed  strawberries,  three  tablespoons 
orange  juice.  Beat  well  and  cool.  Add  beaten  whites  three 
eggs  and  half  pint  whipped  cream.  Line  a  mould  with  ripe 
strawberries,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  leave  on  ice  till  firm. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

.Mrs.  Sarah  E.  Bourne 

^pple  Cream 

Boil  twelve  tart  apples  till  tender,  pare  and  press  through 
a  sieve.  Add  cup  of  sugar,  and  fold  in  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Beat  thoroughly  until  frosty  and  heap 
in  a  glass  dish.    Garnish  with  cherries  and  serve  cold. 

Mrs.  Henry  C.  Bunker,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 
Colony  Ten 

^0  peep  (^s^s 

Cut  slices  of  sponge  cake,  half  an  inch  thick,  and  three 
inches  square.    Strain  the  syrup  from  a  can  of  apricots  or 


74 


peaches,  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  adding  sugar  to  taste. 
Immerse  the  apricots  two  minutes,  drain,  place  two  halves 
of  the  fruit  on  each  piece  of  cake.  Sweeten  stiffly  whipped 
cream,  flavor  and  pour  around  the  apricots,  thus  imitating 
the  white  and  yolk  of  an  egg. 

Mrs.  Henry  C.  Bunker,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 
Colony  Ten 

esff  chocolate 

Grate  two  squares  Baker's  chocolate,  teaspoon  cornstarch, 
salt,  sugar  to  taste,  water.  Stir  in  double  boiler  till  smooth. 
Add  pint  boiling  water,  pint  boiling  milk.  Cook  fifteen 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  in  an  egg,  half 
teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beth  Kerley 

^  ^ 

^tratoberrp  |3ttff 

Box  strawberries,  cup  sugar,  whites  two  eggs.  Mash  and 
drain  berries.  Beat  whites  to  a  froth,  add  sugar  and 
berries,  beating  one  hour.  It  will  repay  you.  Fill  a  glass 
dish,  serve  with  cream.  Other  fruit  may  be  used.  It  can 
also  be  spread  on  small  round  sponge  cakes. 

Mrs.  Ruby  Jewell  Cornell,  San  Diego,  Cal. 
Colony  Five 

Cream  J]uffai 

One  cup  boiling  water,  half  cup  butter,  one  heaping  cup 


75 


I 


flour,  soda.  Melt  butter  in  water,  add  flour,  cook  till 
smooth.  Remove  from  fire,  add  four  beaten  eggs,  one  at 
a  time.  When  cool  drop  on  a  buttered  tin  and  cook  slowly 
forty  minutes. 

JiUtng: 

Three-fourths  pint  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  cup  sugar,  des- 
sertspoon corn  starch.     Heat  milk  and  add  to  mixture. 
Fill  the  puffs.  Mrs.  Malcolm  McLean 

Beat  till  very  light  yolks  four  eggs,  cup  sugar,  one  large 
tablespoon  Mocha  extract  (Crosse  &  Blackwells).  Add  cup 
flour,  beaten  whites  four  eggs,  with  the  second  cup  flour, 
into  which  has  been  sifted  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  jelly  tins.  This  recipe  makes  three  layers. 
Whip  half  pint  cream,  add  one  dessertspoon  extract 
Mocha.  Spread  thickly  between  layers,  while  the  top 
may  be  iced  or  plain.  This  should  be  served  when  freshly 
baked  and  proves  a  most  tempting  dessert. 

Mrs.  Eugene  Clarke 

^panisl)  Cream 

One-third  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  little  cold  milk.  Make 
a  boiled  custard  with  the  yolks  two  eggs  and  three-fourths 
cup  sugar  and  one  pint  milk.  Pour  custard  in  the  gela- 
tine. When  thickened  add  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
Pour  in  a  mould  and  leave  till  following  day  or  till  cold. 
A  nice  dessert.  Mrs.  E.  W.  Peet 


76 


prune  iHouIH 

Remove  pits,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  till  tender, 
one  pound  prunes,  add  one  cup  sugar,  juice  one  lemon, 
one-half  cup  sherry,  one-half  box  gelatine,  dissolved  in 
one-half  cup  water.  Pour  in  mould.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  Robert  T.  Marsh 

«^ 

Boston  ^atiarian  Cream 

One-fourth  box  gelatine,  one-fourth  cup  cold  water,  one 
pint  cream,  one-third  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  (two 
tablespoons  grated  chocolate).  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water 
till  soft.  Chill  and  whip  the  cream  till  there  is  three  pints 
of  whip.  Boil  the  rest  of  the  cream,  or  if  all  is  whipped 
use  a  cup  of  milk  to  boil,  with  the  sugar.  When  boiling 
add  the  gelatine  stirring  till  dissolved.  Strain  into  granite 
pan,  add  vanilla  or  lemon  and  half  glass  wine.  Or,  flavor 
with  two  tablespoons  chocolate,  or  a  fourth  of  a  cup  strong 
coffee.  Place  pan  in  ice  water,  stirring  occasionally. 
When  mixture  is  cold  and  begins  to  thicken,  stir  lightly  in 
the  whipped  cream.  When  nearly  stiff  enough  to  drop, 
pour  into  moulds.  This  cream  may  be  moulded  in  small 
cups,  and  place  in  bottom  each  cup  an  apricot,  peach, 
quarter  of  an  orange,  small  cherries  or  candied  plum, 
before  filling  with  cream.  Or  line  a  bowl  with  straw- 
berries and  fill  with  cream.  This  is  called  Strawberry 
Charlotte.    Red  bananas  sliced  may  also  be  used. 

Mrs.  Richard  Henry  Greene 


77 


H,  what  are  the  prizes,  we  perish  to  win, 
'   To  the  first  little  shiner,  we  caught  with  a  pin 
O.  W.  Holmes 


Fish 

CreameU  jftnnan  ^aUUw 

Boil  thirty  minutes  a  smoked  finnan  haddie.  Remove 
bones,  flake  out  white  meat.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of 
butter,  flour  and  milk,  quantity  to  suit  size  of  fish,  adding 
finely  chopped  green  pepper  and  chopped  onion.  Salt 
and  pepper.  Serve  on  toast.  Specially  good  for  chafing 
dish. 

Mrs.  Robert  T.  Marsh 

^tallopeH  Clam£i 

Prepare  a  quart  of  clams  by  separating  soft  part  from 
hard,  removing  black  from  soft  part  and  chop  the  hard 
portion  fine.  Pound  fine  eight  or  nine  common  crackers. 
Butter  a  two  quart  pudding  dish,  place  a  layer  of  cracker 
crumbs,  then  layer  of  clams,  season  with  salt,  paprika 
and  nutmeg.  Then  more  crackers,  etc.,  till  dish  is  full, 
having  cracker  on  top.  Pour  over  half  cup  clam  water, 
with  two  tablespoons  cream,  well  seasoned.  Dot  liberally 
with  butter.    Bake  about  an  hour. 

Mrs.  M.  B.  Adams 


78 


lobster  a  la  iSetDburB: 

Meat  of  one  boiled  lobster  cut  in  dice.  Put  piece  of  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg  in  hot  chafing  dish,  thicken  with  spoon 
and  a  half  flour,  do  not  allow  it  to  brown.  Stir  in  gradually 
tea  cup  sweet  cream,  not  allowing  it  to  curdle.  Remove 
from  fire  and  mix  with  yolks  two  well  beaten  eggs.  Add 
pinch  red  pepper  and  one  of  black.  Just  before  serving 
add  a  wine  glass  sherry.  A  half  wine  glass  brandy  im- 
proves it. 

Florence  Guernsey 

^4 

Crab  iHeat 

Put  a  good  size  piece  butter  in  chafing  dish  with  cup 
cream,  or  rich  milk  and  a  pound  flaked  crab  meat,  salt 
and  pepper.  Remove  seeds  and  tough  white  part  from 
two  green  peppers  and  chop  fine.  Cook  fully  ten  minutes. 
Just  before  serving  dust  in  little  paprika  and  serve  at 
once  on  thin  slices  nicely  toasted  bread. 

Annie  H.  Emerson  (Mrs.  Henry) 

lobfiiter  Cl)np£i 

Two  cups  boiled  lobster  meat,  cup  cream,  tablespoon  flour, 
two  tablespoons  butter,  half  tablespoon  salt,  yolks  two 
hard  boiled  eggs,  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  tablespoon 
sifted  crumbs,  three  eggs,  speck  cayenne,  quarter  grated 
nutmeg.  Cut  lobster  in  dice.  Blend  butter  and  flour  in  sauce- 
pan, but  do  not  brown,  add  slowly  cup  hot  cream,  stirring  till 


79 


smooth.  Remove  from  fire,  add  the  seasonings,  parsley, 
chopped  yolks,  mashed  well,  and  last,  the  lobster.  Spread 
mixture  on  platter  to  cool  two  hours.  When  chilled  mould 
into  form  of  chops,  pointed  at  one  end.  Dip  a  chop  first 
in  sifted  bread  crumbs,  then  in  the  three  beaten  eggs, 
and  again  in  the  crumbs.  Let  chops  remain  an  hour  on 
ice  to  become  firm.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  deep  fat, 
and  when  it  will  brown  a  piece  of  bread  in  forty  seconds, 
it  is  ready  for  chops  to  be  immersed.  Place  them  in  a 
wire  frying  basket  and  fry  till  a  golden  brown.  Drain  on 
brown  paper  in  front  of  oven.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
lemon.    Serve  with  tartar  sauce. 

Mrs.  Chandler  Smith 

Have  ready  a  bowl  of  seasoned  cracker  crumbs  and  a 
bowl  of  melted  butter,  which  latter  keep  in  a  pan  hot 
water.  Take  up  each  oyster  on  a  silver  fork  through  the 
tough  muscle,  and  drop  first  in  butter,  then  roll  in  crumbs. 
Cook  on  a  wire  broiler  until  juices  flow  and  oyster  slightly 
brown,  turning  frequently.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
lemon  quarters.    Serve  on  hot  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  Franxis  Jarvis  Patten 

Line  porcelain  dish  with  mashed  potato,  brush  with  white 
of  egg,  and  brown  in  oven.  Remove.  r\Iake  a  stew  of 
two  dozen  oyster,  one-half  pint  milk,  butter,  salt,  pepper, 


80 


thicken  with  flour.  Pour  this  mixture  in  potato  lined 
dish.    Cook.    Sprinkle  chopped  parsley  on  top. 

H.  C.  B. 

§\^\  Curijot 

Steam  or  bake  a  white  fish,  remove  bones  and  skin, 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Make  a  sauce  of  one 
quart  milk,  one  fourth  pound  flour,  bunch  chopped  parsley, 
three  slices  chopped  onion.  Put  this  over  the  fire  and 
stir  till  creamy.  Beat  in  half  pound  broken  butter  and 
two  eggs.  Put  in  baking  dish  layer  of  fish  and  one  of 
sauce,  etc.    Cracker  crumbs  on  top.    Bake  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Sarah  E.  Bourne 

Take  any  variety  of  cooked  fish  (can  salmon  is  very  nice) 
flake,  being  careful  to  leave  no  bones.  Boil  four  eggs 
hard,  chop 'fine.  Boil  a  cup  of  rice  twenty  minutes,  add 
four  ounces  fresh  butter,  salt  and  cayenne.  Beat  all  to- 
gether, serving  hot.  A  little  chutney  sauce  is  very  nice 
with  it  as  a  relish. 

Mary  N.  Putnam.    (Mrs.  Erastus  G.) 

%^ 

Salmon  on  Coast 

Shred  cold  boiled  salmon.  Heat  a  cup  butter,  half  cup 
cream,  tea  spoon  chopped  parsley,  pinch  mace,  pepper,  salt 
and  fish.    Pour  over  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  Henry  C.  Bunker,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 
Colony  Ten 


8i 


Three  tablespoons  butter,  melt  one.  One  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley,  juice  half  a  lemon.  Mix  and  stir  until  like  cream. 
Place  on  ice  until  needed.  Mrs.  James  E.  Burns 

^8  %^ 

Cover  with  cold  water  over  night  a  half  pound  piece  cod- 
fish. Pare  eight  potatoes,  drain  the  fish,  place  the  potatoes 
in  a  sauce  pan,  cover  with  fresh  water  and  cook  twenty- 
five  to  thirty  minutes  or  till  potatoes  are  done  (knife  test). 
Always  have  a  little  more  potato  than  fish.  Drain  ofif 
water,  mash  fish  and  potatoes  together  with  iron  potato 
masher  till  thoroughly  mixed.  Add  yolks  three  eggs,  and 
beat  well  into  mixture  till  it  looks  light.  Add  a  little 
milk,  less  than  half  a  cup  if  fish  seems  too  dry.  Set  on 
range  shelf,  while  the  hot  lard  is  brought  to  a  boil.  When 
ready  to  fry,  take  large  spoon  full  of  the  fluffy  mass,  toss 
it  over  both  ways  with  spoon  to  shape  it  in  an  oval,  egg- 
like piece,  then  drop  in  the  smoking  lard.  When  nearly 
cooked,  fish  ball  rises  to  top.  When  the  desired  shade 
of  brown  is  obtained  remove  from  pan  and  place  on  paper 
in  open  oven  to  drain  and  keep  hot  until  served.  This 
recipe  makes  a  delicious,  crispy,  flaky  codfish  ball.  The 
secret  is  in  the  beating.  Marguerite  T.  Doane 

Clam  |}te 

Chop  forty  clams  and  two  small  onions,  half  green  pepper. 


82 


Boil  four  medium  potatoes,  cut  fine  and  add  to  the  above. 
Thicken  with  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  butter  and  cook 
all  together.  Make  a  biscuit  crust,  line  a  deep  dish  and 
fill.    Spread  over  a  top  crust.    When  brown,  pie  is  baked. 

Florence  Guernsey 

iFifif)  anU  JHacarom  Scallop 

Place  in  layers  in  buttered  baking  dish,  equal  parts  of 
cold  cooked  fish  and  cold  boiled  macaroni,  cut  fine.  To 
one  pint  of  the  mixture  add  one  cup  tomato  sauce.  Fry 
teaspoon  minced  onion  in  one  tablespoon  butter,  even 
tablespoon  flour,  one  cup  stewed  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper. 
Strain  this  over  the  fish,  cover  with  three-fourths  cup 
cracker  crumbs,  moistened  in  melted  butter.  Bake  till 
crumbs  are  brown. 

Mrs.  Thomas  M.  Taylor 

Split  fish  in  half,  cleanse  in  cold  water,  wiping  with  dry 
cloth.  Thoroughly  grease  the  broiler  with  butter.  If  shad  is 
large,  broil  thirty-five  minutes,  turning  at  intervals  to  pre- 
vent scorching.  Carefully  remove  the  fish  from  broiler 
using  a  knife.  Place  in  the  oven  in  a  fish  pan,  baking 
fifteen  minutes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  garnish 
with  parsley. 

Katharine  C.  K. 


83 


I WISH  I  were  her  tea  cup 
When  choice  Pekoe  she  sips. 
To  feel  her  dainty  fingers 

And  touch  her  cherry  Wps. 
I  would  I  were  her  saucer, 

(To  hold  her  cup— a  boon !) 
But  most  of  all,  I  wish  I  were. 
Her  little  silver  spoon 


Ices,  Cream,  Punches 

©rauffe  Cream 

Quart  cream,  half  cup  sugar,  juice  two  sweet  oranges, 
grated  rind  of  one  orange,  beaten  yolks  four  eggs.  Scald, 
cool  and  freeze.  Fill  orange  shells,  replace  the  caps, 
and  pack  in  ice  two  hours. 

Mrs.  Chandler  Smith 

lemon  ^l^erbett 

Boil  one  lemon  rind  in  a  quart  milk  with  pound  sugar. 
When  cool,  half  freeze.  Have  ready  the  juice  five  lemons, 
half  pint  sugar,  whites  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Add  mix- 
ture to  freezer  and  freeze  hard. 

Mrs.  Reuben  W.  Ross 

frutt  |3  unc^ 

One  quart  mineral  water,  cup  strong  tea,  cup  cold  water, 
pint  strawberry  syrup   (this  may  be  omitted).    Juice  six 


84 


lemons,  juice  six  oranges,  can  shredded  pineapple,  cup 
Maraschino  cherries,  two  and  one-fourth  cups  sugar.  Cook 
sugar  and  water  to  a  syrup,  and  while  hot,  add  ingredients 
except  mineral  water  and  cherries.  Strain,  when  cold  add 
mineral  water  and  cherries.  Have  a  large  piece  of  ice 
in  the  bowl,  pour  over  the  punch.  Water  may  be  added  if 
desired. 

Mrs.  J.  WooLSEY  Shepard 

Ice  Cream  toit()otit  CffSfif 

Quart  milk,  small  cup  sugar,  two  small  tablespoons  flour. 
Cook  in  double  boiler,  two  or  three  hours.  When  cool  add 
cup  whipped  cream,  flavoring.  Freeze. 

Mrs.  William  J.  Sageman 

^6 

Eoman  |3ttnc|) 

Gallon  water,  grated  rind  and  juice  six  lemons,  juice  six 
oranges,  quart  Jamaica  rum,  pint  each  brandy,  sherry, 
maderia,  quart  champagne.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Freeze.  This 
formula  will  serve  for  fifty  persons.    A  famous  recipe. 

"  By  One  Who  Knows  " 

Cafe  J}arfait 

Pint  whipped  cream,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  tablespoon 
gelatine,  dissolved,  cup  coffee,  tablespoon  vanilla.  Whip 
the  cream,  add  ingredients  and  heat  thoroughly.  Pour 


85 


into  ice  cream  freezer  and  leave  packed  in  ice  and  salt 
three  hours. 

Colony  Two,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

^iBique  Cortont 

In  three-fourths  cup  water  boil  three-fourths  cup  sugar 
till  it  "hairs,"  add  three  well  beaten  eggs.  Beat  till  cool. 
Add  one  pint  whipped  cream  and  twelve  dried  and  pow- 
dered macaroons,  Coffee  may  be  used  instead  of  water. 
Pour  in  a  mousse  mould,  pack  in  ice  and  salt.  Freeze 
three  or  four  hours. 

Mrs.  William  J,  Sageman 

Coffee  Jce  Cream 

Simmer  two  tablespoons  coffee  in  boiling  water.  To  a 
quart  of  boiling  cream  add  a  cup  and  a  half  sugar.  Beat 
three  eggs,  add  to  the  cream,  and  return  to  fire,  almost 
boil.  Strain  coffee  through  fine  linen,  add  to  the  mixture 
and  when  cold,  freeze. 

Mrs.  Richard  Henry  Greene 

^on  (01ace 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  a  can  of  strawberries,  add  quart 
water,  juice  two  lemons,  sweeten  to  taste.  Half  freeze. 
Add  beaten  whites  three  eggs,  return  to  freezer.  Serve 
in  tall  straight  glasses,  with  whipped  cream  on  top,  deli- 
cately flavored  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Theodore  F.  McDonald 


86 


White  grapes  for  the  table  to-morrow  may  be  easily  frosted. 
Cut  the  clusters  in  convenient  size  for  serving.  Brush 
grapes  well  with  white  of  an  egg.  Sprinkle  with  granu- 
lated sugar.  Serve  on  grape  leaves  or  as  a  border  to 
other  fruit  in  centre,  or  grapes  in  centre  surrounded  by 
peaches. 

Mrs.  Francis  Jarvis  Patten 

5^ 

C0l0mal  |3ttncl) 

One  quart  Maderia,  pint  brandy,  two  quarts  champagne, 
two  sherry  glasses  Jamaica  rum,  pint  port  wine.  Peel  and 
slice  eight  sweet  oranges,  remove  seeds,  juice  six  lemons. 
Mix  ingredients,  except  champagne.  Sweeten  to  taste. 
Keep  in  a  covered  jar  in  cool  place  five  days.  Strain, 
pour  into  punch  bowl,  add  ice  forty-five  minutes  before 
serving.  Immediately  before  using  add  champagne.  This 
recipe  dates  back  to  1776,  and  was  used  by  our  ancestors. 

"  By  One  Who  Knows  " 

One  cup  grated  pineapple.  Mix  a  pound  of  sugar  and 
cup  water,  cup  Ceylon  tea,  juice  six  lemons,  juice  six 
oranges,  bottle  raspberry  shrub.  Cut  orange  and  lemon 
skins  in  rings  and  place  in  punch  bowl.  Add  broken  ice 
and  ingredients.  Just  before  serving  add  quart  Appollin- 
aries.  This  formula  makes  six  quarts,  sufficient  for  fifty 
people. 

Mrs.  Francis  Jarvis  Patten 


87 


ess  Boffff 

Two  gallons  cream,  twelve  eggs,  one  and  a  half  pounds 
granulated  sugar,  quart  best  brandy.  Beat  yolks  and  whites 
separately.  Cook  yolks  with  the  sugar  and  brandy,  add 
cream,  then  whites. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Andrews,  Cincinnati,  Ohio 

Place  four  quarts  red  raspberries  in  a  crock,  covering  with 
good  cider  vinegar.  Stand  over  night.  In  the  morning, 
squeeze  as  for  jelly.  To  each  pint  juice  add  one  pound 
sugar.    Bring  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  pour  into  bottles. 

Mrs.  a.  H.  Keith,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

jfruit  Cociktail 

Cut  five  balls  of  ripe  watermelon  as  large  as  a  walnut 
shell,  put  in  a  glass,  braise  mint  over  them  to  render  juicy, 
scattering  a  few  bits  over  the  balls. 

Helen  M.  Hoagland  (Mrs.  Edgar  M.) 

lemDTiaUe 

Egg  lemonade  is  highly  recommended  as  a  "  pick  me  up  " 
when  one  is  tired.  Allow  a  raw  egg  and  half  a  lemon  for 
each  glass,  whip  the  eggs,  add  a  portion  of  lemon  and 
water  and  again  beat,  add  remainder  of  lemonade  and 
strain.    Very  palatable  made  with  Appollinaries. 

Mrs.  Chandler  Smith 


88 


Small  cup  maple  syrup,  three  eggs,  pint  cream,  stir  yolks 
with  syrup  three  minutes  over  the  fire  till  it  resembles 
molasses  candy.  When  cold,  add  beaten  whites  and  pint 
whipped  cream.  Freeze  five  minutes.  Turn  into  melon 
mould.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  three  hours.  Fzne. 

Mrs.  Richard  Henry  Greene 

4^ 

Boil  in  a  large  kettle  three  gallons  water  add  nine  pounds 
sugar,  and  boil,  add  beaten  white  one  egg,  skim  and  remove 
from  fire.  Remove  stems  and  j!)ack  one  quart  elder  blossoms 
in  a  quart  measure,  stirring  with  mixture  in  kettle,  but  do 
no^  boil ;  when  cold,  add  juice  three  lemons,  one  yeast 
cake  dissolved.  Pour  all  into  large  earthen  jar,  stirring 
daily  for  six  days.  Strain,  pour  into  a  keg,  adding  three 
pounds  raisins.  Let  this  stand  until  December,  strain  care- 
fully and  bottle  for  use. 

Bessie  McDonald  (Mrs.  Theodore.  F.) 

5^^qipeli  ^ffss  anU  W\y\z  for  3ri^i3aItUsi 

Beat  yolk  and  whip  white  one  egg.  Mix  the  yolk  with  two 
tablespoons  sugar,  and  two  of  sherry.  Gradually  stir  in 
the  white  and  serve  in  tall,  delicate  glasses. 

Mrs.  Benjamin  A.  Jackson 


89 


(Bnttn  Cljarlotte 

Handful  cracked  ice  in  goblet,  teaspoon  raspberry  syrup, 
bottle  lemon  soda. 

H.  C.  P. 

^anUelion  Wivit 

Three  quarts  dandelion  blossoms,  four  quarts  boiling  water. 
Stand  over  night.  Strain,  add  peel  one  lemon,  three 
pounds  white  sugar,  boil  ten  minutes.  Cut  in  small  pieces 
the  pulp  of  one  lemon  and  one  orange,  place  in  a  jar 
pouring  over  the  liquid.  When  cold  add  one  cup  yeast, 
let  stand  two  days,  strain,  pour  in  an  earthen  jug  and  keep 
two  months  in  a  cool  place.  Bottle  the  mixture  adding 
three  raisins  to  each  bottle. 

Mrs.  Annette  L.  Place 
©atmeal  W^ttv  for  CMltiren  anU  IntjaliUfi! 

Mix  tablespoon  crushed  oats  with  milk,  adding  sufficient 
milk  to  measure  a  quart.  Boil,  then  simmer  fifteen  minutes. 
Strain,  add  sugar,  chill.    Also  excellent  served  hot. 

Mrs.  Lewis  Leland  Pierce 

Eagpberrp  ^Btneg:at 

To  each  quart  raspberries  use  one  quart  vinegar.  Pour 
vinegar  over  berries  and  stand  forty-eight  hours.  Strain 
through  jelly  bag,  but  do  not  squeeze;  let  drip  as  long  as 
possible.     To  each  pint  juice  add  one  pound  granulated 


90 


sugar.  Boil  five  minutes  from  time  it  begins  to  boil  hard. 
Bottle  while  hot.    Cooling  beverage  in  warm  weather. 

Mrs,  Henry  B.  Shute 

Boil  half  a  pound  dried  and  ground  sunflower  seed  in 
quart  cold  water;  simmer  down  to  one  pint.  Strain  through 
a  cloth.  Replace  on  range  adding  pound  loaf  sugar,  when 
dissolved  and  liquid  boils,  remove  from  fire;  pour  in  pint 
Jamaica  rum.  Do  not  return  to  fire.  Bottle  while  hot 
Small  wine  glass  before  meals. 

Julia  P.  Hull 

^ttl  Cea  for  J^^^alilis 

One  pound  lean  beef  chopped  fine.    Stand  an  hour  in 
pint  cold  water.    Place  over  the  fire  and  slowly  come  to 
a  boil.    Simmer  half  an  hour.    Strain,  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  Benjamin  A.  Jackson 


91 


PETLR   PIPER  Picked  a 
Peck  of  Pickled  Peppers 


Pickles 

Cut  in  small  pieces  twelve  green  cucumbers.  Slice  fine 
one  large  solid  head  of  cabbage.  Sprinkle  these  with  salt 
and  let  stand  over  night.  One  and  a  half  green  peppers, 
six  medium  onions  chopped  fine,  soak  separately  in  salt 
and  water  all  night.  In  the  morning  drain  well.  Place 
in  a  kettle  a  layer  of  pickles  and  a  layer  of  seasoning 
made  of  one  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  celery 
seed,  one-half  ounce  tumeric  powder,  mix  smooth  with 
vinegar  one-fourth  pound  7nustard,  one  and  one-fourth 
pounds  brown  sugar.  Cover  well  with  vinegar.  Boil 
exactly  thirty  minutes.    Pack  in  glass  fruit  jars. 

Mrs.  Albert  S.  Newcomb 

%^ 

JJtcaUIIt 

Chop  fine  one  peck  green  tomatoes,  add  one  cup  salt,  let 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  drain,  add  six  onions, 
six  green  peppers,  six  stalks  celery  chopped  fine,  two 
cups  sugar,  two   tablespoons  ground  mustard   seed,  one 


92 


tablespoon  pepper,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon.  Cover  with 
good  vinegar  and  simmer  two  hours. 

Beth  Kerley 

Seven  pounds  green  sliced  tomatoes,  three  pounds  brown 
sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  one-half  ounce  ground  cinnamon 
one-fourth  ounce  ground  cloves.   Cook  till  tender. 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Shute 

«^ 

^toeet  Comato  Jltctle 

Peck  green  tomatoes,  six  onions,  four  peppers  cut  thin, 
cup  salt.  Stand  twelve  hours.  Strain.  Two  quarts  onions, 
two  pounds  sugar,  two  ounces  stick  cinnamon,  tablespoon 
cloves.  Stew  all  together  till  soft.  If  spices  are  used  omit 
peppers. 

Mrs.  Sarah  E.  Bourne 

CMU  §>attce 

Peel  and  slice  eight  pounds  ripe  tomatoes,  four  pounds 
sugar,  half-ounce  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice  and 
mace.  Boil  one  hour,  when  cold  add  pint  vinegar.  Seal 
in  jars.    Never  before  been  published. 

Mrs.  Homer  Irvin  Ostrom 

JJuklcti  J)eacl)eg  anU  Iplums 

Seven  pounds  of  fruit  (either),  three  sugar,  pint  vinegar. 


93 


ounce  mace,  half  ounce  cloves,  ounce  cinnamon.  Boil  and 
pour  over  the  fruit.  Repeat  this  process  three  times  each 
week  every  other  week  for  a  month.  If  fruit  is  hard  boil  a 
while.    Put  spices  in  a  bag.    When  cooked  cover  tightly. 

Mrs.  L.  Frank  Barry 

Coin  Catsup 

Chop  and  drain  half  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  chop,  one  head 
celery,  two  green  peppers,  two  red  sweet  peppers,  six 
small  onions,  a  large  root  of  horse  radish,  add  one-fourth 
cup  salt,  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  mustard  seed,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  red  pepper,  a  teaspoon  each  ground  cloves,  mace 
and  cinnamon,  and  one  quart  best  cider  vinegar.  Mix  in- 
gredients, bottle  in  pint  glass  jars. 

Mrs.  George  Sanford  Andrews 

ComatD  Catsup 

Peck  ripe  tomatoes,  eight  green  peppers,  quart  onions, 
two  quarts  vinegar,  four  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoons ground  cloves,  two  allspice,  same  of  cinnamon, 
three  ounces  mustard  seed,  six  tablespoons  salt.  Peel 
tomatoes  and  chop  fine,  also  onions  and  peppers.  Mix 
well,  strain.    Recipe  of  an  old  Wareham  (Mass.),  family. 

Mrs.  Francis  Jarvis  Patten 

jFretub  Jlttfiitarli 

Three  tablespoons  mustard,  one  granulated  sugar.  Beat 
in  an  egg  till  smooth.    Add  half  tea  cup  vinegar,  little  at 


94 


a  time.  Cool  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  table- 
spoon olive  oil,  drop  by  drop.    Will  keep  for  months. 

B. 

Citato  C!)ow 

Half  peck  green  tomatoes,  twelve  medium  sized  cucumbers, 
pared,  two  quarts  small  cucumbers  left  whole,  two  quarts 
small  onions  left  whole,  two  large  cauliflowers,  two  small 
heads  cabbage,  chopped  not  too  fine,  six  good  sized  green 
peppers,  four  red  peppers.  Let  this  mixture  remain  in  weak 
brine  over  night,  about  a  gallon  of  water  to  a  pint  of  salt. 
Place  onions  in  brine  in  separate  dish.  Scald  in  same  brine  in 
morning.  Drain,  adding  one  gallon  vinegar,  three  tea 
cups  brown  sugar.  Pour  into  a  large  kettle  and  scald. 
Make  paste  of  half  pound  yellow  mustard,  one  cup  flour, 
half  cup  tumeric  wet  with  cold  vinegar,  cook  the  paste. 
Mix  all  together,  stir  well  and  boil.  Bottle. 

Sara  A.  Palmer 

^€ 

JJicMeU  ^pepper  |)afil) 

Chop  twelve  green  peppers,  twelve  red,  eight  onions. 
Stand  in  boiling  water  five  minutes.  Drain.  Pour  over 
hot  water,  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Drain.  Heat  and  pour 
over  the  peppers  and  remain  fifteen  minutes.  Add  cup 
sugar,  tablespoon  salt,  pint  and  a  half  vinegar.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  seal  in  jars.  Excellent  for  sandwich  filling 
or  relish. 

Mrs.  Theodore  F.  McDonald 


95 


J 


Sfnliian  Cljtttnep 

Two  quarts  tart  apples,  two  of  green  tomatoes,  one  pound 
raisins,  small  onion,  three  cups  brown  sugar,  three  cups 
vinegar,  two  cups  lemon  juice,  half  cup  salt,  teaspoon 
cayenne,  ounce  ginger.  Pare,  core,  and  chop  the  apples, 
chop  tomatoes  and  onion;  stone  raisins.  Mix  apples,  toma- 
toes, raisins  and  onion  with  the  other  ingredients,  place  in 
earthen  jar  over  night.  In  the  morning  place  jar  in  a 
kettle  of  cold  water  and  allow  water  to  heat  slowly,  stir- 
ring occasionally.    Seal  in  preserve  jars. 

Mrs.  Minton  Dyke  Clark 

^orUeaup  ^mtt 

Slice  fine  four  quarts  cabbage,  six  green  tomatoes,  three 
red  peppers  and  six  white  onions.  Two  ounces  white 
mustard  seed,  half  ounce  celery  seed,  half  ounce  tumeric 
powder,  gill  salt,  two  quarts  vinegar,  two  pounds  brown 
sugar.    Mix  ingredients.    Boil  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  John  Tennant  Van  Sickle 


96 


50MEWHLRL  in  life's  feast  a  course  of 
I  the  humble  pie  comes  in 

W.  D.  Ho  WELLS 


J)te  JJIant  (EI)ttijari))  Jpte 

One  pint  pie  plant  chopped  fine,  add  boiling  water  and 
strain.  Add  one  coffee  cup  sugar  in  which  has  been 
mixed  one  level  tablespoon  flour.  Stir  in  the  beaten  yolks 
two  eggs,  grated  rind  one-half  lemon,  piece  butter  size  of 
an  egg.  Bake  in  pastry  shell  and  cover  with  beaten  whites 
of  the  two  eggs,  made  very  stiff  with  powdered  sugar. 
Before  placing  in  oven  to  brown,  sprinkle  lightly  with 
granulated  sugar.    Old  and  tried  recipe. 

Sara  A.  Palmer 

^8 

IJtimpikm  pie 

One  cup  pumpkin,  one  cup  sugar,  pinch  salt,  one  tea- 
spoon melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoon  ginger,  four  tablespoons  milk,  three  tablespoons 
brandy,  three  eggs  beaten  separately. 

Mrs.  James  E.  Burns 

Two  large  cups  elderberries,  heaping  cup  raisins,  half  cup 
currants,  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  brandy  or  vinegar, 


97 


grated  rind  one  orange.  Cover  berries  with  cold  water, 
cooking  ten  minutes,  add  ingredients,  dredging  with  flour. 
This  formula  makes  two  pies. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Ayers 

Grated  rind  and  juice  one  large,  sweet  orange  and  one 
lemon.  Cream  half  cup  butter  and  two  cups  powdered 
sugar,  beating  till  very  light.  Beaten  yolks  three  eggs, 
beat  agaiti.  Add  juice  and  rind  of  the  fruit.  Beat.  Beat 
three  whites  of  eggs,  add  to  the  mixture  and  beat.  Have 
ready  deep  pie  plate  lined  with  rich  pastry,  making  a 
firm  border  around  edge.  Fill  with  mixture.  Bake  a 
delicate  brown. "  Makes  one  large  pie  which  will  please 
the  most  exacting  epicure. 

Mrs.  Eugene  Clarke 

%^ 

iemon  |)te 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  two  heaping  table- 
spoons flour,  juice  and  rind  one  lemon,  pinch  salt.  Beat 
the  yolks,  add  half  the  sugar,  then  the  remaining  half, 
lemon  juice  and  rind,  flour,  and  lastly  a  cup  milk.  Beat 
the  whites  and  salt  stiff,  add  this  to  the  mixture,  stirring 
thoroughly.  Line  a  pie  plate  with  rich  crust,  pour  in  the 
mixture  and  bake. 

Lillian  Gilbert  Fish 

%^  %^  %^ 

eta's  ^ttttemut  JJte 

Two  eggs,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups 


98 


milk,  one  cup  finely  chopped  butternut  meats,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  salt.  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar,  milk,  salt 
and  butternut  meats.  Line  a  plate  with  pastry,  forming 
fluted  rim  around  edge.  Bake  in  quick  oven  at  first  to 
set  the  pastry,  afterwards  decrease  the  heat. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Quimby 

^  ^ 

CI)ees!e  Cafee  pie 

One  cup  cottage  cheese,  one  cup  sugar,  juice  two  lemons, 
two  eggs,  six  tablespoons  milk,  one  teaspoon  flour.  Beat 
the  eggs  light,  don't  separate.  Add  sugar,  beat  well,  add 
milk  and  flour,  then  lemon.  Sprinkle  top  with  cinnamon. 
Bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  James  E,  Burns 

(^raiitimcitl)er*6  Cream  pte 

One  quart  rich  cream,  two  eggs,  two  small  tablespoons 
flour,  large  pinch  salt,  one-fourth  grated  nutmeg,  sugar  to 
taste,  about  three-fourths  cup.  Beat  eggs,  add  flour,  then 
cream  and  seasoning.  Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  pastry. 
No  upper  crust.  Bake  in  slow,  even  oven  about  one  hour, 
or  until  pretty  well  set.    Fine  with  Christmas  dinner. 

Mrs.  a.  H.  Keith,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Colony  Seven 

ti^^ 

Cranberrp  ^Tarts 

Quart  of  flour  and  pound  of  butter,  mixed  lightly  with  a 


99 


silver  knife.  Use  as  little  cold  water  as  possible,  and 
handle  lightly  when  rolling.  Roll  upper  crust  but  once. 
Cut  strips  of  the  pastry  half  an  inch  wide,  crossing  neatly 
over  the  top,  like  lattice  work.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 
When  cold  fill. 

fUltng: 

Quart  of  cranberries  cooked  in  a  cup  of  water,  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  using  a  wooden  spoon  to  press.  While 
juice  is  hot,  stir  in  two  cups  sugar  and  cook  ten  minutes. 
Cool.  Make  the  day  before  using.  This  may  be  kept  in- 
definitely by  sealing  in  tumblers. 

Mrs.  Francis  Jarvis  Patten. 

practical  Eccipc  for  ptc  Crust 

For  one  pie  only.  One  and  a  half  cups  flour  before  sifted, 
using  ordinary  coffee  cups.  One-half  cup  lard,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  one-fourth  cup  ice  water,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  salt.  Keep  ingredients  very  cold 
and  handle  little.  Practical  recipe  for  pie  crust,  always 
good  if  followed  exactly. 

Mrs.  G.  M.  S. 

JHtnce  Jileat 

Four  pounds  lean  beef,  two  pounds  beef  suet,  Baldwin 
apples,  three  pounds  sugar,  two  cups  molasses,  two  quarts 
cider,  four  pounds  seedless  raisins,  three  pounds  currants, 
half  pound  finely  cut  citron,  quart  best  brandy,  tablespoon 


100 


each  of  cinnamon,  mace  and  cloves,  two  grated  nutmegs, 

six  tablespoons  salt.     Cover  meat  and  suet  with  boiling 

water,  cooking  till  tender.    Cool  in  the  same  liquid.  Chop 

the  meat  and  suet  fine,  adding  twice  the  amount  of  chopped 

apples.    Add  sugar,  molasses,  cider,  raisins,  currants,  citron, 

suet  and  stock.    (The  stock  reduced  to  one  and  a  half 

cups.)     Heat    ingredients,    stirring   occasionally,   for  two 

hours.    Add  brandy  and  spices  last. 

Mrs.  William  H.  Chaney,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Colony  Four. 

iSanijurj)  CumoiierfiS 

Seed  and  chop  one  cup  raisins,  teaspoon  finely  cut  citron, 
cup  of  sugar,  a  beaten  egg,  one  rolled  cracker,  juice  and 
rind  one  lemon.  Cut  rich  pastry  in  circles,  placing  a 
spoonful  of  the  mixture  in  centre  of  each.  Fold  over, 
moistening  half  way  around  with  cold  water,  pressing 
edges  firmly  together.  Place  in  a  baking  tin,  wet  with 
milk,  in  which  a  little  sugar  has  been  dissolved.  Bake  a 
delicate  brown. 

Mrs.  William  Beaumont  Putney 

^8 

©ranffe  iFtlltnff  for  Carts  or  Cumotjers 

Four  eggs,  juice  two  oranges,  one-fourth  pound  butter, 
pound  granulated  sugar,  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  table- 
spoon vanilla.  Delicious. 

Mrs.  Frank  M.  Jaqua 


lOI 


i$lotI)er'B!  ^larfeiierrp  pot  pie 

Place  quart  berries,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  quart  water 
into  a  kettle  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Drop  dumplings  in 
from  a  large  spoon, 

£>timplma:6 

Two  and  a  half  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  sift  all  together.  Rub  half  teaspoon 
butter  through  the  sifted  flour.  Moisten  with  one  cup 
water  and  one  cup  milk.  Mix  together  and  drop  carefully 
with  a  spoon  into  the  boiling  berries.  Boil  twenty-five 
minutes  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Louis  L.  Todd 


1 02 


Now  ^ood  Digestion 
Wait  on  Appetite 


Preserves 

Cttrrant  fellj) 

To  four  quarts  currants  on  their  stems,  add  quart  boiling 
water.  Boil  half  an  hour,  strain.  Allow  a  pound  sugar 
to  one  pint  juice.  Boil  juice  slowly  fifteen  minutes;  grad- 
ually stir  in  sugar,  being  careful  not  to  boil  after  sugar  is 
added.  When  thoroughly  dissolved,  skim,  remove  from 
fire.  Jelly  by  this  formula  makes  twice  the  quantity,  using 
same  amount  of  currants,  as  in  other  recipes  and  better 
jelly. 

Mrs.  John  Tennant  Van  Sickle 

Eljttbarb  Coneiertoe 

Four  pounds  rhubarb,  four  pounds  sugar,  pound  figs.  Let 
the  rhubarb  stand  over  night  in  the  sugar,  strain  syrup, 
boil  ten  minutes,  add  rhubarb  boiling  ten  minutes  longer. 
Cut  figs  in  pieces,  stir  all  together.    Cook  into  jam. 

Mrs.  Warren  L.  Goss,  Rutherford,  N.  J. 
Colony  Six 


103 


Soak  three-fourths  package  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  water. 
Cook  one  quart  tomatoes,  one-half  onion,  one  celery  stalk, 
one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  one  teaspoon  salt,  dash  pepper. 
Cook  ten  minutes.  Add  two  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar, 
gelatine.  Stir  till  dissolved.  Mould  in  ring  mould.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley. 

Mrs.  David  Huyler  Roberts 
^        ^  ^ 
damson  pium  Conserte 

Pit  one  pound  Damson  plums,  three  pounds  granulated 
sugar,  pound  seeded  raisins.  Juice  six  oranges,  grated 
rind  of  one.  Pint  bowl  chopped  English  walnut  meats. 
Boil  forty  minutes.    Seal  in  glass. 

E.  W.  G. 

^piceU  |)eat|)e£; 

Eight  pounds  peaches,  three  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  and 
one  half  pints  vinegar,  one-fourth  ounces  each  of  whole 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace. 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Shute 

(0rape  ConserUe  toit^  iltiutg 

Three  pints  grapes,  eight  cups  sugar,  half  pound  seeded 
raisins,  two  oranges,  pint  water,  cup  English  walnut  meats. 
Remove  grape  skins,  cook  pulp,  seed  the  grapes  by  press- 
ing through  a  collander.    Seed  the  oranges  and  chop  both 


104 


the  skin  and  pulp  fine.  Boil  all  the  ingredients,  except 
nuts,  twenty  minutes;  just  before  removing  from  fire,  add 
them.    Pour  into  jelly  glasses  while  hot. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Quimby 

Sratiffe  J$tarmala5e 

Four  naval  oranges,  two  grape  fruits,  two  lemons.  Wash 
fruit  with  a  brush,  cut  in  thin  slices,  remove  seeds.  Measure 
sliced  fruit,  adding  six  times  as  much  cold  water  as  fruit. 
Soak  twenty-four  hours.  Boil  rather  fast  four  hours. 
Watch,  stirring  from  bottom  frequently  the  last  hour,  or 
it  will  stick.  Stand  twelve  hours.  Add  cup  sugar  to  each 
cup  marmalade,  boil  an  hour.  This  quantity  should  make 
fourteen  or  fifteen  glasses.  Cut  the  fruit  on  a  bread  board. 
If  the  marmalade  should  mould  before  using,  cook  it  over. 
Delicious. 

Mrs.  William  E.  Fuller. 

^6 

Watermelon  Congetbe 

Remove  the  pulp  of  a  watermelon  from  centre  and  cut  in 
small  pieces.  To  one  quart  pulp  add  two-thirds  quart 
sugar.  Drain.  Dissolve  sugar  in  watermelon  juice,  boiling 
to  a  thick  syrup.  Add  a  finely  chopped  lemon  and  water- 
melon pulp,  two  pieces  white  ginger,  not  tied  in  lace. 
Cook  to  right  consistency  for  conserve. 

Mrs.  Guy  C.  Barnes,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
Colony  Fourteen. 


105 


(0rape  Ivnit  JHarmalaUe 

Stand  over  night  in  four  quarts  cold  water,  two  quarts 
grape  fruit,  no  seeds.  Place  seeds  in  one-half  pint  water, 
in  the  morning  strain.  Boil  both  mixtures  together  one 
and  a  half  hours.  Add  four  quarts  sugar,  boil  another 
hour,  or  till  fluid  thickens,  which  may  take  longer.  It  is 
then  ready  for  glasses.  Have  tested  and  proved  delicious. 
Two  very  large  grape  fruits  and  one  smaller  will  give 
desired  quantity. 

Mrs.  a.  M.  S. 

Co  ^ranUj)  jfrutt 

Select  fine  peaches,  as  many  as  will  fill  a  quart  size 
"  Mason "  jar.  Carefully  peel  and  place  in  jar,  use  as 
much  granulated  sugar  as  will  fill  the  spaces.  Cover  all 
with  "  Preserving  Brandy."  Seal,  and  find  ready  for  use 
within  a  day  or  two.  No  cooking  required.  Absolutely 
as  delicious  in  results  as  from  the  old  time  method  of 
brandying  with  cooking.    Personally  and  successfully  tried. 

Mrs.  Frederic  Firman  Grant 

i>piceU  C^ernec 

Three  pounds  sour  cherries  (pitted),  two  pounds  sugar, 
half  pint  vinegar,  tablespoon  cinnamon,  tablespoon  cloves. 
A  delicious  concoction  to  serve  with  cold  meats. 

Mrs.  Marcia  Brooks  Cutler 


1 06 


JHafi(fi!ac|)tis!ettfif  (Bnintt  Compote 

Pare  and  quarter  eight  quinces  and  put  in  porcelain  lined 
kettle  with  water.  Cook  till  they  can  be  easily  pierced  with 
fork.  Remove  with  skimmer  and  boil  down  or  dilute 
the  juice  as  may  be  necessary,  to  just  a  pint.  Add  juice 
one  lemon,  and  pound  sugar,  boil  a  minute,  add  the  quinces 
again  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  carefully 
the  quinces  and  place  in  a  mould  which  has  been  dipped 
in  cold  water.  Stir  into  the  syrup  an  ounce  of  gelatine 
which  has  previously  been  soaked  for  two  hours  in  as  much 
cold  water  as  will  cover  it.  When  dissolved  strain  syrup 
pouring  over  the  fruit  in  the  mould.  Set  in  cool  place 
to  harden  which  will  require  a  few  hours.  When  ready 
to  serve,  turn  in  a  glass  dish  with  whipped  cream  heaped 
about  the  base  of  the  compote. 

Mrs.  Francis  Jarvis  Patten 

(0rape  IFuicc 

Twenty-five  pounds  best  Concord  grapes,  scald  with  enough 
water  to  cover  them.  When  grapes  burst  open,  set  away 
to  cool.  Strain  through  a  strong  jelly  bag.  Add  three 
pounds  granulated  sugar  to  the  juice,  letting  all  come  to 
a  boil.  Bottle  and  seal.  Take  the  pulp,  strain  through 
a  sieve  to  remove  seeds  and  skins,  add  one-half  pound 
sugar  to  each  pint  of  pulp.    Boil  an  hour,  pour  in  glasses. 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Shute 


107 


Currant  ^toeetmeat 

Four  pints  currant  juice,  four  pounds  granulated  sugar, 
one  and  a  half  pounds  best  table  raisins,  seeded.  Slice 
two  oranges  and  mix  all  together.  Boil  half  an  hour,  till 
almost  jelly.    Preserve  in  tumblers. 


Mary  Ellen  Butterigk 


1 08 


THE  PROOF  of  the  Pudding 
Is  in  the  eating 


Puddings 

Pour  quart  boiling  milk  over  cup  and  a  half  fine  Indian 
meal.  Stir  till  smooth.  Add  one  and  three-fourths  cups 
molasses,  cup  suet  (chopped  fine),  salt  to  taste.  Just  be- 
fore placing  in  oven,  pour  over  pint  of  cold  milk.  Bake 
four  hours  in  an  earthen  dish.  Oven  must  not  be  too  hot, 
as  top  of  pudding  is  delicious  if  not  burned. 

i\lRS.  M.  B.  Adams 

One  box  gelatine,  two  oranges,  six  figs,  nine  dates,  three 
bananas,  twelve  large  nuts.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  half  pint 
cold  water,  add  one-half  pint  boiling  water,  juice  two 
lemons,  two  cups  sugar.  Strain.  Let  stand  till  thickens. 
Stir  in  the  fruit  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Mrs,  Isadore  A.  Cameron 

5^ 

Coin  Etcc  PttUHina: 

Three-fourths  cup  rice,  quart  milk,  sugar  to  taste,  vanilla 


109 


flavoring.  Boil  till  rice  is  soft.  Dissolve  an  ounce  gela- 
tine in  one-fourth  cup  warm  water,  strain  through  a  cloth, 
stir  thoroughly  with  the  rice.  Whip  pint  cream  to  a  stiff 
froth,  slowly  add  to  the  mixture.  Pour  into  a  moist  mould, 
place  on  ice  five  hours.  Serve  with  a  wine  sauce  in  which 
jelly  has  been  stirred. 

Lydia  Day 

Half  cup  sugar,  half  cup  molasses,  half  cup  butter,  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  pound  chopped  figs, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  soda,  half  cup  cur- 
rants, half  teaspoon  nutmeg,  half  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Steam 
in  a  mould  three  hours.    Serve  with  whipped  cream  sauce. 

Mrs.  Frank  B.  Orr,  Chicago,  111. 
Colony  Twelve 

^teamen  jFrtttt  |3tilitimaf 

Three  cups  flour,  teaspoon  soda,  one  and  a  half  salt,  one- 
half  cinnamon,  one-fourth  nutmeg,  two-thirds  cup  butter, 
one  and  a  half  cups  chopped  raisins  and  currants,  cup 
water  or  milk,  cup  molasses.  Sift  soda,  salt  and  spices  with 
flour,  rub  in  the  butter,  add  the  small  fruits.  Mix  molasses 
with  milk,  stir  into  the  dry  mixture.  Steam  in  a  buttered 
pudding  mould  three  hours.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sugar 
or  liquid  butter  sauce. 

Helen  F.  Brockett 


no 


jFine  Cttfiitarij  |3ttt!5tns 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  cup  milk,  four  eggs,  two  table- 
spoons flour,  two  tablespoons  sugar.  Let  milk  come  to 
a  boil.  Beat  flour  and  butter  together,  add  gradually  to 
boiling  milk,  stirring  constantly,  cooking  eight  minutes. 
Beat  sugar  and  yolks  together,  add  the  cooked  mixture 
and  cool.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add. 
Bake  in  pudding  dish,  serve  hot. 

§>mtt  for  aiioijc 

Half  cup  butter,  one-fourth  cup  milk,  cup  powdered  sugar, 
four  tablespoons  wine.  Cream  the  butter  and  eggs,  add 
wine,  then  milk,  little  at  a  time. 

Belle  T.  Scudder  (Mrs.  Benjamin  N.) 

jFruit  IpuUUtnff 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  cup  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  cups  twice  sifted  flour. 
Put  two  cups  fresh  or  canned  fruit  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish.  Pour  mixture  over  the  fruit  and  bake  one-half  hour. 
Turn  on  a  plate  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  sauce. 

i^attce 

Whip  one  cup  cream,  add  half  cup  powdered  sugar,  white 
one  egg,  beaten  very  stiff,  one  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mary  C.  Seward 


III 


One  pint  water,  cup  rice,  little  salt,  boil  till  water  is  gone. 
Stir  with  spoon.  Quart  milk,  boil  till  thickens;  keep  stir- 
ring till  smooth  white  and  cooked. 

"Then,  add  three  eggs,  yolks  beaten  light, 

One  lemon's  rind  all  grated  right; 

And  of  white  sugar  well  refined. 

Eight  tablespoons;  by  stirring  these  combined. 

Now  pour  the  mixture  in  a  dish 

Of  any  size  that  you  may  wish 

And  let  it  stand,  while  with  a  fork 

You  beat  the  eggs  as  light  as  cork 

(The  whites  of  the  three  eggs,  I  mean), 

And  when  they're  beaten,  stiff  and  clean, 

Add  three  tablespoons  of  sugar  light. 

And  put  the  frothing  nice  and  white 

Upon  your  pudding  like  a  cover, 

Be  sure  you  spread  it  nicely  over. 

In  a  slow  oven  let  it  brown, 

We  think  the  pudding  will  go  down!" 

Mrs.  Duane  H.  Clement. 

Scald  three  pints  milk,  sprinkle  slowly  while  stirring,  five 
tablespoons  yellow  Indian  meal,  till  thoroughly  heated. 
Pour  it  over  three-fourths  cup  molasses,  pinch  salt,  table- 


112 


spoon  butter  and  scant  half  teaspoon  ginger.  Turn  mixture 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  four  or  five  hours  in 
moderate  oven.  When  half  cooked,  add  one  pint  cold  milk 
and  complete  the  baking. 

Mrs.  Frank  M.  Soule,  Montclair,  N.  J. 
Colony  Three 

5^ 

lemon  |]tttil3tug: 

One  pint  grated  bread  crumbs,  quart  milk,  cup  sugar, 
salt,  grated  rind  one  lemon,  yolks  four  eggs,  teaspoon  but- 
ter. Bake  forty-five  minutes.  Spread  with  currant  jelly 
while  hot.  Frost  with  whites  four  eggs,  beaten,  sugar  to 
taste,  juice  one  lemon.  Return  to  oven  to  brown.  Serve 
with  lemon  sauce. 

Mrs.  David  Huyler  Roberts 

One  and  a  half  cups  Graham  flour,  cup  molasses,  cup  sweet 
milk,  tablespoon  butter,  teaspoon  soda,  one  egg,  spices  and 
fruit  of  all  kinds.  Steam  three  hours  in  a  buttered  dish 
without  removing  the  cover.  Serve  with  a  sauce.  This 
pudding  will  keep  some  time. 

Mrs.  Frank  Churchill 

Eaifiim  puffs! 

Blend  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  half  cup  butter.  Add 
two  eggs,  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking 


113 


powder,  cup  finely  chopped  raisins.  Steam  an  hour  in 
buttered  cups.    Makes  eight,  half  filled. 

One  cup  sugar,  cup  butter,  yolk  and  white  of  an  egg 
beaten  separately.  Beat  all  together  and  before  serving, 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  nutmeg  and  tablespoon  hot  water. 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Starr 

Etce  puUUtng: 

Rice  pudding  which  is  very  much  more  delectable  than 
the  usual  nursery  dish,  is  made  by  soaking  over  night  a 
cup  of  well  washed  rice  in  a  pint  of  milk.  In  the  morning 
the  rice  will  have  absorbed  the  milk.  A  little  more 
should  be  added.  Add  to  the  rice  and  milk  a  cup  of 
seeded  raisins,  which  have  soaked  all  night  in  sherry.  Stir 
raisins  into  the  rice,  pouring  in  half  cup  melted  butter. 
Bake  an  hour  and  serve  with  very  sweet  whipped  cream. 
As  no  sugar  is  in  pudding,  sauce  must  be  sweet  to  make 
up  the  deficiency. 

Mrs.  Francis  Jarvis  Patten 

Com  JHeal  |)tt5Umg: 

One  quart  sweet  milk  reserving  sufficient  quantity  to  wet 
seven  tablespoons  corn  meal.  Heat  milk,  add  corn  meal, 
cook.  When  coM,  add  one  cup  sweet  milk,  lump  of  butter, 
walnut  size,  salt,  sugar,  nutmeg  and   raisins.     Bake  two 


114 


hours  in  slow  oven.  This  pudding  when  baked  will  have 
a  jelly  surrounding  it  which  serves  for  sauce.  It  is  very- 
nice  with  cream,  sweetened  with  grated  maple  sugar. 

Mrs.  Robert  J.  Johnston,  Humboldt,  Iowa 

One  cup  chopped  suet,  three  eggs,  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon 
cloves,  one  cinnamon,  one  soda,  two  cups  sweet  milk, 
quart  flour,  cup  seeded  raisins.    Steam  three  hours. 

Three  cups  boiling  water,  one  sugar,  two  tablespoons  but- 
ter, two  dessertspoons  cornstarch,  half  cup  vinegar.  Beat 
to  a  cream  sugar,  cornstarch  and  butter.  Add  boiling 
water,  cooking  till  clear,  lastly  vinegar.  Boil  a  moment, 
remove  from  fire. 

Mrs.  Robert  J.  Johnston,  Humboldt,  Iowa 

Crumble  one-fourth  pound  macaroons  in  sherry,  stand  over 
night.  For  the  custard  beat  two  tablespoons  sugar,  and 
yolks  three  eggs.  Add  one  level  tablespoon  soaked 
gelatine,  pinch  of  salt,  pint  warm  milk,  stirring  constantly, 
but  6.0. not  boil.  Cool.  Beat  whites  of  three  eggs,  add 
to  custard,  with  the  macaroons.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Alexander  Cook 


fi5 


One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  cup  milk,  two 
flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Pour  in  buttered 
baking  dish.  Cut  smooth  apples  in  eighths,  lay  thickly  on 
top,  over  this  scatter  sugar  and  spices.  Serve  with  wine 
sauce. 

Mrs.  David  Huyler  Roberts 

Quart  of  blueberries,  two  cups  flour,  two  white  sugar,  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  half  teaspoon 
mace,  three  eggs,  pinch  salt.  Wash  and  dry  the  berries, 
sifting  over  the  flour  and  powder.  Beat  the  yolks,  mace, 
butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  berries,  flour  and  milk,  lastly 
the  well  beaten  whites,  with  salt.  Bake  forty-five  minutes 
in  moderate  oven.    Serve  with  thick,  sweetened  cream. 

Mrs.  Robert  J.  Johnston,  Humboldt,  Iowa 

^otleU  Eice  JJtiUtima: 

Pint  milk  or  cream,  cup  rice,  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoons corn  starch,  nutmeg.  Wash  rice  and  pour  over 
quart  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  till  tender.  Drain,  add 
milk.  In  another  bowl  dissolve  corn  starch  in  milk,  add 
the  eggs,  sugar  and  flavoring,  beating  till  creamy.  Add 
rice,  and  boil  two  minutes.  Cool.  Serve  with  crushed  fruit 
or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Porter  Dwight  Ford 


ii6 


Scald  in  a  pint  sweet  milk,  a  tablespoon  corn  meal. 
When  cool  add  a  beaten  egg,  tablespoon  butter,  two  sugar, 
half  teaspoon  salt.  One  and  a  half  teaspoons  ginger. 
Bake  slowly  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Leroy  D.  Farnham,  Binghampton,  N.  Y. 
Colony  Thirteen 

^8 

Corn  pttUtitnff 

Eight  ears  corn,  grated,  two  eggs,  half  cup  milk,  table- 
spoon sugar,  tablespoon  butter,  salt,  pepper.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  James  E.  Burns 

Cut  in  halves  and  pare  ripe  peaches,  placing  two  layers  in 
a  deep  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  little  flour. 
Scatter  bits  of  butter  over  the  top.  Add  cup  cold  water. 
Cover  dish  with  rich  crust.  Bake  a  delicate  brown.  Serve 
hot  with  cream. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Moore 

Cook  one  third  cup  corn  meal  in  four  cups  milk,  thirty 
minutes.  Add  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  cup  molasses,  cinn- 
amon, pint  sliced  apples.   Turn  into  buttered  dish,  pouring 


117 


in  pint  sweet  milk.  Bake  in  slow  oven  four  hours.  When 
cold,  an  amber  jelly  will  form  through  the  pudding. 

Mrs.  Frederick  Nichols,  Boston,  Mass. 

%^ 

Cup  milk,  two  flour,  half  a  cup  sugar,  one  blueberries,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  egg.  Steam  an  hour.  Serve 
with  hot  sauce. 

Lizzie  Woodbury  Law 

Half  fill  pudding  dish  with  apple  sauce  seasoned  with 
butter,  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Pour  over  a  batter  made  of  one 
and  half  cups  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons  chopped  suet 
(or  lard).  Moisten  with  three  fourths  cup  milk,  or  enough 
■for  thick  batter  ;  not  quite  as  stiff  as  for  biscuits.  Steam 
forty-five  minutes.  Serve  with  a  hard,  foamy  or  sabay- 
ron  sauce. 

Mrs.  Reuben  W.  Ross 

^€ 

Stir  into  a  quart  of  scalded  milk,  seven  even  tablespoons 
sifted  Indian  meal,  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  ginger,  and  cin- 
namon, cup  molasses,  half  cup  chopped  suet.  Pour  in  a 
little  cold  milk.  Bake  three  hours  in  moderate  oven. 
This  recipe  has  been  in  use  in  a  New  England  family 
over  eighty  years.  Mrs.  Sara  T.  Kinney 


(^nnn  of  JJutrnmffs 

Pint  bread  crumbs,  quart  milk,  yolks  four  eggs,  sugar  and 
salt  to  taste,  lemon  flavoring.  When  cold  spread  with  jelly 
and  frost  the  top  with  the  four  whites  beaten  stiff,  with  a 
cup  sugar  brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Moore 

lemon  ^mtt 

Cream  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  tablespoon  flour.  Add 
pint  boiling  water,  cup  sugar  and  boil.  Juice  one  lemon, 
nutmeg  and  extract  of  lemon.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  David  Huyler  Roberts 

Cream  ^auce 

Butter  size  of  an  egg  beaten  with  cup  powdered  sugar. 
Into  a  saucepan  pour  cup  boiling  water,  stirring  in  tea- 
spoon flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water.  Cook  till  con- 
sistency of  thin  starch.  While  one  beats  the  butter 
and  sugar  mixture  in  a  bowl,  energetically,  let  another 
pour  in  slowly,  the  hot  flour  sauce.  If  the  beating  is  not 
interrupted,  the  sauce  will  rise  to  a  light,  foamy  froth. 
Flavor  with  sherry  or  vgjiilla,  nutmeg  or  brandy. 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Shute 

l^aspberrp  ^auce 

Cream  two  cups  powdered  sugar  and  half  cup  butter. 
Mash  a  pint  raspberries.   Cook  in  double  boiler  until  mix- 


119 


ture  boils,  stirring  but  little.  Delicious  served  with  vanilla 
ice  cream.  Mrs.  Thomas  Abernethy  Fair 

Cream  two  cups  sugar  and  one  butter,  add  one  egg,  half 
cup  wine,  chopped  candied  cherries.  Before  serving, 
place  bowl  in  top  of  tea  kettle  and  stir  in  a  cup  boil- 
ing water.  Mrs.  William  E.  Fuller 

Beat  two  eggs,  add  cup  sugar,  piece  butter,  four  table- 
spoons sherry.    Cook  a  few  minutes. 

Mrs.  Frank  Churchill 

%^  ^5 

Sin  JFa0l)ioncli  Corn  ileal  J3ttIHiins: 

Two  quarts  milk,  four  tablespoons  corn  meal,  cup  mo- 
lasses, cup  suet,  one  egg.  When  one  quart  milk  is  scalding 
hot,  stir  in  the  meal  wet  with  little  milk.  When  it  thickens, 
pour  into  baking  dish  and  add  salt,  molasses,  suet  and 
egg.  Fill  dish  with  cold  milk.  Bake  slowly  three  hours, 
stirring  frequently  first  hour.  Add  raisins  if  desired.  Serve 
with  cream  or  the  following 

Cream  a  cup  pulverized  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  well 
beaten  egg,  vanilla  or  brandy  flavoring. 

"A.  W.  C,"  Utica,  N.  Y. 
Colony  Nine 


1 20 


To  MAKE  a  perfect  Salad,  there  should  be : 
A  spendthrift  for  oil,  a  miser  for  vinegar, 
a  wise  man  for  salt,  and  a  madcap  to  mix 
them  well  together 

Spanish  Proverb 


5  a  1  a  d  s 

Prepare  the  shrimps  by  removing  backs  and  the  small 
black  vein,  which  runs  through  them.  Cut  in  small  pieces. 
(Canned  shrimps  will  do  when  one  cannot  obtain  the 
fresh.)  To  a  quart  or  can  of  shrimps,  cut  and  add  one 
large  bunch  celery.  Pour  over  the  salad  dressing.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves  garnished  with  celery  tops.  This  is  not 
only  delicious  to  the  taste  but  attractive  to  the  eye. 

Mix  two  teaspoons  mustard  with  milk  or  water,  two  tea- 
spoons sugar,  one  small  teaspoon  salt,  two  eggs,  half  cup 
cream,  butter  size  an  egg,  three-fourths  cup  vinegar.  Beat 
eggs  well.  Mix  ingredients  except  butter,  pouring  in  the 
vinegar  last  very  slowly.  Cook  in  double  boiler  till 
thickened  to  consistency  of  cream.  After  removing  from 
fire,  stir  in  butter. 

Jane  Damon  Bolander 


121 


I 


Beat  three  eggs,  add  one  tablespoon  oil,  one  scant  table- 
spoon mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  sugar, 
one  cup  cream,  one  cup  vinegar.  Mix  together,  except 
vinegar,  which  is  added  last.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stir- 
ring constantly  till  thickened.  Watch  carefully  that  it 
does  not  curdle. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Y.  Crowell 

^ate  anU  Cream  CI)£e6e  ^alaH 

Remove  pits  from  half  pound  dates,  stuff  cavities  with 
cream  or  neufchatel  cheese,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves. 
Serve  cold  with  mayonaise. 

Mrs.  George  Sanford  Andrews 

^alaH 

Use  as  many  lemons  as  desired,  cut  in  halves,  scoop  out 
pulp,  remove  tough  inner  skin  and  seeds.  Add  to  the 
pulp  one  box  boneless  sardines,  minced,  teaspoon  French 
mustard,  two  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs,  dash  tobasco 
sauce,  little  mayonnaise.  Cut  a  thin  slice  from  bottom  of 
lemon  that  it  may  stand  firmly.  Fill  each  cup  with  the 
mixture,  garnish  with  chopped  eggs  and  parsley.  Stand 
each  cup  on  crisp  lettuce  leaf. 

Annie  H.  Emerson  (Mrs.  Henryj 


122 


Cream  ^alaU  ^vtssins 

Tablespoon  sugar,  one  egg,  three-fourths  cup  cream,  one- 
half  tablespoon  each  of  mustard  and  salt,  one-fourth  cup 
vinegar,  added  slowly.    Cook  in  double  boiler  until  cream. 

Mrs.  Lovey  S.  Holden 

^8 

Cnmiimation  ^alaU 

Cut  celery  in  small  pieces,  slice  cucumbers  very  thin, 
adding  few  chopped  walnuts.  Mayonnaise  dressmg,  to 
which  has  been  added  few  drops  of  Chartreuse  or  Bene- 
dictine.   Sprinkle  with  cut  endive  or  lettuce. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Scott 

tfi  ^  %ei 

JHaponnataie 

One  quart  olive  oil,  twelve  eggs.  Boil  six  eggs  hard, 
pulverize  yolks.  Beat  lightly  yolks  six  raw  eggs.  Mix 
ingredients,  adding  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Gradually 
add  the  oil  with  juice  two  lemons.  Beat  whites  six  raw 
eggs,  very  light,  and  add,  using  whites  of  six  hard  boiled 
eggs  to  garnish  salad.  Mayonnaise  is  better  if  made  a 
a  day  before  using  and  placed  on  ice. 

Mrs.  James  E.  Burns 

T)itt'ii  fruit  i>alaU 

One  dozen  bananas,  one-half  dozen  cut  oranges,  one  can 
pineapple,   one-half  cup   chopped  walnuts,  one-half  cup 


123 


chopped  figs,  few  white  grapes.  Toss  together  and  dress 
with  one  pint  salad  dressing,  one  pint  whipped  cream. 
Garnish  with  candied  cherries. 

Mrs.  Sarah  E.  Bourne 

^alaUe  Cl)anttcleer 

Peel  and  slice  three  bananas,  not  over  ripe,  one  small 
sour  apple,  one  small  cooked  and  pickled  beet,  three  torn 
lettuce  leaves.  Mix  this  with  strained  juice  two  lemons, 
four  tablespoons  olive  oil  mixed  with  yolks  two  hard 
boiled  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Sprinkle  over  finely  chopped 
tarragon  leaves  or  strips  lettuce. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Scott 

5^^^ 

tuner  ^alaU 

Dice  cold  boiled  tongue  on  a  bed  of  chicory  or  lettuce, 
add  tablespoon  each  of  tarragon  vinegar  and  chopped 
parsley,  two  tablespoons  capers.  Turn  two  cups  finely 
chopped  celery  over  the  mixture  and  cover  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Mrs.  Chandler  Smith 

^alaU 

Chop  half  an  onion,  two  olives  and  a  grape  fruit.  Mix 
with  a  French  dressing,  pour  mixture  over  Malaga  grapes 
and  celery. 

Mrs.  Marcia  Brooks  Cutler 


124 


Beta  etifflanU  i>alatj 

Select  six  sweet  apples,  uniform  in  size,  cut  off  the  tops, 
remove  centres  with  a  teaspoon,  and  chop,  minus  seeds. 
Add  a  cup  of  broken  pecan  nut  meats,  one  large  celery 
heart  cut  fine,  and  half  cup  chopped  and  seeded  raisins. 
Beat  together  yolks  of  two  eggs,  tea  cup  olive  oil,  half  a 
saltspoon  each  of  sugar  and  salt,  juice  and  grated  rind 
one  large  lemon.  Pour  this  over  the  chopped  mixture. 
Place  in  shells  on  ice.  When  chilled,  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

Mrs.  William  H.  Osborne 

Cotnato  ^alaU 

Scald  and  peel  tomatoes,  place  on  ice.  Scoop  from  each 
tomato  a  teaspoon  of  pulp,  stuff  with  half  a  green  pepper 
and  small  cucumber  chopped  finely.  Pour  mayonnaise 
over  each  tomato  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Scott 

|)riiite£;£i  ^alaU 

Select  six  small,  round,  ripe  tomatoes.  Peel  and  remove 
centres.  Peel  and  dice  two  medium  size  cucumbers,  two 
hearts  celery  and  four  large  olives  chopped  fine.  Drop 
very  slowly,  three  tablespoons  olive  oil  on  yolks  two  eggs, 
beating  constantly.  Add  one  fourth  teaspoon  prepared 
mustard,  saltspoon  even  of  salt,  three  drops  onion  juice, 
one  cup  heavy  cream,  tarragon  vinegar  to  taste.   Add  each 


125 


ingredient  slowly,  one  saltspoon  sugar.  Pour  over  filling 
and  pack  in  the  shells.  Garnish  with  hearts  of  lettuce. 
Place  on  ice  to  chill. 

Mrs.  William  H.  Osborne 

Fill  big  white  cherries  with  chopped  nut  meats.  Serve 
with  mayonnaise.    Arrange  on  white  lettuce  leaves. 

P. 

^         ^  ^ 

On  a  lettuce  leaf  place  a  slice  of  pineapple,  then  a  thick 
slice  of  orange,  then  one  of  tomato.  Pour  over  a  thick 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  with  toasted  butter  thins. 
Very  good. 

Mrs.  Helen  M.  Hoagland 


126 


50ML  LIKE  it  hot 
Some  like  it  cold 
'  5ome  lil<;e  it  in  the  pot 
Nine  days  old 


5  o  u  p  s 

Com  l)Oup 

Can  corn,  one  quart  milk,  three  tablespoons  butter,  two 
tablespoons  flour,  two  tablespoons  chopped  onion.  Mash 
corn  as  fine  as  possible  and  put  in  the  double  boiler  with 
milk,  cooking  fifteen  minutes.  Put  in  small  frying  pan 
butter  and  onion,  cook  slowly  ten  minutes,  add  flour,  cook 
till  foaming,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Stir  this  mix- 
ture into  boiler  with  the  corn  and  milk.  Add  teaspoon 
salt,  one-quarter  teaspoon  pepper,  cook  ten  minutes.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  strain,  then  return  to  range  to  keep 
hot  till  served. 

3»Irs.  Thomas  Wallace 

Slice  and  boil  in  three  pints  water,  four  onions,  two  turnips 
and  a  carrot.  Season  with  thyme,  pepper,  salt  and  pars- 
ley.   Strain  very  hot,  adding  a  teaspoon  beef  extract. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Abernethy  Fair 


127 


Cream  of  ^pinatl^ 

One  pint  cooked  and  chopped  spinach,  one  onion,  one 
sprig  parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  one  piece  green  pepper,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  two  quarts  water,  pinch  thyme,  a  few  celery 
leaves.  Boil  slowly  three  hours  and  strain.  Let  one  pint 
milk  come  to  a  boil.  Blend  over  the  fire,  till  smooth,  one 
tablespoon  flour,  and  one  tablespoon  butter.  Stir  into  the 
milk,  allow  it  to  thicken,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from 
fire.    Stir  in  the  strained  soup  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Washington  Hull 

^8 

Clam  Cl)otoUer 

Fifty  hard  clams  (quahaugs),  bowl  each  of  finely  cut  salt 
pork,  onions,  potatoes.  Wash  clams  thoroughly,  place  in  a 
kettle  with  half  pint  water.  When  the  shells  open,  clams 
are  cooked.  Remove  from  shells  and  chop  fine,  saving 
clam  water  for  chowder.  Fry  out  the  pork  and  when 
scraps  are  a  good  brown,  remove  and  put  in  the  chopped 
onions  to  fry;  they  should  be  cooked  in  a  frying  pan  (the 
.  chief  secret  in  chowder  making,  is  to  fry  the  onions  so 
delicately  that  they  will  be  missing  in  the  chowder).  Add 
to  the  onions  a  quart  hot  water,  clams,  clam  water  and 
pork  scraps.  When  mixture  boils,  add  the  potatoes,  and 
when  these  are  cooked,  chowder  is  finished.  Just  before 
it  is  removed,  thicken  with  a  cup  powdered  crackers,  ad- 


128 


ding  a  quart  of  fresh  milk.  If  too  rich,  add  water.  No 
seasoning  is  needed  but  good  black  pepper.  Delicious. 

LiLLA  Manning  Briggs 

Use  either  cod  or  haddock.  Remove  skin  and  flake  the 
fish.  Fry  brown  three  slices  salt  pork  in  bottom  of  kettle, 
remove  pork  leaving  the  drippings.  Put  in  a  layer  of  fish, 
then  a  layer  of  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  dice  and  fev/ 
slices  onion.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Proceed  with 
the  layers  till  mixture  is  used.  Cover  with  boiling  water. 
Cook  till  potatoes  are  tender.  Add  toasted  crackers  or 
pilot  bread,  and  pint  rich  milk.    Let  scald  and  serve, 

Mrs.  William  J.  Patterson 
^8  ^8 

One  pint  split  peas,  one  minced  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  one 
teaspoon  salt  or  piece  salt  pork,  one  pint  canned  toma- 
toes, three  quarts  water,  one  sprig  parsley,  one-half  green 
pepper,  pinch  thyme,  two  tablespoons  celery.  Put  all, 
except  tomatoes,  in  a  soup  pot,  boil  three  hours.  Add 
tomatoes  and  simmer  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then 
strain.  Blend  one  tablespoon  flour  and  one  tablespoon 
butter.  Stir  this  in  the  soup  and  let  it  remain  a  little 
longer  over  the  flre.  Serve  with  squares  of  dry  toast 
(stale  bread  may  be  cut  in  squares  and  browned  in  oven). 

Julia  P.  Hull 


129 


Ctirtle  ^ean  ^ottp 

Let  quart  of  black  beans  remain  six  hours  in  cold  water. 
Drain,  Add  three  pints  fresh  cold  water,  pieces  of  lean 
cooked  beef,  salt,  pepper,  pinch  of  cloves.  Cook  slowly 
three  hours.  Strain,  serve  hot  in  bouillon  cups.  An  old 
Rhode  Island  formula  never  before  published. 


Mrs.  John  Francis  Yawger 


130 


ACTIVE  MEMBERS 


Adams,  Mrs.  Dearborn  J. 
Adams,  Miss  Florence  Labouisse 
Adams,  Mrs.  Frederic  Morse 
Adams,  Mrs.  M.  B. 
Allen,  Mrs.  William 
Almond,  Mrs.  Thomas  R. 
Andrews,  Mrs.  Addison  Fletcher 
Andrews  Mrs.  George  Sanford 
Andrews,  Mrs.  W.  W. 
Arright,  Mrs.  Charles  T. 
Augur,  Mrs.  Charles  Henry 
Ayers,  Mrs.  M.  S. 
Bailey,  Mrs.  Henry  C. 
Bailey,  Mrs.  T.  C.  J. 
Baird,  Mrs.  William  Raimond 
Baker,  Mrs.  Mary  E.  Capen 
Baker,  Mrs.  George  Minot 
Banks,  Miss  Maude 
Barry,  Mrs.  John  Francis 
Barry,  Mrs.  L.  Frank 
Bartlett,  Mrs.  Henry  T. 
Bartram,  Miss  Sarah  J. 
Beardsley,  Mrs.  Morris  Beach 
Bemis,  Mrs.  Ella  R. 
Benedict,  Mrs.  Caroline  S. 
Berg,  Mrs.  Albert  W. 
Bickmore,  Mrs.  Albert  H. 
Birdseye,  Mrs.  Isaac  Washington 
Bishop,  Mrs.  Abbie  Putnam 
Blackman,  Mrs.  I.  Percy 
Blake,  Mrs.  Israel  O. 
Blanchard,  Mrs.  James  Armstrong 
Boas,  Mrs.  Emil  L. 
Bolander,  Mrs.  William  Henry 
Boucher,  Mrs.  Pierre  L. 
Bourne,  Mrs.  Sarah  E. 
Bowron,  Mrs.  Henry  S. 
Bowron,  Miss  Mary  F. 
Bowron,  Mrs.  Watson  A. 
Braenniman,  Mrs.  Edward  G. 
Bradley,  Mrs.  Daniel  Richards 
Brayton,  Mrs.  James  P. 
Brenton,  Mrs.  Benjamin  J. 
Briggs,  Miss  Lilla  Manning 


Brockett,  Miss  Helen  F. 
Brockett,  Miss  Edith  H. 
Brown,  Mrs.  Charles  Henry 
Brown,  Mrs.  James  Taylor 
Brown,  Mrs.  Melvin 
Bullman,  Mrs.  W.  F. 
Burns,  Mrs.  James  E. 
Burke,  Mrs.  M.  E.  Dale 
Butterick,  Miss  Mary  E. 
Cairns,  Mrs.  Jaspar 
Cameron,  Mrs.  Isadora 
Carpenter,  Mrs  George  F, 
Carpenter,  Mrs.  Philip 
Chadwick,  Mrs.  Thomas  F. 
Chatfield,  Mrs.  Thomas  Ives 
Churchill,  Mrs.  Frank 
Clark,  Mrs.  Minton  Dyke 
Clarke,  Mrs.  Eugene 
Clement,  Mrs.  Duane  H. 
Clifford,  Mrs.  C.  R. 
Coates,  Mrs.  Foster 
Coe,  Mrs.  Henry  Clarke 
Collard,  Mrs.  Brice 
Cook,  Mrs.  Alexander 
Cowles,  Mrs.  Alice  Hale 
Cozzino,  Mrs.  Joseph  A, 
Crane,  Mrs.  Warren  C. 
Crombie,  Mrs.  William  Murray 
Crossley,  Mrs.  William  Wilson 
Crowell,  Mrs.  James  Lloyd 
Crowell,  Mrs.  Thomas  Y. 
Crumb,  Mrs.  Leverett  Finch 
Curtiss,  Mrs.  Frank 
Cushing,  Mrs.  William  Tiletson 
Cutter,  Mrs.  George  Lewis 
Dana,  Mrs.  Isabel  W. 
Davies,  Mrs.  William  G. 
Day,  Miss  Lydia 
Demorest,  Mrs.  William  Curtis 
Denby,  Mrs.  Isaac 
Dexter,  Mrs.  Augustus  C. 
Dickinson,  Mrs.  Mary  Lowe 
Doane,  Miss  Marguerite  T. 
Doane,  Mrs.  William  T. 


ACTIVE  MLMBLR5— (Continued) 


Donaldson,  Mrs.  George  M. 
Dorr,  Mrs.  J.  V.  N. 
Downing,  Mrs.  Hamilton  F. 
Eakins,  Mrs.  William  H. 
Edgerton,  Mrs.  Emmet 
Elling,  Mrs.  H. 
Ely,  Mrs.  Horace  S. 
Emerson,  Mrs.  Henry 
Everts,  Mrs.  Daniel  Tyler 
Ewing,  Mrs.  William  A. 
Fair,  Mrs.  Thomas  Abernethy 
Fairman,  Miss  Evelina  Holden 
Fairman,  Miss  Helen  Lydia 
Farrar,  Miss  Carrie  E. 
Ferguson,  Mrs.  J.  S. 
Fish,  Mrs.  Arthur  Elliot 
Fitch,  Mrs.  Allen 
Foote,  Mrs.  J.  Merrill 
Foote,  Dr.  Mary  Bond 
Ford,  Mrs.  Porter  Dwight 
Fort,  Mrs.  Benjamin  F. 
Fowler,  Mrs.  Edwin 
Freeman,  Mrs.  Zoheth  S, 
Fuller,  Mrs.  William  E. 
Furnald,  Mrs.  Francis  P. 
Gardner,  Mrs.  John  Milton 
Garside,  Mrs.  John  R. 
Gilpatrick,  Mrs.  Willis 
Goodale,  Mrs.  Samuel  B. 
Grant,  Mrs.  Frederic  Firman 
Greene,  Mrs.  John  Arthur 
Greene,  Mrs.  Richa^rd  Henry 
Griffin,  Mrs.  Henry  P. 
Guy,  Mrs.  Charles  L. 
Hall,  Mrs.  John  Walter 
Hallstram,  Mrs.  Roswell  Lockwood 
Hamilton,  Mrs.  Thomas  L. 
Hamilton,  Mrs.  W^illiam  Henry 
Hamlin,  Mrs.  Frederick  William 
Hammond,  Mrs.  Edith  Nute 
Hanaford,  Rev.  Phoebe  A. 
Hasbrouck,  Mrs.  Frederick 
Hatch,  Mrs.  William 
Hatie,  Mrs.  Carmoreau 
Hawes,  Miss  Susan  M. 
Hayes,  Miss  Bertha  Guernsey 
Hayes,  Mrs.  Orrill  Henry 
Hazard,  Mrs.  Edward  C. 
Hess,  Mrs.  Jacob 
Hewlett,  Mrs.  A.  C. 
Hibbard,  Mrs.  B.  Franklin 
Hicks,  Miss  M.  Helen 


Higley,  Mrs.  Warren 

Hoagland,  Mrs.  Edgar  M. 

Hebron,  Mrs.  Benjamin  F. 

Hodges,  Mrs.  Mary  Cassandra 

Holden,  Mrs.  L.  S. 

Holden,  Miss  Ruth  M. 

Hotchkin,  Mrs.  William  H. 

Howes,  Mrs.  George 

Hoyt,  Mrs.  James  King 

Hull,  Mrs.  Washington 

Humason,  Mrs.  Virgil  P. 

Humes,  Mrs.  Samuel 

Humphrey,  Mrs.  Wm.  Brewster 

Hunt,  Mrs.  Charles  Wallace 

Jackson,  Mrs.  Benjamin  A. 

Jaqua,  Mrs.  Frank  W. 

Jenkins,  Mrs.  E.  Fellows 

Jenkinson,  Mrs.  George  B.,  Jr. 

Johnston.  Mrs.  Robert  J. 

Jones,  Mrs.  Edward  Davis 

Jones,  Mrs.  Oliver  Livingston 

Judson,  Mrs.  Alfred  Mills 

Kenyon,  Mrs.  Benjamin  B, 

Kerley,  Mrs.  Charles  Gilmore 

Kimball,  Mrs.  Francis  H. 

Kimball,  Mrs.  T.  C. 

Kinsman,  Mrs.  Frank  W. 

Knowles,  Mrs.  H.  Herbert 

Kramer,  Mrs.  Samuel  J. 

Lane,  Mrs.  F.  A. 

Lang,  Mrs.  Henry 

Lathers,  Miss  Ida 

Lathrop,  Miss  Emma  G. 

Law,  Miss  Lizzie  W^oodbury 

Lawless,  Mrs.  Edward  J. 

Lawton,  Mrs.  George  P. 

Lehmaier,  Mrs.  James  S. 

Leland,  Mrs.  Juanita  K. 

Leonard,  Mrs.  Helen  Adams 

Lester,  Miss  M.  Elizabeth 

Lindley,  Miss  E.  Marguerite 

Litt,  Mrs.  Jacob 

Logan,  Mrs.  Charles  Park 

Lyon,  Mrs.  John  Lyttleton 

Mann,  Mrs.  Washington  L. 

Marsh,  Mrs.  Robert  T. 

May,  Miss  Julia  Frances 

Maynard,  Mrs.  William 

McDonald,  Mrs.  Theo.  Frelinghuysen 

McLean,  Mrs.  Malcolm 

McNall,  Mrs.  George  Gordon 

McNutt,  Dr.  Julia  G. 


132 


T 


ACTIVE  MLMBLR5— (Continued) 


McNutt,  Dr.  Sarah  J. 
McQueeney,  Miss  Mary  F. 
Merrifieid,  Miss  Carrie  H. 
Merriman,  Mrs.  Henry 
Meyrowitz,  Mrs.  Emil  B. 
Middleton,  Mrs.  Ralph  Izard,  Jr. 
Miles,  Miss  Ellen  E. 
Montgomery,  Mrs.  Alice  S.  Coe 
Montgomery,  Mrs.  Harry  Mortimer 
Moore,  Mrs.  Henry  D. 
Moore,  Mrs.  James  H. 
Moseley,  Mrs.  William  H, 
Mott,  Mrs.  John  T. 
Muir,  Mrs.  James  P. 
Munson,  Mrs.  Samuel  L. 
Murray,  Dr.  Grace  Peckham 
Naething,  Mrs.  Charles  Frederick 
Nesmith,  Mrs.  Benjamin  Ingersoll 
Nesmith,  Mrs.  Henry  E.  Jr. 
Newcomb,  Mrs.  Albert  S. 
Newcomb,  Mrs.  James  Edward 
Newton,  Mrs.  Henry  J. 
Nichols,  Mrs.  Frederick 
Niebuhr,  Mrs.  Charles 
Niebuhr,  Miss  Helen 
Olmsted,  Mrs.  Jennie  E. 
Orvis,  Mrs.  Edwin  W. 
Osborne,  Mrs.  William  H. 
Paine,  Mrs.  Eben  H. 
Palmer,  Miss  Sara  A. 
Parker,  Miss  Caroline  Bird 
Patten,  Mrs.  Francis  Jarvis 
Patterson.  Mrs.  William  J. 
Pattison,  Mrs.  Elias  J. 
Peet  Mrs.  Edward  Wright 
Pell,  Mrs.  Augusta  H. 
Phipard.  Mrs.  Charles  K. 
Pierce,  Mrs.  Jane 
Pierce,  Mrs.  Lewis  Leland 
Pinney,  Mrs.  Maria  Watson 
Place,  Mrs.  Annetta  L. 
Poor,  Mrs.  Ruel  Whitcomb 
Potter,  Mrs.  Orlando  B. 
Putney,  Mrs.  William  Beaumont 
Quimby,  Mrs.  Charles  Elihu 
Ralph,  Mrs.  George  Frederick 
Reed,  Miss  Temperance  Pratt 
Rice,  Mrs.  James  Nelson 
Rich,  Mrs.  Charles  Edward 
Rich.  Mrs.  Nellis  Marathon 
Roberts,  Mrs.  David  Huyler 
Roberts,  Mrs.  George  W. 


Rockwell,  Miss  Effiie  M. 
Ross.  Mrs.  Reuben  W. 
Russell,  Mrs  John  F. 
Sackett,  Mrs.  Augustine 
Sage,  Miss  Ellen  R. 
Sageman,  Mrs.  William  J. 
Salisbury,  Mrs.  Frederick  S. 
Saunders,  Mrs.  H.  R. 
Sawyer,  Mrs.  Antonia 
Schultz,  Mrs.  Louis 
Scott,  Mrs.  E.  M. 
Scott,  Mrs.  John  Wintield 
Scudder,  Mrs.  Benjamin  Norton 
Seabury,  Mrs.  Charles  L. 
Seabury,  Mrs.  Gardner  Thurston 
Seaton,  Mrs.  Robert  H. 
Sells,  Mrs.  Elijah  W. 
Seward,  Mrs.  Theo.  Frelinghuysen 
Seymour,  Miss  Georgiana  E. 
Seymour,  Miss  Jane  A. 
Shepard  Mrs.  J.  Woolsey 
Shephard,  Mrs.  Thomas  H. 
Sherman,  Mrs.  Estelle  T. 
Shethar,  Mrs.  Edwin  Hall 
Shrady,  Mrs.  Jacob 
Shrady,  Mrs.  William 
Shuler-Shutz,  Mrs.  Louis  Philippe 
Shute,  Mrs.  Henry  Bruce 
Slade,  Mrs.  William  Gerry 
Smith,  Mrs.  Chandler 
Smith,  Mrs.  Elbert  O. 
Smith,  Miss  Florence  Louise 
Smith  Mrs.  George  Henry 
Smith,  Mrs.  George  Moore 
Smith,  Mrs.  Mary  A.  Hepburn 
Smyth,  Mrs.  Francis 
Stanley,  Mrs.  Frederic  N. 
Stanton,  Mrs.  Lucius  M. 
Starr,  Mrs.  Henry  B. 
Stevens,  Mrs.  George  Thomas 
Stickney,  Mrs.  Joseph 
Stiles,  Mrs.  Norman  C. 
Stillman,  Mrs.  Francis  Hill 
Stillman,  Mrs.  F.  M. 
Sturges,  Mrs.  Herbert  L. 
Swift,  Mrs.  Edward  Y. 
Swinburne,  Mrs.  Fitch  James 
Talbot,  Mrs.  Lowell 
Tansley,  Mrs.  Helen  Joslin 
Tappan,  Mrs.  W.  H. 
Taylor,  Mrs.  Ambrose 
Taylor,  Mrs.  Thomas  M. 


ACTIVL  ME.MBLR5— (Continued) 


Tefft,  Mrs.  Frederick  F. 
Thomas,  Mrs.  Caroline  E. 
Thomson,  Mrs.  Pierre  M. 
Thornton,  Mrs.  Frederick 
Tillotson,  Mrs.  William  K. 
Tillotson,  Miss  Abigail  K. 
Todd,  Mrs.  Ambrose  G. 
Todd,  Mrs.  Louis  Lorenzo 
Tooker,  Mrs.  Edmund  C. 
Trumbull,  Mrs.  Frank 
Tuttle,  Mrs.  Edward  A. 
Van  Allen,  Mrs.  Garret  A. 
Van  Saun,  Mrs.  Albert 
Van  Sickle,  Mrs.  John  Tennant 
Wakeman,  Mrs.  Isaac  B. 
Wallace,  Mrs.  Thomas 
Wallerstein,  Dr.  Adelaide 
Walton,  Mrs.  John  Douglas 
Warner,  Mrs.  James  Ward 


Warren,  Mrs.  Tracy  B. 
Washburn,  Mrs.  William  Ives 
Weed,  Mrs.  Samuel  Richards 
Weeks,  Mrs.  John  E. 
Weitz,  Mrs.  G.  Langsdorf 
Wetherbee,  Mrs.  Charles  Lincoln 
Wheeler,  Mrs.  T.  H. 
Wheeler,  Mrs.  Walter  Heber 
Wheelock,  Mrs.  George  Lincoln 
Wickham,  Mrs.  D.  O. 
Wilbour,  Mrs.  Charlotte  B. 
Wilder,  Mrs.  Enos 
Williams,  Mrs.  George  N.,  Jr. 
Williams,  Mrs.  Henry  D. 
Wilson,  Mrs.  George  T. 
Wise,  Mrs.  Charles  F. 
Woodruff,  Mrs.  Henry  Collins 
Yawger,  Mrs.  lohn  Francis 
Zebley,  Mrs.  John  F. 


ASSOCIATE  MEMBERS 


Balch,  Miss  Grace  C. 
Bice,  Mrs.  Helen  Williams 
Bogle,  Dr.  Jessie  T. 
Bradley,  Mrs.  Daniel  Richards 
Brewster,  Mrs.  Henry  Colvin 
Briggs,  Mrs.  Frank  EUwood 
Bryant,  Mrs.  Joseph  D. 
Burton,  Mrs.  Washington 
Bushnell,  Mrs.  C.  S. 
Caryl,  Mrs.  Eliza  Jumel 
Chamberlin,  Mrs.  George  Mason 
Clark,  Miss  Fannie  Wynkoop 
Cutler,  Mrs.  Condict  Walker 
Cutler,  Mrs,  Marcia  Brooks 
Davis,  Mrs.  Britton 
Dayton,  Mrs.  Charles  W. 
Dease,  Mrs.  George  W. 
Elsworth,  Mrs.  Joseph 
Fulton,  Mrs.  Harry  Clifford 
Gambrill,  Mrs.  Benjamin  F. 
Gargan,  Mrs.  Henry  Lucien  Clair 
Greeley,  Mrs.  Edward  Addison 
Guernsey,  Miss  Florence 
Hamilton,  Mrs.  Edmund  Horace 
Handy,  Mrs.  William  Cole 
Hungerford,  Mrs.  W.  A. 
Huse,  Miss  Carolyn  L. 
Jenkins,  Mrs.  Charles  S. 
Joy,  Mrs.  Henry  B. 
Leaman,  Mrs.  Walter  L. 


Little,  Mrs.  G.  Elliotte 
Lockwood,  Mrs.  James  L. 
Logan,  Mrs.  Walter  S. 
Lowry,  Mrs.  Robert  J. 
MacDonald.  Mrs.  Charles  H. 
Mason,  Miss  Cassity  E. 
Meigs,  Mrs.  Titus  Benjamin 
Menges,  Mrs.  Frederick 
Mildeberger,  Miss  Mary  J. 
Moore,  Mrs.  Elbridge  J. 
Muller,  Mrs.  Harriet  H. 
Nesmith,  Mrs.  Howard  Macomber 
Ostrom,  Mrs.  Homer  Irvin 
Palmer,  Mrs.  A.  M. 
Parker,  Mrs.  James  H. 
Putnam,  Mrs.  Erastus  G. 
Remick,  Mrs.  Charles  E. 
Sanford,  Mrs.  Edward  Field 
Scofield,  Mrs.  Alfred  Hoyt 
Secor,  Mrs.  James  F.,  Jr. 
Smith,  Mrs.  Charles  B. 
Smith,  Miss  Dora 
Smith,  Mrs.  Julius  Paul 
Stevens,  Mrs.  H.  E. 
Stimson,  Mrs.  Chas.  W. 
Warren,  Mrs.  George  Flint,  Jr., 
Washington,  Mrs.  Allan  C. 
Wentworth,  Mrs.  J.  Wells 
Williams,  Mrs.  Charles  Howard 


FEB   23  19^^- 


4 


One  copy  del.  to  Cat.  Div. 

iAR    25  1911 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  489  512  5  # 


