ZJke 

PANTRY  SHELF 


SILVER  ANNIVERSARY  EDITION 


Published  by 


THE  WOMAN'S  SOCIETY  OF  CHRISTIAN  SERVICE 


Zebulon  Methodist  Church 
Zebulon,  N,  C. 


Foreword 


It  has  been  our  pleasure,  on  behalf  of  the  Woman's  Society  of 
Christian  Service  of  the  Zebulon  Methodist  Church,  to  collect  and 
publish  these  recipes  of  Zebulon  residents  and  friends.     We  are 
grateful  to  each  one  of  you  who  has  shared  with  us  a  favorite 
recipe. 

This  is  the  second  publication  of  The  Pantry  Shelf.     The  first 
and  original  was  compiled  and  published  25  years  ago,  and  has  been 
widely  praised  and  used.    We  hope  the  second  --  silver  anniversary 
edition       will  receive  such  acclaim  and  use. 

Special  thanks  go  to  Mrs.  Wayne  Davis  and  Mrs.  Lawrence  Liles, 
typists;  Mrs.  Frank  Wall  and  Mrs.  Scotte  Brown,  Assistant  Editors; 
Miss  Martha  Wall,  who  did  cover  sketch  of  church;  and  the  host  of 
friends  who  encouraged  the  effort. 

All  receipts  from  the  sale  of  this  book  will  go  to  benefit 
Zebulon  Methodist  Church, 


Scotte  Brown,  Editor 


HISTORY  OF  SOCIETY  AND  FOUNDER 


Zebulon  Methodist  Church's  Woman's  Society  of  Christian 
Service  is  in  1966  a  reflection  of  love  and  service  of 
its  members  during  the  past  50  years. 

The  organization  had  its  humble  beginning  as  the  Ladies' 
Aid,  and  was  under  the  leadership  of  Mrs.  G.   B.  Perry, 
wife  of  the  first  minister  to  reside  in  the  parsonage 
MRS.  IDA  LOVE  FISHER    adjacent  to  the  church. 

The  first  missionary  society,  as  such,  was  organized  in  1918  under 
the  direction  of  Mrs.  G.  W.  Fisher,  wife  of  the  minister  who  was  serving 
the  charge  at  that  time. 

Mrs.  Fisher  was  one  of  eight  children  of  Mr.   and  Mrs.  James  Love  of 
Newton,  N.  C.     Named  Ida  Love,   she  was  born  in  1866.     She  and  the  Rev. 
Mr.  Fisher  were  married  in  1889.     Her  death  occurred  in  1928. 

Mrs.  Fisher  was  the  mother  of  eight  children:     Marvin,  Clyde,  Alma, 
Lillian,  Ralph,  Henry,  an  infant  who  died  in  infancy,  and  Edgar. 

In  1923  the  members  of  the  organization  voted  to  honor  their  founder 
and  first  president  by  naming  the  Christian  organization  the  Ida  Fisher 
Missionary  Society. 

In  1940  the  N.  C.  Methodist  Conference  bestowed  the  name  Woman's 
Society  of  Christian  Service  on  the  ladies'  missionary  organizations 
of  the  church. 

From  ten  charter  members  of  1918,   the  Society  grew  until  today 
there  are  60  members.     There  are  four  Circles:   Circle  I,  Mercer- Sexton , 
Pearl  Massey,   and  the  Silver  Anniversary  Circle. 

Fourteen  members  have  been  presented  lifetime  membership  pins  to 
show  the  love  and  esteem  of  their  fellow  Christians.     These  persons  are: 
Mrs.  W.   D.  Finch,  Mrs.  M.  J.   Sexton,  Mrs.   S.  G.  Flowers,  Mrs.  Garland 
Richardson,  Mrs.   R.   E.  Kitchings,  Mrs.   A.  R.  House,  Mrs.  Whitley  Chamblee, 
Mrs.  J.  T.  Carter,  Mrs.   Bertha  Alford,  Mrs.   P.   0.  Farmer,  Mrs.   Frank  Wall, 
Mrs,  Jimmy  Spivey,  Miss  Sarah  Eaton  and  Mrs.  H.  V.  Andrews,  Jr. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


Appetizers,  Hors  d  Oeuvres,  Beverages    1 

Breads    3 

Cakes,  Pies  and  Icings   6 

Cookies  and  Candies   12 

Meats  and  Casseroles  15 

Salads   22 

Pickles  and  Relishes   25 


Olives  in  Cheese 

1  3oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 
■J-  tsp.  Worcestershire 
cream 

16  large  stuffed  olives 

i-  lb.  salted  almonds,  chopped 

Mix  cheese  and  Worcestershire  together  with  enough  cream  to  make  thick, 
smooth  to  paste,     roll  olives  in  mixture  so  that  each  is  well  coated, 
then  roll  in  almonds.     Makes  16. 

Peanut-Onion  canapes 

Spread  round  of  toast  with  peanut  butter.     Put  an  onion  ring  on  each, 
and  a  few  drops  of  ketchup  in  the  middle. 

Mystery  Bites 

Spread  one  side  of  light  or  dark  bread  thickly  with  grated  horseradish. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar.     Top  with  a nother  slice.     Cut  in  small  squares  or 
triangles. 

Cheese  Roll 

•J  lb.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese  1  Tbsp.  Tabacso  sauce 

•5-  lb.  mild  Cheddar  cheese  1  tsp.  powdered  garlic 

3  3oz.  pkgs  cream  cheese 
1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Grate  cheese  fine,  and  cream  in  rest.     Shape  into  roll  about  the  diameter 
of  Ritz  cracker.     Roll  in  a  mixture  of  paprika  and  chili  powder.  Chill. 
Slice  and  serve  on  crackers. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Hinton 

Tip:  Why  not  use  a  hollowed-  out  red  cabbage  to  hold  one  of  your  dips 

the  next  time  you  give  a  party.     Pretty  and  festive.    And  no  bowl  to  wash. 


1 


Russian  Tea 


Make  two  gallons  tea  in  the  usual  way.     Sweeten  to  taste.     Add  the  strained 
juice  of  1  dozen  oranges  and  1  dozen  lemons.     Tie  1  Tbsp.  cinnamon  bark 
in  thin  cloth,  boiling  all  together  five  minutes.     Serve  hot,  putting 
2  cloves  in  each  cup. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Herring 
Fruit  Punch 


1  qt .  tea  infusion 
Juice  4  lemons 
Juice  4  oranges 
1  can  pineapple  juice 


1  large  gingerale 

1  large  orange  soda 

1  lb.  sugar  dissolved  in  ¥ater 


Mix  together.     Serve  ice  cold.     Enough  for  about  25  people. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Coltrane 

Easy  Fruit  Punch 

1  large  can  sweetened  orange  juice 

1  large  can  pineapple  juice 

2  large  gingerales 

Chill  and  mix  in  punch  bowl  when  ready  to  serve.     Serves  25. 

Beverly  Wall 

Lime  Ice 

Mix  3  pkgSi  lemon-lime  Kool-Aid  with  3  quarts  tap  water.     Mix  6  c.  sugar 
with  1  qt . .  very  warm  water  and  stir  until  melted  completely.  Combine 
all  ingredients,  and  then  add  1  can  unsweetened  pineapple  juice  and  1 
bottle  of  concentrated  lemon  juice.     Add  green  cake  coloring  if  desired. 
Freeze  until  mush  then  stir.     Freeze  completely.     Add  gingerale  when  ready 
to  serve. 

Mrs .  Jimmy  Spivey 
Cranberry  Punch 


4  c.  cranberry  juice 

It  c.  sugar 

4  c.  pineapple  juice 


1  Tbsp.  almond  extract 

2  qt .  gingerale 


Combine  all  of  first  four  ingredients.  When  ready  to  serve  add  gingerale 
About  30  servings. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Hint on 


2 


Cheese  Salad  Biscuits 


1  lb.  grated  cheese  1  tsp.  salt 

h  lb.  butter  Red  Pepper  (to  taste) 

2  heaping  cups  plain  flour  Salted  peanuts 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  peanuts.     Form  into  rolls  about  1  inch  in 
diameter.     Wrap  in  wax  paper  and  chill  in  refrigerator  at  least  12  hours 
before  using.     When  ready  to  cook,  slice  and  press  %  peanut  into  each 
biscuit.    Watch  carefully  when  cooking  as  the  cheese  burns  easily. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Moser 


Ice  Box  Rolls 


2  c.  scalded  milk  6  Tbsp.  sugar 

1  c.  mashed  potatoes  1  Tbsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  baking  powder  6c.  flour 

4  Tbsp.  lard  1  cake  yeast 


Scald  milk,  add  mashed  potatoes  (strained),  sugar,  salt  and  lard. 
When  luke  warm  add  yeast.    Then  work  in  lard,  baking  powder  and  flour. 
Let  rise  until  double.     Pinch  off  rolls  and  let  rise  again.  Will 
keep  several  days  in  refrigerator 

Mrs.  E.  D.  Finch 


Ice  Box  Rolls 


^  c.  mashed  potatoes  %  p«  yeast  in  1/8  c.  luke  warm 

2c.  scalded  sweet  milk  water 

^  c.  lard  1  ts.  baking  powder;  %  tsp  soda 

h  c.  sugar  2  tsp.  salt 

Sift  together  and  add  to  first  mixture,  2c,  plain  flour,  baking  powder 
soda,  and  salt.     Let  rise  about  2  honors  or  until  double  its  size.  Then 
work  in  enough  flour  to  make  dough  the  right  consistency.    Make  out 
rolls  and  put  the  remainder  in  refrigerator  immediately.     Let  rolls  rise 
about  2  or  3  hours  before  cooking. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Coltrane 


2\  c.  boiling  water 
2c.  corn  meal 
2  c.  sour  milk 


Southern  Spoon  Bread 

1  Tbsp.  lard  (melted) 

1  tsp.  soda 

2  eggs 


Add  meal  to  boiling  water  and  stir.     Let  cool.     Add  beaten  egg  yolks. 
Add  milk,   soda,   lard.     Beat  and  add  beaten  egg  whites.     Bake  in  greased 
pan  about  40  mins.  Mrs.  W.  D.  Finch 


Banana  Bran  Muffins 


1  c.  All-Bran 
he,  milk 

1  c.  mashed  bananas 
1  c.  sifted  flour 
he,  soft  shortening 


2  tsp.  baking  powder 
h  tsp.  salt 
he,  sugar 
1  egg 


Combine  All-Bran,  milk,  and  bananas  in  bowl.    Sift  dry  ingredients. 

Add  sugar,  egg  and  shortening.    Stir  until  all  ingredients  are  combined. 

Bake  at  400  F.  for  approximately  25  min. 

Mrs.  Wayne  L.  Davis 


Cheese  Straws 

1  lb.  cheese  Red  pepper  to  taste 

1  stick  butter  Salt  to  taste 

2c.  plain  flour  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

Mix  ingredients  together  with  hands  and  roll  as  you  prefer.  Cook 
at  400  F.  Miss  Mary  Saunders 


Flaky  Waff]es  Or  Pancakes 

ih  c.  self -rising  flour  h  stick  melted  margarine 

3  eggs  separated  (or  2  or  4)  1  c.  sweet  milk 

Beat  egg  whites  in  little  mixing  bowl  until  very  stiff. 

Beat  egg  yolks  in  big  mixing  bowl;  add  melted  butter;  beat.     Add  Milk 

and  beat  gently. 

Sift  dry  ingredients  into  wet  mixture.  DO  NOT  BEAT. Spoon  fold  over  only 
enough    to  combine  ingredients.     Small  flour  spots  should  be  showing 
throughout  batter.    Gently  fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.     Flakes  of  egg 
white  should  be  showing  when  ready  to  bake.     Bake  in  waffle  iron  or 
on  pancake  griddle.     (This  is  a  good  way  to  get  the  children  to  eat 
extra  eggs  in  the  morning  —  when  you  use  4  eggs  in  this  recipe.) 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Fowler,  Jr. 


4 


Thirty  Minutes  Rolls 

2%  c.  flour 
1  t.sp.  baking  powder 
1  tsp.  salt 

3  Tbsp.  melted  shortening 

Sift  dry  ingredients.     Dissolve  yeast  in  buttermilk:  and  add  soda 
and  sugar.     Add  shortening  and  buttermilk  mixture  to  flour-    Make  into 
dough..     Kneed  until  smooth.     Roll  out.    Cut.     Dip  into  melted  butter 
or  margarine  and  fold  over  into  pocketbook  shape.     Let  rise  in  warm 
place  for  30  minutes.     Bake  at  450  Fo 

Mrs.  Beulah  Finch  Harper 

Date  Muffins 

Mix  1  cup  graham  flour  with  \  cup  white  flour.     .jSi.ft  these  with 
?  Tbsp.  sugar,   4  tip.  baking  powder  and  1  tsp.  salt.     Beat  1  egg.  Add 
1  cup  milk  =ind  stir  into  dry  ingredients.     Add  4  Tbsp.  melted  shortening. 
Then  add  ^  cup  dates  cut  fine.     Bake  about  20  minutes  at  350  F. 

Mrs.  Edgar  Bo  Fisher 


1  pkg.  yeast 
1  c.  luVe  warm 
'h  tsp.  soda 
1  tsp.  sugar 


buttermilk 


(HIS)  Dessert 

1  eg' J'  slightly  beaten 

2  TDsp.     lemon  juice 
2  Tbsp.  sugar 

Few  grains  salt 

^  c.  whipping  cream 

t  c.  miniature  marshmallows 

Combine  egg,  lemon  juice, 
Cook  until  slightly  thickened, 
marshteallows ,  pineapple,  orange 
cooled  mixture.     Just  before  se 


j  c.— drained  pineapple  tidbits 

1  1]  oz.  can  Manclrin  orange  secbions 

1  c,  seedless  white  grapes 

1  c.  sliced  banana 

10  maraschino  cherries 

h  c.  slivsred  toasted  almonds 

sugar!"  §ind  salt  in  double  boiler. 
Cool.     Wuip  3ream  and  fold  c^-e^ira, 
sections,  grapes  and  bananas  in 
^ving  stir  in  cherries  and  almonds. 


Mss,  Scotte  Brovm 


Chocolate  Pie 


1  c.  milk 

1  c.  boiling  water 

3  eggs 

1  Tbsp.  butter 

4  Tbsp.  flo-or 


7/8  c.  sugar 

tsp.  salt 
y  tsp.  vanilla 
2  squares  chocolate 


Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water.    Add  sugar  that  has  been  thoroughly  mixed 
with  flour  and  salt  and  blend  well.    Add  the  boiling  water  and  milk,  cook 
in  double  boiler  25  minutes.     Pour  chocolate  mixture  gradually  over  well 
beaten  egg  yolks,  beating  vigorously.     Return  to  boiler  and  cook  two 
minutes.     Add  butter  and  flavoring.     Pour  into  baked  pastry  shell.  Cover 
with  meringue  made  of  egg  whites  and  4  tablespoons  sugar.     Brown  in  slow 
oven  to  preferred  color. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Hinton 


German  Shortbread  Crust  for  Fruit  Pie 


1  stick  butter  at  room  temperature 
3  Tbsp.  sugar 

1  c.  and  2  Tbsp.  plain  flour 
Pinch  of  salt 


Mix  dough.     Pat  into  pie  pan.     Prick  full  of  holes  with  fork.  Freeze, 
Cook  in  400  P.  oven  for  10  to  15  minutes  or  until  golden  brown.  Chill 
in  refrigerator.     Pill  with:  any  fresh  fruit  with  sugar  to  taste.  Let 
stand  imtil  sugar  melts.     Drain  juice  into  saucepan.     If  not  as  much  as 
one  cup  of  juice,  add  wate*r  to  make  a  cup.      Boil  juice  until  thick  using 
2  or  3  tablespoons  cornstarch.     Place  fruit  in  cooked, chilled  crust.  Pour 
hot  liquid  over  fruit.     Chill  in  refrigerator.      Add  whipped  cream  when  ready 
to  serve. 

Mrs.  Jimmy  Spivey 


Swiss  Cheese  Pie 


1  envelope  unflavored  gelatine 
^  c .  sugar 
1  c.  milk 

1  Tsp.  grated  lemon  rind 

2  c.  creamed  cottage  cheese 


-J-  tsp.  salt 

1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

2/3  cup  heavy  cream,  whipped 

1  9-inch  baked  pastry  shell 


Mix  together  gelatine  and  sugar  in  top  of  double  boiler.     Stir  in  milk. 
Place  over  boiling  water,  stirring  until  gelatine  is  dissolved.     Remove  from 
heat.      Add  lemon  rind.     Cool.     Beat  cottage  cheese  with  electric  beater 
until  smooth.     Stir  in  cooled  gelatine  mixture,  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Chill, 
stirring  occasionally  until  mixture  mounds  slightly  when  dropped  from  spoon. 
Fold  in  whipped  cream.     Place  in  pie  shell.     Spoon  on  cherry  topping. Chill . 
Cherry  Topping:  Mix  together  1/3  c.  sugar  and  2  Tbsp.  cornstarch  in  saucepan. 
Drain  1  can(20oz.)  cherries,  gradually  stirring  in  juice  of  cherry  liquid  into 
sugar  mixture.     Place  over  heat  and  cook,  stirring  until  mixture  is  thick  and 
clear.     Remove,  from  heat.     Stir  in  cherries.     Use  red  sour  pitted  cherries. 
Pineapple  is  also  good  as  topping. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Sexton 


6 


Butternut  Pound  Cake 


2  c.  sugar  dash  salt 

1  c.  Crisco  1  c.  milk 

4  eggs  1  Tbsp.    butternut  flavoring 

^  c.  self  rising  flour 

Beat  sugar  and  Crisco  for  10  minutes  at  high  speed.    Add  one  egg  at  time 
until  all  are  added.    Add  flour  and  milk  alternately,  then  add  flavoring. 
Bake  in  tube  pan  in  moderate  oven.     Ice  with:  ^  c.  Gutter,  1  c.  firmly 
packed  brown  sugar,  2  c.  confectioner's  sugar,  1  tsp.  vanilla,  t  c.  milk. 
Melt  butter  and  add  brown  sugar  and  bring  to  boil.    Add  milk  and  let 
cook  two  minutes.    Remove  from  heat  and  add  confectioner's  sugar  a  little 
at  a  time.    Mix  until  smooth.     If  too  thick  add  more  milk.     Spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  A.  R.  House 


l_2-3-4  Cake 


1  c.  butter  1  c.  water 

2  c.  sugar  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  c.  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla 

4  eggs 


Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  cream  together.    Add  beaten  egg  yolks. 
Sift  together  flour  and  baking  powder  and  add  alternately  with  the 
water.    Add  vanilla  and  fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.    Bake  in  moderate 
oven  (35OF)  until  firm. 

Miss  Mary  Saunders 


Brown  Sugar  Pound  Cake 


2  sticks  butter  3  c.  flour 

•J  c.  Crisco  1  c.  milk 

1  box  light  brown  sugar  1  Tbsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  white  sugar  1  c.  black  walnuts 

5  eggs  y  tsp.  salt 


Cream  shortening  and  sugars.    Add  eggs.     Beat  well.    Add  sifted  dry 
ingredients  alternately  with  milk.    Add  vanilla.     Bake  at  350F  for 
1  hour  and  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  Wayne  Davis 


Frozen  Lemon  Cake 


2  eggs  1  small  can  evaporated  milk 
•5-  c.  sugar                                         20  vanilla  vrafers,  crushed 

3  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Line  freezer  pan  with  wax  paper  and  then  with  one-half  of  wafer  crumbs. 
Cook  egg  yolks,  sugar  and  lemon  juice  until  thickened.     Cool.  Beat  egg 
whites  until  stiff.    Beat  evaporated  milk  untill  stiff.     Fold  beaten 
egg  whites  into  egg  mixture.     Then  fold  milk  in.     Pour  into  freezer 
pan.     Top  with  remaining  half  -of  wafer  crumbs.     Freeze  until  hard. 

Mrs.  Wayne  Davis 


7 


Orange  Nut  Cupcake 


1  c.  sugar  _   ,  J 

1  ,    ^,  1  tsp.  soda 

2"  c.  butter  ^ 

J  2c.  flour 

^  ®f^^     .  ^     .  Pinch  of  salt 

Grated  rind  of  one  orange  ^ 

1  -u        J      4-  ■  1  cup  sugar 

2  c.  chopped  nuts  i       ^         .  . 

1  c.  chopped  dates  ^  °^^"Se  juice  ih  cup) 

2/3  cup  buttermilk  • 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  1  Tbsp.  orange  rind (reserve  remainder  of 
peel),  add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  then  add  dry  ingredients , which  have  been 
sifted, together  alternately  with  milk.    Add  dates  and  nuts.     Line  24 
muffin  rings  with  paper  cups,  pour  in  cake  mixture.     Bake  at  350  P.  about 
20  to  30  minutes.    While  cake  is  baking  prepare  topping:  1  c.  sugar, 
Y  orange  juice  and  remainder  of  orange  peel.     Mix  together , bring  to  boil 
and  cook  for  a  few  minutes  until  transparent.     Pour  over  cupcakes  slowly 
as  they  come  from  oven. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Monson 


Strawberry  Shortcake 

2  c.  plain  flour 

3  tsp.  baking  power 

1  tsp  salt 

2  Tbsp.  sugar 


2-  c.  shortening 
6  Tbsp.  milk 
1  egg,  beaten 


Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar.     Cut  in  shortening. 
Combine  milk  and  beaten  egg.    Add  to  dry  ingredients  and  mix  only  until 
all  flour  is  damp.     Knead  gently  on  floured  board.    Roll  dough  to  l/s 
inch  thick,  and  cut  12  3  inch  rounds.     Brush  with  melted  butter.  Place 
in  pairs  on  a  buttered  cookie  sheet,  buttered  sides  together.    Bake  at 
400  P. for  12  minutes.     Remove  top  halves  and  place  crushed  strawberries. 
Place  top  half  over  berries. 

Mrs.        D.  Finch 


Chocolate  Pound  Cake 


2  sticks  butter  or  margarine  ^  tsp.  baking  powder 
y  c.  vegetable  shortening  \  tsp.  salt 

3  c,  granulated  sugar  y  c.  cocoa 
5  eggs,  unbeaten  1  c.  milk 

3  c.  sifted  cake  flour  2  tsp.  vanilla 


Cream  shortening  and  butter.     Add  sugar  and  beat  and  cream  until  well 

blended.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Sift 

flour  and  dry  ingredients  together  three  times.    Add  to  the  mixture 
alternately  with  milk  to  which  vanilla  has  been  added.     Bleni throughly. 

Turn  into  greased  slightly    and  floured  tube  pan  and  bake  in  325  P»  oven 
1  hour  and  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Cooper  Moss 


8 


Fresh  Coconut  Cake 

2  sticks  oleo 
It  c.  sugar 
4  eggs 

T  c.  sweet  milk 
2^  c.  self  rising  flour 
1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  oleo  and  sugar.     Add  eggs  one  at  a  time  and  beat  well.     Add  milk 
and  vanilla  and  flour  alternately,  beating  well.     Pour  in  greased  cake 
pans  and  cook  at  375F.  in  preheated  oven  for  about  30  minutes.  Fill 
layers  withtl  grated  coconut,  2  c.  sugar  and  2^  c.  sweet  milk.  Bring 
sugar  and  milk  to  boil,  then  add  coconut.  Let  this  mixture  come  to 
good  boil. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Alford 


1  coconut  grated 

2  c.  sugar 

2-J-  c.  sweet  milk 


Apple  Sauce  Cake 


It  c.  sifted  flour 

1  tsp.  soda 

X  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  tsp.  cloves 


c.  butter 
c .  sugar 
beaten  egg 
c .  nut  s 
c.  raisins 
c.  hot  apple 


Add  flour,  soda,  salt,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  sift  3  times.     Cream  butter 
and  sugar,  add  egg,  raisins  and  nuts.     Add  flour  mixture  alternately  with 
apple  sauce.     Beat  until  smooth.     Bake  in  a  loaf  at  350  F  degrees,  about 
an  hour . 

Mrs.  Julian  Horton 


Quick  Pruxe  Cake 


1  tsp.  cinnamon 
Itsp.  nutmeg 

1  tsp.  allspice 

2  cups  self  rising  flour 

2  cups  sugar 

3  eggs 

1  cup  salad  oil 

1  junior  size  Jar  of  prunes 


1  cup  chopped  nuts 
1  cup  sugar 
|-  cup  buttermilk 
•j-  tsp.  soda 

1  Tbsp.  white  corn  syrup 
-g-  cup  butter 
^  tsp.  vanilla 
with  tapioca 


Mix  first  nine  ingredients,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  allspice,  flour,  sugar, 
eggs,  salad  oil,  prujies  and  nuts.     Beat  at  medium  speed  just  until 
blended.     Pour  into  greased  and  floured  tube  pan  and  cook  at  350  F. 
about  35  or  40  minutes.     Ice  with  Buttermilk  Icing:  Mix  together  1  cup 
sugar,  Y  cup  buttermilk,  -J-  tsp.  soda,  1  Tbsp.  white  corn  syrup,  i  cup 
butter  and  y  tsp.  vanilla.     Bring  to  boil  slowly.     Simmer  until  mixture 
forms  a  soft  ball.     Pour  over  hot  cake  without  beating. 

Mrs.  Homer  Monson 


9 


Seven  Minute  Icing 


1  c.  sugar  1  Tbsp.  syrup  or  honey 

1  egg  white  Few  Grains  salt 

-J-  c.  water  ^  tsp.  vanilla 

Put  all  ingredients  except  vanilla  in  double  boiler.     Cook  over  boiling 
water  seven  to  ten  minutes,  beating  all  the  while  with  a  rotary  beater. 
When  ready  to  remove  from  stove,  the  icing  will  be  thick  and  almost 
ready  to  spread.     Add  vanilla,  beat  until  cool  and  ready  to  spread. 
Double  the  recipe  for  all  but  a  small  cake. 

Mrs.  Guy  Massey 


Old  Fashion  Pound  Cake 

^  lb.  butter  or  oleo 
I-2/3  c.  sugar 
5  eggs 

2  c.  sifted  flour 


Cream  butter  or  oleo  good.    Add  .sugar  gradually,  beating  until  light  and 
fluffy.     Then  drop  in  one  egg  at  the  time,  beating  good.,  until  all  eggs 
are  added.     Fold  in  flour  that  has  been  sifted  twice.     Flavor  with  your 
favorite  flavoring.     I  use  vanilla.     Bake  in  tube  pan  1  hour  in  325  F. 
oven,  or  until  done, 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Sexton 


Mabel's  Apple  Cake 

c.  Wesson  oil 

2  c .  sugar 

3  eggs 


Beat  this  mixture  three  minutes  on  medium  speed.     Add:  3  c.  sifted  flour, 

1  tsp.  salt  and  1  tsp.  soda.     Mix  thoroughly.     Add:  3  medium  sized  tart 
peeled  apples  cut  into  finger-sized  chunks,  1  cup  chopped  nuts  and  2  tsp. 
vanilla.     Mix  thoroughly.     Bake  at  350  F.  for  l4-  hours  in  greased  tube  pan. 
Let  cool  in  pan.     Ice  with:  1  stick  butter,  ^  c.  light  brown  sugar  and 

2  Tbsp.  milk.  Bring  to  boil.  'fh^n.  let  cool  20  minutes  and  pour  over  cake. 
Can  be  served  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  sherry  for  party. 

Mrs.  Howard  Beck 


Devil's  Food  Cake 


2  c .  sugar 
1  c.  butter 


Cream  this  mixture  together.    Add:  ^  c.  buttermilk  with  1  tsp.  soda  in 
milk,  another  ^  cup  plain  milk,  ^-  c.  cocoa,  2  c.  flour  and  4  eggs.  Bake 
in  three  9  inch  cake  pans  in  preheated  350  F.  oven  for  30  minutes  or 
until  done. 

Filling:  2  c.  sugar,  1  c.  sweet  milk  and      c.  butter.     Bring  these 
ing-^edients  to  a  boil,  cook  till  soft  ball  stage.     Remove  from  heat  and 
add      tsp.  vanilla.     Beat  until  it  is  thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  Claud  Dunn 


10 


Pecan  Pie 


2/3  c.  granulated  sugar  1  Tbsp.  melted  butter 

2/3  c.  white  syrup  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  Tbsp.  cornmeal  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

2  eggs 

Mix  together  the  first  6  ingredients,  then  add  pecans.     Mix  well  and  pour 

into  unbaked  pie  crust.  Bake  in  a  250  P.  oven  for  1  hour. 

Mrs.  Prank  Wall 


2  eggs,  beaten 
■J-  to  2/3  c.  melted  oleo 
2/3  cup  granulated  sugar 
2/3  c.  white  syrup 


Oatmeal  Pie 

2/3  c.  uncooked  oatmeal 

•J  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  vanilla 


Mix  all  ingredients  and  pour  into  uncooked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  350P, 
about  1  hour. 

Nancy  Wall 


Macaroon  Pie 


3  egg  whites  i/Q  c.  sugar 

12  Saltines,  rolled  fine  tsp.  baking  powder 

16  dates,  chopped  fine  dash  salt 

■5-  c.  chopped  pecans  1  tsp.  almond  extract 

Beat  egg  whites  until  foamy.     Gradually  beat  in  sugar  until  meringue  will 
stand  in  soft  peaks.     Mix  in  crumbs,  dates  and  nuts.     Gently  fold  into 
meringue  along  with  remaining  ingredients.     Pour  into  9-inch  buttered 
and  floured  pan.     Bake  in  350  F.  oven  45-50  mi.nutes,  or  until  delicately 
browned.     Cool.     Serve  with  whipped  cream  and  dash  of  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  Amos  Estes 


Sweet  Potato  or  Pumpkin  Chiffon  Pie 


Boil  potatoes  in  skins  until  done,  peel  and  mash.     Prepare  pumpkin.  Beat 
3  egg  yolks,  add  3/4  c.  sugar,  ^  c.  evaporated  milk,  y  tsp.  salt,  1  tsp. 
cinnamon,  1  tsp.  allspice,  and  1  Tbsp.  vanilla.     Mix,  then  add  ly  c.  potato 
or  pumpkin.     Heat  in  double  boiler  until  thick.    Add  1  envelope  plain  gelat 
dissolved  in      c.  cold  water.     Cool.     Beat  egg  whites  with  6  Tbsp.  sugar 
until  stiff.     Fold  into  cooled  mixture.     Pour  into  baked  pie  shell.  Chill. 

Mrs.  Cloid  Wade 


Sour  Cream  Pound  Cake 


2  sticks  butter  or  m(^f"garine  3  c.  plain  flour 

3  c.  sugar  h  pt  sour  cream 
6  eggs  'k  tsp.  salt 


Cream  Shortening  and  Sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  after 
each  i^ddition.  Add  flour  all  at  once  and  cream  c^nd  salt.  Blend  well. 
Favorite  flavoring  may  be  used.  Pour  into  tub  pan  and  bake  ih  hours 
at  325  degrees. 

Mrs.  Scotte  Brown 


11 


Cnocolate  Nat  Bars 


he,  shortening 
1  c.  brown  sugar 
1  egg 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c  a ;..  sifted  _all~p"urpose  flour 


h  tsp.  soda 
h  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  semi-sweet  chocolate  bits 
h  Cm  chopped  nuts 


Cream  shortening  and  sugar.     Add  egg  and  vanilla;  beat  well.     Sift  dry 
ingredients;  add  to  creamed  mixture;  mix  well.     Stir  in  chocolate  pieces 
and  nuts.     Spread  in  greased  11  x  7  x  1^  inch  pan.     Bake  in  350  F.  oven 
for  20  to  25  minutes.     Cut  in  sguares  while  warm.     Makes  2  dozen  chewy, 
crunchy  cookies.  Mrs.  Douglas  Finch 


Chocolate  Peanut  Clusters 


Mix  in  heavy  ih  gt.  saucepan  until  well  blended:     1  pkg.  chocolate 
pudding  mix  (not  instant)     1  c.  sugar,  %  c.  Pet  milk,   1  Tbsp.  butter. 
Cook  and  stir,  to  a  full  all-over  boil.     Lower  heat  and  keep  stirring 
while  mixture  boils  slowly  for  3  mins.     Remove  from  heat.     Stir  in  all 
at  once  1  cup  small  salted  peanuts.     Beat  until  candy  starts  to  thicken. 
With  2  teaspoons  drop  mixture  quickly  onto  waxed  paper  to  form  clusters. 
Any  kind  of  nuts  may  be  used,  but  if  they  are  unsalted,  add  a  dash  of 
salt  when  you  add  nuts.  -Mrs.  Jimmy  Spivey 


3  c,  sugar 

2  egg  whites  (beaten) 
h  c.  white  syrup 


Seafoam  Candy 

h  c .  water 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

^  to  1  c.  nuts  (broken) 


Cook  sugar    syrup  and  water  until  it  spins  about  a  6--inch  thread.  In 
electric  mixer  bowl  pour  h  syrup  over  beaten  egg  whites.     Put  other  half 
back  on  stove  until  this  has  mixed  well  (about  30  seconds).     Add  last 
half  and  continue  to  beat  with  mixer  until  it  thickens.     Add  nuts  and 
beat  by  hand  until  it  will  hold  peaks,  then  drop  by  spoons  on  waxed 
paper  to  harden.  Miss  Faye  Finch 


Creamy  Smooth  Chocolate  Fudge 

Mix    2^  cups , sugar  with  h  stick  butter  and  bh  oz.  canned  milk.  Cook 
over  medium  heat  until  mixture  comes  to  a  boil.     Then  cook  2^  minutes. 
Remove  from  heat  and  add  1  small  pkg.  semi-sweet  chocolate  drops  and 
1  tsp.  vanilla.     Beat  until  hard  enough  to  drop  on  wax  paper.     One  cup 
nuts  may  be  added,  if  desired, 

Mrs.  Cooper  Moss 


12 


Pecan  Puffs 


Beat  until  soft  %  cup  butter  or  margarine.    Add  and  blend  until  creamy 
2  Tbsp.  granulated  sugar.    Add  1  tsp.  vanilla.     Sift  before  measuring 
1  cup  cake  flour.    Measure  again.     Break  1  cup  of  pecans  into  small 
pieces.     Stir  pecans  and  flour  into  batter  mixture.     Roll  dough  into 
small  balls.     Place  on  greased  baking  sheet.     Bake  at  300  F.  for  30 
mins.    Roll  hot  puffs  in  powdered  sugar.    Cool,  then  roll  again  in 
powdered  sugar.  Miss  Sarah  Eaton 


Angel  Tips 

Ih  sticks  butter  1  c.  chopped  nuts 

4  rounding  Tbsp.  powdered  2  tsp.  vanilla 

sugar  2^  c.  plain  flour 

1  Tblsp.  warm  water 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.    Add  water  and  flour,  vanilla  and  nuts.  Roll 
out  one-eighth  inch  thick  and  cut  in  strips.     Bake  in  mdeium  oven. 
Roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Chamblee 


Boiled 

2c.  sugar 

1  stick  butter  or  margarine 
3  Tbsp.  cocoa 
Dash  salt 

Combine  sugar,  cocoa,  butter,  milk, 
until  mixture  comes  to  a  boil ,  then 
Pour  in  oatmeal,  nuts  and  vanilla, 
wax  paper. 


Cookies 
h  c.  milk 

2^  c.  quick  cooking  ')atmeal 
he  nuts 
2  tsp.  vanilla 

and  salt.    Cook  over  medium  heat 
cook        mins.    Remove  from  heat. 
Beat.     Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on 
Mrs.  Cooper  Moss 


Oatmeal  Cookies 

Cream  together  he  butter,  add  he.  sugar.     Sift  together  1  c.  flour, 
1  tsp.  soda  and  1  tsp.  cinnamon.    Add  1  c.  oatmeal.     Beat  1  egg  and  add 
to  sugar  and  butter.    Combine  the  two  mixtures  and  add  6  Tbsp.  milk. 
Drop  from  spoon  and  bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Stell 


Rum  Balls 


3  c.  crushed  vanilla  wafers 

he,  powdered  sugar 

3  Tbsp.  dark  Karo  syrup 


1  c.  nuts 

ih  Tbsp.  cocoa 

6  Tbsp.  brandy,  rum,  or  bourbon 


Mix  and  roll  above  ingredients  into  small  balls.  Roll  in  powdered 
sugar.  Miss  Mary  Saunders 


Fool-Proof  Chocolate  Fudge 


1  lb,  confectioners  sugar  2  tsp.  butter 

2  sq.  chocolate  '  pinch  of  salt 

1  small  can  evaporated  milk  ^  jar  marshal low  cream 

Put  all  ingredients  in  pan,  except  marshmallow  cream.     Cook  slowly  until 
dissolved.     Turn  up  heat  and  boil  4  minutes   (do  not  exceed).     Remove  from 
heat  and  add  marshmallow  cream.     Beat  slightly.     Add  1   tsp.  vanilla. 
Add  ^  cup  nuts,  if  desured.     Po^or  into  a  buttered  platter.     Score  while 
still  warm.  Mrs.  E.  G.  Cothran 


Cowboy  Cookies 


2  c,  sifted  floior 
1  tsp.  soda 
h.  tsp.  salt 
\  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  c .  shorten:  ig 
1  c .  white  sugar 

Sift  together  and  set  aside 
Blend  together  shortening,  sugar 


1  c.  brown  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  tsp  vanilla 

2  c.  oats 


1  pkg.  chocolate  bits 

lour,   soda,  salt  and  baking  powder 
Add  eggs  and  beat  until  light  and 
fluffy.     Add  vanilla,  oats  and  chocolate  bits.  Drop  by  teaspoonsful 
on  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  10-15  min.  in  350  degree  oven. 


14 


Brunswick  Stew 


1  large  hen 

4  lb.  beef  soup  bones 

2  lb.  pork  roast 
2  cans  corn 

2  cans  garden  peas 
2  cans  butter  beans 
2  lb.  onions 

1  can  string  beans  (optional) 


2  lb.  cabbage 

1  lb.  rice 

^  gal.  tomatoes 

2  lb.  Irish  potatoes 
1  box  macaroni 

1  can  soup  mixture 

1  bottle  tomato  catsup 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


In  one  pot  cook  all  meats  together  until  done.     Take  meat  off  bones  and 
chip.     In  another  container  cook  all  other  ingredients  lontil  done.  Then 
add  these  to  the  meat  and  broth  in  which  it  was  cooked  and  simmer  until 
as  thick  as  desired.    Makes  three  gallons. 

Mrs.  Douglas  Finch 


Brunswick  Stew 


1  6  or  7  lb.  hen 

iH  lb.  pork 
Ih  lb.  beef 

iH  lb.  dry  buttsLT  beans 
1  can  green  butter  beans 
1  can  corn 
10  lb.  potatoes 


2  lb .  onions 

4  small  cans  tomatoes 

1  bottle  catsup 

1  bottle  Worcestershire  sauce 

Frank's  Hot  Sauce  to  taste 

Red  pepper  pod 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Precook  all  meat  and  bone.  Cook  potatoes,  onions  and  beans.  Add  all 
other  ingredients  and  cook  until  stew  is  thickened. 

Mrs.  Wayne  Davis 


Mints 

2  c.  water 

1  c.  sugar 

2/3  stick  margarine 

Oil  of  peppermint 

Place  sugar  and  water  in  heavy  saucepan.     Stir  only  until 
sugar  and  water  are  mixed  well  together.     Add  margarine  when 
mixture  starts  to  boil,  stirring  until  margarine  is  dissolved. 
Do  not  stir  again.     Cook  until  hard  crack  stage  (285  degrees  on 
candy  thermometer) .     Pour  on  marble  slkb  and  let  stand  until  coo 
enough  to  handle.     Add  coloring  and  peppermint  to  taste.  Pull 
until  mixture  loses  its  gloa 


15 


Boeuf  Boiorguignon 

2  lb,  lean  beef  ^  c.  beef  bouillon 

2  T-fesp.  bacon  drippings  1  c.  dry  red  wine 

10  small  or  5  medium  onions  ^  lb.  fresh  mushrooms 

Ih  Tbsp.  flour  Marjoram,  thyme     salt,  pepper 

In  heavy  skillet,  fry  the  sliced  onions  in  the  bacon  drippings  until 
brown.     Remove  them  and  set  aside.    Cut  the  lean  meat  into  1-inch  cubes. 
Saute  them  in  the  same  drippings  adding  more  fat  if  necessary.  When 
brown,  sprinkle  flour  and  a  generous  pinch  of  salt,  pepper,  marjoram, 
and  thyme  over  beef.     Then  add  bouillon  and  wine  (any  good  American 
burgundy).     Stir  well  for  a  moment,  then  let  it  simmer  as  slowly  as 
possible  for  3^  hours.     It  should  just  barely  bubble.     The  liquid  may 
cook  away  some,  so  add  a  little  more  bouillon  and  wine  to  keep  the  beef 
barely  covered.     After  the  mixture  has  cooked  the  required  time,  return 
the  browned  onions  to  the  skillet    add  h  lb.  sliced  mushrooms.  Stir 
well  and  let  cook  for  another  45  minutes.     Again  it  may  be  necessary  to 
add  a  little  more  stock  and  wine.     The  sauce  should  be  thick  and  dark 
brown.     With  this  main  dish,  serve  crusty  French  bread,  tossed  green 
salad  and  follow  it  with  a  light  dessert. 

Mrs.  B.  D.  Thomas 


Chicken  Tetrazinni 

1  hen  cooked  and  cut  up  1  large  can  tomatoes 

1  lb.,  or  less,  bacon  fried  crisp      2  cans  mushrooms,  chopped 

and  crumbled  1  jar  stuffed  olives,  sliced 

3  or  4  onions 

Cook  onions  in  bacon  grease.     Cook  tomatoes,  mushrooms,    md  olives  until 
slightly  thickened.     Add  onion,  bacon  and  chicken.     Cook  a  large  pack- 
age of  spaghetti  in  chicken  broth.     Alternate  layers  of  chicken  mixture 
and  spaghetti  in  casserole.     Top  with  slices  of  American  cheese.  Cover 
and  cook  in  moderate  oven    about  30  minutes.     Take  cover  off  last  10 
minutes  of  cooking.     Serves  16. 

Mrs.  Edgar  B.  Fisher 


Cheese  Fondue 

Spread  6  slices  of  bread  with  prepared  mustard  and  cube.     Grate  h  lb. 
sharp  cheese.     Alternate  layers  of  bread,  cheese,  salt,  pepper,  red 
pepper  and  paprika  in  casserole  until  it  is  filled.     Beat  three  eggs 
well  and  add  2  cups  of  milk.     Pour  milk  and  egg  mixt^jre  over  bread 
until  just  below  top  layer.     Bake  at  350  F.  for  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  Foster  D.  Finch 


16 


Chili 


^  lb.  ground  beef 

he,  chopped  green  pepper 
he.  chopped  onions 
2  Tbsp.  fat 
h.  c-  boiling  water 

1  c.  tomatoes 


Make  a  paste  of: 

ih  Tbsp  chili  powder  (or  to  taste) 
h  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  sugar 

Ih  tsp.  garlic  cloves 

2  Tbsp.  water 


Cook  onions  and  green  pepper  in  fat  until  tender.     Brown  baef .  Add 
water  and  tomatoes.     Make  a  paste  of  above  ingredients.     Add  to  other 
ingredients.    Cover  and  simmer  one  hour.     Uncover  and  simmer  one-half 
hour  longer.    Add  hot  water  if  mixture  thickens  too  much. 

Mrs.  Wayne  Davis 


Pepper  Cup 


3  Tbsp.  Crisco 

2  Tbsp.  finely  chopped  onion 

ih  c.  ground  meat  (veal,  chicken 

or  ham) 
1  c.  boiled  rice 


he,  tomato  juice 

6-8    medium  peppers 

he  fine  bread  crumbs 

1  Tbsp.  Crisco  (additional) 


Select  medium-size  peppers,  thick-fleshed  and  bright  green.     Remove  stem, 
seeds  and  inner  membrane.    Cover  with  hot  water  and  simmer  10  minutes. 
Drain  and  cool.    While  peppers  are  cooling  prepare  filling.    Melt  Crisco 
in  skillet.     Add  onion  and  cook  until  delicately  browned.     Remove  from 
stove  and  combine  this  with  rice,  meat  and  tomato  juice.  Sprinkle 
inside  of  peppers  with  salt.     Stuff  peppers.     Sprinkle  tops  with  bread 
crumbs  mixed  with  additional  melted  Crisco.     Put  just  enough  water  in 
baking  dish  to  cover  bottom.     Place  peppers  upright  in  pan  and  bake  in 
hot  oven  (400  F. )  for  10  to  15  minutes.     These  can  be  prepared  in  the 
morning  and  baked  just  before  mealtime. 

Miss  Mary  Saunders 


Barbecue  Chicken  Sauce 


1  pt.  vinegar  1  stick  butter 

1  pt.  water  Red  pepper  to  taste 
Ih  Tbsp.  prepared  mustard  Salt  to  taste 

3  Tbsp  sugar  Paprika 

2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 


Mix  together  water,  vinegar    mustard,  sugar  and  Worcestershire.  Pour 
in  roaster.     Then  put  chickens  in  roaster.     Pour  melted  butter  over 
chickens,  then  sprinkle  red  pepper  on  top  of  that.     Place  uncovered 
roaster  in  350  F.  oven  and  let  cook  for  h  hour.     After  that  baste 
every  10  or  15  minutes  with  pastry  brush  ^until  tender.  Sprinkle 
with  paprika  a  few  minutes  before  removing  from  oven.     Thicken  gravey 
and  serve  over  chicken.  Mrs.  Foster  D.  Finch 


17 


Pressed  Chicken 


1  hen  cooked  and  diced 
1  c.  canned  English  peas 
2c.  diced  celery 
1  c.  chopped  almonds 
1  c.  mayonnaise 

Mix  dry  ingredients ,  add  mayonnai 
and  serve  on  lettuce  ice  cold. 


1  c.  chicken  broth 

4  boiled  eggs  (diced) 

5  tsp.  tomato  catsup 

1  pkg.  plain  gelatin  dissolved 
in  ^  c.  broth 

,  then  add  gelatine.  Put  into  molds 
Mrs.  Donald  Stallings 


Oyster  Stew 

1  pt.  oysters  2  Tbsp.  butter 

1  pt.  milk  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Drain  liquid  from  oysters,  then  scald  the  liquid  in  a  sauce  pan. 
Next  skim  the  liquid  and  add  oysters.     Cook  until  edges  of  oysters 
begin  to  curl  and  add  butter  and  seasonings.    Then  heat  milk  to 
boiling  point  and  add  it  to  oysters.     Serve  piping  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Coltrane 


Meat  Loaf 


1  lb.  ground  beef 
1  tsp.  salt 
H  tsp.  black  pepper 
3  Tbsp.  tomato  catsup 
1  Tbsp.  A-1  Sauce 


3  medium  onions,  chopped 

3  Tbsp.  shortening 

4  slices  loaf  bread  softened 
^  c.  sweet  milk 

3  eggs 

1  can  Campbell  vegetable  soup 


Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Put  into  a  well-greased  casserole. 
Cover  with  water.     Cook  at  400  F.  for  1  or  1%  hours. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Finch 


Spicy  Meat  Loaf 


1^  lb.  ground  chuck  beef 
2  Tbsp.  min::ed  onion 
1%  Tbsp.  green  pepper 
1^  c.  cubed  soft  bread 
>2  tsp.  salt 


1  egg 

3  Tbsp.  catsup 

1  Tbsp.  prepared  horseradish 
\  tsp.  dry  mustard 
%  c.  milk 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  blend  well.  Shape  into  6  small  loaves 
Pour  one  can  condensed  tomato  soup  over  loaves.  Bake  \\  hours  at  375  F 
until  done.  Miss  Mary  Saunders 


18 


Chicken  Casserole 


2^  c.  diced  chicken  1  can  cream  mushroom  soup 

ih  c.  diced  celery  1  can  onions 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Dot  with  butter  on  top.  Place  in  350  F. 
oven  for  45  minutes.     Serve  over  noodles  or  rice.     Serves  6  or  7. 

Mrs.  S.  G.  Flowers 


Ham  and  Chicken  Casserole 


h.  lb.  cooked  ham 

2  Tbsp.  chopped  onion 
H  c.  milk 
1  Tbsp.  sugar 
1  can  cream  chicken  soup 


2  Tbsp.  butter 

1  Tbsp.  chopped  pimento 

1  c.  cooked  chicken 

1  c.  diced  American  cheese 

3c.  soft  bread  crumbs 


Cut  ham  into  small  cubes.    Combine  soup  and  milk.     Heat  until  blended. 
Add  sugar,  cheese  and  chicken.     Place  1  cup  of  bread  crum^os  in  bottom 
of  one  and  one-half  quart  casserole.    Add  layer  of  ham  and  onion.  Cover 
with  one  cup  bread  crumbs.     Pour  chicken  mixture  over  bread  crumbs.  Top 
with  bread  crumbs  and  pimento.     Dribble  butter  over  all.     Bake  at  350  F. 
for  30  mins.     Makes  6  to  8  servings. 

Mrs.  Carsey  Tippett 


Chicken  Casserole 


4c,  diced  cooked  chicken  2c.  Pepperidge  Farm  dressing 

1  can  cream  chicken  soup  2  Tbsp.  grated  onion 

1  small  can  pimento 

Dice  cooked  chicken,  add  soup,  pimento  and  onions.     Any  amount  of 
seasoning  you  desire  may  be  used.     Put  a  layer  of  crumbs  in  baking  dish 
and  alternate  with  chicken  mixture.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  well- 
blended.  Mrs.  C.  S.  Foshee 


Swiss  Steak 

2  lbs.  round  steak  1  medium  onion 

\  c.  flour 

Salt  steak  and  beat  flour  well  into  it.     Brown  quickly  on  both  sides 
in  hot  fat.     Add  water,  cover  tightly  and  steam  until  very  tender. 
More  water  may  be  added  if  necessary.     When  about  half  done  add 
chopped  onion.     Tomato  may  be  substituted  for  onion  or  both  may  be 
used.  _  Mrs.  W.  C.  Campen 


Pork  Chop  Casserole 

Put  4  to  6  chops  in  casserole  or  pan.     Cut  up  slices  of  onion  and 
place  one  large  slice  on  each  chop.     Pour  tomato  soup  over  chops 
(1  can);  and  add  h  cup  water  for  each  can  soup.     Put  alumnium  foil 
over  pan  and  bake  in  oven  at  500  F,  for  45  min, ;  remove  foil  and 
bake  15  min,  to  brown  chops.  Miss  Faye  Finch 


19 


J 


Five  Can  Casserole 


1  can  French  style  string  beans  1  can  French  fried  onion  rL.aVgs 

1  can  bean  sprouts  1  can  condensed  mushroom  soup 

1  can  water  chestnuts,  sliced 

Drain  beans,  bean  sprouts  and  water  chestnuts  well  and  add  to  mushroom 

soup.     Pour  mixture  into  baking  dish-     Dot  with  butter  and  bake  at 

350  F.  about  h  hour.     Spread  onion  rings  on  top  and  bake  another  10  min. 

Mrs.  Edgar  B/  Fisher 


String  Bean  Casserole 

2  pkgs.  frozen  French  style  beans  ^1  can  French  fried  onions 
slivered  almonds  1  can  cream  mushroom  soup 

cheese 

Cook  beans  according  to  directions.     Toast  almonds  in  small  amount  of 
butter.     Alternate  layers  of  beans     almonds,  and  grated  cheese  in 
casserole  dish.     Dilute  soup  with  one-half  cup  milk.     Pour  over  beans 
and  bake  at  350  F.  until  hot  and  bubbly.     Just  before  serving  top  with 
onions  and  return  to  oven  for  2  or  3  minutes, 

Mrs .  George  Tucker 


Corn  Pudding 

1  c.  milk  2  Tbsp.  butter,  melted 

2  Tbsp.  flour  1  tsp.  salt 

2  Tbspe  sugar  2  c.  corn  (or  1  can) 

2  eggs 


Blend  sugar,  flour,   salt  and  butter.     Then  add  milk.     To  this  mixture  add 
well-beaten  eggs  and  corn.     Place  in  greased  baking  dish  and  cook  until 
firm.  Mrs.        W.  Harris 


Baked  Beans 

1  (1  lb.  15  oz.)  can  baked  beans        he,  catsup 

2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  medium  onion  chopped 

1  Tbsp.  brown  sugar  1  green  pepper  chopped 

2  Tbsp.  syrup  6  slices  raw  bacon 

Thoroughly  mix  all  ingredients  except  bacon.     Pour  into  baking  dish. 
Top  with  bacon  slices.     Bake  at  350  F.  for  about  1  hour  or  until 
pepper  and  onion  are  tender.     Yields  6  to  8  servings. 

Mrs.  Frank  Wall 


20 


Parsley  Rice 


1  c.  rice  (cook  as  directed) 
1  c  an  cream  chicken  soup 
h  can  water 


1  tsp.  parsley 

1  c.  grated  cheese 

1  Tbsp.  onion  grated 


After  rice  is  well  done,  combine    with  other  ingredients,  reserving 
enough  cheese  to  garnish  the  top  of  the  casserole.     Bake  in  medium  oven 
until  thoroughly  hot  and  the  cheese  is  melted. 

Mrs.  William  K.  Quick 


Scalloped  Corn  and  Oysters 


2H  c.  bread  crombs 
1  pt.  oysters 

1  small  can  whole  kernel  corn 
drained 


^  c.  melted  butter 

^  c.  milk  or  light  cream 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Place  ingredients  in  casserole  dish  ii  layers  starting  with  buttered 
crumbs,   then  corn,  and  oysters.     Top  with  bread  crumbs.     Bake  at  350  F. 
for  30  to  35  mins.  Mrs.  Fred  Harper 


Cornbread  Hot  Dog  Casserole 


1  Tbsp,  Bacon  fat 

1  medium-sized  onion  diced 

1  I'o.  frankijrters     cut  in  pieces 

^  c.  celery,  diced 

\  green  pepper ,  diced 


1  large,  can  ■'■.">matoes   (2^  c.) 
Pinch  thyme 
Pinch  oregano 
Salt 

1  pkg.  corn  bread  mix 


Melt  bacon  fat  and  add  onion,  celery,  green  pepper.  Cook  slowly 

until  vegetables  are  tender.  Add  frankfurters  , 

and  comatoes.  Season 

to  taste  with  thyme,  orsgano  and  salt.  Simmer  10  minutes.  Pour  into 

large  casserole.  Set  oven  at  425.  Prepare  corn  bread  batter  according 

to  directions  on  the  package  and  spread  over  the  casserole.  Bake 

until  the  corn  bread  is  brown  and  crusty    about  25  minutes.     Serves  6. 

Scotte  Brown 


Dumpling  For  Chicken 

1  c.  unsifted  plain  flour 

Shortening  (preferably  lard)  size  of  walnut 
^  c.  Boiling  water 

2  eggs 

Nest  shortening  in  flour.  Poiir  rolling  boiling  water  over  lard. 
When  shortening  is  dissolved  bread  in  eggs  and  work  all.  ingredients 
together  until   pie  dough  consistency.  Roll  out  dough  until  paper  thiln. 
Let  dry.     Season  broth  in  whi'ch  a  hen  has  been  tendered  with  \  tsp. 
black  pepper,  ^  tsp.  sage,  and  salt  to  taste,  bring  broth  to  rolling 
boil  and  irop  in  pastry,  piece  by  piece.     Be  sure  each  piece  of  pastry 
is  submerged  before  adding  another  or  it  will  stick  together. 
Cover  pot  and  let  sinmer  slowly  15  minutes.  Pastry  will  float  when 
done.   (Cut  Pastry  in-'-o  strips) 

Mrs.  Joe  Tippett 


Cranberry-Apple  Relish 


4  c.  cranberries  1  lemon 

2  apples,  pared  and  cored  2^  c.  sugar 

2  oranges 


Put  apples  and  cranberries  through  food  chopper.     Quarter  oranges 
and  lemon.     Remove  seeds.     Put  through  food  chopper.    Add  sugar  and 
blend.     Chill  in  refrigerator  before  serving.     Makes  1^  quarts.  Will 
keep  in  refrigerator  for  several  weeks. 

Mrs.  Bernice  Bunn 


Shrimp  Salad 

Mix  1  can  shrimp,  1  cup  diced  celery,  i  cup  diced  pickles,  2  boiled 
eggs,  juice  1  lemon,  add  enough  mayonnaise  to  moisten. 

Mrs.  Irby  Gill 


Pineapple  and  Carrot  Salad 

1  pkg  lemon  jello 

1  Tbsp.  vinegar 

1  large  can  crushed  pineapple 

Equal  amount  of  grated  carrots 


Dissolve  jello  in  one  cup  of  hot  water  then  add  1  cup  of  pineapple 
juice.     When  cool  add  pineapple    and  carrots.     When  congealed  serve 
on  lettuce  with  mayonnasie. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Coltrane 


Frozen  Fruit  Salad 


Melt  1  Tbsp.  butter  in  double  boiler.     Beat  eggs  (2)  and  mix  with  2  Tbs 
sugar  and  3  Tbsp.  vinegar.     Add  to  butter  and  cook  until  thick.  Chop 
T^lb.  marshmallows  and  melt  in  this  mixture.     When  cool  add  ^  pt .  diced 
pineapple,  1  c.  chopped  nuts,  2  bottles  chopped  red  cherries,  and  ^  pt . 
cream,  v/hipped.     Freeze,  stirring  once. 

Mrs.  Foster  Finch 


Frozen  Eggnog  Salad 


1  Ige  can  fruit  cocktail 
h  Cm  maraschino  cherries 

2  3  oz,  pkg.  cream  cheese 
1/8  tsp.  salt. 


1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  c,  miniature  marshmellows 
1  c,  commercial  eggnog 

h  pt,  cream,  whipped 


Drain  cocktail,  choppped  cherries.  Blend  and  soften  cheese. 
Add  salt,  vanilla  and  eggnog.  Stir  until  smooth.  Add  cherries  and 
n;iarshmellows  and  then  fold  in  whipped  cream..  Pour  into  molds  and 
freeze -about  8  hours.  Makes  10  large  or  12  small  molds.  No  dressing 
required. 


Mi-s  L.  E.  Long 

22 


Jellied  Slaw 


1  pkg.  lemon  jello 
Y  envelope  plain  gellatin 
hot  water 


small  onion,  minced 


t  c 

1  c 

2  c 


celery- 
shredded  carrots 
shredded  cabbage 
3  Tspb .  wine  vinegar 


cup  crushed  pineapple  with  juice  y  tsp.  sali 


green  pepper,  minced 


l/d  tsp.  salt 


Dissolve  jello  and  gelatin  in  cup  of  hot  water.     Stir  other  ingredients 
in  the  dissolved  jello  and  gelatin.     Pour  into  mold.     Chill  until  set. 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  favorite  dressing. 

Mrs.        c.  Daniel 


Avocado  Sherry  Salad 


Split  avocado  in  half  and  remove  pit.     Fill  with  chopped  chilled 
mixed  fruits.     Use  favorite  French  dressing  with  2  Tbsp.  sherry  added. 
Avocado  may  be  diced  and  tossed  with  fruits  and  served  on  bed  of  lettuce 
with  dressing.     Brush  avocadoes  in  lemon  juice  to  prevent  darkening. 
Fruits  which  may  be  used  are  oranges,  grapes,  peaches,  pineapple,  apricots 
or  cherries, 

Mrs.  Cloid  Wade 


Cream  Cheese  Salad 


2  3oz.  pkgs  cream  cheese 

2  pkgs  lemon  or  lime  jello 

3  c.  boiling  water 
1^  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 


Y  c.  pecans,  chopped 
1  c.  celery,  chopped 
1  c.  whipped  cream 


Cream  the  cheese  and  gelatin.     Add  water  and  lemon  juice.     Cool  until 
mixture  is  consistency  of  egg  whites.    Fold  in  pecans  and  celery.  Chill 
"ontil  thick.     Fold  in  whipped  cream.     Serves  8-10. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Bridgers 


Pear  and  Cream  Salad 


1  pkg.  lime  jello  T  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  hot  water  j  tsp.  ground  ginger 

1  cup  pear  juice  2  small  pkgs.  cream  cheese 

1  tsp.  vinegar 

Mix  jello,  water  and  pear  juice.  Chill  until  syrupy.  Beat  until  fluffy. 
Add  the  cream  cheese  which  has  been  mashed  with  vinegar,  salt  and  ginger. 
Add  one  large  can  of  drained  and  diced  pears. 

Mrs.  Henry  E.  Fisher 


23 


Molded  Combination  Salad 


1  pkg.  lemon  jello 

1  c.  boiling  water 

1  c.  cold  water 

■5-  c.  marshmallows  cut  finely 

Mix  jello  with  hot  water,  cool, 
thicken.    Add  other  ingredients. 


1  c.  grated  carrot 

y  c.  shredded  cabbage 

1  c.  chopped  peeled  apple 

-J  c.  chopped  nut  meats 

Add  cold  water.     Chill  until  it  begins  to 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  favorite  dressing. 
Miss  Sarah  Eaton 


Cherry  Salad 

1  can  sour  pitted  cherries 

1  c .  sugar 

1  pkg.  cherry  jello 

1  c.  chopped  nuts 


Mix  cherries  and  sugar  and  bring  to  a  boil.     Remove  from  heat  and  add 
jello.     Stir  thoroughly  and  let  cool  for  a  short  time.     Add  nuts  and 
place  in  refrigerator  until  congealed.     Serve  on  lettuce  with  favorite 
dressing  or  serve  as  a  dessert  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Lawrence  Liles 


Apricot  Delight  Salad 


1  17oz.  can  apricots,  drained 

1  large  can  crushed  pineapple,  drained 

2  pkgs  orange  jello 
2  c.  hot  water 

1  c.  apricot  juice 

1  c.  miniature  marshmallows 


Drain  fruit,  keeping  juices  separately.      Chill  fruit.     Dissolve  fruit  jello 
in  hot  water.     Add  apricot  juice.     Fold  in  fruit  and  marshmallows.  Chill 
until  firm  and  add  topping.     Topping:  ^  c.   sugar,   1  tbsp.  flour,   1  egg 
slightly  beaten,  2  Tbsp.  butter,   1  c.  pineapple  juice,  1  c.  whipped 
cream,       c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese.     Combine  sugar,  flour,  egg.    Add  pine- 
apple and  cook  over  low  heat  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.     Let  cool 
thoroughly.     Fold  in  whipped  cream.     Spread  over  salad.     Sprinkle  with 
cheese.     Chill  and  cut  into  squares.     About  15  servings. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Hint on 


Vegetable  Relish 

1  can  small  peas  1  diced  green  pepper 

1  can  sh<^e  peg  corn  1  cup  diced  red  onions 

1  can  small  green  beans  1  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

1  diced  red  pimento 

Drain  all  vegetables.  Mix  all  ingredients  and  marinate  la  mixture 
of.  h  cup  sugar,  h  cup  oil,   Itsp  salt,   Itsp,  pepper,  h  cup  vinegar. 


24 


Artichoke  Pickles 


3  pkg.  artichokes 
2  gal.  vinegar 

1  box  mj-xed  pickling  spice 
10  lb.  brown  sugar 

4  lb.  onions 

Wash  and  clean  artichokes.  Pack  in 
Combine  other  ingredients  and  bring 
chokes.  Seal. 


1  box  tumeric • 

1  large  box  powdered  mustard 
3  Tbsp.  dry  horseradish 
Salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste 

jars  with  one  onion  per  pint. 

to  boil  and  pour  over  packed  arti- 

Miss  Mary  Saunders 


Crisp  Cucumber  Pickle 

Soak  7  pounds  sliced  cucumbers  in  lime  solution  (5  Tbsp.  lime  to  enough 
cold  water  to  cover)  for  12  to  14  hours.    Rinse. off  and  soak  in  salt 
solution  (salt  and  cover  with  cold  water  again)  for  4  to  6  hours. 
Rinse  off  and  put  in  alum  solution  (3  Tbsp.-  alum  and  cover  with  water. 
Bring  to  a  boil    drain  cucumbers,  and  rinse  well.     Place  cucumbers  in 
boiling  syrup  make  with  5  lb.  sugar,  h,  gallon  vinegar,  ^  box  pickling 
spi^ces  (fixed  in  cloth  or  bag).     Boil  15  minutes  and  pace  into  hot  jars. 

Mrs,  C.  R.  Perry 


Aunt  Lucy's  Bread  and  Butter  Pickle 

1  gal.  cucumbers^  sliced  paper  thin 

2  shredded  green  sweet  peppers 
8  small  onions  sliced  thin 

^  cup  salt 

1  qt.  crushed  ice 

Place  cucumbers,  peppers,  and  onions  in  pot  and  cover  with  salt  and  ice. 
Let  it  stand  for  three  hours.    Drain  well. 
Make  a  syrup  of: 

5  cups  vinegar  3  tsp.  celery  seed 

5  cups  sugar  h.  tsp.  oil  of  cloves 

2  Tbsp.  mustard  seed  1^  Tbsp.  tumeric 

Melt  all  ingredients  and  pour  over  pickle.    Let  come  to  boiling  point 
but  do  not  boil.     Put  in  jars  and  seal.     (Oil  of  cloves  may  be  purchased 
at  most  drug  stores.)  Mrs.  Wayne  Davis 


Watermelon  Rind  Pickle 

10  lbs.  rind  ^  -, 

2  Tbsp.  cloves 

lbs .  sugar  o  mi.  n 

^/     .  ^      r  2  Tbsp.  allspice 

3^  pints  vinegar  l-  i 

^  ^  3  sticks  cinnamon 

Soak  over  night  in  lime  water  (about  jelly  glass  lime;  in  dish  pan. 
Next  morning  wash  in  four  water??.     Boil?20  minutes  in  strong  salt  water, 
Rinse  in  cold  water  3  times.     Boil  20  minutes  in  cl:=iar  water,  drain 
water  off  and  boil  1  to  1^  hours  in  syrup  which  has  been  dissolved. 
Put  spices  in  cheese  cloth. 

^  Mls.  C.  L.  Read 


Pepper  Relish 


15  onions  1  pt.  vinegar 

12  green  peppers  3  tsp,  salt 

3  cups  brown  sugar  3  tsp.  celery  seed 

Put  onions  and  pepper  through  meat  chopper,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
let  stand  10  minutes.    Drain,  cover  with  one  part  vinegar  and  two  parts 
water.     Let  stand  15  minutes.     Drain,  add  vinegar,  sugar,  salt,  and 
celery  seed.    Cook  20  minutes.    Put  in  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  J.  K.  Barrow 


Cucumber  Pickle 


8  lbs .  cucumbers 

2  cups  lime 

24  qts.  white  vfinegar 

4  Tbsp.  salt 

1  Tbsp.  cloves 


2  gal.  water 

9  cups  sugar 

i  Tbsp.  whole  allspice 

1  Tbsp.  celery  seed 


Slice  cucumbers  thinly  and  weigh  after  being  sliced.     Soak  cucumbers  in 
lime  water  for  24  hours.     Drain  off  lime  water  and  wash  cucumbers  until 
water  is  clear.    Make  a  pickling  solution  of  vinegar,  sugar  and  salt. 
Tie  spices  in  a  bag  and  soak  cucumbers  in  this  solution  for  3  hours. 
Cook  this  same  solution  and  cucumbers  for  30  minutes  or  until  transpa- 
rent.   Let  bag  of  spices  remain  during  cooking.     Sterilize  jars,  place 
pickles  in  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  E.  G.  Cothran 


Sweet  Cucumber  Pickle 

Cover  whole  cucumbers,  without  washing,  with  a  solution  of  1  cup  salt 
to  1  gallon  water.     Seak  for  1  week.     Remove  brom  brine  and  wash 
thoroughly.    Cut  into  rings  and  soak  in  lime  solution  (1  cup  lime  to 
1  gallon  water)  for  2  or  3  hours.    Remove  and  wash  thoroughly  again. 
Soak  in  syrup  overnight  using  1  cup  sugar  to  1  cup  vinegar  and  ^  box  of 
mixed  pickling  spice.    Next  morning  pour  off  syrup  and  cook  it  15 
minutes.     Then  add  cucumbers  and  cook  15  minutes.     Pack  into  jars  and 
seal.  Mrs.  Fred  Page 


Sweet  Peach  Pickle 

6  lbs.  peaches  1  qt.  vinegar 

3  pts.  sugar 

Make  syrup  and  drop  peaches  in  and  cook  until  tender.  Drain  syrup  off 
and  cook  15  minutes  for  three  mornings.    Add  spices  last  morning. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Finch 


26 


Compliments 


Peoples  Bank  &  Trust  Company 

Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Complete  Banking  Service 


ROBERT  D.  MASSEY.  Vice-President 


HORACE  GAY.  Cashier 


Member  of  FD!C 


Compliments 


VINSON'S  PHARMACY 


ACROSS   FROM  WENDELL-ZEBULON  HOSPITAL 


Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 


Located  in  Zebulon's  New  Shopping  Center 
Highway  64  &  264 


The  Largest  Most  Modern  Food  Store  in  Our  Community 
A  Large  Selection,  Plus  Suality  &  Service 


Compliments 
HALES  FARM  SUPPLY 


Compliments 
LOWERY'S  INSURANCE  AGENCY 

Aaron  C  Lew*ry,  owmt  Miom  24f4177 


Compliments 
Colonial  Frozen  Foods,  Inc. 


Compliments 

ZEBULON  CITY  BARBER  SHOP 
G.  Kermit  Corbett,  owner 

^         ^  Compliments  ,^ 

«®    ZEBULON  DRY  CLEANERS 

Worth  Hinteii,  Prep.  Th«  world's  most  rocommondod  dry  dotniiig 

Compliments 
J.  M.  CHEVROLET  CO.,  INC. 

ARENDELL  AVENUE  ZEBULON,  NORTH  CAROLINA 

Compliments 
CORNELIA  SMITH'S 
Zebulon,  North  Carolina 

Compliments 
J.  R.  Alford  Insurance  Agency 

INSURANCE  OF  ALL  KINDS 
ZEBULON,  NORTH  CAROLINA 
Phono,   Offic*    269-2061  R**id«ne«,  269-2721 

Compliments 

FRANK  KANNON'S  DEPARTMENT  STORE 
Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 

BUNN  ELECTRIC  &  FURNITURE  CO. 

Electrical  Appliances  &  Furniture 

HAMILTON  &  MAYTAG  WASHERS  -  DUaTHERM  &  SUPERFLAME  HEATERS 
PHILCO  &  ADMIRAL  APPLIANCES 
P.  O.  Box  65  ZEBULON,  N.  C,  27597  Phone  269*2121 

Compliments 

Zebulon  Florist  &  Gift  Shop 

Zebulon,  North  Carolina 
Business  Phone  269-9438  Home  Phone  365-5621 


Compliments 
ZEBULON  JEWELERS 

Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 
FARMER'S  DEPARTMENT  STORE 

Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 
GATS  DRY  CLEANERS 
Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 
DR.  PERRY  GROGAN 
Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 
DR.  HEBER  W.  WINDLEY 

Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 

PAUL  BROWN  &  SONS  GROCERY 
Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 

MAIDEN  OIL  COMPANY 
Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 
ZEBULON  SHEET  METAL  WORKS 

Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 
WHITLEY  FURNITURE  COMPANY 

Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 
PARRISH  SUPERMARKET 

Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 

American  Plumbing  and  Electrical  Supply  Co.,  Inc. 

Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 
Paul  V.  Brantley  Oil  Co.,  Inc. 

Gasoline  —  Kerosene  —  #2  Fuel  Oils 
Tires  &  Auto  Accessories 

Station  #1  —  269-9217 

Station  #2  —  269-9211 

ZEBULON,  NORTH  CAROLINA 


ELECTRICITY  IS  CHEAP 

.  .  .  are  YOU  changing  to  clean,  cool,  fast,  safe, 
economical  ELECTRIC  COOKERY?  Get  the  details 
and  learn  how  you  can  SAVE,  get  better  results, 
and  enjoy  MANY  MORE  HOURS  OF  FREEDOM  from 
the  kitchen! 


SEE  YOUR  ELECTRIC  DEALER 
or  the  Carolina  Power  &  Light  Co. 


Compliments  of 
MORGAN  DRUGS 
Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Compliments 


DEBNAM 


Telephone 
AN  9-2021 

ZEBULON,  N.  C. 


Compliments 
LITTLE  RIVER  ICE  COMPANY 


lc«  A  CmI 

ZEBULON,  NORTH  CAROLINA 


LP  Ga»  Distributers 


Sincbir  Distributers 

PHONE  -  269-3081 


Compliments  of 


W.  B.  Bunn  &  Company,  Inc. 


Zebulon,  North  Carolina 


Sponsors  of 


Better  VAL-U 

INDEPENDENT 

GROCERY  STORES 

  INC.   


