Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


I 


SW'^J 


SOYER'S 


IP  i!^ !!  IT  m  dD  IP  lEI  IB  dD  Kf 


J 


i 


I 


«  I 


rii 


IHE 


iEia©'3r(DmY   (d^    ip®®© 


M  tt0  ^nptatian, 


FROM  THE  EARLIEST  AGES  OF  THE  WORLD. 


By  a.  SOYER, 


ADTBOB  OF 


/•         * 


"Kjif  iHrtnnnrmir  aigtmalirr"  anh  t^  "  JHoto  Snufimifi,  or  ffimgra/'  kt. 


EMBELLISHED  WITH  FORTY-TWO  STEEL  PLATES, 
ILLUSTBATING  THE  OBEATEST  GA8TB0N0MIG  MARVELS  OF  ANTIQUITY. 


cBOSTONiC   -    '   '   -J 
TICKNOR,     REED,     AND     FIELDS 

MDCCCLTTI. 


The  Author  reserves  hU  right  of  Translating  this  Work, 


/  fi  3  ^      ^^^*,*-Ji  ^^- 


/  ^ 


</^ 


^^f.^<::<  y         »>jte-*t..^^ 


VIZETELLY    AND   COMPANY,  PRINTERS    AND   EXGRAVEKS. 
PETERBOROUGH  COURT,  FLEET   STREET. 


/ 


CatiM. 


*■ 


Pantbopheon •  3 

I. 

Agbicultubs  •••. •«•  0 

II. 

CSBEALS 19 

III. 

Gbihdino  of  Cob9 28 

IV. 
Manipulation  of  Flour 80 

V. 
Fbumbnta 4i 

.VI. 
Grains:  Sesds 46 


Vll. 

Yeobtables 49 

VIII. 

Dried  Yeoetablbs 53 

Beans       ..••...••..  63 

Harieots 55 

Peas .  56 

Lentils     V 57 


y'l  CONTENTS. 


IX. 

Kitchen  Gabden 59 

Cabbage 60 

Beet 02 

Spinach ' 63 

Mallows 64 

Asparagus 64 

Gourd 66 

Turnips 67 

Carrots 68 

Blit  (a  sort  of  Beet) 68 

Purslame 68 

Sorrel * 69 

*  Brocoli     . 69 

Artichoke        ' 70 

Pompion 71 

Cucumber 72 

Lettuce 74 

Endive 75 

.Onions     '• 76 

Leeks       .        •       .        •       , 77 

Melon 77 

Radish 79 

Horse-Radish 80 

Garlic 81 

Eschalots 82 

Parsley ^        .        .        .        .  82 

Chervil 84 

Water-Cresses 84 

X. 

Plants  Used  in  Seasonino 86 

Poppy 86 

Sesame     . 86 

Sow-Thistle 87 

Orach 87 

Rocket 87 

Fennel 88 

Dill \  88 

Anise-Seed 88 

'Hyssop 88 

Wild  Marjoram 89 

Savory 89 


I 


CONTENTS.  TO 

Pace 

Plants  JJskd  in  Seasoning  coDtmued — 

Thyme 89 

WiU  Thyme 89 

Sweet  Maijoram .        .  89 

Femiyroyal 90 

Rue 90 

Mint 90 

Spanish  Camomile •       .       ,  90 

Cummin 91 

Alisander 91 

Capers 91 

AsafoBtida 91 

Smnach 92 

Gmger 92 

Wormwood 93 

XI. 

EsinTs  .       • 95 


XII. 


Stonb  Fruit 9T 

I                                   Olive  Tiee 97 

i                                    PahnTree 100 

r                                   Cherry  Tree 102 

Apricot  I'ree  ..........  103 

Peach  Tree 104 

Plum  Tree 106 


i 


r 


xni. 


Pip  Frott lOS 

QninceTree 100 

Pear  Tree 107 

Apple  Tree 108 

Lemon  Tree     . 109 

Orange  Tree 110 

Pig  Tree 112 

Raspberry  Tree 115 

CnrrantTree 115 

h-  Strawbeny  Plant ...  115 

Mulberry  Tree 116 


Tui  CONTENTS. 

XIV. 

Shell  Fbuit 117 

Almond  Tree 117 

Walnut  Tree    .....' 118 

Nut  Tree 120 

Pistachio  Tree 120 

GhesnutTree    . 121 

Pomegranate 122 


XV. 

Akdcal  Food 123 

Rearing  of  Cattle 127 

Markets 128 

Butchers 129 


XVI. 

ANDfALB 133 

The  Pig   ...       ^       ......        .  188 

The  Ox    •        .        .        . 142 

TheLamb        .• 146 

TheKid    .        . 148 

The  Ass   .        « 150 

The  Dog  ............  150 


XVII. 

POULTBT 162 

The  Cock         ..........  158 

The  Capon 154 

The  Hen 155 

The  Chicken     ..........  156 

The  Duck 158 

The  Goose 159 

The  Pigeon 162 

TheGumeaHen 163 

The  Turkey  Hen 163 

The  Peacock 166 


CONTENTS. 


IX 


XVIIl. 

Milk,  Butteb,  Cheese,  and  fieos 

Milk 

Butter 

Cheese      ..... 
EggB 


Page 

168 
168 
170 
178 
175 


XIX. 


HUKTIKG 


The  Stag  . 
The  Roehuck 
The  Deer 
The  Wild  Boar 
The  Hare 
The  Rahbit 
The  Fox  . 
The  Hedgehog 
The  Squirrel 
The  Camel 
The  Elephant 


179 
182 
184 
184 
185 
188 
189 
199 
190 
190 
190 
191 


r 


XX. 

Feathered  Game 193 

The  Pheasant I94 

The  Partridge    . I95 

The  Quail 195 

The  Thrush 197 

The  Blackbird I99 

The  Starling 200 

The  Flamingo 200 

Fig-Pecker,  or  Beccafico 201 

The  Ortolan 208 

The  Ostricli 208 

The  Stork 204 

The  SearSwallow       . 204 

The  Wood-Hen,  Bustard,  Water-Hen,  and  Teal        ...  206 

The  Woodcock,  Snipe,  Curlew,  Crow,  Turtle  Dove,  and  Lark    .  207 


X  CONTENTS. 

Page 

XXI. 

Fish 210 

Stargeon 216 

Red  Mullet 218 

SearEel 220 

Lamprej 222 

Sea-Wolf 228 

Scarus,  or  Parrot-FlBh 223 

Turbot 224 

Tunny 225 

Conger-Ed 226 

Eel 227 

Pike 228 

Carp 229 

EelPout 229 

Trout 230 

Gold  Fish 230 

Whiting 280 

Cod  Fish 231 

Perch 232 

Scate 288 

Sahnon 288 

Sepia,  or  Cuttl^Fish 284 

Swordfish 284 

Shad 234 

Rhomho,  or  Rhombus 235 

Mugil 285 

Mackerel 235 

Haddock 236 

Tench 236 

Dragon  Weaver 287 

Loligo 287 

Sole 287 

Angel-Fish 287 

File-Fish 237 

Pilchard 288 

Loach 288 

Gudgeon 288 

Herring 289 

AnchoYj 240 

Shell-Fish 241 

Oysters 242 

Sea-Hedgehog 245 


CONTENTS.  xi 


\ 


Shbll-Fish  continued— 

Musael       .        .    "~ 245 

Scallop 246 

Tortoise .  fU6 

Sea-Crawfish 247 

Lobster 247 

River  Crayfish 248 

Crab 248 

Frogs 249 

XXII. 

Thb  Cook , 251 

ThB  KiTCHBN 259 

XXIIL 

Sbabovinos 266 

Salt 267 

Brine 268 

Digestive  Salts 269 

Ganim 269 

Honey 278 

Sugar 275 

Cinnamon 275 

Cloves 276 

f  Pepper 277 

Verjuice 277 

Vinegar 278 

Truffle 279 

Mushrooms 282 

^  XXIV. 

PaBTBT  284 

\ 

XXV. 

Water 293 

r 

XXVI. 

BeYEAAOES 299 

Tea 806 

Coffee 310 

Chocolate 812 


xii  CONTENTS. 

Pag* 

XXVII. 
Drinkinq  Gups       ..........  •         316 

XXVIII. 

WiNB 322 

Liqueur  Wike 332 

XXIX. 
Repasts •       •       •       •         339 

XXX. 

Vabibtt  of  Repasts 364 

XXXI. 
The  Dining-Room •       •         368 

XXXII. 

The  Table 368 

The  Table  Seats 372 

XXXIII. 
The  Seryants      .       ....  . 376 

XXXIV, 
The  Guests  .       .      ' 380 

XXXV. 
A  Roman  Supper 386 

Biographical  Notes 399 

Modern  Banquets •       •       '  ^^ 

Table  op  References ^^3 

Table  Of  Recipes -*^ 

Index ^^ 


ICist  of  Sllti0tmtinti0. 


P«Re 

PLATE    A. 
1^'rontispiece— Portrait  op  the  Author. 

PLATE    B. 
Heaven  and  Earth. 

•      PLATE    B.* 
Victua,  or  the  Goddess  of  Gastronomy. 

PLATE   I. 

Eoyptian  Labourers.— No.  1,  Egyptian  Labonrer.  No.  2,  Sketch  of  a 
Plough.  No.  3,  Bosket.  No.  4,  Egyptian  with  Sickle,  drawn  by 
Horses 12 

PLATE    IL 

Greek  and  Roman  PioutiHs.— Nos.  1  and  2,  Greek  and  Roman  Ploughs. 
No.  3,  Plough,  turned  once  or  twice.  No.  4,  Plough,  as  used  by  the 
Gauls 14 

PLATE    III. 

Agricultural  Implements. — No.  I,  Plain  Sickle.  No.  2a,  Plough,  from 
the  Georgics  of  Virgil.  No.  3,  Scythe.  No.  4,  Spade.  No.  5,  Pick- 
axe.   Nos.  0  and  7,  Mattocks 10 

PLATE    IV. 
Alcinous's  Hand-Mill 25 

PLATE   V. 
Jumrntarij:  Mills         .       .       .  26 


# 


xiv  LIST    OF   ILLUSTRATIONS. 

PLATE    VI. 
Flkutu&'s  Hand-Mill 27 

PLATE    VIL 

Cappadocia  Bread.— No.  1,  Loaf  of  Bread.    No.  2,  Pastry  Mould.    No. 

3,  Cappadocia  Bread.    No.  4,  Mould  for  ditto 38 

PLATE    VIII. 
Scales  and  Weights 130 

PLATE   IX. 
Varro's  Aviary 198 

PLATE   X 
Apichjs  and  Epicurus 201 

PLATE   XI. 

Remains  of  ICitohen  Stoves.— No.  1,  Kitchen  Stove    No.  2,  Stock  Pot 

No.  3,  Ditto.    No.  4,  Ladles.    No.  5,  Brazier 250 

PLATE    XII. 
Stock  Pots  and  Broken  Stbwpak       .        .       * 261 

PLATE    XUL 

Kitchen  Utensils— No.  1,  Boiler,  of  Bronze.     No.  2,  Flat  Saucepan. 

No.  3,  Kettle.    No.  4,  Gridiron.    No.  5,  Trivet         .        .        .        .262 

PLATE    XIV. 
Chafing- Dish  and  Silver  Cup.— No.  1,  Ghafing-Dish.  No.  2,  Silver  Cup       268 

PLATE    XV. 

Spoon,  Fork,  Knife,  SiMPULUM,.<fec.— No.  1,  Roman  Silver  Spoon.    No. 

2,  Brass  Knife.    No.  8,  Simpulum.    No.  4,  Ditto.    No.  5,  Fork        .        264 

PLATE    XVL 

Roman  Silvkr  Knife-handle,  Silver  Spoon,  and  Deep  Dish.— No.  1, 

Silver  Knife-handle.    No.  2,  Spoon.     No.  3,  Dish      •  .        .        265 

PLATE    XVn. 

Roman  and  Egyptian  Pails. — No.  1,  Pail,  of  Bronze.    No.  2,  Pail,  with 

Two  Handles  (Egyptian) 207 

PLATE    XVIII. 

Drinkinq-Cups. — No.  1,  Drinking-Cups  (Shaded).     No.  2,  Ditto,  Pig's 

Head  and  Dog's  Head 310 


LIST    OF   ILLUSTRATIONS.  xv 

PLATE   XVIII.A  ^'^ 

I)BiNKi]f€hGi7P8.~No.  3,  Ram's  Head.    No.  4,  Boar's  Head        .    •       .       317 

PLATE   XIX. 

D&iNKiNG-HoBNS.— Nos.  1  and  2,  Drinking-HomB.     No.  3,  Honi»  Aztec's 

Head 318 

PLATE   XX. 
Gbtstal  Vase 319 

PLATE   XXL 

MUBBHINB  CdP 821 

PLATE   XXII. 

Rbuos  from  Hebculakeum.— No.  1,  Wine  Press.     No.  2,  Diogenes. 

No.  3,  Beast  of  Burthen  (a  toy) 325 

PLATE    XXIII. 

COLUM  NiTABUK 827 

PLATE   XXIV. 

Vessels  fob  Holding  Wine.— No.  1,  Amphora.   Nos.  2  and  3,  Smaller 

Dolinm.    No.  4,  Long-neck  Bottle     ..        r        ....        328 

PLATE   XXV. 

Vases  fob  Wike.— No.  1,  Large  Vase.    No.  2,  Glass  Vase.    No.  8,  Gbss 

Bottle,  with  Cap 363 

PLATE    XXVI. 

Vases  fob  Wine.— No.  1,  Glass  Vase.     No.  2,  Ditto.     No.  3,  Etruscan, 

Three  Handles.    No.  4,  Large  Silver  Vase.    No.  5,  Ganthams  .        .       364 

PLATE    XXVI.A 

GcBious  Obnambntal  Tebba-Cotta  Cups.— No.  1,  Goose.    No.  2,  Teapot. 

No.  3,  Jupiter's  Head 365 

PLATE   XXVI.B 
House  of  Bbunswigk's  Vase 866 

PLATE   XXVII. 

Vases  fob  Wine.— No.  1,  Etruscan  Flat  Vase.     No.  2,  Marble  Vase. 

No.  3,  Metal  Vase.    No.  4,  Greek  Etruscan  Drinking  Vase       .        .        870 

PLATE   XXVIIL 
Pbocillaiobes  and  Tbiclinium.— No.  1,  Procillatores.   No.  2,  Triclinium       878 


■  I 


^.l 


*v 


xwi 


lis:    V 


ATIONS. 


f  C. 


Roman  Supper       ..       ^       ..«•«<.       . 

PLATE   XXX. 

No.  1,  Greek  Etrascaa  Vase.  No.  2,  Greek  Terra-Ootta  Vase.  No.  3, 
Etrnscan  Teira-Gotta  Yase.  No.  4,  Glass  Amphora,  for  Falemian 
Wine.    No.  5,  Teira-Cotta  Amphora,  for  Falemian  Wine 


Page 

386 


PLATE    XXX.» 


Cbateb,  OB  Dbinkino  Cup 


390 


891 


::-i 


>.-> 


PLATE   XXXL 
No.  1,  CmiooB  Silver  Dish.    Nos.  2  and  3,  Silver  ditto    • 


Nero  and  Heliogabalus 


PLATE   XXXIL 


392 


398 


YoBK  Banquet 


PLATE   XXXIII. 


404 


PLATE    XXXIV. 
Wild  Boab  a  la  Tbotenne,  and  The  Hundbbd  Guinea  Dish  . 


406 


PLATE   XXXV. 


Thbee  Siltebed  Glass  Cups 


407 


THIS    WORK 


^s  SeHrateii  ^  tjie  Stitjjnr 


TO    THE 


GENIUS    OF    GASTRONOMY. 


fS 


■~„/.W 


/-y 


.    p 


PANTROPHEON 


"3  HafeartiDitjr  §mu:' 

Shakspbrb.— '<  Jt(/tM  Obsot,"  Act  ill.,  Sc.  3. 


tt  «• 


Bbtllat^ayabiw.—"  Physiclogie  du  GodL** 


Thanks  to  the  impressions  received  in  boyhood,  Borne  and  Atibens 
always  present  themselves  to  our  minds  accompanied  by  the  din  of 
arms^  shouts  of  victory^  or  the  clamours  of  plebeians  crowded  round  the 
popular  tribune.  "  And  yet,"  said  we,  "  nations,  like  individuals,  have 
two  modes  of  existence  distinctly  marked — one  intellectual  and  moral,  the 
other  sensual  and  physical;  and  both  continue  to  interest  through  the 
lapse  of  ages." 

What,  for  instance,  calls  forth  our  sympathies  more  surely  than  to 
follow  from  the  cradle  that  city  of  Romulus — at  first  so  weak,  so  obscure^ 
and  so  despised — through  its  prodigious  developments,  until,  having 


4  PANTROPHEON. 

become  the  sovereign  mistress  of  the  world,  it  seems,  like  Alexander,  to 
lament  that  die  limits  of  the  globe  restrict  within  so  narrow  a  compass 
its  ungovernable  ardour  for  conquest,  its  insatiable  thirst  of  opima  spolia 
and  tyrannical  oppression.  In  like  manner,  a  mighty  river,  accounted 
as  nothing  at  its  source,  where  a  child  can  step  across,  receives  in  its 
meandrous  descent  the  tribute  of  waters,  which  roll  on  with  increasing 
violence,  and  rush  at  last  from  their  too  narrow  bed  to  inundate  distant 
plains,  and  spread  desolation  and  terror. 

History  has  not  failed  to  record,  one  by  one,  the  battles,  victories, 
and  defeats  of  nations  which  no  longer  exist ;  it  has  described  their  public 
life, — their  life  in  open  air, — the  tumultuous  assemblies  of  the  forum, — 
the  fury  of  the  populace, — the  revolts  of  the  camps, — the  barbarous 
spectacles  of  those  amphiteatres,  where  the  whole  pagan  universe  en- 
gaged in  bloody  conflict,  where  gladiators  were  condemned  to  slaughter 
one  another  for  the  pastime  of  the  over-pampered  inhabitants  of  the 
Eternal  City — sanguinary  spectacles,  which  often  consigned  twenty  or 
thirty  thousand  men  to  the  jaws  of  death  in  the  space  of  thirty  days  I 

But,  after  all,  neither  heroes,  soldiers,  nor  people,  can  be  always  at 
war;  they  cannot  be  incessantly  at  daggers  drawn  on  account  of  some 
open-air  election ;  the  applause  bestowed  on  a  skilful  and  courageous 
bestiarius  is  not  eternal ;  captives  may  be  poignarded  in  the  Circus  by 
way  of  amusement,  but  only  for  a  time.  Independently  of  all  these 
things,  there  is  the  home,  the  fire-side,  the  prose  of  life,  if  you  will ;  nay, 
let  us  say  it  at  once,  the  business  of  life — eating  and  drinking. 

It  is  to  that  we  have  devoted  our  vigils,  and,  in  order  to  arrive  at  our 
aim,  we  have  given  an  historical  sketch  of  the  vegetable  and  animal 
alimentation  of  man  from  the  earliest  ages ;  therefore  it  will  be  easily 
understood  why  we  have  taken  the  liberty  of  saying  to  the  austere  Jew, 
the  voluptuous  Athenian,  the  obsequious  or  vain-glorious  senator  of 
imperial  Home,  and  even  to  the  fantastical,  prodigal,  and  cruel  Caesars : 
"  Tell  me  what  thou  eatest,  and  I  will  tell  thee  who  thou  art." 

But,  it  must  be  confessed  that  our  task  was  surrounded  with  diffi- 
culties, and  required  much  laborious  patience  and  obstinate  perse- 
verance. It  is  easy  to  penetrate  into  the  temples,  the  baths,  and  the 
theatres  of  the  ancients ;  not  so  to  rummage  their  cellars,  pantries,  and 
kitchens,  and  study  the  delicate  magnificence  of  their  dining-rooms. 
Now  it  was  there,  and  there  alone,  that  we  sought  to  obtain  access. 

With  that  view  we  have  had  recourse  to  the  only  possible  means : 


PANTROPHEON.  5 

we  have  interrogated  those  old  memours  of  an  extinct  oiyilisadon  which 
connect  the  present  with  the  past;  poets,  orators,  historians,  philoso- 
phers, epistolographers,  writers  on  husbandry,  and  even  those  who  are 
the  most  frivolous  or  the  most  obscure— we  have  consulted  all,  examined 
all^  neglected  nothing.  Our  respectful  curiosity  has  often  emboldened  us 
to  peep  into  the  sacred  treasure  of  the  annals  of  the  people  of  God ;  and 
sometimes  the  doctors  of  the  Primitive  Church  have  furnished  us  with 
interesting  traits  of  manners  and  customs,  together  with  chance  indi- 
cations of  domestic  usages,  disseminated,  and,  as  it  were,  lost  in  the 
midst  of  grave  moral  instruction. 

The  fatigue  of  these  unwonted  researches  appeared  to  us  to  be  fully 
compensated  by  the  joy  we  experienced  on  finding  our  hopes  satisfied 
by  some  new  discovery.  Like  the  botanist,  who  forgets  his  lassitude  at 
the  unexpected  sight  of  a  desired  plant,  we  no  longer  remembered  the 
dust  of  fatidical  volumes,  nor  the  numberless  leaves  we  had  turned  over, 
when  by  a  happy  chance  our  gastronomic  enthusiasm  espied  a  curious 
and  rare  dish. 

Thus  it  is  that  this  work — essay,  we  ought  to  call  it — ^has  been  slowly 
and  gradually  augmented  with  the  spoils  of  numerous  writers  of  anti- 
quity, both  religious  and  profane. 

We  have  avoided,  as  much  as  possible,  giving  to  this  book  a  didactic 
and  magisterial  character,  which  would  have  ill-accorded  with  the 
apparent  lightness  of  the  subject,  and  might  have  rendered  it  tedious 
to  most  readers.  We  know  not  whether  these  researches  will  be  con- 
sidered instructive,  but  we  hope  they  will  amuse. 

When  we  compare  the  cookery  of  the  ancients  with  our  own — ^and 
the  parallel  naturally  presents  itself  to  the  mind — it  often  betrays  strange 
anomalies,  monstrous  difierences,  singular  perversions  of  taste,  and  in- 
comprehensible amalgamations,  which  baffle  every  attempt  at  justification. 
Apicius  himself,  or  perhaps  the  Coelius  of  the  8rd  century,  to  whom  we 
owe  the  celebrated  treatise  "  Be  Opsoniis^^  would  run  great  risk — if  he 
were  now  to  rise  from  his  tomb,  and  attempted  to  give  vogue  to  his  ten 
books  of  recipes — either  of  passing  for  a  poisoner  or  of  being  put  under 
restraint  as  a  subject  decidedly  insane.  It  follows,  then,  that  although 
we  have  borrowed  his  curious  lucubrations,  we  leave  to  the  Roman  epi- 
curean and  to  his  times  the  entire  responsibility  of  his  work. 

The  reader  will  also  remark,  in  the  course  of  this  volume,  asserted 
tBJi\A  of  a  striking  oddity,  certain  valuations  which  appear  to  be  exag- 


»l 


6  PANTROPHEON. 

gerated,  some  descriptions  he  vrill  pronounce  fabulous  or  impossible. 
Now,  we  have  never  failed  to  give  our  authorities,  but  we  are  far  from 
being  willing  to  add  our  personal  guarantee  ;  so  that  we  leave  all  those 
antique  frauds— if  any — to  be  placed  to  the  account  of  the  writers  who 
have  traitorously  furnished  them. 

We  think,  however,  that  most  persons  will  peruse  with  some  interest 
(and,  let  us  hope,  a  little  indulgence)  these  studies  on  an  art  which^ 
like  all  arts  invented  by  necessity  or  inspired  by  pleasure,  has  kept  pace 
with  the  genius  of  nations,  and  became  more  refined  and  more  perfect 
in  proportion  as  they  themselves  became  more  polite. 

It  appears  that  the  luxury  and  enchantments  of  the  table  were  first 
appreciated  by  the  Assyrians  and  Persians,  those  voluptuous^Asiatics^ 
who«  by  reason  of  the  enervating  mildness  of  the  climate,  were  powerless 
to  resist  sensual  seductions. 

Greece — "  beloved  daughter  of  the  gods" — speedily  embellished  the 
culinary  art  with  all  the  exquisite  delicacy  of  her  poetic  genius.  "  The 
people  of  Athens,"  says  an  amiable  writer,  whom  we  regret  to  quote 
firom  memory,  *'  took  delight  in  exercising  their  creative  power,  in  giving 
existence  to  new  arts,  in  enlarging  the  aureola  of  civilisation.  At  their 
voice,  the  gods  hastened  to  inhabit  the  antique  oak ;  they  disported  in 
the  fountains  and  the  streams ;  they  dispersed  themselves  in  gamesome 
groups  on  the  tops  of  the  mountains  and  in  the  shade  of  the  valleys> 
while  their  songs  and  their  balmy  breath  mingled  with  the  harmonious 
whisperings  of  the  gentle  breeze." 

WhatVooks  !  what  a  table !  what  guests !  in  that  Eden  of  paganism — 
that  land  of  intoxicating  perfumes,  of  generous  wines,  and  inexhaustible 
laughter !  The  Lacedaemonians  alone,  those  cynics  of  Greece,  threw  a 
saddening  shade  over  the  delicious  picture  of  present  happiness  undis- 
turbed by  any  thought  of  to-morrow. 

Let  us  not  forget  that  an  Athenian,  not  less  witty  than  nice,  and^ 
moreover,  a  man  of  good  company,  has  left  us  this  profound  aphorism : 
'*  La  viande  la  plus  dilicate  est  celle  qui  est  le  moins  viande  ;  lejpoisson 
le  phis  exquis  est  celui  qui  est  le  moins  poisson." 

Some  was  long  renowned  for  her  austere  frugality,  and  it  is  remarked 
that,  during  more  than  five  centuries,  the  art  of  making  bread  was  there 
unknown,  which  says  little  for  her  civilisation  and  intelligence.  Subse- 
quently, the  conquest  of  Greece,  the  spoils  of  the  subjugated  world,  the 
prodigious  refinements  of  the  Syracusans,  gave  to  the  conquered  nations. 


PANTROPHEON.  7 

says  JuYenal,  a  complete  revenge  on  their  conquerors.  The  unheard-of 
excesses  of  the  table  swaUowed  up  patrimonies  vrhich  seemed  to  be  in- 
exhaustible, and  illustrious  dissipators  obtained  a  durable  but  sad 
renown. 

The  Bomans  had  whimsical  tastes,  since  they  dared  serve  the  flesh 
of  asses  and  dogs,  and  ruined  themselves  to  fatten  snails.  But,  after  all, 
the  caprices  of  fashion,  rather  than  the  refinement  of  sensuality,  com- 
pelled them  to  adopt  these  strange  aliments.  Paulus  ^milius,  no  doubt 
a  good  judge  in  such  matters,  formed  a  high  opinion  of  the  elegance 
displayed  by  his  compatriots  in  the  entertainments ;  and  he  compared  a 
skilful  cook,  at  the  moment  when  he  is  planning  and  arranging  a  repast, 
to  a  great  general. 

We  were  very  anxious  to  enrich  our  "  Pantropheon"  with  a 
greater  number  of  Bills  of  Fare^  or  details  of  banquets ;  but  we 
have  become  persuaded  that  it  is  very  difficult,  at  the  present  day, 
to  procure  a  complete  and  accurate  account  of  the  arrangement  of  feasts 
at  which  were  seated  guests  who  died  two  or  three  thousand  years  ago. 
Save  and  except  the  indications— more  or  less  satisfactory,  but  always 
somewhat  vague — which  we  gather  on  this  subject  from  Petronius, 
AthensBus,  Apuleius,  Macrobius,  Suetonius,  and  some  other  writers,  we 
can  do  little  more  than  establish  analogies,  make  deductions,  and  recon- 
'  struct  the  entire  edifice  of  an  antique  banquet  by  the  help  of  a  few  data, 
valuable,  without  doubt,  but  almost  always  incomplete. 

One  single  passage  in  Macrobius — a  curious  monument  of  Boman 
cookery — will  supply  the  place  of  multiplied  researches :  it  is  the  descrip- 
tion of  a  supper  given  by  the  Pontiff  Lentulus  on  the  day  of  his 
reception.     We  present  it  to  the  amateurs  of  the  magiric  art : 

"  The  first  course  {ante-ccena)  was  composed  of  sea-hedgehogs, 
raw  oysters  ih  abundance,  all  sorts  of  shell-fish,  and  asparagus.  The 
second  service  comprised  a  fine  fatted  pullet,  a  fresh  dish  of  oysters,  and 
mother  shell-fish,  different  kinds  of  dates,  univalvular  shell-fish  (as  whelks, 
conchs,  iScc.),  more  oysters,  but  of  different  kinds,  sea-nettles,  beccaficoes, 
chines  of  roe-buck  and  wild  boar,  fowls  covered  with  a  perfumed  paste, 
a  second  dish  of  shell-fish,  and  purples — a  very  costly  kind  of  Crustacea. 
The  third  and  last  course  presented  several  horscTceuvre,  a  wild  boar's 
head,  fish,  a  second  set  of  hors-d^oeuvrej  ducks,  potted  river  fish,  leverets, 
roast  fowls,  and  cakes  from  the  marshes  of  Ancona." 

AH  these  delicacies  would  very  much  surprise  an  epicurean  of  tlie 


8  PANTROPHEON. 

present  day^  particularly  if  they  were  offered  to  him  in  the  order  in- 
dicated by  Macrobius.  The  text  of  that  writer,  as  it  is  handed  down 
to  us,  may  be  imperfect  or  mutilated ;  again,  he  may  have  described  the 
supper  of  Lentulus  from  memory,  regardless  of  the  order  prescribed  for 
those  punctilious  and  learned  transitions  to  which  a  feast  owes  all  its  value. 

Let  us,  we  would  say,  in  addressing  our  culinary  colleagues,  avoid 
those  deplorable  lacunes;  let  us  preserve  for  future  generations,  who 
may  be  curious  concerning  our  gastronomic  pomp,  the  minuti®  of  our 
memorable  magiric  meetings,  prompted,  almost  without  exception,  by 
some  highly  civilising  idea — ^a  love  of  the  arts,  the  commercial  propa- 
gandism,  or  a  feeling  of  philanthropy.  The  Greeks  and  Romans — 
egotists,  if  there  ever  were  any — supped  for  themselves,  and  lived  only 
to  sup ;  our  pleasures  are  ennobled  by  views  more  useful  and  more 
elevated.  We  often  dine  for  the  poor,  and  we  sometimes  dance  for  the 
afflicted,  the  widow,  and  the  orphan. 

Moreover,  a  most  important  ethnographical  consideration  seems  to 
give  a  serious  interest  to  the  diet  of  a  people,  if  it  be  true,  as  we  are 
convinced  it  is,  and  as  we  shall  probably  one  day  endeavour  to  demon- 
strate, that  the  manners  of  individuals,  their  idiosyncrasies,  inclinations, 
and  intellectual  habits,  are  modified,  to  a  certain  extent,  as  taste,  climate, 
and  circumstances  may  determine  the  nature  of  their  food ;  an  assertion 
which  might  be  supported  by  irrefragable  proofs,  and  would  show  the 
justness  of  the  aphorism :  '*  Tell  me  what  thou  eatest,  and  I  will  tell 
thee  who  thou  art" 


I. 


AGRICULTURE. 


Evert  nation  has  attributed  the  origin  of  agriculture  to  some  benefi- 
cent Deity.  The  Egyptians  bestowed  this  honour  on  Osiris,  the  Greeks 
on  Ceres  and  Triptolemus,  the  Latins  on  Saturn,  or  on  their  king 
Janus,  whom,  in  gratitude,  they  placed  among  the  gods.  All  nations, 
however,  agree  that,  whoever  introduced  among  them  this  happy  and 
beneficial  discovery,  has  been  most  useful  to  man  by  elevating  his  mind 
to  a  state  of  sociability  and  civihzation.^ 

Many  learned  men  have  made  laborious  researches  in  order  to  dis- 
cover, not  only  the  name  of  the  inventor  of  agriculture,  but  the  country 
and  the  century  in  which  he  lived ;  some,  however,  have  failed  in  their 
inquiry.  And  why  ?  Because  they  have  forgotten,  in  their  investiga- 
tion, the  only  book  which  could  give  them  positive  information  on  the 
birth  of  society,  and  the  first  development  of  human  industry.  We 
read  in  the  Book  of  Genesis  that :  ''  The  Lord  God  took  the  man,  and 
put  him  into  the  garden  of  Eden,  to  dress  it  and  to  keep  it"  "*  And, 
after  having  related  his  fatal  disobedience,  the  sacred  historian  adds: 
"  Therefore  the  Lord  God  sent  him  forth  from  the  garden  of  Eden, 
to  till  the  groimd  from  whence  he  was  taken."' 

Would  it  be  possible  to  adduce  a  more  ancient  and  sublime 
authority  ? 

If  it  be  asked  why  we  take  Moses  as  our  guide,  instead  of  dating  the 
origin  of  human  society  from  those  remote  periods  which  are  lost  in  the 
night  of  ages,  we  invoke  one  of  the  most  worthy  masters  of  human 
science — the  illustrious  Cuvier — who  says : — 

**  No  western  nation  can  produce  an  uninterrupted  chronology  of 

B 


10  AGRICULTURE. 

more  than  three  thousand  years.    Not  one  of  them  has  any  record  of 
connected  facts  which  bears  the  stamp  of  probability  anterior  to  that 
time,  nor  even  for  two  or  three  centuries  after.    The  Greeks  acknowledge 
that  they  learned  the  art  of  writing  from  the  Phoenicians  thirty  or  thirty- 
four  centuries  ago ;  and  for  a  long  time  after  that  period  their  history  is 
filled  with  fables,  in  which  they  only  go  back  three  hundred  years  to 
establish  the  cradle  of  their  existence  as  a  nation.     Of  the  history  of 
western  Asia  we  have  only  a  few  contradictory  extracts,  which  embrace, 
in  an  unconnected  form,  about  twenty  centuries.      The  first  profane 
historian  with  whom  we  are  acquainted  by  works  extant  is  Herodotus, 
and  his  antiquity  does  not  reach  two  thousand  three  hundred  years* 
The  historians  consulted  by  him  had  written  less  than  a  century  pre- 
vious ;  and  we  are  enabled  to  judge  what  kind  of  historians  they  were  by 
the  extravagances  handed  down  to  us  as  extracts  from  Aristeeus,  Froco- 
nesus,   and  some  others.      Before   them  they  bad  only  poets;   and 
Homer,  the  master  and  eternal  model  of  the  west,  lived  only  two  thousand 
seven  hundred^  or  two  thousand  eight  hundred^  years  ago.     One  single 
nation  has  transmitted  to  us  annals,  written  in  prose,  before  the  time  of 
Gyrus :  it  is  the  Jewish  nation.     That  part  of  the  Old  Testament  called 
the  Pentateuch  has  existed  in  its  present  form  at  least  ever  since  the 
schism  of  Jeroboam,  as  the  Samaritans  receive  it  equally  with  the  Jews, 
that  is  to  say,  that  it  has  assuredly  existed  more  than  two  thousand  eight 
hundred  years.    There  is  no  reason  for  not  attributing  the  Book  of 
Genesis  to  Moses,  which  would  carry  us  backj^r^  hundred  year?  more, 
or  thirty-three  centuries ;  and  it  is  only  necessary  to  read  it  in  order  to 
perceive  that  it  is,  in  part^  a  compilation  of  fragments  from  antecedent 
works :  wherefore,  no  one  can  have  the  least  doubt  of  its  being  the  oldest 
book  now  possessed  by  the  western  nations."* 

The  descendants  of  our  first  parents — and,  first  of  all,  the  Hebrew 
people,  who,  as  a  nation  historically  considered,  must  occupy  our  fore- 
most attention— devoted  all  their  energy  to  agricultural  labour. 

The  chief  of  the  tribe  of  Judah  as  well  as  the  youngest  son  of  the 
tribe  of  Benjamin  followed  the  plough,  and  gathered  com  in  the  fields. 
Gideon  was  thrashing  and  winnowing  his  corn,  when  an  angel  revealed 
to  him  that  he  should  be  the  deliverer  of  Israel ;'  Buth  was  gleaning 
when  Boaz  saw  her  for  the  first  time  ;*  Eling  Saul  was  driving  his  team 
of  oxen  in  the  ploughed  field,  when  some  of  his  court  came  and  ap- 
prized him  that  the  city  of  Jabesh  was  in  danger  /  and  Elisha  was  called 


AGRICULTURE.  11 

Hway  to  prophesy  vhile  at  work  with  one  of  his  faiher's  ploughs.'  We 
coald  multiply  these  incidents  without  end^  to  prove  what  extraordinary 
interest  the  Jews  took  in  agricultural  occupations. 

Moses  regarded  agriculture  as  the  first  of  all  arts,  and  he  enjoined 
the  Hebrews  to  apply  themselves  to  it  in  preference  to  any  other :  it 
was  to  the  free  and  pure  air  of  the  fields,  to  the  strengthening,  healthy, 
and  laborious  country  life,  that  he  called  their  first  attention.  The 
sages  of  Greece  and  Rome  held  the  same  opinion :  in  those  republics 
the  tradesman  was  but  an  obscure  individual,  while  the  tiller  of  the  soil 
was  considered  as  a  distinguished  citizen.  The  urban  tribes  yielded 
precedence  to  the  rustics,  and  this  latter  class  supplied  the  nation  with 
its  generals  and  its  magistrates.*  Our  present  ideas  on  this  point  have 
materially  changed  with  the  times,  and  our  modern  Cincinnati  very  sel- 
dom return  to  the  field  to  terminate  the  furrow  they  have  commenced. 
The  Israelites  did  not  possess  this  excessive  delicacy :  they  preserved 
the  taste  for  agriculture  with  which  their  great  legislator,  Moses,  had 
inspired  them,  and  which  the  distribution  of  land  naturally  tended  to 
strengthen.  No  one,  in  fact,  was  allowed  to  possess  enough  ground  to 
lempt  him  to  neglect  the  smallest  portion ;  nor  had  any  one  the  right 
to  dispossess  the  Hebrew  of  his  father's  field, — even  he  himself  was  for- 
bidden to  alienate  for  ever  land  from  his  &mily."  This  wise  dispoai^ 
tion  did  not  escape  the  notice  of  an  ancient  heathen  author,^  and  va- 
rious states  of  Grreece  adopted  the  same  plan ;  amongst  others,  the  Lo- 
crians,  Athenians,  and  Spartans,  who  did  not  allow  their  fathers'  inhe- 
ritance to  be  sold.^' 

The  plan  which  we  have  adopted  for  our  guidance  in  this  work 
hardly  justifies  us  in  casting  more  than  a  glance  at  the  Mosaic  legisla- 
tion; we  shall,  therefore,  pass  over  all  those  prescriptions,  all  those 
memorable  prohibitions,  which  the  reader  must  have  so  often  admired  in 
the  Books  of  Leviticus  and  Deuteronomy,  and  content  ourselves  with 
observing  that  Moses  knew  how  to  find  in  agriculture  an  infallible 
means  of  developing  the  industry  of  his  people,  and  that,  by  imposing 
the  necessity  of  giving  rest  to  the  land  every  seventh  year,"  he  obliged 
them,  by  the  generality  of  this  repose,  to  have  stores  in  reserve;  and  con- 
sequently to  employ  every  means  of  preserving  portions  of  the  grain, 
firuit,  wines,  and  oil  which  they  had  gathered  in  the  course  of  the  six 
years  preceding. 

Ancient  casuists  of  this  nation  enter  into  the  most  minute  details 

B  2 


12  AGRICULTURE. 

on  tillage  and  sowing,  and  also  on  the  gathering  of  olives,  on  the 
tithes  which  were  paid  to  the  priests,  and  the  portion  set  aside  for  the 
poor.  They  also  mention  some  species  of  excellent  wheat,  barley,  rice, 
figs,  dates,  &c.,  which  were  gathered  in  Judea.^^ 

The  soil  of  this  delicious  country  was  astonishingly  fertile,"  the  opera- 
tion of  tillage  was  easy,  and  the  cattle  here  supplied  a  greater  abundance 
of  milk  than  anywhere  else;*'  we  will  just  remark  that  even  the  names 
of  several  localities  indicate  some  of  these  advantages.  For  instance, 
Capernaum  signified  a  beautiful  country  town ;  Gennesareth,  the  garden 
of  the  groves ;  Bethsadda,  the  house  of  plenty ;  Nain  was  indebted  for  its 
sweet  name  to  the  beauty  of  its  situation ;  and  Magdela,  on  the  borders 
of  the  sea  of  Galilee,  to  its  site,  and  the  happy  life  of  its  inha- 
bitants. 

Next  to  the  Hebrews,  in  agriculture,  came  the  Egyptians,  a  strange 
and  fantastical  people,  who  raised  the  imperishable  pyramids,  the  statue  of 
Memnon,  and  the  lighthouse  of  Alexandria,  and  who  yet  prayed  reli- 
giously every  morning  to  their  goddess — a  radishy  or  their  gods — leek  and 
onion}^  Whatever  there  may  be  of  folly  and  rare  industry  in  this  mix- 
ture, we  cannot  but  agree  that  the  art  of  agriculture  was  very  ancient 
in  Egypt,  as  the  father  of  the  faithful — Abraham — ^retired  into  that 
country  at  a  time  of  famine ;"  and,  later,  the  sons  of  Jacob  weiit  there 
also  to  purchase  com.*' 

We  know  that  the  Romans  called  this  province  the  granary  of  the 
empire,  and  that  they  drew  from  it  every  year  twenty  million  bushels  of 
com."  If  we  are  to  believe  the  Egyptians,  Osiris,  son  of  Jupiter  (and 
hence  a  demi-god  of  good  family),  taught  them  the  art  of  tilling  the 
ground  by  aid  of  the  plough."  This  instrument,  we  may  easily  believe, 
was  much  less  complicated  than  ours  of  the  present  day ;  there  is  no 
doubt  that  in  the  beginning,  and  for  a  great  length  of  time  afterwards, 


DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  I. 

N(».  I.  Represents  nn  Egyptian  labourer  tilling  the  gn>und  with  a  pickaxe  of  a  simple  form ;  drawn 
at  Thebes,  by  Mons.  Nectoal,  member  of  the  commission  of  the  French  expedition  in  Egypt,  from  paint- 
ings in  the  subterranean  vaults  of  Minich. 

No.  2.  Is  a  sketch  of  the  plough,  which  a  great  number  of  Egyptian  figures  hold  as  an-attribule  ; 
this  was  taken  from  the  subterranean  vault  of  Eileithya;  it  represents  the  plough  guided  by  a  labourer, 
and  drawn  by  oxen  Ued  by  the  horna,  and  whipped  by  a  second  labourer,  whilst  a  third,  placed  by  the 
side  of  the  oxen,  throws  before  them  the  seeds  which  are  to  be  covered  by  the  ploughed  earth. 

No.  3.  A  basket  to  carry  the  seeds.  On  the  tombs  of  the  kings  of  Thebes  is  seen  painted  a  sower, 
with  a  basket  like  this,  an  attribute  which  is  seen  hanging  on  the  back  of  the  divinity  Osiris. 

Na  4.  Represents  an  Egyptian  with  a  sickle,  much  like  in  shape  to  a  scythe ;  and  Denon,  of  the 
French  expedition,  proved  that  cdirn  was  also  cat  with  a  scythe. 


AGRICULTURE.  .  13 

it  was  nothing  but  a  long  piece  of  wood  without  joint,  and  bent  in  such 
manner  that  one  end  went  into  the  ground,  whilst  the  other  served  to 
yoke  the  oxen ;"  for  it  was  always  these  animals  which  drew  the  plough, 
although  Homer  seems  to  give  the  preference  to  mules." 

The  Greeks,  clever  imitators  of  the  Egyptians,  pretended  that 
Ceres  taught  them  the  art  of  sowing,  reaping,  and  grinding  com ; 
they  made  her  goddess  of  harvest,  and  appUed  themselves  to  the  labour 
of  agriculture  with  that  rare  and  persevering  ability  which  always  cha- 
racterised these  people,  and  consequently  was  often  the  cause  of  many 
things  being  attributed  to  them  which  they  only  borrowed  from  other 
nations.** 

The  Romans,  future  rulers  of  the  world,  understood  from  the  first 
that  the  earth  claimed  their  nursing  care ;  and  Romulus  instituted  an 
order  of  priesthood  for  no  other  object  than  the  advancement  of  this 
useful  art.  It  was  composed  of  the  twelve  sons  of  his  nurse,  all  invested 
with  a  sacerdotal  character,  who  were  commanded  to  offer  to  Heaven 
vows  and  sacrifices  in  order  to  obtain  an  abundant  harvest.  They  were 
called  Ar vales  brothers  ;**  one  of  them  dying,  the  king  took  his  place, 
and  continued  to  fulfil  his  duty  for  the  rest  of  his  life." 

In  the  palmy  days  of  the  repubhc,  the  conquerors  of  the  universe 
passed  from  the  army  or  the  senate  to  their  fields  ;'^  Seranus  was  sowing 
when  called  to  command  the  Roman  troops,  and  Quintus  Gincinnatus 
waB  ploughing  when  a  deputation  came  and  informed  him  that  he  was 
appointed  dictator. 

Everything  in  the  conduct  of  the  Romans  gives  evidence  of  their 
great  veneration  for  agriculture.  They  caUed  the  rich,  locupletesj  that 
is,  persons  who  were  possessors  of  a  farm  or  country  seat  {locus) ;  their 
first  money  was  stamped  with  a  sheep  or  an  ox,  the  symbol  of  abun- 
dance :  they  called  it  pecunia,  from  pecus  (flock).  The  public  treasure 
was  designated  pascua,  because  the  Roman  domain  consisted,  at  the 
beginning,  only  of  pasturage. 

After  the  taking  of  Carthage,  the  books  of  the  libraries  were  distri- 
buted to  the  alUed  princes  of  the  republic,  but  the  senate  reserved  the 
twenty-eight  books  of  Mago  on  agriculture." 

We  shall  briefly  point  out  the  principal  processes  of  this  art  in  use 
among  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  or  at  least  those  which  appear  to  us 
most  deserving  of  interest.  Like  us,  the  ancients  divided  the  land  in 
furrows,  whose  legal  length  (if  we  may  so  term  it)  was  one  hundred  and 


14  AGRICULTURE. 

thirty  feet"  Oxen  were  never  allowed  to  stop  while  ttaoing  a  furrow, 
but  on  amving  at  the  end  they  rested  a  short  time ;  and  when  their  task 
was  over  they  were  cleaned  with  the  greatest  care,  and  their  mouths 
washed  with  wine.'®  The  ground  being  well  prepared  and  fit  to  receive 
the  seed,  the  grain  was  spread  on  the  even  surface  of  the  furrows,  and 
then  covered  over.'* 

The  primitive  plough,  already  mentioned,  was  of  extreme  simplicity. 
It  had  no  wheels,  but  was  merely  furnished  with  a  handle,  to  enable  the 
ploughman  to  direct  it  according  to  his  judgment ;  neither  was  there  any 
iron  or  other  metal  in  its  construction.  They  afterwards  made  a  plough 
of  two  pieces,  one  of  a  certain  length  to  put  the  oxen  to,  and  the  other 
was  shorter  to  go  in  the  ground;  it  was  similar,  in  shape,  to  an  anchor. 
Such  was  the  style  of  plough  which  the  Greeks  used."  They  also  very 
often  employed  a  sort  (rf  fork,  with  three  or  four  prongs,  for  the  same 
purpose.'*  Pliny  gives  credit  to  the  Gauls  for  the  invention  of  the 
plough  mounted  on  wheels.  The  Anglo-Norman  plough  had  no  wheels  ;'* 
the  ploughman  guided  it  with  one  hand,  and  carried  a  stick  in  the  other 
to  break  the  clods. 

The  Greeks  and  Romans  had  not,  perhaps,  the  celebrated  guano  of 
our  days,  though  we  would  not  positively  assert  it ;  but  they  knew  of  a  great 
variety  of  manures,  all  well  adapted  to  the  various  soils  they  wished  to 
improve.  Sometimes  they  made  use  of  marl,  a  sort  of  fat  clay  ;'*  and 
frequently  manure  from  pigeons,  blackbirds,  and  thrushes,  which  were 
fattened  in  aviaries"  for  the  benefit  of  Roman  epicures.  Certain  plants, 
they  thought,  required  a  light  layer  of  ashes,  which  they  obtained  from 
roots  and  brushwood  ;'^  others  succeeded  best,  according  to  their  dictum, 
on  land  where  sheep,  goats,  &c.,  had  grazed  for  a  long  time." 

When  the  harvest  season  arrived,  they  joyfully  prepared  to  cut  the 
com,  with  instruments  varying  in  form  according  to  the  locality  or  the 
fancy  of  the  master.  In  one  place  they  adopted  the  plain  sickle,**  in 
another  that  with  teeth."  Sometimes  they  mowed  the  com,  as  they  did 
the  meadows,  with  a  scythe;"  or  else  they  plucked  off"  the  ears  with  a 
kind  of  fork,  armed  with  five  teeth."  A  short  time  after  the  harvest,  the 
operation  of  thrashing  generally  began.     Heavy  chariots,  armed  with 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  II. 
N(M.  1  &%    Greek  and  Roman  plough,  made  of  several  pieces ;  the  iSrst  taken  from  the  "  Miscel- 
an.  ErudiL*'  of  Spon,  the  second  from  an  engraTed  stone  in  the  gallery  of  Florence. 
No.  8.    Plough,  made  of  one  crooked  piece  of  wood,  turned  once  or  twice. 
No.  4.    Plough,  as  used  by  the  Gauls,  furnished  with  wheels. 


AGRICULTURE.  15 

pointed  teeth,  orushed  the  ears :  Varro  calls  this  machine  the  *'  Car- 
thaginian chariot."  **  Strabo  asserts  that  the  ancient  Britons  carried  the 
com  into  a  large  covered  area,  or  bam,  where  they  thrashed  it ;  adding 
that,  without  this  precaution,  the  rain  and  damp  would  have  spoiled  the 
grain.^^  At  all  events,  this  kind  of  thrashing  in  bams,  with  flails  and 
sticks,  was  not  unknown  to  other  countries ;  Pliny  speaks  of  it,^"  and 
Columella  describes  it  ;^'  we  may  add  that  the  Egyptians  were  also  very 
probably  acquainted  with  this  method,  since  the  Jews,  who  had  sub- 
mitted to  their  power,  employed  it  themselves.^'  When  the  com  had 
been  thrashed,  winnowed,  and  put  into  baskets  very  similar  to  our  own 
of  the  present  day,*'  they  immediately  studied  the  best  means  of  pre* 
serving  it:  some  preferred  granaries  exposed  to  a  mild  temperature, 
others  had  extensive  edifices  with  thick  brick  walls  without  openings, 
except  one  hole  only,  in  the  roof,  to  admit  Ught  and  air. 

The  Spaniards,  Africans,  and  Cappadocians,  dug  deep  ditches,  from 
which  they  excluded  all  moisture ;  they  covered  the  bottom  and  lined 
the  sides  with  straw,  then  put  in  the  grain,  and  covered  it  up.  The 
ancients  were  of  opinion  that  com  in  the  ear  could,  by  this  means,  be 
preserved  a  great  number  of  years.** 

If  it  is  desirable  to  keep  corn  for  any  length  of  time,  choose  the 
finest  and  best  grown.  After  having  worked  it,  make  a  pile  as  high  as 
the  ceiling  will  permit.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  quicklime,  powdered,  of 
about  three  inches  thick ;  then,  with  a  watering-pot,  moisten  this  lime, 
which  forms  a  cmst  with  the  com  The  outside  seeds  bud,  and  shoot 
forth  a  stalk,  which  perishes  in  winter.  This  com  is  only  to  be  touched 
when  necessity  requires  it.  At  Sedan,  a  warehouse  has  been  seen,  hewed 
out  of  the  rock  and  tolerably  damp,  in  which  there  had  been  a  consider-> 
aBle  pile  of  com  for  the  last  hundred  and  ten  years.  It  was  covered  with 
a  crust  a  foot  thick,  on  which  persons  might  walk  without  bending  or 
breaking  it  in  the  slightest  degree. 

Marshal  Vauban  proposed  eating  com  in  soup,  without  being 
ground ;  it  was  boiled  during  two  or  three  hours  in  water,  and  when 
the  grains  had  burst,  a  little  salt,  butter,  or  milk,  was  added.  This  food 
is  very  nice,  not  unwholesome,  and  might  be  employed  when  flour  is 
scarce,  heated,  or  half-rotten. — Dutour. 

The  Chinese  instituted  a  ceremony  which  had  for  its  base  to  honour 
the  profession  of  agriculture :  every  year,  at  the  time  of  ploughing  the 


16  ..  AGRICULTURE. 

fields,  the  emperor  with  all  his  court  paid  a  visit  to  his  couBtry  residence 
near  Pekin,  and  then  marked  out  several  ftirrows  with  his  plough. 

In  1798,  the  Natioiial  Convention  of  France  instituted  also  a  similar 
fete ;  and  the  president  of  the  local  administration  of  his  county  was  to 
mark  out  a  furrow. 

In  1848  a  grand  republican  procession  took  place  through  Paris,  to 
the  Champ  de  Mars,  wherein  agriculture  played  a  prominent  part. 

The  first  treatise  on  agriculture  was  printed  in  1538;  audits  im- 
portance has  been  so  much  felt  from  that  period,  that  there  are  now  in 
France  more  than  one  hundred  and  twenty  societies  of  agriculture,  who 
distribute  prizes  to  encourage  discoveries  for  the  improvement  of  this 
science. 

We  have,  in  our  days,  the  Royal  Agricultural  Society  of  England, 
which  also  awards  prizes  ;*  and  through  such  institutions  all  information 
can  be  obtained  on  the  successive  progresses  made  in  that  indispensable 
art,  which  may  be  said  to  have  arrived  to  such  a  degree  of  perfection, 
that  future  generations  may  find  some  di£Sculty  in  improving  upon  it. 
One  great  evidence  of  which  is,  the  immense  number  of  samples  of 
agricultural  produce,  machines,  and  implements  of  husbandry,  which 
great  and  the  glorious  Exhibition  of  1851  has  ushered  to  the  world. 

Previous  to  the  arrival  of  the  Romans,  the  ancient  Britons  paid  but 
little  attention  to  agriculture.  Their  intestine  discords  left  them  scarcely 
any  leisure  to  cultivate  their  fields,  or  apply  themselves  to  the  improve- 
ment of  an  art  which  fiourishes  only  in  peaceful  times.  They  reared  a 
great  number  of  cattle ;  but  their  chief  corn  was  barley,  of  which  they 
made  their  favourite  drink.  They  put  the  grain  in  the  ear  into  barns, 
and  beat  it  out  as  they  wanted  it.  -  Those  inhabitants  of  the  island  who 
were  the  least  civilized  subsisted  solely  on  milk  and  the  flesh  of  animals, 

*  A  grand  banquet  was  held  by  the  Royal  Agricaltural  Society,  at  Exeter,  on  July  20th, 
1850,  fur  description  of  which  see  end  of  volume. 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  III. 

No.  1.    Is  the  plain  sickle.    No.  3.    AnoUier,  with  teeth. 

No.  3.    A  scythe,  very  similar  to  those  now  in  use. 

No.  4.  A  spatle ;  iu  handle  is  supplied  with  a  double  vrofisbar,  fixed  at  a  little  distance  off  the  spade, 
to  support  the  foot ;  it  is  still  so  used  in  Italy  and  the  southern  parts  of  France. 

No.  5.  A  pickaxe,  as  it  was  found  engraved  on  the  various  sarcophagi ;  the  pick  end  was  sometimes 
flattened,  and  then  called  pick-axe. 

Nos.  6  and  7.  The  mattocks ;  the  first  was  drawn  from  an  engraved  atone  in  the  "  Monuments 
Antiq."  of  Winckelman.  . 

No.  2  A.    Represents  a  plough,  composed  according  to  the  "  Georgics"  of  ViigiL 


i 


u 


J^  T  Z  V«ZaJtx,  eUl 


v./  :er    J.'   .  /;  ^j 


AGRICULTURE.  J  7 

irhich  they  had  learned  to  master  by  their  skill/^  But  the  people  of  this 
nation,  for  which  Heaven  had  in  reserve  such  a  brilliant  destiny,  knew 
how  to  endure  hunger^  cold,  and  fatigue,  without  a  murmur.  A  Briton 
passed  entire  days  immersed  to  the  neck  in  the  stagnant  waters  of  a 
marsh ;  a  few  roots  sufficed  for  his  nourishment,  and,  if  we  are  to  believe 
Dio,  his  frugal  habits  enabled  him  to  appease  the  craving  of  his  stomach 
with  an  aliment  composed  of  ingredients  no  longer  known,  and  of  which 
he  took  each  time,  at  long  intervals,  a  quantity  not  exceeding  in  size 
that  of  a  bean," 

Let  us  add  that  the  art  of  gardening  was  known  rather  early  in  Great 
Britain,  and  that  marl  was  employed  to  manure  the  land." 

The  Anglo-Saxons  employed  themselves  diligently  in  the  cultivation 
of  the  soil ;  they  established  farms,  sowed  grain,  and  reared  cattle.  The 
fleece  of  their  sheep  furnisbed  them  with  precious  wool,  which  they 
spun,  and  then  converted  into  sumptuous  clothing." 

Strutt  gives  us  a  curious. detail  of  rural  occupations  at  that  epoch. 
We  will  cite  the  original  text : 

''  January  exhibits  the  huabandman  in  the  fields  at  plough,  while  his 
attendant,  diligently  following,  is  sowing  the  grain. 

"  February.  The  grain  being  put  into  the  earth,  the  next  care  was 
to  prune  their  trees,  crop  their  vines,  and  place  them  in  order. 

*'  March.  Then  we  follow  them  into  the  garden,  where  the  indus- 
trious labourer  is  digging  up  the  ground,  and  sowing  the  vegetables  for 
the  ensuing  season. 

''  April.  Now,  taking  leave  of  the  laborious  husbandman,  we  see  the 
nobleman  regaling  with  his  firiends,  and  passing  the  pleasant  month  in 
carousings,  banquetings,  and  music. 

''  May  brings  the  lord  into  the  field  to  examine  his  flock,  and  super- 
intend the  shearing  of  the  sheep. 

"  June.  With  this  month  comes  the  gladsome  time  of  harvest. 
Here  are  some  cutting  down  the  corn,  while  it  is,  by  others,  bound  up  in 
sheaves  and  laid  into  the  carts,  to  be  conveyed  to  the  bams  and  grana- 
ries ;  in  the  meantime  they  are  spirited  up  to  their  labours  by  the  shrill 
sound  of  the  enlivening  horn. 

"  July.    Here  we  find  them  employed  in  lopping  the  trees  and  felling 
of  timber,  &c. 

"  August.  In  this  month  they  cut  down  the  barley  with  which  they 
made  their  old  and  best  beloved  drink  (ale). 


18  AGRICULTURE, 

''  September.  Here  we  find  the  lord,  attended  by  Ids  huntsmen^ 
pursuing  and  chasing  the  wild  boars  in  the  woods  and  forests. 

'^  October.  And  here  he  is  amusing  himself  with  the  exercise  of  that 
old  and  noble  pastime^  hawking. 

"  November.  This  month  returns  us  again  to  the  labourers,  who  are 
here  heating  and  preparing  their  utensils. 

''  December.  In  this  last  month  we  find  them  thrashing  out  the 
grain,  while  some  winnow  or  rather  sift  it,  to  free  it  firom  the  chafi^,  and 
others  carry  it  out  in  large  baskets  to  the  granaries.  In  the  meantime, 
the  steward  keeps  an  account  of  the  quantity,  by  means  of  an  indented 
or  notched  stick."** 

Agriculture  was  always  protected  with  paternal  solicitude  by  a  prince, 
whose  name  will  eyer  remind  us  of  the  sanguinary  day  of  Saint 
Bartholomew.  Here  Is  a  textual  passage  firom  the  edict  issued  by 
Charles  IX.,  the  18th  October,  1571. 

**  We  haye  commanded  and  ordained,  and  do  hereby  command  and 
ordain,  that  no  man  engaged  in  the  cultivation  of  land,  by  himself,  his 
servants,  and  his  family,  with  intent  to  raise  grain  and  frxut  necessary  for 
the  sustenance  of  men  and  beasts,  shall  be  liable  to  the  process  of  exe- 
cution for  debt,  nor  on  any  account  whatsoever,  neither  in  his  own 
person,  nor  his  bed,  horses,  mares,  mules,  asses,  oxen,  cows,  pigs,  goats, 
sheep,  poultry,  ploughs,  carts,  waggons,  harrows,  barrows,  nor  any  other 
species  or  kind  of  cattle  or  goods  serving  in  the  said  tillage  and  occupa- 
tion. *  *  *  The  said  husbandmen  being  under  our  protection  and 
safeguard,  seeing  that  we  have  so  placed  them  and  do  place  them  by 
these  presents."" 


ir. 


CEREALS. 


The  nomenclatore  which  the  Bomans  haye  left  us  of  their  various  kinds 
of  corn  is  so  obscure  and  uncertain,  that  some  modem  writers  are 
continually  contradicting  each  other,  and,  by  these  means,  have  raised 
doubts  which  render  our  task  more  difficult,  instead  of  enlightening  us 
on  the  subject 

We  shall  do  all  in  our  power  to  avoid  the  censure  which  we  take 
the  liberty  of  passing  upon  them. 

"  Triticum"  wheat,  or  com ;  " Bli,*"  from  the  ancient  Latin  word 
**  Bladus,**  which  signifies  firuit  or  seed*  The  botanist  Michauz  has 
discovered  in  Persia,  on  a  mountain  four  days' journey  from  Hamadan, 
the  place  where  wheat  (a  species  known  as  spelt,  from  the  Latin  spelta) 
is  indigenous  to  the  soil,  from  which  we  may  presume  that  wheat  has 
its  origin  in  that  country,  or  some  part  of  Asia  not  far  from  Persia. 
This  grain  was  more  cultivated  formerly  than  it  is  now ;  nevertheless,  it 
is  still  gathered  in  Italy,  Switzerland,  Alsace,  in  the  Limousin  and 
in  Picardy,  to  make  bread,  with  spelt,  a  greater  qucmtity  of  leaven,  and, 
above  all,  a  little  salt.  This  bread  is  white,  light,  savoury,  and  keeps 
moist  for  several  days. — Parmentier. 

Robus,  a  variety  of  corn  heavier  than  triticum,  and  remarkable  for  its 
brilliant  polish. 

Every  year,  on  the  25th  of  April,  an  appeal  was  made  to  the  god 
Bobigus,  to  prevent  the  mildew  from  corrupting  this  fine  specimen  of 
com.    This  festival  was  founded  by  the  great  king,  Numa  Pompilius/ 

SiliffOy  a  beautiful  quality  of  wheat,  of  great  whiteness,  but  lighter  in 
weight  than  the  preceding  kind.' 


20  CEREALS. 

Trimestrej  a  kind  of  siligo,  sown  in  Sphng,  and  which  was  ready  for 
reaping  three  months  afterwards. 

Oranea^  the  grain  merely  deprived  of  its  husk:  it  was  boiled  in 
water,  to  which  milk  was  added.' 

Hordeum,  barley.*  The  flour  of  this  corn  was  the  food  of  the  Jewish 
soldiers.'  It  was,  with  the  Athenians,  a  favourite  dish,  but  among  the 
Romans  an  ignominious  food.  Augustus  threatened  the  cohorts  that, 
should  they  not  fight  bravely,  he  would  punish  every  tenth  man  with 
death,  and  give  the  remainder  barley  for  food."  This  corn  was  certainly 
in  use  among  the  Egyptians  in  the  time  of  Moses,  since  one  of  the 
plagues  which  afflicted  that  people  was  the  loss  of  the  barley  in  the  ear 
before  it  came  to  maturity.' 

Panicum,  panic  grass.'  Certain  inhabitants  of  Thrace  and  of  the 
borders  of  the  Euxine,  or  Black  Sea,  preferred  this  to  all  other  food.* 

Millium,  millet,  was  used  for  making  excellent  cakes.^* 

Secale,  rye."  Fliny  thinks  this  grain  detestable,  and  only  good  ta 
appease  extreme  hunger." 

Avena,  oats."  Virgil  had  but  very  little  esteem  for  this  grain."  The* 
Bomans  cut  it  in  the  spring  for  the  cattle  to  eat  green ;  and  the  Germans, 
in  the  time  of  Fliny,  took  great  care  in  its  cultivation,  and  made  a  pulp 
of  it  which  they  thought  excellent." 

OryzUy  rice.  Pliny"  and  Dioscorides"  class  it  with  the  wheats; 
whereas  Galen,  on  the  contrary,  places  it  among  vegetables. 

Bice  was  rather  scarce  in  Greece  at  the  time  when  Theophrastus 
lived :  it  had  lately  been  brought  from  India,  286  years  before  Christ. 

The  ancients  considered  it  most  nutritious  and  fattening." 

Zea^  spelt,  or  rice  wheat,"  equally  esteemed  by  Greeks  and  Latins.** 

Sesamum,  sesame.  Fliny  classes  this  among  the  seeds  sown  in 
March,'^  and  Columella  places  it  among  the  vegetables.**  The  Bomans 
knew  how  to  prepare  this  com  in  a  manner  at  once  wholesome  and 
agreeable.  They  made  it  into  very  dainty  cakes,  which  wfere  served  at 
dessert,**  whence  sprang  the  saying  sesame  cakesy  which  was  applied  to 
those  sweet  and  flattering  expressions  called  honied  words  (in  French, 
paroles  sucrees)^^ 

A  people  so  restless  and  unmanageable  as  were  the  Greeks  and 
Bomans,  when  pressed  by  hunger,  required  that  the  greatest  care  should 
be  exercised  for  the  supply  of  com,  and  the  easy  sale  of  this  precious  pro- 
vision. Hence  nothing  could  be  wiser  than  their  regulations  on  this  subject. 


CEREALS.  21 

One  of  the  laws  of  the  twelve  tables  punished  with  death  the  indi- 
vidual who  had  premeditatedly  set  fire  to  his  neighbour's  corn ;  and 
inflicted  a  fine  or  the  whip  on  any  one  who  caused  so  great  a  calamity 
by  his  imprudence.** 

In  Greece,  a  special  magistrate,  the  "  SUocome^  was  charged  with 
the  inspection  of  the  com ;  and  various  officers,  such  as  the  sitonesj 
•the  siiophylaces,  and  the  sitoloffes,  were  appointed  to  watch  over  its 
purchase. 

And  lastly,  public  distributors,  under  the  names  of  siturches  and 
sitometreSy  were  exclusively  occupied  with  the  allotment  of  com;** 
they  prevented  any  one  firom  purchasing  a  greater  quantity  than  was 
actually  necessary  for  his  wants.  The  law  forbad  the  delivery  of  more 
than  fifty  measures  to  one  individual.*'  The  Boman  government  was 
so  convinced  that  abundance  of  bread  was  one  of  the  best  means  of 
maintaining  public  tranquillity,*'  that  Julius  Ceesar  created  two  prsetors, 
and  two  ediles  or  magistrates,  to  preside  over  the  purchase,  conveyance, 
storing,  and  gratuitous  distribution  of  wheat.**  For  we  know  that  this 
people  of  kings,  powerful  but  frivolous,  and  careless  of  the  morrow, 
submitted  to  the  incredible  follies  of  their  rulers  on  the  sole  condition 
of  being  well  fed  and  amused  by  them.**  In  the  time  of  Demosthenes 
the  common  price  of  wheat  in  Greece  was  about  8^.  lid.  the  four 
bushels.**  In  Bome,  during  the  republic,  wheat  was  distributed  to 
60,000  persons.'*  Julius  Caesar  desired  that  320,000  plebeians  should 
enjoy  this  bounty ;  but  this  number  was  afterwards  reduced  to 
150,000,*'  or  perhaps,  according  to  Cassius,  to  160,000.**  Augustus 
fed,  at  first,  200,000  citizens,  then  only  120,000.*'  Nero,  who  always 
went  to  extremes  either  in  good  or  evil,  gave  corn  throughout  the  empire 
to  220,000  idle  people,  including  the  soldiers  of  the  preetorian  guard.** 
Adrian  added  to  this  list  all  the  children  of  the  poor :  the  boys  to  the 
age  of  18,  and  the  girls  to  that  of  14.  Finally,  this  liberality,  more  politic 
than  gefeerous,  and  so  foreign  to  our  present  manners,  was  carried,  under 
the  Emperor  Severus,  to  75,000  bushels  per  day.*'  The  bushel  weighed 
twenty  pounds  of  twelve  ounces  each." 

The  Greeks  esteemed  highly  the  corn  of  Boeotia,  Thrace,  and  Pontus. 
The  Bomans  preferred  that  of  Lombardy,  the  present  duchy  of  Spoletta, 
Sicily,  Sardinia,  and  a  part  of  Gaul.  Sardinia,  Sicily,  and  Corsica,  sup- 
plied them  every  year  with  800,000  bushels  of  twenty-one  pounds  weight, 
which  made  them  call  those  islands  "  the  sweet  nurses  of  Bome."** 


\ 


22  CEREALS. 

Africa  furnished  40,000,000  of  bushels;  Egypt  20,000,000,  and  the 
remainder  came  from  Greece,  Asia,  Syria,  Gaul,  and  Spain/^ 

The  erudite  are  not  agreed  as  to  the  aboriginal  country  of  com : 
some  say  it  is  Egypt,  others  Tartary,  and  the  learned  Bailly,  as  well 
as  the  traveller  Pallas,  affirm  that  it  grows  spontaneously  in  Siberia. 
Be  that  as  it  may,  the  Fhocians  brought  it  to  Marseilles  before  the 
Romans  had  penetrated  into  Gaul.  The  Gauls  ate  the  com  cooked,  or 
bruised  in  a  mortar ;  they  did  not  know  for  a  long  time  how  to  make 
fermented  bread. 

The  Chinese  attribute  to  Chin-Nong,  the  second  of  the  nine  emperors 
of  China  who  preceded  the  establishment  of  the  dynasties  (more  than 
2,207  years  B.C.),  the  discovery  of  corn,  rice,  and  other  cereals. 

We  find  in  the  Black  Book  of  the  Exchequer,  that  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  I.,  when  they  reduced  the  victuals  (for  the  king's  household) 
to  the  estimate  of  money,  a  measure  of  wheat  to  make  bread  for 
the  service  of  one  hundred  men,  one  day,  was  valued  only  at  one  shilling.^^ 

But  in  the  reign  of  Henry  III.,  about  the  43rd  year,  the  price  was 
mounted  up  to  fifteen  and  twenty  shillings  a  quarter.^' 

The  ancients,  as  well  as  the  moderns,  caused  wheat  to  undergo  certain 
preparations  to  enable  it  to  be  transformed  into  bread,  we  shall  enume- 
rate in  the  following  chapter  the  different  processes  by  which  they 
obtained  flour,  the  essential  foundation  of  the  food  of  man. 

Cereals.^^This  name  has  been  given  to  all  plants  of  the  gramineous 
family,  the  frmdamental  base  of  the  food  of  man.  The  cereals,  properly 
speaking,  are  limited  to  wheat,  rye,  barley,  and  oata ;  however,  there  are 
others,  such  as  canary  grass,  Indian  com,  millet,  rice,  &c.,  &c.  The 
immediate  and  most  abundant  principle  of  all  these  plants  is  the/ecule, 
or  flour,  and  the  vegeto-animal  matter  of  which  bread  is  made,  and  other 
preparations  for  food,  and  fermented  liquors;  these  cereals  are  given 
green  or  dry  to  cattle  as  forage ;  their  straw  covers  houses,  and  serves  as 
litter  and  manure. 

Cereals  was  also  the  name  given  to  a  feast  in  honour  of  Ceres,  insti- 
tuted at  Bome  by  the  edile  Mumonius,  and  celebrated  every  year  on  the 
7  th  of  April.  The  ladies  of  Bome  appeared  clothed  in  white,  and  holding 
torches  in  remembrance  of  the  tnvels  of  that  divinity.  Cakes  sprinkled 
with  salt  and  grains  of  incense,  honey,  milk,  and  wine,  were  offered  to 
that  goddess.  Pigs  were  sacrificed  to  her.  The  cereals  of  the  Bomans 
were  the  thesmophories  with  the  Greeks. 


III. 


GRINDING    OF    CORN. 


At  a  very  distant  period,  Tvhen  gods,  not  over  edifying  in  their  conduct, 
descended  at  times  from  the  heights  of  Olympus  to  enliven  their  immor- 
tality amongst  mortals,  we  are  told  that  a  divine  aliment  charmed  the 
palate  of  Jupiter  and  that  of  his  quarrelsome  wife ;  nay,  of  all  those  who 
inhabited  the  celestial  abode.  We  are  ignorant  of  the  hour  at  which 
the  table  of  the  god  of  thunder  was  laid ;  but  we  know  well  that  he 
fareakftsted,  dined,  and  supped  on  a  delicious  ambrosia — a  liquid  sub- 
stance, it  may  be  presumed,  since  it  flowed  for  the  first  time  from  one 
of  the  horns  of  the  goat  Amalthsea,  and  of  rather  an  insipid  taste,  if  we 
are  to  believe  Ibicus,^  who  describes  it  as  nine  times  sweeter  than 
honey.  The  gods  have  disappeared ;  we  would  forgive  them  for  leaving 
us,  had  they  left  behind  them  the  recipe  of  this  marvellous  substance  ; 
but  its  composition  and  essence  remain  unknown,  and  man,  not  skilful 
enough  to  appropriate  to  his  use  the  inexhaustible  treasures  of  culinary 
science,  began  his  hard  gastrophagic  apprenticeship  by  devouring  acorns 
which  grew  m  the  forests.'  This  is  assuredly  very  mortifying  to  our 
feelings ;  but  you  may  believe  it  on  the  authority  of  a  poet,  for  we  well 
know  that  a  poet  never  tells  an  untruth.'  Besides,  fiibulous  antiquity 
adds  new  weight  to  the  fact,  by  informing  us  that  the  Arcadian  Felasgus* 
deserved  that  altars  should  be  erected  to  his  memory,  for  having  taught 
the  Greeks  to  choose  in  preference  the  beech-nut,  as  the  most  deUcate 
of  this  clajBS  of  comestibles,  according  to  the  tender  Virgil,  who,  however, 
only  judged  of  it  by  hearsay.* 

There  is  a  great  degree  of  probability  in  the  supposition  that  the 
different  races  of  the  north,  each  inhabiting  a  country  covered  with 


24  GRINDING   OF  CORN. 

immense  forests,  lived  for  a  long  time  on  the  firuit  of  these  different 
kinds  of  oak  which  they  possessed  in  such  abundance.  The  great 
respect  they  had  for  the  tree,  the  pompous  ceremony  with  which  the 
high  priest  of  the  Druids  came  every  year  to  cut  away  the  parasitica] 
plant  which  clings  to  it,  the  very  name  of  the  Druids — derived  from  a 
Celtic  word  signifying  oak — ^all  seem  to  point  out  the  first  food  of  our 
ancestors.  The  oak  furnished  the  primitive  aliment  of  almost  every  nation, 
in  their  original  state  of  barbarism.  Some  of  them  had  even  preserved  a 
taste  for  the  acorn  after  they  became  civilized.  Among  the  Arcadians 
and  the  Spaniards,  the  acorn  was  regarded  as  a  delicious  article  of  food. 
We  read  in  Pliny  that,  in  his  time,  these  latter  had  them  served  on 
their  tables  at  dessert,  after  they  had  been  roasted  in  the  wood-ashes  to 
soften  them.  According  to  Champier,  this  custom  still  subsisted  in 
Spain  in  the  1 6  th  century. 

The  regulation  made  by  Ghrodegand,  Bishop  of  Metz,  about  the  end 
of  the  8th  century,  for  the  canons,  says  expressly'  that  if,  in  an  unfa- 
vorable year,  the  acorn  or  flour  should  fail,  it  will  be  the  duty  of  the 
bishop  to  provide  it. 

When,  animated  by  the  most  praiseworthy  zeal  and  courage,  Du 
Bellay,  Bishop  of  Mans,  came,  in  1546,  to  represent  to  Francis  I. 
the  frightful  misery  of  the  provinces,  and  that  of  his  diocese  in  particular, 
he  assured  the  king  that  in  many  localities  the  people  had  nothing  to 
eat  but  bread  made  of  acorns. 

But  mankind,  who  soon  get  tired  of  every  thing,  even  of  acorns 
and  beech-nuts,  began  to  dislike  this  wholesome .  and  abundant  food, 
when  Ceres,  the  ancient  Queen  of  Sicily,  came  just  a  propos  to  give  a 
few  lessons  in  the  art  of  sowing  the  earth.^  Corn  once  brought  into 
fashion  acquired  a  surprising  repute,  and  the  ancient  food  was  given  up 
to  the  animal  which  it  fattens ;  and  if  this  last  were  eaten,  it  was  no 
doubt  in  gratitude  for  the  fruit  mankind  had  formerly  so  much  loved. 

The  good  Ceres  did  not  stop  there ;  it  was  very  well  to  have  corn, 
but  to  know  how  to  grind  it  was  also  requisite ;  and  the  human  race  was 
then  so  lamentably  backward,  that  one  might  have  gone  round  the  world 
without  meeting  a  miller,  or  even  the  shadow  of  the  meanest  little  mill. 

The  Queen  of  Sicily  then  invented  grinding-stones,*  but,  as  the 
most  useful  discoveries  require  time  to  be  known  and  improved  upon^ 
the  way  of  grinding  com  with  stones  did  not  become  uniform  everywhere. 
The  inhabitants  of  Etruria  (now  called  Tuscany)  pounded  the  grain  in 


GRINDING  OF   CORN.  26 

mortars.'  The  early  BomaDs  adopted  the  same  means,  and  gave  the  name 
of  Pistores,  grinders,  to  those  persons  who  followed  this  occupation." 
Pliny  relates  that  one  of  the  jaqcient  faniilies  of  Rome  took  the  surname 
of  Piso,  having  descended,  «is ; they  believed,  from  the  inventor  of  the 
art  of  bruising  wheat  with  pestles." 

Down  to  the  latest  ^ays  of  the  Roman  republic  the  corn  was  bruised 
after  being  roasted.'  /The  pestle  used  for  this  purpose  was  somewhat 
pointed,  and  suspended  by  the  aid  of  a  ring  to  the  extremity  of  a  flexible 
lever,  supported  by  an  axle." 

From  the  time  of  Moses  the  Hebrews  used  grinding-stones:  several 
passages  of  the  Holy  Scripture  .clearly  indicate  this.  Among  others  : 
"  No  man  shall  take  the'  nether  or  the  upper  millstone  to  pledge ;  for  he 
taketh  a  man's  life  to  pledge.""  Another  text. shows  that  the  Egyptians 
used  grinding-stones  with  handles,  at  about  the  same  period."  The 
Israelites,  when  in  the  .Desert,  employed  the  same  means  to  pound 
manna,"  and  after  their  settlement  in  the  Promised  Land,  these  utensils 
served  to  grind  com. 

The  Greeks,  following  faithfully  the  system  from  which  they  had  but 
slightly  deviated,  have  honoured  King  Miletus  as  the  inventor  of 
grinding-stones;"  the  upper  part  was  of  wood,  and  armed  with  heads  of 
iron  nails.  A  passage  of  Homer  would  seem  to  lead  us  to  believe  that 
the  grain  was  first  crushed  with  rollers  on  stone  slabs,  which  operation 
would  naturally  lead  to  the  crushing  of  it  between  grinding-stones.*' 
However*  this  may  be,  these  last  were  no  doubt  still  scarce  in  the  heroic 
times,  since  the  same  poet  does  not  fail  to  inform  us  that  one  was  to 
be  seen  in  the  gardens  of  Alcinous,  chief  of  the  Pheeacians."  This  kind 
of  decoration  would  but  very  little  please  the  taste  of  our  modem 
horticulturists. 

Nearly  two  centuries  before  our  era,  in  the  year  of  Rome  562,  the 
Bomans,  victorious  in  Asia,  brought  with  them  handmills."  This  con- 
quest of  industry  soon  made  an  immense  stride,  and  to  the  labour  of 
man  succeeded  by  degrees  the  obedient  aid  of  horses  and  asses.  Hence 
the  two  kind  of  mills  so  often  mentioned — by  hand,  manuales ;  by  animal, 
^umentaruB,^^ 

Delighted  with  a  discovery  which  supplied  an  important  necessity  of 
life,  the  Romans  invented  a  divinity  to  whom  they  might  show  their 
gratitude,  and  Olympus  was  honoured  with  a  new  inmate :  the  goddess 
Mola,  protectress  and  patroness  of  mills  and  millstones.'* 

c 


26  GRINDING   OF   CORN. 

Now  Mola  was  one  of  a  large  family;  she  had  seyeral  charming 
sisters,  like  herself,  who  could  not  endure  living  among  the  commoners, 
while  Oanymede  served  ambrosia  to  their  elder  sister,  or  poured  out  for 
her  the  nectar  of  the  gods.  Besides,  it  cost  so  little  to  be  made  a 
goddess !  A  few  grains  of  incense,  more  or  less,  who  would  grudge 
such  a  trifle?  The  Flamine  of  Jupiter,  whom  they  consulted,  was  at 
first  rather  refractory.  He  feared  the  crowding  of  Olympus ;  he  doubted 
whether  polite  intercourse  could  ever  be  established  between  gods  of 
high  birth  and  little  divinities  covered  with  flour ;  but  when  at  last  the 
high  priest  had  ceased  speaking,  the  deputation  removed  all  scruples  by 
a  reasonable  bribe,  and  the  sisters  of  Mola  were  forthwith  enrolled  in  the 
list  of  immortals,  under  the  designation  of  well-beloved  daughters  of  the 
god  of  war."  Mars  was  rather  ungentlemanly  on  the  occasion,  but  the 
high  priest  undertook  to  bring  him  to  reason. 

This  took  place  about  the  end  of  May,  and  the  Romans  resolved  to 
celebrate,  from  the  9th  of  the  following  June,  the  festival  of  the  patroness 
of  Roman  millers,  and  of  her  sisters,  the  newly  elected  divinities ;  the 
ceremony  was  worthy  of  those  for  whose  apotheosis  it  was  instituted, 
and  every  year,  on  the  same  day,  new  rejoicings  consecrated  this  great 
event." 

The  mills  ceased  to  turn  and  to  grind,  a  profound  silence  reigned  in 
the  mills ;  the  asses,  patient  and  indefatigable  movers  of  an  incessant 
rotation,  took  a  lively  part,  whether  or  no,  in  the  festivals  of  which  they 
became  the  principal  actors.  These  honest  creatures'  heads**  were 
crowned  with  roses,  and  necklaces  of  little  leaves  encircled  their  necks 
and  fell  gracefully  on  their  chests ;"  we  need  not  add  that,  on  this  day, 
the  thick  bandages  which  generally  covered  the  eyes  of  these  useful 
labourers  were  removed.** 

Independently  of  this  annual  solemnity,  the  asses,  turners  of  the 
mills,  had  sometimes  their  windfalls, — that  is  to  say,  hours  of  holiday, 
during  which  they  could  freely  graze  on  the  neighbouring  thistles.  This 
happened  when  an  awkward  slave  performed  badly  the  duties  of  fanning 
his  master,  or  spilt  carelessly  a  few  drops  of  Falernian  wine  when  filling 
his  cup.  The  unfortunate  creature  yras  immediately  condemned  to 
work  at  the  mill  ;*'  he  was  deprived  of  his  name,  and  received  in  heu  that 
of  the  quadruped  he  replaced — Asinus ;"  and  the  instrument  of  his 
sufferings,  by  a  refinement  of  strange  irony,  was  called  his  manger.*' 

It  sometimes  happened  that  a  free  man,  reduced  to  extreme  indi- 


r^^s^cro: 


GRINDIJSG  OF  CORN.  27 

gence,  had  recourse  to  this  hard  occupation,  in  order  to  earn  a  living. 

m 

Plautus  was  obliged  to  work  at  it,  and  we  know  that  he  wrote  some  of 
his  comedies  during  the  short  moments  of  leisure  allowed  him  by  his 
master  the  miller.'^ 

An  important  modification  was  subsequently  made  in  the  mechanism 
of  mills:  we  mean  hydraulic  mills,  whose  introduction  into  Italy  is  of 
uncertain  date,  although  Pomponius  Sabinus  asserts  (but  without 
proof),  that  this  discovery  took  place  in  the  reign  of  Julius  Cesar.  They 
were  known  in  Rome  at  the  time  of  the  Emperor  Augustus,  and 
Vitnivius  mentions  them.'^  More  than  sixty  years  afterwards,  Pliny 
speaks  of  them  as  rare  and  extraordinary  machines.'' 

Some  writers  have  thought  that  hydraula,  or  hydromila,  watermills, 
were  invented  by  Vitruvius,  and  that  this  celebrated  architect  made 
experiments  with  them,  which  were  forgotten  or  neglected  after  his 
death."  Curious  readers,  who  are  not  afraid  of  the  venerable  dust  with 
which  time  has  covered  many  useful  though  despised  books,  wiU 
consult  with  benefit  the  learned  treatise  of  Goetzius  on  the  mills  of  the 
uicien^,  printed  in  the  year  1730." 

Strabo,  who  flourished  under  the  Emperor  Augustus,  tells  us  a 
watermill  was  to  be  seen  near  the  town  of  Cabire  and  the  palace  of 
Midiridates." 

Nevertheless,  this  useful  invention,  which  we  could  not  now  dispense 
with,  made  so  little  progress  during  four  centuries  that  princes  thought 
it  a  duty  to  protect,  by  several  laws,  those  establishments,  still  rare,  but 
which  people  began  to  appreciate.  Honorius  and  Arcadius  decreed,  in 
808,  that  any  person  who  turned  the  water  firom  niills  for  his  own 
profit,  should  be  punished  by  a  fine  of  five  pounds  weight  in  gold ;  and 
that  any  magistrate  encouraging  such  an  act  should  pay  a  like  sum.'* 
The  Emperor  Zeno'^  maintained  this  law,  and  rendered  it  still  more 
stringent  by  adding,  that  the  edifices  or  land  into  which  the  water  had 
been  turned  should  be  confiscated." 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  the  precise  origin  of  the  miller's  profession 
cannot  be  traced;  but,  alas!  in  almost  all  the  arts  which  tend  to 
preserve  life,  we  discover  the  same  uncertainty :  we  are  ignorant  of  the 
period  of  their  discovery,  and  it  frequently  happens  that  but  few  traces 
of  their  development  remain.  On  the  contrary,  the  dates  of  battles,  or 
scourges  which  have  decimated  the  human  race,  are  certain  enough :  the 
stain  of  blood  leaves  an  impression  which  can  never  be  e&ced. 

c2 


28  GRINDING  OF  CORN. 

In  the  midst  of  the  conflicting  opinions  of  the  writers  of  antiquity, 
what  appears  most  probable  is,  that  watermills  were  invented  in  Asia 
Minor,  and  that  they  were  not  really  used  in  Borne  till  the  reign  of 
Honorius  and  Arcadius. 

Under  the  rule  of  the  Emperor  Justinian,  when  the  Goths  besieged 
the  Roman  city,"  the  celebrated  Belisarius  thought  of  constructing  some 
on  the  Tiber.  The  means  which  he  employed  were  simple  and  inge- 
nious. Two  boats  firmly  fixed,  at  two  feet  distance  firom  each  other, 
caused  the  stream  to  give  a  rapid  motion  to  the  hydrauUc  wheel,  sus- 
pended by  its  axle  between  these  lateral  points  of  support ;  and  this 
wheel  turned  the  mills.*'  This  system  differed  but  Uttle  firom  that  of 
Vitruvius,  which  he  described  more  than  five  centuries  before,  and  is 
explained  in  a  few  words.  A  little  wheel,  fixed  to  the  axle  of  the 
hydraulic  wheel,  turned  a  third  wheel,  adhering  to  the  axle  of  the  upper 
grindstone,  and  the  com  fell  between  the  two  stones  in  passing  from  the 
hopper  placed  above." 

These  grindstones  were  made  of  a  kind  of  porous  lava,  which 
retained  its  roughness,  or  rather,  its  roughness  was  renewed,  by  the  con- 
tinual friction.*' 

The  introduction  of  watermills,  however,  did  not  prevent  the  use  of 
those  worked  by  hand,  which  habit,  cheapness,  and  facility  of  removal 
recommended:  these  antique  mills  of  the  Hebrews,  the  Egyptians,  and  , 
the  Greeks  of  the  heroic  times,  were  only  five  feet  high.  Each  family 
was  supplied  with  as  many  as  they  might  require.  In  the  residence  of 
Ulysses,  that  great  king  of  little  Ithaca,  there  were  as  many  as  twelve. 
Women  turned  the  mills,  and  were  obliged  to  deliver  a  certain  quantity 
of  flour  before  leaving  the  task  imposed  on  them.** 

Com  was  at  first  ground  in  a  portative  hand  mill ;  by  the  Britons, 
women  and  young  girls  were  employed  in  this  kind  of  labour.** 

It  is,  however,  probable  that  watermills  were  known  at  a  very 
early  period  in  England.  Stmtt  cites  a  passage  firom  a  charter  by 
Ulfere,  in  664,  which  warrants  the  supposition.** 

It  would  be  difficult  to  point  out  the  precise  date  of  the  first  em- 
ployment of  mills;  nevertheless,  Somner  informs  us,  in  his  "Antiquities 
of  Canterbury,"**  that  the  Anglo-Normans  of  that  place  ground  their 
com.  *'  There  was,"  says  he,  "  sometime  a  windmill  standing  neare 
the  nonnery  without  Ridingate,  which  the  hospitall  held  by  the  grant 
of  the  nonnes  there :  the  conditions  mutually  agreed  upon,  at  the  time  of 


GRINDING  OF  CORN.  29 

the  grant,  were  that  the  nonnes,  bearing  the  fourth  part  of  the  charge  of 
the  mill,  should  reap  the  fourth  part  of  the  profit  of  it,  &c.  *  ♦  *  and 
this  about  the  reign  of  King  John." 

The  bran  was  separated  from  the  flour  by  means  of  a  sieve ;  the 
dough  was  made,  and  sent  to  the  bakers  to  be  baked.  The  poor  con- 
tented themselves  with  cakes  baked  under  the  ashes/' 

Something  remains  to  be  said  of  windmills.     We  will  say  but  little 
on  the  subject :  this  aerial  mechanism — which  the  knight-errant,  Don 
Quixote,  of  imperishable  memory,  thought  it  necessary  to  fight  with 
sword  and  lance — was  unknown  before  the  Christian  era  in  any  nation 
whose  writers  have  transmitted  to  us   the  least  traces  of  their  civi-' 
Usation ;  but  nothing  proves  that  windmills  were  unknown  to  others. 
This  opinion  seems  to  be  well-founded,  firom  a  passage  of  the  chronicler 
Winceslaus,  who  relates,  in  his  "History  of  Bohemia,"  that  the  first  water- 
mill  raised  in  that  country  was  in  the  year  of  Christ  718,  and  that  no 
other  was  in   use  before  {antea)  but  mills  built  on  the  summit   of 
mountains,  which  were  put  in  motion  by  the  wind.^'    It  appears,  then, 
that  there  is  some  untruth  in  the  assertion,  that  this  sort  of  mill  was 
introduced  into  Europe,  about  the  year  1040,  by  the  first  Crusaders,  on 
their  return  from  the  East^'    At  all  events  this  question  is  no  doubt 
very  deserving  the  laborious  search  of  the  learned ;  it  has  but  a  secon- 
dary interest  for  the  gastrophilist.     It  matters  little  to  him  whether  he 
owes  the  grinding  of  his  com  to  the  breath  of  a  zephyr  or  to  the 
slimy  source  of  a  river ;  all  he  requires  is  good  flour,  because  it  enters 
into  a  great  number  of  culinary  preparations — ^and,  first  of  all,  bread  is 
made  firom  it. 


IV. 


MANIPULATION  OF  FLOUR. 


Man  hss  not  always  eaten  fine  wheaten  breads  biscuits,  or  sponge  cakes ; 
and,  for  many  centuries,  the  inexperience  of  his  palate  prevented  his 
imagining  or  understanding  those  maglric  combinations,  that  science  of 
good  living,^  which  requires  time  and  serious  study.  Nature  makes  us 
hungry ;  art  creates,  modifies,  and  directs  the  appetite — these  are  incon- 
testable truths,  which  this  work  will  serve  to  unfold,  and,  if  necessary, 
to  prove,  should  any  of  our  readers  unfortunately  not  be  already  con- 
vinced of  the  depth  of  these  wise  axioms. 

Let  us  go  no  further  back  than  the  year  2000  before  the  Christian 
fera,  and  enter  together  the  tent  of  the  father  of  nations — Abraham. 
We  might  lead  you  to  the  fire-side  of  each  of  the  nineteen  patriarchs 
who  preceded  him,  but  that  would  take  us  too  far. 

In  the  interior  of  this  nomad  dwelling,  Sarah,  the  venerable  com- 
panion of  the  Pastor- King,  has  just  prepared,  with  flour  and  water,  round 
pieces  of  flattened  paste,  which  $he  places  on  the  hearth,  and  covers 
afterwards  with  hot  ashes.'  It  was  thus  that  princes  and  servants 
made  bread  in  the  East.  The  Jewish  people  who  inhabited  the  Desert 
ate  no  other  kind ;'  and  the  Prophet  Elijah,  reposing  under  the  shade 
of  a  juniper  tcee,  appeased  his  hunger  with  this  simple  and  primitive 
food.*  Sometimes,  however,  at  certain  periods  of  solemnity,  the 
Hebrews  used  a  gridiron,  placed  on  the  coals,  or  a  frying-pan,  into  which 
they  put  the  paste ;  *  but  these  various  modes  of  cooking  produced  a 
kind  of  cake,  dry,  thin,  and  brittle,*  somewhat  like  the  Jewish  Passover 
cake,  which  was  broken  by  the  hand  without  the  aid  of  a  knife;' 
they  were  called  lechem,   choice  and   chief  food,'  and  the  mother  of 


MANIPULATION   OF   FLOUR.  81 

the  family  generally  renewed  them  each  day.'  The  inhabitants  of  the 
East  thought  so  much  of  bread,  that  it  was  considered  a  special  mark 
of  regard  and  hospitality  to  the  person  to  whom  it  was  oifered.^^  Boaz 
says  to  Ruth :  "  At  meal  time  come  thou  hither  and  eat  of  the  bread,  and 
dip  thy  morsel  in  the  yinegar."  " 

Although  the  use  of  bread  without  leaven  and  baked  under  the 
ashes  was  common  among  the  Jews/'  it  is  nevertheless  evident  that 
they  knew  and  employ ed,  at  an  early  period,  some  substance  to  raise 
the  dough,  which  they  designated  by  the  name  of  seor.  It  was,  perhaps, 
flour  diluted  with  water  left  to  get  sour.  Pliny  assures  us  that  of  all 
means  employed  by  the  ancients  to  render  bread  savoury  and  light,  this 
is  the  most  simple  and  easy.^' 

It  appears  not  unlikely  that  the  Hebrews  learned  from  the  Egyptians 
how  to  prepare  the  leaven  they  made  use  of.  The  period  at  which  an 
allusion  is  made  to  it  for  the  first  time,  in  the  Bible,  renders  this  sup- 
position likely.  It  is  when  the  people  of  God  were  about  to  escape 
from  the  slavery  of  the  Egyptians,  and  are  preparing  to  celebrate  the 
Passover,  on  the  eve  of  their  setting  out  for  the  Desert.^^  The  Israelites, 
therefore,  knew  how  to  make  bread  more  digestive  and  of  better  taste 
than  is  generally  believed — not  so  good,  perhaps,  as  our  delicate  fancy 
bread,  but  better  than  the  clumsy  lumps  of  paste  baked  under  the  ashes, 
in  the  fryii;ig-pan,  or  on  the  gridiron.^*  They  had  also  ovens  at  a  very 
distant  period  of  their  history — some  four  thousand  years  ago."  These 
ovens  were  made  with  bricks  or  clay;  afterwards  they  used  iron  and 
brass  ;^'  but  nothing  in  the  Holy  Writings  shows  us  that  any  one  exercised 
among  them  the  trade  of  a  baker,  at  least  at  this  early  period,  nor, 
indeed,  very  much  later. 

The  chief  baker  or  butler,  whose  punishment  and  death  Joseph 
foretold,  when  he  interpreted  that  officer's  dream,  was  an  Egyptian,  and 
belonged  to  King  Pharaoh." 

Hitherto  an  infallible  book  has  been  our  guide ;  let  us  now  dive 
into  the  dark  and  almost  boundless  regions  of  fabulous  antiquity. 

The  most  frightful  god  of  which  the  fevered  imagination  of  man 
could  possibly  form  an  idea—a  god  with  the  face  and  legs  of  a  goat, 
the  horrible  Pan ! — according  to  some  credulous  writers,  taught  mortals 
the  art  of  making  and  baking  bread.  The  name  even  of  this  food,  they 
say,  furnishes  an  incontestable  proof  of  this  assertion."  You  are 
mistaken,  reply  more  sensible  writers;  it  is  in  the  Greek  word  pan^ 


82  MANIPULATION   OF  FLOUR. 

signifying  all,  that  we  must  seek  the  etymology  of  this  nutritious 
substance,  which  accompanies  all  other  aliments,  takes  their  place  if 
needful,  and  agrees  equally  with  all  mankind." 

This,  one  would  think,  is  conclusive ;  but  the  learned,  the  philologist, 
and  every  Procrustes  of  literature,  protests  against  a  halt  with  so  fair  a 
field  before  him.  It  is  from  the  vtotA.  pascere,^^  proudly  exclaims  another 
interpreter,  that  the  substantive,  bread,  is  derived."  This  word  has  been 
rather  disfigured  on  its  way :  think  of  the  length  of  time  it  has  been 
travelling  down  to  us. 

Ceres  taught  the  Greeks  how  to  cultivate  corn  ;  they  learned  from 
Megalarte  and  Megalomaze  how  to  knead  flour  and  bake  it  in  ovens." 
The  gratitude  of  the  Boeotians  erected  statues  and  altars  to  their 
memories,  and  shortly  after,  Greece  could  boast  of  having  obtained  the 
most  skilful  bakers  in  the  world.  The  bread  of  Athens  and  Megara 
had  a  well  deserved  reputation :  its  whiteness  dazzled  the  eye,  and  its 
taste  was  exquisite.**  This  voluptuous  and  fickle  nation  very  soon 
began  to  tire  of  so  intelligent  and  simple  a  manipulation,  and  must 
needs  mix  with  the  paste  a  host  of  ingredients  which  greatly  altered 
its  flavour :  and  seventy-two  different  sorts  of  bread"  took  birth 
from  the  scientific  association  of  milk,  oil,  honey,  cheese,  and  wine  with 
the  best  flour.**  All  these  varieties  were  called  by  the  generic  name 
of  artos,  bread ;  to  which  was  added  an  epithet  which  prevented  the 
mistaking  of  one  kind  for  another. 

The  bread-market  at  Athens  was  very  amusing;  women  (for  the 
fair  sex  busied  themselves  with  this  trade)  waited,  seated,  by  the  side 
of  their  baskets  until  Mercury  should  send  them  customers,  and  woe 
to  those  who  came  late,  or  whose  evil  genius  led  them  to  find  fault 
with  either  the  quality,  quantity,  or  price  of  the  goods.  Have  you 
ever  heard  the  ladies  of  Billingsgate  playing  off  their  pleasant  jokes 
on  a  timid  countryman,  or  a  foreigner,  whose  accent  had  betrayed 
him  ?  It  is  a  running  fire  of  puns  and  crude  picturesque  expressions 
which  nothing  can  resist;  our  Greek  market-women  would  have 
been  more  than  a  match  for  them— can  we  bestow  upon  them  greater 
praise  ?*' 

Some  of  them  sold  azumos,  a  deUcate  sort  of  biscuit,  but  rather 
tasteless,  prepared  without  leaven ;"  others — irresistible  syrens — invited 
children  to  taste  of  the  relishing  artolaganosy  in  which  a  renowned 
baker  had    the    talent  of  introducing  wine,  pepper,  oil,  and  milk." 


MANIPULATION   OF  FLOUR.  38 

Here  the  sparkllDg  eyes  of  a  rich  epicurean  were  on  the  look  out  for 
some  escarites,  a  very  light  paste,  seasoned  with  new  sweet  wine  and 
honey/"  and  which  was  relished  even  hy  fatigued  appetites  at  the 
close  of  a  repast.**  The  poorer  people  made  their  choice  among 
heaps  of  dolyres,  or  typhes :  they  were  coarse  compounds  of  rye  and 
barley ;"  the  ladies  of  fashion  {pelites  maitresaes)  preferred  the  puflF 
cakes  called />/ar*V^«/*  or  the  sweet  melituteSy  whose  exquisite  and  per- 
fumed flour  was  delicately  kneaded  with  the  precious  honey  of  Mount 
Hymettus,**  Lastly,  the  robust  workman  of  the  Pyrceus  bought  the 
tyronteSy  bread  mixed  with  cheese,**  which  the  higher  classes  of  society 
i  n  Athens  abhorred,  and  which  even  the  middling  classes  excluded  from 
their  tables. 

Let  us  add  to  this  imperfect  enumeration,  that  the  Greeks  baked 
their  bread  in  several  different  manners :  some  in  ovens,  others  under 
ashes,  over  charcoal,  or  between  two  pieces  of  iron,  similar  to  our 
gauffre  moulds,  and  under  a  bell,  or  cover  of  some  metal  with  a 
rim  round  the  top,  and  fire  over  it.**  For  making  a  batch  of  bread, 
they  employed  nine  pounds  six  ounces  of  leaven  to  twelve  bushels  of 
flour."  With  regard  to  their  ovens,  in  the  construction  of  which  they 
excelled,  they  always  took  particular  care  to  place  them  near  a  hand- 
mill,**  in  order  that  the  various  processes  that  the  wheat  had  to  undergo 
should  take  place  with  ease  and  promptitude. 

The  Bomans  were  for  a  long  time  Pultiphagists,  or  eaters  of  gruel^ 
&c.  ;*•  and  it  would  be  difiScult  to  ascertain  with  accuracy  the  precise 
period  at  which  they  gave  a  preference  to  bread ;  they  no  doubt  knew  of 
it  before  the  year  365  of  Eome,  for,  at  the  siege  of  the  Capitol  by  the 
Gauls,  Jupiter,  who  protected  tl\e  besieged,  thought  of  nothing  better 
to  get  them  out  of  their  difficulties  than  to  appear  at  night  to  their 
general,  Manlius,  and  to  give  him  the  following  advice :  "  Make,"  said 
he,  "  bread  with  all  the  flour  you  have  left  in  store,  and  throw  it  to  the 
enemy  to  show  them  that  Rome  has  no  apprehension  of  being  reduced 
by  famine."  This  stratagem,  worthy  of  a  Merry- Andrew,  pleased 
Manlius  so  much,  that  he  immediately  put  it  into  execution.  The 
Gauls  fled,  Master  Jupiter  was  highly  delighted  with  the  trick  he  had 
played,  and  thereby  the  Bomans  got  rid  of  this  swarm  of  barbarians.^* 

Whether  this  little  story  be  true  or  not,  the  people  of  Bomulus  had 
a  decided  taste  for  gruel ;  it  was  a  national  dish,  and  was  only  discon- 
tinued to  be  given  to  the  soldiers,  defenders  of  the  republic,  when  it  was 


34  MANIPULATION    OF   FLOUR. 

perceived  that  their  laborious  duties  required  more  substantial  food/' 
The  Bomans  made  their  gruel  of  all  kinds  of  flour. 

King  Numa  (1715  b.c.)>  guided  by  the  advice  of  the  nymph,  Egeria, 
taught  his  subjects  the  art  of  parching  com,  of  converting  it  into  flour 
by  means  of  mortars,  and  of  making  that  gruel  with  which  he  liked  to 
regale  himself. 

This  good  prince  was  rather  fond  of  interfering  in  what  did  not 
concern  him,  and  the  royal  compound  wsus  afterwards  cooked  in  the 
public  bakehouses,  which  the  piety  of  the  sovereign  placed  under  the 
protection  of  the  powerful  Fornax,  a  goddess  unknown  till  then,  and 
who  soon  became  the  object  of  general  and  fervent  worship.^' 

There  is  but  one  step  from  gruel  to  bread :  the  Bomans  perceived  it^ 
Thus  this  favourite  dish  lost  its  reputation,  and  the  worship  of  Fornax 
somewhat  cooled.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  there  was  still  the  smell  of 
cakes  on  all  sides ;  cooking  on  the  hearth,  on  the  coals,  in  small  bell- 
stoves,  and  in  large  baking  pans,  until  ultimately  they  became  acquainted 
with  the  use  of  ovens.*' 

At  last,  Bome  began  to  have  them  built,  under  the  reign  of  Tar- 
quinius  Superbus,  about  630  years  before  the  Christian  era.  They 
were  solid  constructions,  immoveable,  and  very  like  those  of  the  present 
day/*  Men  were  employed  to  keep  up  the  necessary  degree  of  heat ; 
and  their  useful  profession  (thanks  to  the  strange  caprices  which  so 
tyrannically  rule  the  social  hierarchy)  became  one  of  the  vilest  and 
most  sordid  occupations  in  the  capital  of  the  world."  These  ovens 
were  ordered  to  be  built  far  away  from  all  edifices,  in  order  to  prevent 
accidents  by  fire  ;*•  an  excellent  precaution,  where  so  many  incautious 
and  merry  old  gossips  came  daily  to  bake  their  bread. 

Once  there,  those  worthy  plebeians  amused  themselves  by  giving 
full  scope  to  their  noisy  fun,  slandering  their  neighbours  freely  and 
charitably,  telling  each  other  all  the  little  scandal  they  had  picked  up 
here  and  there,  among  the  good  souls  in  their  neighbourhood.  Hence 
these  public  places  of  labour  and  incessant  babbling  were  called  the 
'*  gossip  bakehouses."*' 

These  joyous  meetings  continued  until  the  arrival  of  Greek  bakers, 
170  years  B.C.,  "who  followed  the  victorious  armies  of  the  republic 
on  their  return  from  Macedonia.*'  These  new  operatives  effected 
a  complete  revolution  in  the  art  of  making  bread :  they  reformed  the 
taste  of  their  masters,  and,  by  degrees,  the  proverbial  frugality  of  the 


MANIPULATION   OF  FLOUR.  35 

* 

eonquerora  of  the  uniTerse  gave  way  to  the  exquisite  researches  and 
wonderfu]  delicacies  of  those  whom  they  had  suhdaed. 

The  Bomans  perceived  the  importance  of  perpetuating  the  talent  of 
these  strangers,  and  converting  it  eventually  into  a  national  industry. 
With  these  views,  they  gave  them  Boman  colleagues,  and  suhsequently* 
they  were  formed  into  a  college,  or  sort  of  association,  which  no  member 
could  quit  on  any  pretext  whatever.  The  son  followed  his  fiEUher's  pro- 
fession, and  he  who  married  the  daughter  of  a  baker  became  one  him- 
self/' Sometimes  one  of  these  privileged  artisans  was  raised  to  the 
dignity  of  senator,  as  an  honour  to  his  colleagues ;  but  in  that  case  he 
was  required  to  abandon  his  fortune  to  the  person  who  took  his  place ; 
he  might,  however,  decline  the  dignity,  and  remain  at  his  kneading- 
trough.'^  All  alliances  with  gladiators  and  comedians  were  interdicted 
them ;  and  the  law  decreed  that  the  delinquent  guilty  of  such  dishonour 
should  be  first  scourged,  then  banished,  and  that  his  property  should  ba 
confiscated  for  the  benefit  of  the  community."  Finally,  the  prodigal 
baker  was  assimilated  with  the  dishonest  bankrupt,  and  expelled  the 
college." 

The  above  details  on  some  of  the  dispositions  of  the  law  regarding 
this  interesting  corporation,  sufiGciently  prove  the  importance  that  the 
Boman  government  attached  to  it,  and  wished  it  should  always  maintain. 

The  bakers  of  Bome  received  fix>m  the  public  granaries  whatever 
they  required,  at  a  price  fixed  by  the  magistrate.  If  the  officer 
charged  with  the  distribution  of  it  gave  a  bad  quality,  or  exacted  a 
bribe  to  supply  good  com,  that  officer  was  disgraced,  aqd  he  became  for 
ever  a  journeyman  baker." 

Independently  of  public  bakeries,  the  number  of  which  reached 
829  under  the  reign  of  Augustus,  there  were  also,  in  the  houses  of  the 
wealthy,  slaves  whose  sole  occupation  was  the  making  of  bread,  and 
these  slaves  brought  an  exorbitant  price  when  they  excelled  in  their  art." 
They  used  portable  ovens^  made  of  iron  or  earthenware,  under  which 
they  placed  red-hot  coals.  Sometimes  they  employed  a  round  brass 
vessel  with  a  cover,  which  was  put  under  the  flames.  In  the  houses  where 
the  greatest  luxury  reigned,  they  had  a  kind  of  silver  mould,  from  which 
the  bread  was  taken,  and  served  to  the  guests." 

It  is  absolutely  necessary  to  dive  into  the  private  life  of  the  Boman 
people,  and  not  to  neglect  any  of  their  domestic  customs  (accounts  of 
which  are  scattered  here  and  there,  in  the  writings  of  the  more  serious 


J 


86  MANIPULATION   OF  FLOUR. 

historians,  and  among  the  dangerous  frivolitiea  of  certain  poets),  if  we* 
wish  to  have  a  correct  idea  of  the  excessive  refinement  which  the  opu- 
lent classes  evinced,  even  in  the  most  ordinary  things. 

Modern  nations  are  satisfied  with  thehread  more  or  less  white,  and 
even  bear,  without  much  complaint,  certain  illicit  mixtures,  in  which  va- 
rious heterogeneous  .substances  are  sometimes  strangely  amalgamated; 
but  this  was  not  the  case  in  Borne.  The  prefect  of  provisions  {jpnffectus 
annonai)  was  scrupulously  careful  to  see  that  the  supply  of  bread 
was  abundant ;  that  it  was  of  exact  weight;  that  the  manipulation  of  it 
was  excellent ;  and  that  it  was  made  of  the  best  flour  the  public  grana- 
ries contained. 

As  we  have  already  observed,  that  was  one  of  the  most  serious  cares 
of  the  government  on  behalf  of  a  people  who  only  required  two 
things — bread  and  the  circus,*'  and  whose  ferocity,  when  pressed  by 
hunger,  knew  no  bounds.*' 

They  studied  carefully  every  modification  that  the  art  of  baking 
might  seem  to  require :  they  examined  the  leaven  in  use,  and  experi- 
mented with  new  kinds.  The  following  are  the  compositions  Pliny  has 
transmitted  to  us : — 

The  Romans  thought  much  of  millet  for  their  leaven ;  they  mixed 
it  with  sweet  wine,  in  which  they  let  it  ferment  a  year. 

They  employed,  also,  wheat  bran,  soaked  for  three  days  in  sweet 
white  wine,  and  dried  in  the  sun.  Of  this  they  diluted  a  certain 
quantity  at  the  time  of  making  bread,  which  was  left  to  ferment  in  the 
best  wheat  flour,  and  afterwards  mixed  with  the  entire  mass. 

The  leavens  just  mentioned  were  made  during  the  vintage ;  the  rest 
of  the  year  they  were  replaced  by  the  following : — A  dish  containing 
two  pounds  of  barley  paste  was  placed  on  red-hot  coals,  and  heated 
until  ebulition  commenced.     It  was  put  into  vessels  till  it  became  sour. 

Very  often  leaven  was  procured  from  dough  just  made.  A  piece  was 
taken  from  the  mass  previous  to  salt  being  added ;  it  was  then  left  to 
turn  sour,  and  might  be  used  the  next  day. 

The  celebrated  natiuralist  who  supplies  these  details,  tells  us  that, 
in  his  time,  the  Gauls  and  Spaniards,  after  having  made  a  drink  from 
wheat,  saved  the  scum  to  raise  the  dough,  and  that  their  bread  was  the 
lightest  of  all." 

It  woidd  be  difficult  to  form  an  idea  of  the  prodigious  luxury  which 
Rome  introduced  into  an  aliment  so  common,  and  of  such  universal 


MANIPULATION    OF   FLOUR.  87 

use  as  bread.  Its  name,  its  form,  and  flavour  indicated  the  various 
ranks  of  society  to  which  it  belonged."  There  was  the  senator's  bread, 
that  of  the  knights,  of  the  citizens,  of  the  people,  and  that  of  the 
peasants.^® 

Let  us  go  together  under  the  vast  galleries  supported  by  those 
magnificent  arcades."  The  ediles  have  preceded  us ;  they  are  visiting 
the  shops;"  it  is  the  Forum  Pistrinumy  or  bread-market.  The  year  is 
good :  a  septier  (five  bushels)  of  wheat  is  only  twenty-five  shillings," 
and  provisions  of  all  kinds  abound  in  Bome.  Eoreigners,  also,  are 
here,  attracted  by  curiosity ;  for  Vespasian  is  preparing  to  deposit  with 
solemnity  the  spoils  of  Jerusalem  in  the  temple  of  Peace.**, 

In  the  middle  of  the  inclosure  you  see  the  statue  of  Vesta,  the  god- 
dess worshipped  by  bakers."  In  the  front,  and  round  the  gallery,  those 
open  gtalls  are  loaded  with  a  number  of  round  loaves  of  the  same  form 
and  weight :  they  are  all  five  inches  in  thickness ;  the  top  is  divided  by 
eight  notches — that  is  to  say,  they  are  first  divided  across,  and  the  four 
parts  are  again  subdivided."  These  lines  are  made  in  the  dough,  so 
that  they  may  be  more  easily  broken. 

The  Boman  gentry  and  shopkeepers  give  the  preference  to  this  sort 
of  household  bread,  simply  composed  of  flour,  water,  and  salt.*' 

You  perceive,  here  and  there,  several  baskets,  fiill  of  heavy  biscuits; 
they  are  called  autopyron  ;  it  is  a  coarse,  black  food,  composed  of  bran 
mixed  with  a  little  flour,  and  made  expressly  for  the  dogs  and 
slaves.*' 

Do  you  see  that  colossal-looking  man,  with  enormous  limbs,  who  is 
walking  about  with  an  air  of  stupidity,  and  whose  small  head  is 
covered  with  scars  ?  The  dealers  know  his  profession,  and  one  of  them 
offers  him  the  athletms  bread ;  it  is  kneaded,  without  leaven,  with  soft, 
white  curd  cheese,  and  is  a  coarse,  heavy  food,  which  that  class  of  people 
seem  to  partake  of  with  great  delight."  That  stout  baker  before  us 
occupies  two  of  the  most  spacious  shops  in  the  market,  on  the  left  of 
the  statue :  he  is  one  of  .the  richest  members  of  the  corporation,  and  is 
the  principal  purveyor  for  the  camp  and  army.  Those  large  sacks, 
placed  before  him  with  so  much  symmetry,  contain  the  buccellatum 
biscuit,  or  dried  bread  for  the  troops.'® 

His  neighbour  (called  the  Greek),  was  bom  at  Athens ;  he  is  the 
fashionable  purveyor  to  the  princes,  senators,  and  sybarites  of  Bome. 
No  one  understands  so  well  as  himself  the  art  of  mixing  salt,  oil^  and 


88  MANIPULATION   OF   FLOUR. 

milk  with  the  best  wheaten  flour ;  an  exquisite  combination,  which  pro- 
duces the  celebrated  bread  of  Gappadocia,  served  only  on  the  tables  of 
the  wealthy/^  With  the  artoplites^  a  light  bread,  made  with  the  best 
wheaten  flour,  and  baked  in  a  mould,  it  is  the  only  kind  of  which 
refined  persons  can  partake/'  If  we  were  not  afraid  of  tiring  you,  we 
could  point  out  many  other  sorts  of  bread  which  abound  in  the  Forum 
Pistrinum,  for  there  is  some  for  all  tastes  and  classes,  from  the  artop^ 
ticiiy  baked  in  moulds,'*  a  most  nutritious  and  digestive  bread,  down 
to  the  furfuraceuBy  a  mass  of  indigestible  bran  that  the  wildest  savages 
among  the  Scythians  could  not  have  swallowed  with  impunity. 

We  should  have  spoken  to  you  of  the  a^trologicus  bread,  the  paste 
of  which  is  similar  to  that  we  use  in  our  days  to  make  fritters,  commonly 
called  batter. 

Also  of  the  cacabaceu^,  which  is  indebted  for  its  agreeable  and 
spicy  flavour  to  the  water,  which  is  previously  boiled  in  a  kind  of  bronzed 
stewpan ;  and  the  siligineus  bread,  made  of  the  best  flour.  Its  mani- 
pulation is  difficult  and  tedious ;  no  matter — the  epicurean  prefers  it, 
when,  by  chance,  he  happens  to  be  hunpry/* 

Neither  ought  we  to  forget  the  panis  madidus,  a  species  of  paste 
made  of  milk  and  flour,  with  which  the  feshionable  ladies  and  effeminate 
dandies  covered  their  faces  before  going  to  bed,  to  preserve  the  freshness 
and  beauty  of  their  complexion.'* 

But  this  enumeration  may  i^pear  to  you  idle  and  endless ;  let  us, 
therefore,  leave  the  market  and  assist  at  the  distribution  of  bread  civilts 
among  the  people,  of  which  thirteen  ounces  is  given  to  each  person  ;'* 
we  will  then  give  a  rapid  glance  at  the  various  other  cereals  besides 
wheat,  which,  in  some  shape  or  other,  are  converted  into  food. 

The  customs  of  the  middle  ages  cannot  be  better  illustrated  than  by 
adding  the  following  curious  notes : 

The  Norman  kings  subjected  the  bakers  to  very  severe  laws  with 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  VII. 

BRBAD.^Na  1.  In  Hexvulaaeum  there  were  found  two  entire  loares  of  the  same  dimension, 
being  18§  inchei  in  diameter,  and  8§  inches  thick.  Each  had  eight  divisions  cut  on  the  top,  that  is  to 
say,— -a  cross  was  first  marked,  and  between  each,  another  dirision  was  made ;  some  had  stamps  on 
the  top. 

No.  3.  At  Pompeii,  in  a  shop  near  the  Pantheon,  were  disoorered  bronze  moulds  for  pastry  and 
bread. 

No.  8.    The  Cappadoda  bread,  made  in  a  mould,  found  at  Pompeii. 

No.  4.    The  mould  for  the  above. 


MANIPULATION  OF  FLOUR.  39 

respect  to  the  weight  and  price  of  bread.  The  first  offence  was  punished 
by  the  confiscation  of  their  bread ;  the  second  by  a  fine ;  and  the  third 
by  the  pillory." 

Saint  Louis  made  statutes  for  the  bakers  of  Paris.  He  forbade  them 
to  bale  on  Sunday  or  any  festival  day,  under  pain  of  a  fine  of  eighteen 
sous  (about  eight  pence),  and  a  certain  quantity  of  bread.  But  he  gave 
them  permission  to  open  their  shops  and  sell  every  day  of  the  year 
without  exception." 

In  the  17th  century,  a  new  regulation  was  made  concerning  bakers; 
they  were  to  bake  "  daily,  and  have  always  on  sale  three  kinds  of  bread, 
viz.,  that  known  as  pain  de  chalis,  of  twelve  ounces ;  pain  de  chapitre, 
often  ounces;  and  brownish  household  bread,  of  sixteen  ounces.  The 
price  of  each  to  be  douze  deniers  (a  halfpenny),  marked  by  the  baker 
with  his  own  particular  mark."  They  were  also  permitted  to  make 
*'  rolls  and  other  sorts,"  but  not  to  expose  them  for  sale  **  under  pain  of 
being  fined  four  hundred  Paris  livres  (a  little  more  than  twelve  pounds 
sterling)."  '• 

m 

Master-bakers  were  admitted  at  Paris,  in  the  14  th  century,  in  the 
following  manner: — 

When  a  young  man  had  been  successively  winnower,  sifter,  kneader, 
and  foreman,  he  could,  by  paying  a  certain  amount  to  the  king  as 
legiance  money,  become  an  aspirant-baker,  and  commence  business  on 
his  own  account.  Four  years  after,  he  was  received  as  master  by  going 
through  certain  formalities.  On  a  given  day,  he  set  out  firom  his  house, 
followed  by  all  the  bakers  of  the  town,  and  repaired  to  the  residence  of 
the  master  of  the  bakers,  to  whom  he  presented  a  new  pot  filled  with 
nuts,  saying :  *•  Master^  I  have  accomplished  my  four  years ;  here  is  my 
pot  of  nuts."  Then  the  master  of  the  bakers  asked  the  secretary  of  the 
trade  whether  that  were  true,  and  having  received  a  reply  in  the  affirm- 
ative, the  master  of  the  bakers  returned  the  pot  to  the  aspirant, 
who  broke  it  against  the  wall,  and  was  at  once  reckoned  amongst  the 
masters. 

Let  us  reckon  up  the  different  kinds  of  bread  that  were  in  use  at  that 
epoch : 

The  bread  made  simply  with  flour,  water,  salt,  and  yeast — the  common 
bread ;  the  best  was  made  at  Chailly  or  Gonesse. 

The  bread  cooked  in  hot  water — pain  Schaude  (in  England,  we 
shoidd  call  it  baked  dumpling). 


40  MANIPULATION  OF  FLOUR.' 

The  bread  made  of  the  finest  flour,  beaten  a  long  time  with  two 
sticks — pounded  bread. 

The  bread  made  of  the  very  finest  and  purest  flour  (biscuit  flour) 
slightly  baked — roll  bread. 

The  bread  made  of  fine  flour,  kneaded  with  butter,  and  sprinkled 
with  whole  wheat — sheep  bread. 

The  bread  made  of  fine  flour,  eggs  and  milk — Christmas  bread. 

And  lastly,  rye  bread,  kneaded  with  spice,  honey,  or  sugar — ginger- 
bread." 


V. 


FRUMENTA. 


Do  not  be  alarmed,  fair  readers,  at  the  Latin  noun  which  heads  this 
chapter :  tolerate  it  in  consideration  of  our  promise  seldom  to  solicit  a 
like  favour.  It  meant,  among  the  Latins,  all  the  plants  which  produce 
ears  of  corn/  the  seeds  of  which  can  be  converted  into  flour.*  Clearly 
there  never  was  a  more  innocent  expression. 

Barley  seems  to  claim  the  first  place  among  cereals  of  the  second 
order ;  the  Greeks  looked  upon  it  as  the  happy  symbol  of  fertility,'  and 
the  ancient  inhabitants  of  Italy  gave  it  a  name  {hordeum)  which,  per- 
haps, recalled  to  their  mind  the  use  mankind  made  of  it  before  wheat 
was  known  {exordium).* 

The  Jews  had  a  great  esteem  for  barley,  and  sacred  history  generally 
assiniilates  it  to  wheat,  when  the  fruits  of  the  earth  are  mentioned.  Thus 
a  beloved  spot  produces  both  these  plants:*  Shobi  offered  to  David 
wheat  and  barley ;'  and  Solomon  promises  twenty  thousand  sacks  of 
wheat  and  as  much  barley  to  the  workmen  charged  with  cutting  down 
the  cedars  of  Lebanon.' 

The  Greeks  and  Bomans  did  not  carry  their  love  for  this  grain  so 
far  as  the  Hebrews.  In  Bome  it  was  the  food  of  the  flocks  and  cowards.' 
In  Lacedsemon  and  at  Athens  the  gladiators  and  common  people  had 
no  other  aliment ;'  they  made  it  into  barley-gruel  {alphiton),  the  com- 
position of  which  was  very  simple,  and  would  not  probably  tempt  a 
modern  Lucullus.  Here  is  the  recipe  of  this  ancient  and  national 
dish  : — 

Dry,  necur  the  fire  or  in  the  oven,  twenty  pounds  of  barley  flour,  then 
parch  it.     Add  three  pounds  of  linseed  meal,  half  a  pound  of  coriander 

D 


42  FRUMENTA. 

seed,  two  ounces  of  salt,  and  the  quantity  of  water  necessary."  To  this 
mixture  of  ingredients  the  Italian  epicureans  added  a  little  millet,  so  as 
to  give  the  paste  more  cohesion  and  delicacy." 

This  culinary  preparation  must  appear  rather  unworthy  of  those 
nations  who  so  completely  echpsed  all  the  gastronomic  glories  of  the 
universe  ;  wherefore  let  us  hasten  to  reinstate  them  as  men  of  taste  and 
exquisite  intelligence,  by  citing  a  more  learned  combination,  which  ob- 
tained the  judicious  patronage  of  the  Archestrates  and  Apicii :  — 

Take  pearl  barley,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  make  use  of  the  flour  only, 
and  put  it  in  a  saucepan ;  pour  on  it  by  degrees  some  of  the  best  oil ; 
with  that  certainty  which  science  alone  gives  to  the  hand,  and  stir  it 
carefully,  whilst  a  slow,  equal  fire  performs  the  great  work  of  cookery. 
Be,  above  all,  attentive  to  enrich  it,  at  proper  intervals,  with  a  delicate 
gravy  extracted  from  a  young  fat  chicken  or  from  a  succulent  lamb. 
Unceasingly  watch,  lest  the  ebullition,  by  going  on  too  rapidly,  force 
this  delightful  mixture  to  overflow  the  side  of  the  vessel ;  and  when  your 
practised  palate  informs  you  that  it  is  worthy  of  youi  guests,  present  it 
to  their  impatient  sensuality.'* 

So  it  appears  the  ancients  were  acquainted  with  pearl  barley,  and 

m 

barley  water;  the  latter  took  the  name  of  diet  drink  {ptisana),  which 
we  only  associate  with  melancholy  reminiscences.^'  Hippocrates  was 
not  only  in  raptures  with  the  virtues  and  properties  of  this  aliment," 
but  he  also  conferred  the  highest  praise  on  that  sweet  and  insipid  drink, 
which  our  doctors  order  their  patients,  as  did  the  oracle  of  Cos,  and 
which  at  that  time  was  called  "  barley  broth.*'" 

Oats  occupied  an  honourable  place  after  barley.  Pliny  fancied  these 
two  plants  so  analogous,  that  the  owner  of  a  field  who  had  sown  barley 
might  find  oats  at  the  time  of  harvest,  whilst  precisely  the  reverse  might 
happen  to  his  neighbour."  Nature,  in  our  days,  is  not  subject  to  such 
frohcs ;  and  our  farmers  are  tolerably  certain  that,  by  care,  labour,  and 
God's  assistance,  they  will  gather  from  the  soil  what  they  have  sown. 

*'  In  order  to  develop  a  strong  flavour  of  vanille  in  black  oats, 
wash  this  seed,  boil  it  a  moment  in  water,  and  employ  the  decoction  as 
you  would  potato  flour,  and  it  will  form  excellent  creams. 

^*  In  Normandy  and  Lower  Britany  they  make  with  flour  of  ofits  a 
delicious  soup.  The  following  is  the  manner  they  obtain  it.  They  take 
white  oats  and  put  them  in  the  oven ;  when  sufficiently  dried,  they  are 
fanned,  cleaned,  and  carried  to  a  mill,  the  grinders  of  which  are  freshly 


FRUMENTA.  48 

sharpened.  The  miller  takes  care  to  hold  them  a  little  way  off,  in  order 
that  they  may  not  crush  the  grain,  and  that  this  last  may  preserve  the 
shape  of  rice ;  by  this  means  they  remove  the  whole  of  the  pellicle." — 
Parmentier. 

The  Greeks  and  Romans  knew  how  to  appreciate  oatmeal  :^^  they 
used  it  to  make  a  kind  of  gruel,  such  as  we  have  already  described,  and 
also  a  substantial  thick  milk,  which  they  prepared  as  we  do.*" 

Rice  was  also  held  in  great  esteem  by  them  :  they  considered  it  as 
a  food  very  beneficial  to  the  chest ;  therefore  it  was  recommended  in 
cases  of  consumption,  and  to  persons  subject  to  spitting  of  blood/* 

Millet^  so  called  from  the  multipUcity  of  its  seeds,'®  abounded  more 
particularly  in  Gaul,  in  the  time  of  Strabo."  Pliny  pretends  that  no 
grain  swells  so  much  in  cooking,  and  he  assures  us  that  sixty  pounds  of 
bread  was  obtained  from  a  single  bushel  of  millet,  weighing  only  twenty 
pounds/'  This  naturalist  also  speaks  of  another  kind  of  millet,  coming 
originally  from  India,  and  which  had  only  been  in  cultivation  ten  years 
in  Italy.  The  stalk  resembled  that  of  the  reed,  and  often  attained  the 
height  often  feet;  its  fecundity  was  such  that  a  single  grain  produced 
innumerable  ears  of  com/'  therefore,  if  so  prolific,  and  capable  of  making 
good  and  economical  food,  why  should  it  not  be,  in  1853,  cultivated 
largely  wherever  the  climate  may  allow  it? 

Some  writers  place  Panic  Grass  among  the  wheats,  because  certain 
nations  made  bread  of  it/*  The  higher  classes  of  Rome  and  Athens 
always  resisted  this  bad  taste.  They  preferred  spelt,  or  red  wheat,  a 
super-excellent  grain,'*  which  was  much  honoiu*ed  by  the  Latins,  if  we 
can  credit  the  charming  letter,  written  by  Pliny  the  younger,  to  Septilius 
Clarus,  on  the  occasion  of  a  dinner,  where  the  latter  failed  to  join  the 
guests.  Among  other  delicate  dishes  with  which  he  desired  to  treat  his 
friend,  he  had  ordered  a  spelt  cake  to  be  made/'  This  same  flour  was 
the  base  of  the  Carthaginian  pudding ;  which  the  reader  may  taste  if  he 
will,  here  is  the  recipe: — 

Carthaginian  Pudding. — Put  a  pound  of  red  wheat  flour  into 
water;  when  it  has  soaked  some  time,  place  it  in  a  wooden  bowl,  add 
three  pounds  of  cream  cheese,  half  a  pound  of  honey,  and  one  egg ; 
beat  this  mixture  well  together,  and  cook  it  on  a  slow  fire  in  a  stew* 
pan."  Should  this  dish  not  be  sufficiently  delicate,  try  the  following:-^ 

When  you  have  sifted  some  spelt  flour,  put  it  in  a  wooden  vessel, 
with  some  water,  which  you  must  renew  twice  a  day  for  ten  days.    At 

D  2 


44  FRUMENTA. 

the  end  of  that  time  squeeze  out  all  the  water,  and  place  the  paste  in 
another  vessel;  reduce  it  to  the  consistence  of  thick  lees,  pass  it  through 
a  piece  of  new  linen,  and  repeat  this  last  operation ;  dry  it  in  the  Bun, 
and  then  boil  it  in  milk.'* 

As  regards  the  exact  seasoning  of  this  exquisite  Soman  dish,  it  is 
your  own  genius  which  must  inspire  you  with  the  proportions. 

Let  us  not  omit  to  notice  the  Erupnion  of  the  Greeks,  the  Irion  of 
the  Latins,  the  Indian  Wheat  of  the  modems.  This  plant  produces  a 
wholesome  and  easily  digestible  food;  it  was  well  known  in  Italy  in  the 
time  of  Pliny,''  at  which  period  the  peasants  used  to  make  a  crisp  sort 
of  heavy  bread,  probably  somewhat  similar  to  that  which  is  still  used  in 
the  south  of  France. 

Since  the  famine  of  1 847  great  attention  has  been  paid  to  this  flour ; 
much  was  imported  into  England  from  America,  where  it  is  used  in 
domestic  economy ;  when  green,  its  milky  pulp  is  an  excellent  food : 
the  various  advantages  of  this  flour,  however^  are  not  sufficiently  deve- 
loped to  give  all  the  benefit  of  its  goodness  to  the  world ;  habit  and 
prejudice  assist  materially  to  prevent  its  being  generally  employed. 

The  Romans  also  ate  it  as  hasty-pudding,  parched  or  roasted,  with  a 
little  salt  A  writer  equally  remarkable  for  his  elegant  and  easy  style,  as 
well  as  for  the  justness  of  his  observations,  informs  us  that,  in  oiur  days, 
the  Indian  inhabitants  of  the  unfruitful  plains  of  Marwar  never  dress 
Indian  com  in  any  other  way." 

Such  are  the  principal  graminea  which  the  ancients  thought  worthy 
of  their  attention,  or  allowed  to  appear  on  their  tables,  with  more  or  less 
honour  according  to  the  degree  of  esteem  in  which  they  were  held.  It 
is  probable  that  the  cooks  in  the  great  gastronomic  period  of  Bome  and 
Athens,  who  knew  so  well  the  capricious  nature  of  their  masters'  palates,*^ 
had  to  borrow  from  magiric  chemistry,  then  so  flourishing,  some  won- 
derful means  of  giving  to  various  kinds  of  cereals  a  culinary  value  they 
now  no  longer  possess — what  might  we  not  expect  from  a  Thimbron,** 
a  Mithoecus,**  a  Soterides  ?"  This  latter  performed  a  feat  which  does 
him  too  much  honour  to  be  unnoticed  here. 

The  King  of  Bithynia,  Nicomedes,  was  taken  with  a  strange,  invincible, 
and  imperious  longing  which  admitted  of  no  delay ;  he  ordered  his  cook, 
Soterides,  to  be  sent  for,  and  commanded  him  to  prepare  instantly  a  dish 
of  loaches.  "  Loaches,  Sire !"  cried  the  skilful,  yet  terrified  cook ;  "  by 
fill  the  gods,  protectors  of  the  kingdom,  where  can  I  procure  these  fish 


FRUMENTA.  45 

at  this  late  hour  of  the  night  ?"  Kings  ill  brook  resistance  to  their  will.'* 
Nicomedes  was  not  celebrated  for  patience  when  pressed  by  hunger. 
"  Give  me  loaches,  I  say,"  replied  he,  with  a  hollow  and  terrible  voice  ; 

"  or  else **  and  his  clear,  fearM,  pantomimic  expression  made  the 

unfortunate  cook  understand  too  well  that  he  must  either  obey  or  imme- 
diately deliver  up  his  head  to  the  provost  of  the  palace.  The  alternative 
was  embarrassing;  nevertheless,  Soterides  thought  how  to  get  out  of  the 
scrape.  He  shut  himself  up  in  his  laboratory,  peeled  some  long 
radishes,  and  with  extraordinary  address  gave  them  the  form  of  the 
fatal  fish,  seasoning  them  with  oil,  salt,  black  pepper,  and  doubtless 
several  other  ingredients,  the  secret  of  which  the  illustrious  chef  has 
not  handed  down  to  posterity.  Then,  holding  in  his  hand  a  dish  of 
irreproaphable-looking  fried  fish,  he  boldly  presented  himself  before  the 
prince,  who  was  walking  up  and  down  with  hasty  strides  awaiting  his 
arrival.  The  King  of  the  Bithynians  ate  up  the  whole,  and  the  next 
day  he  condescended  to  inform  his  court  that  he  never  had  loaches 
served  he  so  much  liked.''  This  digression,  which  the  reader  will  kindly 
pardon,  sufficiently  shows  to  what  height  the  art  of  ancient  cookery  was 
carried,  and  of  which  this  work  will  furnish  new  and  abundant  proo& 

The  cereals  having  had  so  much  of  our  attention,  we  have  now  to 
consider  those  grains  or  seeds  which  serve  as  the  bases  or  necessary 
adjuncts  to  difierent  dishes. 


VI. 


GRAINS:   SEEDS. 


One  of  the  most  important  was  Mustard  seed.  Pythagoras  mamtains 
(and  no  one  has  contradicted  his  assertion)  that  this  seed  occupied 
the  first  rank  amongst  alimentary  substances  which  exercise  a  prompt 
influence  on  the  brain.'  Indeed  the  ancients  attributed  to  it  the  same 
qualities  that  we  do  at  the  present  day. 

Mustard,  according  to  their  opinion,  excites  the  appetite,  gives 
piquancy  to  meat,  strengthens  the  stomach,  and  facilitates  digestion. 
It  is  better  suited,  say  they,  to  bilious  constitutions  than  to  lymphatic 
persons;  and  they  recommended  its  use  in  summer,  rather  than  in 
winter.* 

The  good  Pliny,  always  disposed  to  adopt,  without  much  exami- 
nation, any  stories,  provided  they  were  but  slightly  exaggerated,  was 
convinced,  and  aflBrms,  with  his  accustomed  good  humour,  that  this 
plant  is  a  sovereign  remedy  against  the  bite  of  the  most  venomous 
serpents :  it  is  only  necessary  to  apply  it  to  the  wound.  And,  again, 
if  taken  inwardly,  there  is  nothing  to  fear  from  the  poisonous  effects  of 
certain  mushrooms.'  The  doctors  of  the  19th  century  are,  apparently, 
little  inclined  to  adopt  the  method  recommended  by  the  worthy 
naturalist. 

Mustard  seed  is  only  mentioned  in  the  Bible  as  a  term  of  com- 
parison ;  its  alimentary  qualities  are  nowhere  indicated/ 

The  Romans,  and  other  nations  after  them,  fermented  this  seed  in 
new  sweet  wine.  It  is  from  this,  perhaps,  we  must  seek  for  the  origin  of 
the  word  mustard,  "mustum  ardens^  (burning  wine)';  some  gas- 
tronomic writers  give  it  another  derivation,  not  generally  adopted.   This 


GRAINS :  SBEDS.  47 

condiment,  say  they,  was  formerly  called  sauue  or  seneve.  It  was  only 
towards  the  close  of  the  14  th  century  that  this  name  was  changed. 
Philip  the  Bold,  Duke  of  Burgundy,  marching  against  the  inhabitants 
of  Ghent,  who  had  revolted  from  him,  and  the  city  of  Dijon  having 
supplied  him  for  this  expedition  with  a  thousand  men-at-arms,  the 
prince,  in  gratitude,  granted  to  that  city,  amongst  other  privileges,  that 
of  bearing  his  arms,  with  his  motto,  ''Moult  ine  tarde.^*  The  whole  of 
this  was  carved  on  the  principal  gate  of  Dijon,  but  an  accident  having 
destroyed  the  middle  word,  the  two  others  moult  tarde  caused  many  a 
smile  at  the  expense  of  the  Dijonnais ;  and  as  they  traded  in  senevi 
(mustard),  this  grain  was  called  in  derision  mouiarde,  when  it  came 
from  Dijon,  a  name  it  has  preserved  ever  since.'  If  this  etymology  is 
not  true,  at  least  it  is  ingenious. 

Coriandevy  amongst  the  Romans,  appears  to  have  possessed  the  same 
property  as  mustard,  that  is  to  say,  they  considered  it  was  strengthening 
and  digestive/  They  employed  it  also  in  a  very  useful  manner  during 
the  great  heat  of  summer :  they  mixed  it  with  vinegar,  after  it  had  been 
well  bruised  or  pounded,  and  laid  it  over  any  kind  of  meat,  which  this 
coating  preserved  in  a  perfect  state  of  freshness.' 

Pliny  classifies  the  bitter  seed  of  the  Lupin  as  a  grain  pertaining  to 
that  of  wheat ;  *  and  if  you  soak  it,  he  says,  in  boiling  water,  it  becomes 
so  mild  that  It  can  be  eaten/'  Zeno,  of  Gitium,  was  of  the  same 
opinion.  This  philosopher,  with  all  his  wisdom,  could  not  help  showing 
his  bad  temper,  even  towards  his  best  friends  at  times,  but  was  very 
afiable  after  he  had  quaffed  several  cups  of  delicious  wine.  One  day 
he  was  asked  for  an  explanation  of  this  contrast  in  his  temper.  '^  That 
IS  very  simple,"  he  replied ;  "  I  am  of  the  same  nature  as  the  lupins : 
their  bitterness  is  insupportable  before  they  are  soaked,  but  they  are  of 
an  exquisite  mildness  when  they  have  been  well  steeped."  " 

We  strongly  doubt,  nevertheless,  whether  this  plant  has  ever  been 
honoured  by  the  patronage  of  connoisseurs  and  people  of  deUcate  taste ; 
a  very  high  authority  in  cookery — Lycophon,  of  Chalcis — used  to  say, 
with  a  kind  of  disdain,  that  this  despicable  plant  was  hardly  good 
enough  for  the  common  fare  of  the  mob,  or  to  feast  the  guests  at 
a  beggar's  table." 

It  was  principally  used  as  food  for  cattle,  and  not  without  reason, 
if  it  be  true  that  twenty  pounds  of  lupins  are  sufficient  to  fatten  an  ox. 

The  lovers  of  etymology,  who  may  be  classified  in  the  family  of 


IS 


48  GRAINS:  SEEDS. 

readers  of  logogriphs,  were  in  raptures  at  finding  the  following :  "  The 
Latin  name  of  Lupinus  has  been  given  to  this  grain  because  the  lupin 
wears  out  and  destroys  the  land  nearly  as  the  wolf  destroys  and  devours 
the  flocks ;  whereupon  they  exclaimed,  with  pride,  *  Lupintis  d  lupo  ! ' "" 

At  the  period  when  the  gods  did  not  exact  much,  but  were  con- 
tented with  humble  offerings,  men  placed  on  the  altars  loaves  made  of 
Linseed  meal;  a  treat  the  immortals  grate^ly  accepted,  though  certainly 
it  would  not  much  tempt  us"  of  the  present  day. 

The  Asiatics  afterwards  thought  of  pounding  the  linseed,  frying  it, 
and  mixing  it  with  honey ;  these  cakes  seemed  to  them  too  good  for 
their  divinities,  so  they  ate  them  themselves.^' 

In  the  time  of  Pliny,  the  Lombards  and  Piedmontese  ate  this 
miserable  bread  of  the  gods,  and  even  found  in  it  a  most  agreeable 
flavour:*'  these  nations  have  since  improved  their  taste. 

Shall  we  mention  Hempseed,  the  Cannabis  of  the  ancients,  which 
was  served  fried  for  dessert  ?  "  That  hemp  should  be  spun  and  made 
into  ropes,  well  and  good  ;  but  to  regale  one's-self  with  it  after  dinner, 
— ^when  the  stomach  is  overloaded  with  food,  and  hardly  moved  from  its 
lethargic  quietude  by  the  appearance  of  the  most  provoking  viands 
that  art  can  invent — what  depravity  I  What  strange  perversion  of  the 
most  simple  elements  of  gastronomy ! 

The  Arabs,  that  wandering  nation,  who  are  not  yet  acquainted  with 
the  roasting-spit,  nor  the  voluptuousness  of  a  delicious  repast,  formerly 
intoxicated  themselves  with  a  beverage  extracted  from  linseed ;"  we,  who 
are  in  possession  of  generous  wine,  let  us  deplore  such  excesses,  and  not 
imitate  them. 


VII. 


VEGETABLES. 


All  nations  have  sown  vegetables,  and  judged  them  worthy  of  their 
particular  attention ;  sometimes  they  have  even  confounded  many  of 
these  plants  with  the  cereals,  because  they  were  converted  into  flour 
and  bread/  especially  in  time  of  famine.' 

After  the  Deluge,  when  God  made  a  covenant  with  Noah  he  said, 
with  respect  to  the  food  of  man:— "Even  as  the  green  herb  have  I 
given  you  all  things;"*  and,  subsequently  to  that  epoch,  the  holy 
writers  frequently  demonstrate,  in  their  simple  and  interesting  style, 
the  various  uses  which  the  Hebrews  made  of  vegetables.  Esau,  pressed 
by  himger,  sold  his  birth-right  to  Jacob  for  a  dish  of  lentils/ 

Among  the  presents  which  David  received  from  Shobi,  were  beans, 
lentils,  and  parched  pulse.' 

The  four  Hebrew  children  were  fed  with  vegetables,  at  the  court  of 
Nebuchadnezzar,  King  of  Babylon."  It  is  sufficient,  we  think,  to 
indicate  these  passages,  without  uselessly  increasing  the  number. 

The  heroes  of  Homer,  those  men  covered  with  iron  and  brass,  whose 
terrible  blows  dealt  death  and  desolation,  reposed  after  their  exploits, 
partaking  of  a  dish  of  beans  or  a  plate  of  peas.'  Happy  simplicity 
of  the  Homeric  ages !  Patrocles  peeled  onions  I  Achilles  washed 
cabbages  I  and  the  wise  Ulysses  roasted,  with  his  own  hands,  a  sirloin 
of  beef  I 

One  day  the  son  of  Thetis  received  under  his  tent  a  deputation  sent 
by  the  Greeks,  to  entreat  him  to  be  friends  with  Agamemnon.  The 
young  hero,  who  could  only  be  accused  of  a  little  pride  and  passion, 


60  VEGETABLES. 

invited  these  worthy  personages  to  dinner,  and,  with  the  assistance  of 
his  friend,  gave  them  a  magnificent  banquet,  in  which  vegetables 
occupied  a  most  conspicuous  place.* 

Sixteen  Greek  authors  have  devoted  their  vigils  to  profound  re- 
searches concerning ,  the  qualities  of  these  useful  plants ;  their  works 
have  not  been  transmitted  to  us,  hut  their  names  are  to  be  found 
inscribed  in  the  gastronomic  treasure  which  Athenaeus — that  grammarian, 
philosopher,  and  epicurean — has  bequeathed  to  the  meditations  of 
posterity.' 

But  it  is  principally  with  the  Bomans  that  this  interesting  branch  of 
the  magiric  art  flourished.  They  have  told  us  that  this  great  family 
of  herbs  took  the  name  of  vegetables  {legumina)^  because  they  were 
chosen  and  picked  by  the  hand;'*  and  their  most  celebrated  horticul- 
turists have  prided  themselves  on  the  preparation  of  the  ground  to 
which  they  were  confided,  on  the  attention  which  they  claimed,  and  on 
the  Hygeian  virtues  which  experience  attributed  to  them.  Heathen 
theology,  too,  consecrated  several  of  them  to  the  solemnities  of  their 
religion,  and  some  nations  even  considered  them  Worthy  of  their 
homage  and  the  fumes  of  incense." 

Virgil  himself  seems  to  regret  his  inability  to  sing  of  gardens  and 
vegetables.  Perhaps  a  rapid  sketch  of  what  the  great  poet  says  on  this 
subject,  may  not  be  misplaced  here. 

• 

''  Si  mon  Taisaeau  long-temps  6gar^  loin  du  bord, 
Ne  86  hfttait  enfin  de  regagner  le  port, 
Peot-^tre  je  peindrais  Iob  Ciena  ch^ris  de  Flore ; 
Le  Narcisse  en  mes  vers  B'empresaerait  d*eclore, 
Lee  roses  m'ouvriraient  leurs  calioes  brillants, 
Le  tortueux  concombre  arrondirait  sea  flancs  ; 
Da  persil  toujours  vert,  dee  piles  chicories 
Ma  mnse  abreuverait  les  tigee  alter^, 
Je  conrberais  le  lierre  et  I'acanthe  en  bek*ceau, 
Et  du  myrthe  amoureux  j'ombragerais  les  eaux."" 

One  more  fact  will  serve  to  show  to  what  extent  the  Bomans  carried 
tlieir  enthusiastic  affection  for  leguminous  plants :  we  know  that  illus- 
trious families  did  not  disdain  to  bcMTow  their  names  from  them.  The 
appellations,  Fabius,  Cicero,  and  L^ntulus,  thus  enhanced  the  humble 


VEGETABLES.  61 

leDownof  beans  (yb^a),  peas  {cieer  arietinum),  aod  lentils  {lenticula).^* 
The  eminent  orator  we  have  just  named  gave  the  preference  one  day  to 
a  dish  of  beet-root,  instead  of  oysters  and  lampreys,  of  which  he  was 
passionately  fond.^*  It  is  tnie  that,  since  the  promulgation  of  the 
Licinian  law,"  which  allowed  but  little  meat  and  plenty  of  vegetables, 
the  voluptuaries  of  Borne  invented  most  astonishing  ragouts  of  mush* 
rooms  and  pot-herbs.  So  true  is  it  that  the  genius  of  man  develops 
itself  more  particularly  imder  diflScult  circumstances,  and  that  the  art  of 
cookery  owes,  perhaps,  the  perfection  and  glory  which  it  has  attained  to 
the  impediments  with  which  its  formidable  enemy,  frugality,  seems 
always  ready  to  surround  it. 

Apicius,  that  profound  culinary  chemist,  who  nobly  expended  immense 
treasures  in  inventing  new  dishes,  and  who  killed  himself"  because 
the  remainder  of  his  fortune  was  not  suflBcient  for  him  (though  to 
another  it  would  have  seemed  magnificent) — Apicius  shows  us  what 
he  believed  to  be  the  most  suitable  manner  of  preserving  vegetables. 
"  Choose  them,"  he  says,  "  before  they  are  perfectly  ripe,  put  them  in  a 
vessel  coated  with  pitch,  and  cover  it  hermetically."  " 

The  reader  will  decide  for  himself  between  this  process  and  those 
which  science  h6w  since  discovered. 

The  capitulars  (or  statutes)  of  Charlemagne  enter,  on  the  subject  of 
vegetables,  into  some  instructive  details.  They  inform  us  that  lettuces, 
cresses,  endive,  parsley,  chervil,  carrots,  leeks,  turnips,  onions,  garlic, 
scallions,  and  eschalots,  were  nowhere  to  be  found,  except  in  the 
emperor  s  kitchen-gardens.  Charlemagne  had  all  those  vegetables  sold, 
and  derived  from  them  a  very  considerable  revenue." 

Anderson  makes  an  observation  (under  the  date  1548),  which 
deserves  to  be  noticed  here,  were  it  only  on  account  of  its  singularity. 
"The  English,"  says  he,  "cultivated  scarcely  any  vegetable  before  the  last 
two  centuries.  At  the  commencement  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII., 
peither  salad,  nor  carrots,  nor  cabbages,  nor  radishes,  nor  any  other 
comestibles  of  a  like  nature,  were  grown  in  any  part  of  the  kingdom ; 
they  came  from  Holland  and  Flanders." 

According  to  the  author  of  a  project,  printed  in  London  in  1723, 
in  8vo.,  "  for  the  relief  of  the  poor,  and  the  payment  of  old  debts, 
without  the  creation  of  new  taxes,"  Queen  Catherine  herself  could  not 
procure  a  salad  for  her  dinner.     The  king  was  obliged  to  send  over 


52  VEGETABLES. 

to  Holland  for  a  gardener  to  cultivate  those  pot-herbs,  with  which 
England  is,  perhaps,  better  furnished  now  than  any  other  country 
in  Europe. 

Anderson  asserts  (1660)  that  cauliflowers  were  not  known  in 
England  until  about  the  time  of  the  Restoration.  And,  lastly,  the 
author  of  the  ''State  of  England,"  printed  in  1768,  remarks  that 
asparagus  and  artichokes  were  only  introduced  a  few  years  antecedent 
to  that  date. 


vra.- 


DRIED     VEGETABLES. 


BEANS. 

This  innocent  yegetable,  which  with  us  certainly  awakens  no  lugu* 
brious  thoughts,  was  formerly  consecrated  to  the  dead.  It  was  offered 
in  sacrifices  to  the  infernal  gi^ds,  and  its  mysterious  virtues  evoked  by 
night,  spirits,  and  shadows.^  The  Flamen  of  Jupiter  could  not  eat  it, 
and  he  was  forbidden  to  touch  a  bean,  or  even  to  pronounce  its  name  ;' 
for  the  fatal  plant  contains  a  little  black  spot,  which  is  no  other  than  a 
noxious  character— a  type  of  death.* 

Pythagoras  and  his  followers  carefully  avoided  this  dismal  food,  in 
the  fear  of  submitting  a  father,  sister,  or  beloved  wife  to  the  danger  of  a 
cruel  mastication;*  for  who  knew  where  wandering  souls  might  rest 
during  the  course  of  their  numerous  transmigrations. 

Grave  writers  say  the  cause  of  this  abstinence  is,  that  beans  are  dif- 
ficult of  digestion ;  that  they  stupify  those  who  make  use  of  them  as 
food ;  and  that  hens  who  eat  them  cease  to  lay  eggs.'  What  more 
shall  we  say  ?  Hippocrates,  wise  as  he  certainly  was,  had  some  of  these 
strange  fears,  and  he  trembled  for  his  patients  when  beans  were  in 
blossom/ 

In  spite  of  such  ridiculous  prejudices,  this  plant  had  numerous  and 
enlightened  defenders.  When  green,  it  was  served  on  tables  renowned 
for  delicacies ;  and,  when  fully  ripe,  it  frequently  replaced  both  wheat 
and  other  com.'  One  of  the  festivals  of  Apollo— the  Pyanepsia — owed 
its  origin  and  pomp  to  the  bean.     This  vegetable  then  obtained  pre- 


54  DRIED    VEGETABLES. 

eminence  over  all  that  were  boiled  in  the  saucepan,  and  offered  to  the 
God  of  Day  and  the  Fine  Arts.'  Is  it  possible  to  imagine  a  more 
brilliant  rehabilitation  ? 

If  we  are  to  believe  Isidorus,  this  plant  was  the  first  culinary  vege- 
table of  which  man  made  use ;'  he  was,  therefore,  bound  to  preserve  a 
grateful  remembrance  of  it. 

King  David  did  not  deem  it  unworthy  of  him,"  and  the  Prophet 
Ezekiel  was  commanded  to  mix  it  with  the  different  grains  of  which  he 
made  his  bread." 

We  possess  few  certain  indications  proving  the  different  culinary 
combinations*  to  which  beans  gave  rise  among  the  ancients.  All  we 
know  is,  that  they  ate  them  boiled,"  perhaps  with  bacon;  raw,"  with 
salt,  we  should  imagine ;  or  fried  "  with  fat,  butter,  or  oil. 

Two  kinds  especially  attracted  the  attention  of  true  connoisseurs  of 
that  class  of  gourmets  elect,  whose  palate  is  ever  testing,  and  whose 
sure  taste  detects  and  appreciates  shades,  of  almost  imperceptible  tenuity 
—first,  the  bean  of  Egypt,  recommended  for  its  rich,  nutritious,  and  whole- 
some pulp;  this  bean  was  also  cultivated  in  Syria  and  Gilicia:"  and 
secondly,  the  Greek  bean,  which  passed  at  Rome  for  a  most  delicious 
dish."  Certain  gastronomists,  however,  preferred  another  vegetable  of 
which  we  are  going  to  speak. 

Ever  since  the  middle  ages  the  bean  has  played  a  very  important 
part  in  the  famous  *'  Twelfth-night  cake,"  almost  all  over  Europe. 
The  ephemeral  royalty  it  bestowed  was  often  sung  by  the  poets,  and 
consecrated  in  chronicles.  Thomas  Randolph  informs  us  that  Lady 
Flemyng  was  queen  of  the  bean  in  15C8."  Some  days  after  the  Duke 
of  Guise  was  assassinated  by  Poltrot.  History  has  its  puerilities  as  well 
as  its  great  tragedies. 

The  Spaniards  had  also  their  Twelfth-night  cake.  When  John, 
Duke  of  Braganza,  had  obtained  the  crown  of  Portugal  (J  640),  Phi- 
lip IV.  of  Spain  informed  Count  Olivares  of  the  event,  and  added,  as  if 
it  were  a  consolation  for  the  loss  of  a  kingdom,  that  this  new  sovereign 
was  nothing  more  than  a  "  king  of  the  bean."  "  Philip  was  mistaken. 
These  cakes  were  made  in  former  days  nearly  in  the  same  manner 
that  we  make  them  now.  Sometimes  they  contained  honey,  flour, 
ginger,  and  pepper.  One  portion  was  for  God,  another  for  the  Holy 
Virgin,  and  three  others  for  the  Magi ;  that  is  to  say,  they  gave  all  these 
portions  to  the  poor." 


DRIED  VEGETABLES.  && 

In  Englaad  the  cake  was  often  full  of  raisins,  among  which  one 
bean  and  one  pea  were  introduced. 

"  Cut  the  cake/'  says  MeliboBUS  to  Nisa ;  "  who  hath  the  beane  shal 
be  kinge;  and  where  the  peaze  is,  shal  be  queene.""^ 

"  At  the  present  day  the  bean  is  one  of  the  vegetables  most  culti- 
vated in  Egypt  and  Italy.  At  Naples,  as  in  Egypt,  they  are  eaten  raw 
when  young,  and  the  lai^^e  ones  cooked  and  grilled  in  the  oven.  They 
are  publicly  sold  already  cooked.'* — Leman. 


HARICOTS. 


It  is  well  known  that  Alexander  the  Great  was  fond  of  travelling, 
and  that  he  was  generally  accompanied  in  £is  peregrinations  by  a  cer- 
tain number  of  soldiers,  who  occasionally  took  for  him,  on  his  route, 
cities,  provinces,  and  sometimes  kingdoms.  It  happened,  one  day,  that 
as  the  Macedonian  prince — worthy  pupil  of  Aristotle — was  herbalizing 
in  India,  his  eyes  fell  upon  a  field  of  haricots,  which  appeared  to  him 
very  inviting.  It  was  the  first  time  that  he  had  seen  this  plant,  and 
he  immediately  ordered  his  cook  to  prepare  a  dish  of  them — ^we  do 
not  know  with  what  sauce ;  but  he  thought  them  good,  and,  thanks  to 
this  great  conqueror,  Europe  was  enriched  with  a  new  vegetable.** 

Virgil  was  doubtless  ignorant  of  this  noble  origin,  when  he  decried 
haricots  severely,  by  qualifying  them  so  disgracefully."  It  is  true  that 
the  lower  classes  of  people,  who  were  very  fond  of  them,  did  great 
injury  to  their  reputation ;  for  things  the  most  exquisite  soon  lose  their 
value  when  they  fall  within  the  reach  of  the  vulgar.  It  is  thus  with  a 
pleasing  melody — when  given  up  to  the  barbarous  and  melancholy  street 
organs  it  ceases  to  charm  the  ears  of  drawing-room  &shionables.  The 
same  again  with  a  plaintive  ballad — it  loses  its  attraction  the  moment  a 
street  Orpheus  begins  to  murder  it  with  his  Stentorian  bawl. 

Let  it  not  be  thought,  however,  that  the  plant  of  which  we  speak 
was  exclusively  reserved  for  the  vulgar  appetite.  Oh,  no !  the  Greeks 
and  Latins  had  too  much  good  taste  for  that.  The  former  allowed  it  a 
distinguished  place  on  their  tables,  together  with  figs,  and  other  side 


50  DRIED   VEGETABLES. 

dishes.     They  only  required  that  haricots   should  be  young,  tender, 
and  green." 

In  Borne  they  were  preserved  with  yinegar  and  ganim ;  and,  pre- 
pared in  this  manner,  they  excited  the  appetites  of  the  guests  at  the 
beginning  of  the  repast.'^  Moreover,  it  was  admitted  that  this  vegetable 
was  much  more  wholesome  than  beans,  that  the  stomach  was  less 
fatigued  by  it,  and  that  persons  of  delicate  constitutions  might  partake 
of  it  without  fear.  Certain  amateurs  even  pretended  that  no  vegetable 
was  to  be  compared  to  haricots ;"  but  others  differed  from  them  on  this 
point ;  and  the  latter,  right  or  wrong,  pronounced  in  favour  of  peas. 


PEAS, 

« 

Green  peas,  we  are  sorry  to  say,  were  not  appreciated  as  they  deserved 
to  be  by  the  Romans.**  It  was  reserved  principally  for  our  century  to 
discover  their  value,  to  cultivate  them  with  care,  and  to  force  nature  to 
give  them  to  us  before  the  appointed  time.  This  plant  was  hardly 
known  in  1550.  Since  that  period,  the  gardener,  Michaux,  undertook 
to  bring  it  into  repute.  For  some  time  in  France  it  was  called  only  by 
the  name  of  this  worthy  man." 

Before  that  it  was  an  unappreciated  vegetable;  it  came  forth, 
blossomed,  and  disappeared,  without  utility  and  without  renown. 

It  was  not  thus  with  grey  peas  (^pois  chiche),  which  flourished  at  a 
very  remote  period,  and  are  mentioned  in  the  sacred  writings.**  The 
common  people  of  Rome  and  Greece  made  them  tlieir  ordinary  food. 
They  ate  them  boiled  or  fried ;  a  rather  disagreeable  dish,  according  to 
the  caustic  Martial,**  who,  however,  speaks  with  disdain  of  every  kind 
of  peas,  in  whatsoever  manner  they  may  be  prepared. 

Nevertheless,  the  satirical  humour  of  this  celebrated  poet  did  not 
prevent  this  vegetable  from  being  universally  sold;  and  men,  women, 
and  children  regaled,  and  even  gorged,  themselves,  with  fried  grey  peas,** 
or  ram  peas  {cicer  arietinum),  a  singular  name,  for  which  they  were 
indebted  to  the  slight  asperity  remarkable  in  each  of  the  grains.** 

At  the  Circus,  and  in  the  theatres,  they  were  sold  at  a  low  price  to 
the  spectators,  whom  it  seemed  impossible  to  satiate  with  this  delicacy, 


DRIED    VEGETABLES.  67 


although  it  has  so  little  attraction  for  us."  In  short,  the  nation  of 
kings  had  so  decided  a  taste  for  grey  peas»  that  those  who  coveted  pub- 
lic employment  did  not  fail  to  distribute  them  gratuitously  to  the  people, 
in  order  to  obtain  their  suffrages."  We  must  acknowledge  that  in 
those  days  votes  were  obtained  at  a  very  cheap  rate. 


LENTILS. 

The  Egyptians,  whose  ideas  were  sometimes  most  eccentric,  ima- 
gined it  was  sufficient  to  feed  children  with  lentils  to  enlighten  their 
minds,  open  their  hearts,  and  render  them  cheerful.  That  people,  there- 
fore, consumed  an  immense  quantity  of  this  vegetable,  which  from 
infancy  had  been  their  principal  food.'* 

The  Greeks  also  highly  esteemed  this  aliment,  and  their  ancient 
philosophers  regaled  themselves  with  lentils.  Zeno  would  not  trust  to 
any  one  the  cooking  of  them ;  it  is  true  that  the  stoics  had  for  their 
maxim :  "  A  wise  man  acts  always  with  reason,  and  prepares  his  lentils 
himself."**  We  must  confess  that  the  great  wit  of  these  words  escapes 
us,  although  we  are  willing  to  believe  there  is  some  in  them. 

However  it  may  be,  lentils  were  abundant  in  Greece  and  in  the 
East;  and  many  persons,  otherwise  very  sensible,  maintained,  with  the 
most  serious  countenance  in  the  world,  that  they  softened  the  temper  and 
disposed  the  mind  to  study." 

It  is  hardly  necessary  to  observe  that  this  plant  was  well  known  to 
the  Hebrews.  The  red  pottage  of  lentils  for  which  Esau  sold  his  birth- 
right,*' the  present  of  Shobi  to  David,**  the  victory  of  Shammah  in  the 
field  of  lentils,**  and,  lastly,  the  bread  of  Ezekiel,"  sufficiently  prove  that 
the  Jews  numbered  this  vegetable  as  one  of  those  in  ordinary  use 
among  them. 

The  Bomans  had  not  the  same  esteem  for  it  as  the  nations  we  have 
mentioned.  According  to  them,  the  moisture  in  lentils  could  only  cause 
heaviness  to  the  mind,  and  render  men  reserved,  indolent,  and  lazy. 
The  name  of  this  vegetable  pretty  well  shows,  they  said,  the  bad  effect  it 
produces.  Lentil  derives  its  origin  from  the  word  lentus  (slow)/'  "  Lena 
a  *lente" 

And,  as  if  enough  had  not  been  alleged  to  disgrace  this  unfortunate 

E 


58  DRIED   VEGETABLES. 

plant,  and  to  give  the  finish  to  the  ill-fame  it  had  acquired,  it  was 
placed  amongst  funereal  and  ill-omened  foods.  Thus  Marcus  Grassus, 
waging  war  against  the  Parthians,  was  convinced  that  his  army  would  be 
defeated,  because  his  com  was  exhausted,  and  his  men  were  obliged  to 
have  recourse  to  lentils/' 

How  was  it  possible  to  resist  such  attacks !  The  humble  plant  gave 
way  in  spite  of  the  few  flattering  words  of  the  poetic  Virgil,^'  and  the 
assurance  of  Pliny  that  this  food  produced  two  uncommon  virtues — 
mildness  and  moderation/^ 


IX. 


KITCHEN  GARDEN. 


The  art  of  gardening,  which  may  be  called  the  luxury  of  agriculture/ 
was  known  at  the  most  remote  periods.'  In  the  same  indosure  was  to 
be  found  the  kitchen  garden,  orchard,  and  flower  garden,'  at  a  short  dis- 
tance from  the  habitation  of  the  rich/  Royal  hands  did  not  disdain  to 
embellish  those  spots  which  afforded  a  pleasing  retreat,  solitude,  and 
repose. 

Thus  Attalus  resigned  the  cares  of  his  crown  to  cultivate  his  little 
garden,  and  sow  in  it  the  seeds  of  his  favourite  plant/ 

Babylon,  the  renowned  city  of  antiquity,  was  celebrated  amongst 
other  wonders  for  her  gardens  suspended  in  the  air;  they  were  partly  in 
existence  sixteen  centuries  after  their  erection,  and  astonished  Alexander 
the  Great^  by  the  sublime  grandeur  of  theb  prodigious  boldness  and  the 
rare  beauty  of  their  workmanship. 

Homer  has  left  us  the  description  of  Alcinous's  garden/  from  which 
can  be  traced  the  birth  of  the  art  of  gardening ;  its  luxury  consisted  in 
the  order  and  symmetry  of  its  form,  in  the  richness  of  its  soil,  the  fer- 
tility of  the  trees,  and  in  the  two  fountains  which  ornamented  it.  It 
was  not  so  with  the  Romans.  Those  conquerors  of  the  world  displayed 
every  where  pomp  and  ostentation :  LucuUus,  Grassus,  Pompey,  and 
CflBsar,  filled  their  gardens  with  the  riches  of  Asia  and  the  spoils  of  the 


universe.* 


The  serious  horticulturist,  who  wanted  a  garden  for  enjoyment,  and 
not  for  show,  carefully  laboured,  to  see  it  bring  forth  fine  fruits  and 
excellent  vegetables  '  Water  was  properly  distributed  for  irrigation  by 
means  of  aqueducts"  of  tiles,  wood,  or  lead  pipes,"  and  everywhere  the 

£  2 


60  KITCHEN   GARDEN. 

plants  received  the  necessary  moisture;  and  clever  experienced  gar- 
deners were  constantly  occupied  in  improvements  suggested  by  an  atten- 
tive and  skilful  master,"  « 
The  kitchen  garden  of  the  ancients  contained  mostly  the  vegetables, 
herbs,  and  roots,  of  which  we  still  make  use ;  but  they  also  cultivated 
certain  other  kinds,  which  modern  cookery  has  either  put  aside  or  rarely 
employs.  We  shall  describe  all  those  which  appear  most  worthy  of 
notice. 


CABBAGE. 

This  plant  has  experienced  the  fate  of  a  host  of  human  things  thi^t 
have  not  been  able  to  bear  the  weight  of  a  too  briUiant  reputation. 
Time  has  done  justice  to  the  extraordinary  quaUties  attributed  to  it, 
and  the  cabbage  now  remains,  what  it  ought  always  to  have  been,  an 
estimable  vegetable  and  nothing  more. 

The  Egyptians  adored  it,  and  raised  altars  to  it.  They  afterwards 
made  of  this  strange  god  the  first  dish  of  their  repasts,  and  were  imitated 
in  this  particular  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  who  ascribed  to  it  the 
happy  quality  of  preserving  from  drunkenness."  It  was  more  par- 
ticularly the  red  cabbage  that  obtained  these  honours  and  prerogatives. 
From  Italy  the  victorious  legions  introduced  it  among  the  Gauls,  as  well 
as  the  green  cabbage ;  the  white  species  appears  to  belong  originally  to 
southern  countries. 

Hippocrates  had  a  peculiar  affection  for  this  vegetable.  Should  one 
of  his  patients  be  seized  with  a  violent  cholic,  be  at  once  prescribed  a 
dish  of  boiled  cabbage  with  salt."  Erasistratus  looked  upon  it  as  a 
sovereign  remedy  against  paralysis.  Pythagoras,  and  several  other 
learned  philosophers,  composed  books  in  which  they  celebrated  the  mar- 
vellous virtues  of  the  cabbage." 

«  A  writer,  not  less  serious  than  those  we  have  just  quoted,  the  wise 
Cato,  affirms  that  this  plant  infallibly  cures  all  diseases ;  and  pretends 
to  have  used  this  panacea  to  preserve  his  family  from  the  plague,  which, 
otherwise,  would  not  have  failed  to  reach  them.  It  is  to  the  use  the 
Romans  made  of  it,  he  adds,  that  they  were  able  during  six  hundred 


KITCHEN   GARDEN.  01 

years  to  do  without  the  assistance  of  physicians,  whom  they  had  expelled 
from  their  territories/'  This  bold  assertion  deserved  a  little  retaliation 
on  the  part  of  the  faculty ;  so  they  deposed  the  cabbage  from  the  rank 
occupied  by  it  in  medicine^  and  banished  it  to  the  kitchen. 

The  Athenian  ladies  formerly  partook  of  the  general  enthusiasm  in 
favour  of  this  wholesome  vegetable,  which  was  always  served  to  them 
when  a  new-bom  infant  required  their  maternal  love  and  care." 

The  ancients  were  acquainted  with  three  principal  kinds  of  cabbage ' 
the  silken-leaved,  the  curled,  and  the  hard,  round,  white  cabbage.^* 

Apicius  does  not  busy  himself  with  any  one  of  these  varieties  in  par- 
ticular in  the  various  preparations  he  points  out,  and  which  we  submit  to 
the  appreciation  of  connoisseurs : 

1st.  Take  only  the  most  delicate  and  tender  part  of  the  cabbage, 
which  boil,  and  then  pour  off  the  water;  season  it  with  cummin  seed," 
salt,  old  wine,  oil,  pepper,  alisander,  mint,  rue,  coriander  seed,  gravy, 
and  oil. 

^nd.  Prepare  the  cabbage  in  the  manner  just  mentioned,  and  make  a 
seasoning  of  coriander  seed,  onion,  cummin  seed,  pepper,  a  small  quan- 
tity of  oil,  and  wine  made  of  sun  raisins.'^ 

8rd.  When  you  have  boiled  the  cabbages  in  w&ter,  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  and  stew  them  with  gravy,  oil,  wine,  cunmiin  seed,  pepper, 
leeks,  and  green  coriander.'^ 

4th.  Add  to  the  preceding  ingredients  flour  of  almonds,  and  raisins 
dried  in  the  sun." 

5th.  Prepare  them  again  in  the  above  manner,  and  cook  them  with 
gfeen  olives." 

Who  will  question  the  service  rendered  to  the  culinary  art  by  resus- 
citating these  antique  dishes,  in  which  the  cabbage  admits  of  such  a 
variety  of  combinations,  and  which  we  owe  to  the  learning  and  expe. 
rience  of  a  man  of  taste  ?  Whatever  may  be  the  opinion  of  our  modem 
Trimalcions,  we  must  not  forget  that  this  vegetable,  prepared  according 
to  the  recipe  of  Apicius,  was  the  delight  of  the  gourmets  of  Rome  more 
than  eighteen  centuries  ago. 

The  Bomans  brought  the  red  cabbage  into  6aul«  and  the  green 
cabbage  also.  White  cabbages  came  from  the  north,  and  the  art  of 
making  them  headed  was  unknown  in  the  time  of  Charlemagne.'^ 

''  In  some  countries  cauliflowers  are  dried,  and  the  white  headed  cab- 
bages are  preserved.     The  first,  stripped  of  their  leaves,  are  cut  in  slices. 


J 


62  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

and  boiled  two  minutes  in  water  slightly  salted.  They  are  shortly  after 
withdrawn,  and  put  to  drain  on  hurdles,  which  are  afterwards  exposed  to 
the  sun  during  two  or  three  days.  At  the  expiration  of  that  time  the 
cauliflowers  are  placed  in  an  oven  half-warm,  and  are  kept  there  till  the 
stalks  are  dry ;  they  are  then  wrapped  in  paper  to  preserve  them  from 
damp.  To  keep  the  headed  cabbages,  divide  them  in  six  or  eight 
pieces,  according  to  size,  throw  them  for  an  instant  in  boiling  water,  then 
withdraw  and  plunge  them  in  vinegar,  which  from  time  to  time  must  be 
changed,  especially  at  the  beginning,  taking  care  to  add  always  a  little 
salt." — DuTOUR, 


BEET. 


Columella  pretends  that  this  plant  owes  its  name  (beta)  to  its  re- 
semblance to  the  letter  B.'*  We  shall  leave  to  the  professional  etymologist 
the  trouble  of  examining  whether  Columella  made  a  mistake  or  not 

The  Greeks  had  two  distinct  sorts  of  beet — the  black  and  the  pale ; 
they  preferred  the  latter,*'  especially  when  it  came  from  Ascrea  in 
Boeotia.''  They  called  this  species  Sicilian  beet;  and  the  physician 
Diphilus — who  joined  to  his  knowledge  of  botany  that  sort  of  gastro- 
phagic  intuition,  that  culinary  mens  divinior,  whose  inspiration  never 
leads  astray — ^placed  it  far  above  the  cabbage,  notwithstanding  the  es- 
timable qualities  of  this  latter  vegetable.*'  He  recommended  it  to  be 
eaten  boiled,  with  mustard,  and  considers  this  food  as  a  very  excellent 
vermifiige.*' 

The  beet  has  not  found  favour  with  Martial,  who,  always  caustic  and 
severe,  calls  it  an  insipid  dish.'®  This  injurious,  and  perhaps  unjust, 
epithet  would  doubtless  have  exercised  a  fatal  influence  upon  the  des- 
tiny of  this  most  inoffensive  of  vegetables,  if  an  opponent  of  greater 
weight  had  not  entered  the  lists  against  the  atrabilahous  poet 

We  read  in  Apicius :  "  Boil,  over  a  slow  fire,  some  very  tender  white 
beet ;  add  leeks,  which  have  been  taken  from  their  native  soil  some  days 
previous ;  when  all  this  is  cooked  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  pepper, 
gravy,  and  raisin  wine;  take  care  that  the  ebullition  be  regular,  and 


serve.'* 


KITCHEN    GARDEN.  68 

"  Or,  if  you  prefer :  tie  in  bundles  the  beet  you  have  carefiilly  chosen, 
wash  it,  throw  in  some  nitre,  and  boil  it  with  water ;  then  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  sun -raisin  wine,  pepper,  cummin^  and  a  little  oil;  at  the 
moment  of  ebullition  add  a  mixture  of  gravy  and  coarsely  chopped 
walnuts;  cover  the  saucepan  for  an  instant,  uncover,  and  serve."" 

The  skilful  artist  is  pleased  for  the  third  time  to  mention  this  culi- 
nary herb ;  and  this  is  the  new  preparation  which  he  gives : — 

"  When  you  have  boiled  beet  in  water  until  it  is  tender,  add  a  pulp 
of  leeks,  some  coriander,  and  cummin  seed,  carefully  combined  with  flour 
and  sun-made  wine ;  place  these  different  ingredients  in  a  saucepan,  and 
add  gravy,  oil,  and  vinegar."" 

By  tasting  one  of  these  dishes  you  will  be  convinced  that  Martial 
did  not  understand  them ;  or,  perhaps,  he  composed  his  epigram  after 
dinner. 

One  species  of  beet  is  well  known  in  its  two  principal  varieties, 
under  the'  name  of  beet-root  and  wtite-beet.  The  southern  parts  of 
Europe  appear  to  be  the  native  countries  of  the  beet.  It  serves  as  food 
for  both  man  and  cattle.  Sugar  is  extracted  from  the  root,  and  potash 
from  the  stalks  and  leaves. 

Beet-root  is  preserved,  after  stripping  it  completely  of  its  leaves,  and 
the  earth  which  remains  on  them,  in  greenhouses,  in  dry  cellars,  and  even 
in  trenches  covered  with  earth,  in  layers,  lengthwise,  with  sand.  They 
are  thus  preserved  until  the  following  May. 

"  Beet-root  is  eaten  cooked  in  ashes  or  in  water,  and  seasoned  in 
various  ways;  ,they  are  excellent  in  salad,  either  by  themselves,  or 
mixed  with  endives  or  dandelion,  i&c."— Bosc. 


SPINACH. 

It  does  not  appear  that  spinach  was  known  to  the  Greeks  and 
Romans.  Some  authors  think  that  it  might  be  the  chrysolacanon  of 
the  Greeks,**  but  it  is  probable  that  this  was  no  other  than  the  orach ;" 
Beckmann"  thinks,  with  several  botanists,  that  this  plant  came  from 
Spain ;  and,  indeed,  it  has  been  often  called  the  Spanish  vegetable^ 

We  only  speak  of  this  plant  by  way  of  memento,  and  regret  that  our 


e4  KITCHEN   GARDEN. 

first  masters  in  cookery  have  not  been  able  to  transmit  to  as  the  results 
of  their  studies  and  experience  in  the  preparation  of  spinach,  whose 
precocity  must  always  render  it  valuable  to  amateurs  of  vegetable  food. 


MALLOWS, 

The  ancients  ate  mallows,  and  recognised  in  them  soothing  and 
softening  qualities.'"  Diphilus  of  Siphne  says  that  their  juice' lubricates 
■the  windpipe,  nourishes,  and  is  easily  digested."  Horace  praises  this 
aliment ;"  and  Martial,  for  once  just,  recommends  its  use." 

It  is  true  that  a  passage  of  Cicero  would  seem  to  indicate  we  know 
not  what  deception,  which  appeared  all  at  once  when  eating  or  after 
partaking  of  mallows;^'  but  the  Soman  orator,  perhaps,  knew  little  of 
the  properties  of  the  plant,  which  were  only  described  much  later  by 
Pliny  the  naturalist.  The  curious  may  consult  on  this  subject  the 
twenty-first  chapter  of  the  twentieth  book  of  his  great  work. 

^At  all  events  mallows  were  in  high  renown ;  they  occupied  one  of 
the  first  ranks  among  pickles,  those  famous  acetaria  which  had  so 
powerful  an  efiect  in  quickening  the  appetites  of  the  Greeks,  and  pre- 
paring their  stomachs  for  great  gastronomic  struggles."  They  were 
served  as  a  salad.  The  large-leaved  mallow  was  mixed  with  cenogarum, 
pepper,  gravy,  and  sun-made  wine.** 

The  small-leaved  mallows  were  also  prepared  with  oenogarum  and 
gravy ;  but  instead  of  pepper  and  wine,  oil  and  vinegar  were  added.*' 


ASPARAGUS. 

"Quiconque  ne  voit  guere  tia  guere  a  Hire  aussi."*^  But  travellers, 
those  daring  pioneers  of  science,  have  sometimes,  in  their  travels,  the 
strange  good  fortune  to  behold  wonders  invisible  to  other  eyes.  Thus 
some  skilful  explorators  of  Africa  saw,  about  the  middle  of  the  second 
century  of  the  Christian  era,  in  Getulia,  asparagus  of  excellent  quality 


N 


KITCHEN   GARDEN.  '  65 

and  of  very  beaiitiftil  growth,  being  no  less  than  twelve  feet  high  !  It  is 
needless  to  add  that  the  Libyan  vendors  rarely  sold  them  in  bundles. 
But  these  veridical  travellers,  on  quitting  the  plain  to  ascend  the  moun- 
tains, found  something  still  more  wonderful ;  the  land  there  seemed  to 
suit  these  plants  still  better,  fos  they  acquired  the  height  of  twenty 
cubits.*'  After  this,  what  shall  we  say  of  our  European  asparagus,  so 
shrivelled  and  diminutive  in  comparison  with  that  of  Getulia  ? 

The  Greeks,  not  having  any  better,  contented  themselves  with  the 
ordinary  sort,  such  as  we  have  at  the  present  day.  They  considered  it 
very  useful  in  the  treatment  of  internal  diseases/'  Diphilus,  who  was 
very  fond  of  it,  regrets  that  this  vegetable  should  be  so  hurtful  to  the 
sight:*'  is  it  because  we  eat  asparagus  that  spectacles  have  become  ne- 
cessary at  nearly  all  periods  of  life  ? 

The  Romans  cultivated  this  plant  with  extreme  care,"'  and  obtained 
the  most  extraordinary  results.  At  Ravenna,  they  raised  asparagus  each 
stem  of  which  weighed  three  pounds." 

Then,  as  in  our  days,  they  were  allowed  but  a  short  time  to  boil ; 
hence  the  favourite  expression  of  Augustus,  who,  to  intimate  his  wish 
that  any  affair  might  be  concluded  without  delay,  was  accustomed  to  say : 
"  Let  that  be  done  quicker  than  you  would  cook  asparagus."** 

The  cooks  of  Rome  had  a  method  which  appears  to  have  been  sub- 
sequently too  much  neglected ;  they  chose  the  finest  heads  of  asparagus, 
and  dried  them.  When  wanted  for  the  table,  they  put  them  into  hot 
water,  and  then  boiled  them  a  few  minutes/'  Thanks  to  this  simple 
process  the  plant  swelled  considerably,  and  passed  as  being  very  tender 
and  fine  flavoured. 

The  Apicii,  Luculli,  and  other  connoisseurs  of  renown,  had  this 
vegetable  brought  firom  the  environs  of  Nesis,  a  city  of  Campania.** 

It  is  asserted  that  Asia  is  its  native  soil,  and  that  it  was  originally 
brought  to  us  firom  that  part  of  the  world.  Nevertheless,  wild  asparagus 
grows  naturally  in  certain  sandy  soils,  as,  for  instance,  in  the  islands 
of  the  Rhdne  and  the  Loire.** 

"  When  it  is  found  impossible  to  eat  all  the  asparagus  you  have  cut, 
and  which  has  arrived  at  a  convenient  maturity,  place  them  by  the 
thick  ends  in  a  vessel  containing  about  two  inches  of  water;  or  else, 
bury  them  half-way  up  in  iresh  sand.  By  means  of  these  precautions 
asparagus  may  be  preserved  several  days." — Parmentier. 


U6  KITCHEN  OABDEN. 


GOURD. 

» 

This  vegetable,  which  the  wise  gourmet  is  too  discreet  to  despise, 
and  to  which  the  whimsical  fancy  of  Roman  gardeners  gave  die  most 
grotesque  forms/*  appears  to  be  the  very  image  of  those  soft  and  easy 
dispositions  who  yield  to  and  obey  every  one,  and  whose  unintelligent 
mildness  is  only  repaid  with  sarcasm  or  disdain.  Observe  this  creeping 
vegetable,  left  free  to  grow  to  its  full  size,  which  would  sometimes  attain 
the  length  of  nine  feet,''  and  which  the  will  of  man  was  able  to  reduce 
to  the  slender  and  tortuous  shape  of  a  hideous  dragon/'  When  hardly 
ripe,  it  was  cut  and  served  on  the  tables  of  the  most  dainty,  where  it 
was  eaten  with  vinegar  and  mustard,  or  seasoned  with  fine  herbs  /' 
and  whilst  the  ungrateful  guests  savoured  the  stomachic  and  nourishing 
flesh  of  the  gourd,'*  they  did  not  cease  to  amuse  themsdves  at  the 
expense  of  its  round  and  almost  empty  body'^ — the  proverbial  image  of 
a  head  not  over  well*provided  with  brains." 

To  the  present  day  even,  more  than  one  popular*  joke  continues  to 
pursue  this  plant,  although  its  culinary  qualities  are  appreciated  as 
formerly. 

We  are  indebted  to  India  for  the  seed  of  the  gourd,"  which  the 
Greeks  designated,  according  to  the  species,  by  the  names  of  Indian 
and  common  gourd.  The  latter  kind  was  either  boiled  or  roasted  ; 
the  former  was  generally  boiled  in  water.**  Antioch  furnished  the 
finest  specimens  to  the  markets  of  Athens.*^ 

The  ancients  were  acquainted  with  the  manner  of  preserving  this 
vegetable  in  such  a  state  of  freshness  as  to  enable  them  to  eat  it  with 
pleasure  in  the  month  of  January :"  the  method  is  as  follows, — the 
gourds  were  cut  in  pieces  of  a  moderate  size ;  these  pieces,  strung  like 
beads,  where  first  dried  in  the  open  air,  and  then  smoked ;  when  winter 
arrived,  each  piece  was  well  washed  before  putting  it  into  the  stewpan, 
with  the  various  culinary  herbs  which  the  season  produced ;  to  this  was 
added  endive,  curled  cabbage,  and  dried  mushrooms."  The  rest  of  the 
operation  is  easily  understood.  The  Romans  prepared  this  vegetable 
in  difierent  ways :  a  few  of  the  principal  ones  will  suffice. 

J  St.   Boil    the  .gourd    in  water,   squeeze    it  out    carefully,   place 


KITCHEN  GARDEN.  67 

it  in  a  saucepan,  and  mix  some  pepper,  a  little  cummin  seed,  rue, 
gravy,  vinegar,  and  a  small  quantity  of  wine,  reduced^  to  one-half  by 
boiling.  Let  the  whole  stew,  and  then  sprinkle  it  lightly  with  pepper, 
and  serve." 

2nd.  Boil  and  carefully  squeeze  them  to  extract  the  water,  then  put 
the  gourds  into  a  saucepan  with  vinegar  and  gravy ;  when  it  begins  to 
simmer,  thicken  with  fine  flour,  sprinkle  lightly  with  pepper,  and  serve.*' 

drd.  Throw  some  salt  on  the  gourd  after  it  has  been  boiled,  and 
the  water  pressed  out  of  it ;  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  mixture  of 
pepper,  cummin  seed,  coriander,  green  mint,  and  the  root  of  benzoin ;  add 
some  vinegar ;  then  chop  some  dates  and  almonds ;  a  little  later,  more 
vinegar,  honey,  gravy,  sun-made  wine,  and  oil ;  sprinkle  lightly  with 
pepper,  and  serve.'* 

4th.  Put  into  a  stewpan  a  fowl,  with  a  gourd ;  add  some  apricots, 
truffles,  pepper,  cummin,  sylphium,  mint,  parsley,  coriander,  penny- 
royal, and  calamint ;  moisten  with  wine,  gravy,  oil,  vinegar,  and  honey." 

These  four  recipes  are  sufficient  to  prove  that  this  vegetable  stood 
very  high  in  the  estimation  of  the  Eomans. 


TURNIPS. 

Tie  epicureans  of  Athens  preferred  turnips  brought  from  Thebes  ;'* 
Roman  gastronomists  placed  those  of  Amitermes  in  the  first  rank,  and 
those  of  Nursia  in  the  second.  The  kitchen-gardeners  of  Bome  fur- 
nished them  with  a  third  variety,  to  which  they  had  recourse  when  they 
could  not  procure  any  other."  They  were  eaten  boiled,  thus : — after  the 
water  had  been  extracted  from  them,  they  were  seasoned  with  cummin, 
rue,  and  benzoin,  pounded  in  a  mortar,  adding  to  it  afterwards  honey, 
vinegar,  gravy,  boiled  grapes,  and  a  little  oil.  The  whole  was  left  to 
simmer,  and  then  served.'* 


68  KITCHEN   GARDEN. 


CARROTS. 

The  Greeks  and  Bomans  planted  or  sowed  them  in  the  beginning 
of  the  spring,  or  autumn/'^  They  distinguished  two  kinds,  the  wild  and 
the  cultivated/' 

This  much  esteemed  root  received  the  honour  of  being  prepared  in 
many  ways.  Sometimes  it  was  eaten  as  a  salad,  with  salt,  oil,  and 
vinegar." 

It  was  also  stewed,  and  mixed  afterwards  with  oenogarum/*  Again, 
they  boiled  it  in  a  stewpan,  over  a  slow  fire,  with  some  cummin  and  a 
little  oil,  and  just  before  serving  it  was  sprinkled  with  ground  cunmain 
seecis* 


BLIT 


(a  sort  of  beet). 

Blit  is  one  of  the  family  of  atrtplices,  which  grows  in  Europe,  and 
in  the  temperate  regions  of  Asia ;  it  owes  its  ancient  reputation  entirely 
to  the  insipidity  of  its  flavour,  from  which  it  derives  its  Greek  name, 
synonymous  with  stupidity  and  insignificance.'*  Blit  was  eaten  boiled, 
when  nothing  better  was  to  be  had.  In  fact,  it  was  a  last  resource — 
and  nothing  more. 


PURSLAINE. 

This  vegetable,  the  aspect  of  which  would  lead  us  to  suppose  it 
possessed  savoury  quahties  (though  experience  proves  the  contrary),  was 
formerly  mixed  in  different  salads,  and  still  eqjoys  some  esteem  when 
associated  with  a  leg  of  mutton." 

In  default  of  esculent  qualities  (which  it  certainly  does  not  possess). 


KITCHEN   GARDEN.  69 

the  ancients  recognised  in  purslaine  many  admirable  virtues,"  which 
are  not  acknowledged  in  the  present  day.  The  internal  ase  of  this 
plant,  also  its  external  application,  cured  the  bite  of  serpents,  wounds 
inflicted  by  poisoned  arrows,  and  infalUbly  neutralized  the  effects  of 
poisonous  drinks."  But,  alas  I  purslaine  is  not  now  what  it  was 
formerly ;  for  it  is  hardly  permitted  to  appear  by  the  side  of  one  of  our 
firesh  white  lettuces. 


SORREL. 

Sorrel  is  a  polygenous  plant,  and  grows  throughout  Europe  amidst 
the  grass  fields.  The  Bomans  cultivated  it  in  order  to  give  it  more 
vigour,'*  and  ate  it  sometimes  stewed  with  mustard,  and  seasoned  with 
a  little  oil  and  vinegar." 


BROCOLL 


/i 


Drusus,  son  of  Tiberius,  was  so  passionately  fond  of  the  brocoli, 
which  Apicius  induced  him  to  eat,  that  he  was  more  than  once  severely 
reprimanded  by  his  father  on  the  subject.")  It  is  true  that  the  celebrated 
Boman  epicurean  displayed  so  much  art,  and  gave  such  delicious 
flavour  to  it,  that  this  dish  alone  would  have  been  enough  to  establish 
his  reputation.  In  fact,  brocoli  has  always  been  appreciated  by  connois- 
seurs ;  and  Glaucias,  who  passed  his  life  in  meditating  seriously  on  the 
perfectibility  of  culinary  ingredients,  said :  "That  nothing  could  be  better 
than  this  vegetable,  boiled  and  suitably  seasoned."  '^ 

This  was  the  method  of  preparing  it  at  Borne :  they  used  only 
the  most  tender  and  deUcate  parts  of  the  brocoli,  which  were  boiled 
with  that  extreme  care  the  artist  always  devotes  to  this  first  operation  ; 
and,  afterwards,  when  the  water  had  been  well  drained  off,  they  added 
aome  cummin  seed,  pepper,  chopped  onions,  and  coriander  seed — ^all 
bruised  together,  not  forgetting,  before  serving  up,  to  add  a  little  oil 
and  sun^made  wine." 


70  KITCHEN   GARDEN. 


ARTICHOKE. 

A  young  and  nnfortunate  beauty  had  the  ill-luck  to  displease  a 
vindictive  and  irascible  god,  who  instantly  metamorphosed  her  into  an 
artichoke.'*  This  poor  girl's  name  was  Ginara.  Although  she  had 
become  a  bitter  plant  she  preserved  this  sweet  name,  which  the 
modems  have  strangely  modified.  Our  readers,  who  eat  artichokes  with 
so  much  indifference,  will,  perhaps,  sometimes  lament  this  poor  victim 
of  a  blind  resentment. 

This  plant  was  well  known  to  the  ancients ;  the  billy  regions  of 
Greece,  Asia,  and  Egypt  were  covered  with  it;'*  but  the  inhabitants 
made  no  use  of  it  as  an  aliment,  and  it  remained  uncultivated." 

It  would-be  rather  difficult  to  trace  the  precise  period  when  it  was 
first  introduced  into  Italy.  All  we  know  is,  that  it  grew  there  more  than 
half  a  century  before  the  Christian  era,  in  the  time  of  Dioscorides,  who 
mentioned  it.**  It  appears,  nevertheless,  that  hardly  any  one  troubled 
himself  about  artichokes,  or  their  esculent  qualities,  up  to  that  time ; 
but  the  wealthy,  about  a  cenXury  after,  began  to  appreciate  them,  and 
Pliny,  in  one  of  his  jesting  whims,  reproaches  the  rich  with  having 
deprived  the  lower  classes  and  asses  of  a  food  which  nature  seemed  to 
have  destined  for  them.** 

This  vegetable  was  then  very  dear,**  for  it  did  not  succeed,  and  was 
subsequently  given  up.  It  was  so  far  forgotten  that  in  the  year  1478 
it  appeared  as  a  novelty  at  Venice  ;**  and  towards  the  year  1465  it  was 
brought  from  Naples  to  Florence,  whence  it  passed  into  France  in  the 
sixteenth  century.'* 

Galen*'  looked  upon  the  turtichoke  as  a  bad  food.**  Columella  sung 
its  praise  in  his  verses ;  he  recommended  it  to  the  disciples  of  Bacchus, 
and  forbid  the  use  of  it  to  those  who  were  anxious  to  preserve  a  sweet 
and  pure  voice  ** 

This  plant,  whatever  may  be  in  other  respects  its  estimable  qualities, 
does  not  please  every  one  equally  well ;  its  bitterness  and  unpleasant 
odour  keep  it  at  a  distance  from  numerous  palatefr-^perhaps  because 
too  many  allow  themselves  to  be  prejudiced  by  deceitful  appearances. 
Here  are  two  very  ingenious  methods  by  means  of  which  a  trial  might 


KITCHEN   GARDEN.  71 

be  made  to  oyercome,  or  lessen,  the  defects  it  undoubtedly  has,  and 
which  W6  can  but  deplore  : — 

Artichokes  will  become  mild  by  taking  care  to  steep  the  seed  in  a 
mixture  of  honey  and  milk*"*^  ^^<^y  ^^^  ^^^  exhale  the  most  agree- 
able perfume,  particularly  when  this  seed  has  passed  three  days  in  the 
juice  of  bay  leaves,  lilies,  or  roses.*"' 

Having  quoted  the  authority,  we  give  the  recipe  for  what  it  is  worth. 

Until  the  result  of  this  experiment  is  known,  artichokes  may  be 
eaten  raw,  with  a  seasoning  of  hard  eggs  chopped  in  very  small  pieces^ 
garum,  and  oil.*"* 

If  you  prefer  a  sharps  sauce,  mix  well  some  green  mint  with  rue, 
Greek  fennel,*"*  and  coriander ;  add,  afterwards,  some  pepper,  alisander, 
honey,  garum,  and  oil.*"^  They  are  also  eaten  boiled,  with  cummin, 
pepper,  gravy,  and  oil.*"* 

"  It  is  well  known  under  what  form  artichokes,  either  raw  or  cooked, 
appear  on  our  tables.  The  best  way  to  preserve  them  is  to  half  cook 
them,  separate  the  leaves  from  the  Air,  and  preserve  the  fleshy  part, 
called  the  bottoniy  and  throw  them,  still  wann,  in  cold  water,  to  make 
them  firm.  That  operation  is  called  blanchir.  They  are  laid  afterwards 
on  hurdles,  and  put  four  different  times  in  the  oven,  as  soon  as  the  bread 
is  taken  out.  They  become  then  very  thin,  hard,  and  transparent,  like 
horn,  and  return  to  their  original  form  in  hot  water.  They  must  be 
kept  free  from  damp." — ^Parmentier. 


POMPION. 

Like  the  gourd,  the  good  and  creeping  pompion  has  served  more 
than  once  as  a  termof  comparison,  and  that  in  a  style  most  humiliating. 
Should  any  one  happen  to  be  thick-headed,  or  not  very  intelUgent,*"*  he 
was  immediately  compared  to  a  pompion  (popularly,  pumpkin — whence 
bumpkin).  The  insult  went  still  further :  it  was  said  of  a  pusillanimous 
man,   "  That  he  had  a  pompion  where  his  heart  ought  to  have  been."*"' 

The  obesity  of  this  vegetable,  and  its  inelegant  shape,  have  doubt- 
less given  rise  to  these  injurious  remarks. 

It  was,  however,  acknowledged  that  it  possessed  many  estimable 


72  KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

.qualities,  which  ought  to  have  compensated  for  its  outward  defects.  It 
was  thought  to  he  very  refreshing,  and  was  employed  with  success  in 
the  treatment  of  diseases  of  the  eyes."* 

We  might  undertake  (if  permitted)  a  long  dissertation,  in  order  to 
prove  that  the  Hebrews,  weary  of  being  in  the  Desert,  murmured  because 
they  were  deprived  of  the  pompion  of  Egypt,*""  and  not  the  melon,  as 
translators  have  rendered  it ;  but  we  should  be  accused  of  egregious 
presumption ;  the  learned  would  frown,  critics  would  not  spare  us,  and 
our  pompions  would,  nevertheless,  pass  as  melons. 

This  plant  occupies  a  prominent  place  in  the  precious  catalogue  of 
Roman  dainties  which  we  offer  for  the  meditation  of  judges.  Here 
are  some  of  the  ancient  modes  of  preparing  this  vegetable  : 

1st  Boil  some  pompions,  put  them  i^  a  stewpan  with'  cummin 
and  a  little  oil;  place  them  for  a  short  time  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
serve."' 

2nd.  When  you  have  well  boiled,  reduce  them  to  a  pulp,  then  put 
them  on  a  dish  with  pepper,  alisander,  cummin,  wild  marjoram,  onion', 
wine,  garum,  and  oil ;  thicken  with  flour,  and  serve.'" 

drd.  When  the  pompion  has  boiled  in  water,  it  is  then  seasoned 
with  wild  fennel,  sylphium,"'  dried  mint,  vinegar,  and  garum."' 


CUCUMBER. 

When  the  Israelites  were  in  the  Desert  they  regretted  much  the 
cucumbers  of  Egypt,  which  were  sold  to  them  at  a  very  trifling  price 
when  under  the  yoke  of  Pharaoh."*  We  may  thence  infer  that  this 
vegetable  was  very  plentiful,  and  chiefly  in  great  demand  by  the  lower 
order  of  people ;  for  as  the  Jews  were  in  a  state  of  servitude,  they  were 
necessarily  assimilated  with  the  most  abject  of  the  Egyptians. 

We  see  that  this  cucurbitacea  has  been  long  known,  and  that,  after 
the  lapse  of  many  centuries,  it  is  held  in  the  same  degree  of  estimation 
it  enjoyed  among  the  Eastern  nations. 

The  Greeks  thought  much  of  the  cucumber,  particularly  of  that  kind 
which  came  from  the  environs  of  Antioch."*  They  attributed  to  this 
plant  marvellous  properties,  which  modern  scepticism  has  completely 


KITCHEN  GARDEN.  78 

thrown  aside.  We  think  it  good  in  salad,  with  vinegar,  oil,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  that  is  all 

It  is,  we  imagine,  the  only  good  quality  our  farmers  ascribe  to  it  at 
the  present  day.  Formerly,  in  Greece,  the  same  class  of  persons,  being 
clearer- sighted,  or  more  credulous,  were  convinced  that  this  vegetable 
protected  all  kinds  of  seeds  against  the  voracity  of  insects.  To  obtain 
this  result  it  was  only  necessary  to  steep  the  seed  in  the  juice  obtained 
from  the  root  of  the  cucumber,  before  it  was  sown."* 

We  freely  offer  this  preservative  to  those  who  may  wish  to  give  it  a 
trial,  and  sincerely  hope  they  may  profit  by  this  revival  of  the  Greek 
process. 

The  Bomans  conceived  that  this  cold  and  somewhat  insipid  vegetable 

(we  beg  pardon  of  its  admirers)  required  a  seasoning  to  heighten  its 

flavour.     No  sooner  had  they  transplanted  it  from  Asia  into  Rome,**' 

than  they  busied  themselves  in  rendering  it  worthy  of  their  tables  by 

'  various  preparations,  which  may,  perhaps,  interest  the  curious. 

1st  Scrape  the  cucumbers,  and  eat  them  with  cenogarum.*"  * 

2nd.  Scrape  the  cucumbers,  and  boil  them  with  parsley,  seed,  gravy, 
and  oil ;  thicken,  and  sprinkle  pepper  over  the  dish  before  serving."* 

3rd.  Again,  they  may  be  seasoned  with  pepper,  pennyroyal,  honey, 
or  sun-made  wine,  gravy,  vinegar,  and  a  little  sylphium."* 

4th.  You  will  obtain  a  most  delicate  dish  by  boiling  the  cucumbers 
with  brains,  already  cooked;  adding  afterwards  some  cummin,  and  a 
little  honey."' 

The  cucumber,  although  but  little  nutritious,  does  not  agree  with 
cold  stomachs.  In  the  north  an  astonishing  quantity  are  consumed. 
The  Poles  ate  them  at  every  repast  with  boiled  meat 

"  Cucumbers  are  preserved  in  a  very  simple  manner.  The  essential 
point  is  to  obtain  good  wine-vinegar.  After  having  well  washed  and 
wiped  them,  put  them  into  either  white  or  red  vinegar  (the  colour  is 
better  preserved  by  using  the  white);  add  salt;  cover  simply  the  vessel 
containing  them  with  a  board.  The  vinegar  must  always  be  an  inch 
higher  than  the  cucumbers,  and  must  be  entirely  renewed  at  the  end  of 
a  month." — Parmentier. 

*  Apicias  composed  the  oBnogarum  (or  rather  eleogarum,  fur  wine  is  not  mentioned  in  his 
Tccipe)  in  the  following  manner  :  bruise,  in  a  mortar,  pepper,  alisander,  coriander,  and  rue  ; 
then  add  some  gamm,  honey,  and  a  little  oil."' 

Or,  prepare  the  condiment  with  thjme,  wild  mint,  pepper,  and  alisander ;  to.which  add, 
as  before,  gamm,  oil,  and  honejr.*^ 

F 


U  KITCHEN  GARDEN. 


LETTUCE. 

From  time  immemorial  the  lettuce  has  occupied  a  most  distinguished 
place  in  the  kitchen  garden.  The  Hebrews  ate  it»  without  preparation, 
with  the  Paschal  lamb."*  The  opulent  Greeks  were  very  fond  of  the 
lettuces  of  Smyrna/"  which  appeared  on  their  tables  at  the  end  of  a 
repast;"'  the  Romans,  who  at  first  imitated  them,  decided,  under 
Domitian,  that  this  favourite  dish  should  be  served  in  the  first  course 
with  eggs,"'  purposely  to  excite  their  indomitable  appetites,  which  three 
courses  (and  such  courses,  ye  gods !  when  compared  with  ours  of  the 
present  day)  would  hardly  satisfy. 

The  bitter  lettuce  was  sufiGicient  for  the  frugal  Hebrews,"'  but  the 
delicate  epicureans  of  Athens  and  Home  were  much  more  particular ; 
they  valued  them  only  when  a  mild  and  sweet  savour  invited  the  most 
rebellious  palate,  and  awakened  the  slumbering  desires  of  a  fatigued 
stomach.  And  what  care,  what  attention,  did  they  not  bestow  on  the 
growth  and  maturity  of  this  cherished  plant ! 

Aristoxenus,  a  philosopher  by  profession,  an  epicurean  by  taste,  had 
in  his  garden  a  species  of  lettuce  which  was  the  envy  of  his  surrounding 
neighbours.  The  worthy  man,  rendered  happy  by  their  jealous  admi- 
ration, went  every  evening,  without  fail,  to  contemplate  the  small  square 
of  ground  which  contained  his  treaaure,  and  sprinkled  it  carefully  with 
water,  doubtless  from  a  limpid  stream.  Tush !  Water,  to  moisten  the 
lettuces  of  Aristoxenus  I  No  :  the  philosopher  kept  in  reserve  a  sweet 
and  excellent  wine  to  quench  the  thirst  of  his  plants,  and  to  com- 
municate to  them  that  delicate  perfume  and  exquisite  taste,  the  myste- 
rious cause  of  which  baffled  the  neighbouring  gastronomists. 

The  day  after,  the  arch  old  man  would  say,  with  a  roguish  smile,  that 
he  was  going  to  gather  some  relishing  green  cakes,  which  the  earth 
prepared  expressly  for  him,""  and  the  simple  countrymen  were  wonder- 
struck  without  understanding  the  cause. 

The  lettuce — favourite  plant  of  the  beautiful  Adonis"' — possesses  a 
narcotic  virtue,  of  which  ancient  physicians  have  taken  notice.  Galen 
mentions  that,  in  his  old  age,  he  had  not  found  a  better  remedy 
against  the  wakefulness  he  was  troubled  with."^     The  biographer  of 


KITCHEN   GARDEN.  75 

Augustus  informs  us  that  this  Emperor,  being  attacked  with  hypo- 
chondria, recovered  only  by  the  use  of  lettuces,  recommended  by  Musa, 
his  first  physician ;  *"  nothing,  therefore,  is  wanting  in  praise  of  this  useful 
plant — literally  nothing,  since  the  king  of  cooks,  Goelius  Apicius, 
judged  it  worthy  of  an  honourable  place  in  the  immortal  book  lie  has 
bequeathed  to  the  amateurs  of  the  Archeologico-culinary  science  of  all 
i^s  and  all  countries. 

"  Take,"  says  he,  "  the  leaves  of  lettuces,  let  them  be  boiled  with 
onions,  in  water  wherein  you  have  put  some  nitre ;  take  them  out,  squeeze 
out  the  water^  and  cut  them  in  small  pieces ;  mix  well  some  pepper, 
alisander,^*'  parsley  seed,  dried  mint,  and  onions;  put  this  mixture  to 
the  lettuce,  and  add  to  the  whole  some  gravy,  oil.  and  wine.""^ 

Lettuces  may  also  be  eaten  with  a  dressing  of  gravy  and  pickles."' 
Our  ancestors  served  salads  with  roasted  meat,  roasted  poultry,  &c. 
They  had  a  great  many  which  are  now  no  longer  in  vogue.  They  ate 
leeks,  cooked  in  the  wood-ashes,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  honey ; 
borage,  mint,  and  parsley,  with  salt  and  oil;  lettuce,  fennel,  mint,  chervil, 
parsley,  and  elder-flowers  mixed  together.  They  also  classed  among 
their  salads  an  agglomeration  of  feet,  heads,  cocks'  combs,  and  fowls' 
livers,  cooked,  and  seasoned  with  parsley,  mint,  vinegar,  pepper,  and 
cinnamon.  Nettles,  and  the  twigs  of  rosemary,  formed  delicious  salads 
for  our  forefiEUihers ;  and  to  these  they  sometimes  added  pickled 
gherkins.^ 


13« 


ENDIVE. 

Fliny  assures  us  that  the  juice  of  this  plant,  mixed  with  vinegar 
and  oil  of  roses,  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  the  head- ache  :"^  we  leave 
to  the  proper  judges  a  pharmaceutical  mixture  which  does  not  belong 
to  our  province,  and  which  we  only  quote  en  passant. 

Virgil  thought  endive  bitter,"'  but  he  did  not  speak  ill  of  it. 
Columella  recommended  this  salad  to  fastidious  and  satiated  palates;"' 
this  is  praising  it.  The  Egyptians  appreciated  its  merits,"'  which  the 
Greeks  had  too  much  sense  and  good  taste  to  disdain ;  and  the  Bomans 
ate  it  prepared  in  the  following  manner : — 

F  2 


76  KITCHEN  GARDEN. 

Choose  some  fine  endive ;  wash  it  well ;  drain  off  all  the  water ;  add 
a  litde  gravy  and  oil ;  then  chop  some  onions  very  small ;  strew  them 
over  the  endive,  and  add  honey  and  vinegar."* 

It  is  understood  that  the  sweet  savour  of  the  honey  corrects  the 
bitterness  of  the  plant;  but  a  judicious  attention  must  preside  over  the 
quantity  of  that  substance,  for  too  much  or  too  little  might  easily 
spoil  this  salad  of  Apioius. 


ONIONS. 

Whoever  wishes  to  preserve  his  health  must  eat  every  morning, 
before  breakfast,  young  onions,  with  honey.*"  Such  a  treat  is  assuredly 
not  very  tempting :  besides,  this  rather  strong  vegetable  leaves  after  it 
a  most  unpleasant  perfume,  which  long  reminds  us  of  its  presence ; 
wherefore  this  recipe  has  not  met  with  favour,  and,  indeed,  it  is^much 
to  be  doubted  whether  it  will  ever  become  fiaushionable. 

Alexander  the  Great  found  the  onion  in  Egypt,  where  the  Hebrews 
had  learned  to  like  it.*"  He  brought  it  into  Greece,  where  it  was 
given  as  food  to  the  troops,  whose  martial  ardour**^  it  was  thought  to 
•excite. 

PKny  assures  us  that  Gaul  produced  a  small  kind,  which' the  Romans 
called  Gallic  onions,  and  which  they  thought  more  delicate  than  those 
of  Italy.***  At  any  rate,  it  was  a  dish  given  up  to  plebeians  and  the 
poor.  Horace  opposed  to  it  fish — the  luxurious  nourishment  of  rich 
and  dainty  Bomans.*"  In  spite  of  this  reprobation  on  the  part  of  the 
elegant  poet,  Apicius  does  not  fear  to  introduce  the  plant  in  his  Olus 
Molle^  a  kind  ot  Julienne,  not  devoid  of  merit. 

Take  onions,  rather  dry,  and  mix  pepper,  alisander,  and  winter- 
savory,  to  season  a  variety  of  vegetables  previously  boiled  in  water 
and  nitre,  the  which,  when  very  fine,  thicken  with  cullis,  oil,  and 
Wine.  ^ 


KITCHEN  GARDEN.  77 


LEEKS. 


US 


This  vegetable — a  powerful  divinity,  dreaded  among  the  Egyptians, 
and  a  food  bewailed  by  the  Israelites  in  their  journey  through  the 
Desert "' — cured  the  Greeks  of  numerous  diseases,  which  in  our  days 
it  is  to  be  feared  would  resist  its  medicinal  properties."^  Everything 
changes  in  this  sublunary  world,  and  the  leek  no  doubt  follows  the 
common  law. 

The  authors  of  a  compilation  rather  indigestible  at  times,  but  often 
very  curious,  assert  that  this  vegetable  attains  an  extraordinary  size,  by 
.  putting  as  many  of  the  seeds  a^  one  can  take  up  with  three  fingers  into 
a  piece  of  hneUf  wliich  is  then  to  be  tied-up,  covered  with  manure,  and 
watered  with  care.  All  these  seeds — so  they  say — will  at  last  form 
themselves  into  one  single  seed,  which  will  produce  a  monstrous 
leek.*" 

This  process,  which  is  revealed  to  us  by  the  geoponics,  would  have 
had  an  enthusiastic  reception  from  those  fervent  pagans  who  vied  in 
zeal  with  each  other,  to  see  who  could  offer  Latona,  on  the  day  of  the 
Theoxenias,  the  most  magnificent  leek/" 

The  mother  of  Apollo  received  this  plant  with  pleasure,  lAthough 
presented  to  her  quite  raw ;  but  she  would  probably  have  preferred  it 
dressed  in  the  following  manner : — 

Take  leeks,  the  mildest  it  is  possible  to  procure ;  boil  them  in  water 
and  oil,  with  a  handful  of  salt,  and  put  them  into  a  dish,  with  gravy, 
oil,  and  wine."* 

Or,  cover  the  leeks  with  young  cabbage  leaves ;  cook  them  under 
the  hot  embers,  and  season  afterwards  as  above."* 


MELON. 

This  cucurbitacea,  the  most  delicate  vegetable  belonging  to  this 
numerous  family,  has  always  been  the  delight  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 


78  KITCHEN  GARDEN. 

East  and  of  Europe.  It  came  originally  from  the  most  temperate 
regions  of  Asia;  the  chivalric  Baber  made  it  known  to  his  Hindoo 
subjects;"*  and  the  Romans  introduced  it  into  the  west,  at  the*time  of 
their  first  expedition  against  the  Persians.  Melons  had  a  prodigious 
success  at  Borne,  and  soon  became  a  necessity  with  which  the  wealthy 
could  not  dispense.  The  Emperor  Tiberius,  that  cruel  and  covetousr 
prince,"*  liked  them  so  much  that  they  were  served  to  him  every  day 
throughout  the  year. 

The  Greeks,  whose  ingenious  and  lively  imagination  mingled  with 
everything  the  sweet  perfume  of  flowers,  contrived  to  place  the  seeds  of 
melons  in  vessels  full  of  rose  leaves,  with  which  they  were  afterwards 
sown.  They  maintained  that,  when  at  maturity,  this  cool  and  refreshing 
vegetable  was  impregnated  with  sweet  emanations,  and  that  its  flavour 
called  to  mind  its  sweet  and  delicious  abode  with  the  queen  of  flowers."' 

Sometimes  also  they  macerated  the  seeds  in  milk  and  honey.  Not 
only  melons,  but  all  the  cucurhitacece  were  treated  in  this  manner,  when 
it  was  wished  to  communicate  to  them  a  milder  flavour."* 

In  pointing  out  these  processes  in  use  among  the  ancient  horticul- 
turists, we  do  not  at  all  pledge  ourselves  for  their  eflScacy.  However,  it 
must  be  acknowledged  that  they  exhibit  a  singularly  praiseworthy  emu- 
lation, which  has  perhaps  prepared  the  way  for  the  wonders  with  which 
our  modern  gardeners  have  made  us  familiar. 

Independendy  of  its  exquisite  flavour,  the  melon  passed,  among  the 
Greeks  and  Romans,  as  being  very  beneficial  to  the  stomach  and  head."' 
It  is  possible  that  they  may  have  gone  a  little  too  far;  but  then  man  is 
so  ready  to  give  imaginary  qualities  to  what  he  loves,  that  we  cannot 
wonder  at  their  praises  of  this  delicious  plant,  which  we  generally  eat  in 
the  most  simple  manner,  without  any  other  seasoning  than  a  little 
sugar,  sometimes  with  salt  and  pepper.  Not  so  with  the  Romans;  their 
practised  palates  required  a  more  exquisite  combination ;  they,  therefore, 
added  to  it  a  sharp  savoury  sauce — a  compound  of  pejjper,  pennyroyal, 
honey,  or  sun-made  wine,  garum,  vinegar,  and  sylphium."* 

Melons  were  not  known  in  central  or  northern  Europe  until  the 
reign  of  Charles  VIII.,  King  of  Fiance,  who  brought  them  from  Italy. 


161 


KITCHEN   GARDEN.  79 


RADISH. 

Amongst  other  singularities  which  abound  in  the  Talmud,  the 
curious  can  but  have  remarked  the  following : 

Judea  formerly  produced  kitchen  garden  plants  so  large,  that  a  fox 
bethought  himself  to  hollow  a  radish,  and  make  it  his  residence.  After 
he  had  removed,  this  new  kind  of  lair  was  discovered ;  it  was  put  into  a 
scale,  and  found  to  weigh  nearly  one  hundred  pounds.^*' 

It  is  a  pity  that  no  one  preserved  the  seed  of  so  remarkable  a  vege- 
table, which  no  doubt  was  only  to  be  found  in  Judea. 

The  Greeks  had  very  fine  radishes,  bat  they  were  not  of  such  a  sur- 
prising size.  They  procured  them  from  the  territory  of  Mantinea."' 
Mount  Algidea  also  furnished  the  Bomans  with  an  excellent  kind,^*^  but 
which  they  esteemed  less  highly  than  those  of  Nursia,"*  in  the  country 
of  the  Sabines.  These  latter  cost  about  threepence  a  pound  in  the  time 
of  Pliny ;  they  were  sold  for  double  that  sum  when  the  crop  was  not 
abundant.^'* 

Writers  of  antiquity  notice  three  distinct  kinds  of  radishes  :  the 
large,  short,  and  thick;  the  round;  and  the  wild.*"  They  fancied  thai, 
at  the  end  of  three  years,  the  seed  of  this  plant  produced  very  good 
cabbages,'"  which  must  have  been  rather  vexatious,  at  times,  to  honest 
gardeners  who  might  have  preferred  radishes. 

In  times  of  popular  tumult  this  root  was  often  transformed  into  an 
ignominious  projectile,  with  which  the  mob  pursued  persons  whose 
poUtical  opinions  rendered  them  obnoxious  to  the  majority,  as  we  might 
say  in  the  present  day."'  As  soon  as  calm  was  re-established,  the 
insulting  vegetable  was  placed  in  the  pot  to  boil,  and  afterwards  eaten 
with  oil  and  a  little  vinegar.""  • 

The  Bomans  preserved  radishes  very  well,  by  covering  them  with  a 
paste  composed  ofhoney,  vinegar,  and  salt."' 


80  KITCHEN   GARDEN. 


HORSE-RADISH. 

"  By  Apollo  !'*  cried,  mournfully,  a  philanthropic  and  gastronomic 
Greek,  "  one  must  be  completely  mad  to  buy  horse-radish,  when  fish 
can  be  found  in  the  market/'*"  So  thought  the  philosopher  Amphia. 
And  at  Rome,  as  in  Greece,  this  reviled  and  despised  root  hardly  found 
a  place  on  the  table  of  the  poor,  when  anything  else  could  be  had. 

There  were  several  serious  causes  for  this  fatal  proscription:  this 
plant  was  found  to  be  bitter,  stringy,  and  of  diflScult  digestion  ;"*  it  was 
looked  upon  as  a  very  common  food  ;^^*  the  lowest  class  alone  dared  to 
feed  upon  it ;  the  opulent  were  therefore  compelled  to  exclude  it  firom 
the  number  of  their  dishes.  And  again,  certain  strange  customs,  au- 
thorised by  the  Roman  law,  contributed  greatly  to  make  the  horse-radish 
an  object  of  horror  and  detestation ;  so  true  it  is,  that  the  manner  in 
which  objects  are  associated  with  our  ideas  determines  almost  invariably 
our  love  or  hatred  for  them. 

Nevertheless,  all  the  species  of  this  vegetable  (and  there  were  five  in 
number,  distinctly  mentioned  by  Theophrastus"*)  ought  not  to  have 
been  condemned  so  severely.  The  Corinthian,  the  Leiothasian,  the 
Cleonian,  the  Amorean,  and  the  Boeotian,  were  so  many  distinct  and 
separate  species,  each  of  which  possessed  its  own  peculiar  property  and 
quality."*  The  last-named,  with  its  Iftrge  and  silky  leaves,  was  tender, 
and  had  a  sweet,  agreeable  taste.*"  The  others,  not  so  good,  perhaps, 
were  wholesome  and  nourishing,  and  their  natural  bitterness  never  failed 
to  disappear,  when  the  seeds  were  allowed  to  soak  for  some  time  in  sweet 
or  raisin  wine  before  they  were  sown."* 

Shall  we  now  mention  the  properties  the  horse-radish  possessed,  and 
which  ought  to  have  been  suflScient  to  establish  its  reputation,  if  preju- 
dice were  not  both  deaf  and  blind  ? 

Take,  fasting,  some  pieces  of  this  beneficent  and  despised  root,  and 
the  most  inveterate  poisons  will  be  changed  for  you  into  inoffensive 
drinks."' 

Would  you  have  the  power  to  handle  and  play  with  those  dangerous 
reptiles  whose  active  venom  causes  a  speedy  and  sure  death?  Wash 
your  hands  in  the  juice  of  horse-radish."® 


KITCHEN  GARDEN.  81 

Do  you  seek  an  efficacious  remedy  for  the  numerous  evils  which 
besiege  us  unceasingly  ?  Take  horse-radish, — ^nothing  but  horse- 
radish."* 

It  is  true  that  this  incomparable  root  attacks  the  enamel  of  the 
leethy  and,  indeed,  soon  spoils  them ;"'  but  why  should  we  be  so  parti- 
cular when  so  many  marvellous  properties  are  in  question  ? 

As  to  its  culinary  preparation,  Apicius  recommends  us  to  serve  it 
mixed  with  pepper  and  garum."* 


GARLIC. 

Garlic  was  known  in  the  most  remote  ages.  It  was  a  god  in  £gypt.^*^ 
The  Greeks  held  it  in  horror.  It  was  part  of  their  military  food — ^hence 
came  the  proverb,  '^  Eat  neither  garlic  nor  beans  ;'*  that  is  to  say,  abstain 
from  war  and  law."*  There  was  a  belief  that  this  plant  excited  the 
courage  of  warriors ;  therefore,  it  was  given  to  cocks  to  incite  them  to 
fight  The  Greek  and  Roman  sailors  made  as  great  a  use  of  it  as  the 
soldiers,"^  and  an  ample  provision  was  always  made  when  they  set  out 
on  any  maritime  expedition."'  It  was  a  prevailing  opinion  that  the 
effects  of  foul  air  were  neutralized  by  garlic ;  and  it  was,  no  doubt^  this 
idea  which  made  reapers  and  peasants  use  it  so  lavishly."* 

However^  the  taste  for  this  vegetable  was  not  always  confined  to  the 
people,  in  the  southern  countries  of  Europe ;  it  gained,  at  times,  the 
high  regions  of  the  court  It  is  reported  that,  in  1368,  Alphonso,  King 
of  Gastiie,  who  had  an  extreme  repugnance  to  garlic,  instituted  an  order 
of  knighthood  ;  and  one  of  the  statutes  was,  that  any  knight  who  had 
eaten  of  this  plant,  could  not  appear  before  the  sovereign  for  at  least 
one  month."' 

The  priests  of  Cybele  interdicted  the  entry  of  the  temple  of  this 
goddess  to  persons  who  had  made  use  of  garlic  Stilphon,  troubling 
himself  very  little  about  this  interdiction,  fell  asleep  on  the  steps  of  the 
altar.  The  mother  of  the  gods  appeared  to  him  in  his  dream,  and 
reproached  him  with  the  little  respect  his  breath  disclosed  for  her.  '^  If 
you  wish  me  to  abstain  from  garlic,"  replied  Stilphon,  **  ^ve  me  some- 
thing else  to  eat.""* 


82  KITCHEN  GARDEN. 

The  aacientSy  great  lorers  of  the  marvellous,  believed  that  this 
despised  vegetable  possessed  a  sovereign  virtue  against  the  greater 
number  of  diseases,"^  and  that  it  was  easy  to  deprive  it  of  its  penetrating 
odour  by  sowing  and  gathering  it  when  the  moon  was  below  the 
horizon."* 

The  Greek  and  Boman  cooks  used  it  but  very  seldom,  and  it  was 
only  employed  as  a  second  or  third-rate  ingredient  in  some  preparations 
of  Apicius  which  we  shall  hereafter  mention. 

'*  Garlic  is  called  the  physio  of  the  peasantry,  especially  in  warm 
countries,  where  it  is  eaten  before  going  to  work,  in  order  to  guarantee 
them  from  the  pernicious  effects  of  foul  afar.  It  would  be  too  long  were 
we  to  relate  all  that  has  been  written  in  favour  of  this  vegetable ;  let  it 
suffice  to  say  that  it  is  employed  in  numerous  pharmaceutical  prepara- 
tions, and  among  others  in  vinegar,  celebrated  by  the  name  ot  aromatic 
vinegar." — Bosc. 


ESCHALOTS^ 

Alexander  the  Great  found  the  eschalot  in  Phoenicia,  and  introduced 
it  into  Greece.  Its  Latin  name,  Ascalonica^  indicates  the  place  of  its 
origin,  Ascalon,  a  city  of  Idumea."*  Its  affinity  with  garlic  set  the 
ancients  against  its  culinary  qualities,  and  this  useful  plants  too  much 
neglected,  only  obtained  credit  in  modern  times. 


PARSLEY. 

Hercules,  the  conqueror  of  the  Nemeean  lion,  crowned  himself  with 
parsley ;  a  rather  modest  adornment  for  so  great  a  hero,  when  others,  for 
exploits  much  less  worthy,  were  decked  with  laurels.  A  similar  crown 
became,  subsequently,  the  prize  of  the  Nemeean^'*  and  Isthmian 
Games."' 


KITCHEN  GARDEN.  88 

Anacreon,  that  amiable  and  frivolous  poet,  who  consecrated  all  his 
moments  to  pleasure,  celebrates  parsley  as  the  emblem  of  joy  and 
festivity  ;^''  and  Horace,  a  philosophic  sensualist  of  the  same  stamp, 
commanded  his  banquetting  hall  to  be  ornamented  with  roses  and 
parsley."' 

Perhaps  it  was  thought  that  the  strong,  penetrating  odour  of  parsley 
possessed  the  property  of  exciting  the  brain  to  agreeable  imaginations ; 
if  so,  it  explains  the  fact  of  its  being  worn  by  guests,  placed  round  their 
heads. 

Fable  has  made  it  the  food  of  Juno's  coursers."*  In  battle,  the 
warriors  of  Homer  fed  their  chargers  with  it;"*  and  Melancholy,  taking 
it  for  the  symbol  of  mourning,  admitted  it  at  the  dismal  repasts  of 
obsequies.*** 

het  us  seek  to  discover  in  this  plant  qualities  less  poetic  and  less 
brilliant,  but,  assuredly,  more  real  and  positive.    In  the  first  place : — 

Wash  some  parsley  with  the  roots  adhering ;  dry  it  well  in  the  sun ; 
boil  it  in  water,  and  leave  it  awhile  on  one  side;  then  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan some  garlic  and  leeks,  which  must  boil  together  a  long  time,  and 
very  slowly,  until  reduced  to  two-thirds — that  done,  pound  some  pepper, 
mix  it  with  gravy  and  a  little  honey,  strain  the  water  in  which  the 
parsley  was  boiled,  and  pour  it  over  the  parsley  and  the  whole  of  the 
other  ingredients.    Put  the  stewpan  once  more  on  the  fire,  and  serve.'** 

The  following  recipe  is  much  less  complicated  and  more  expe- 
ditious:— 

Boil  the  parsley  in  water,  with  nitre ;  press  out  all  the  water;  cut  it 
very  fine ;  then  mix,  with  care,  some  pepper,  alisander,  marjoram  and 
onions ;  add  some  wine,  gravy,  and  oil ;  stew  the  whole,  with  the  parsley, 
in  an  earthen  pot  or  stewpan.**' 

If  the  illustrious  pupil  of  Chiron,  the  warlike  Achilles,  had  known 
the  culinary  properties  of  parsley  as  well  as  he  knew  its  medicinal  virtues, 
he  no  doubt  would  have  been  less  prodigal  with  it  for  his  horses  ;'*'  and 
the  conquerors  of  Troy  would  have  comforted  tliemselves,  during  the 
tediousness  of  a  long  siege,  by  cooking  this  aromatic  plant,  and  enjoying 
a  new  dish. 

Parsley,  according  to  some  writers,  was  of  Egyptian  origin;  but 
it  is  not  known  who  brought  it  into  Sardinia,  where  it  was  found  by  the 
Carthaginians,  who  afterwards  made  it  known  to  the  inhabitants  of 
Marseilles. 


84  KITCHEN  GARDEN. 


CHERVIL. 

This  plant,  "which  Columella  has  descrihed,'**  furnished  a  relishing 
dish,  prepared  with  gravy,  oil,  and  wine ;  or  served  with  fried  fish. 
At  the  present  day  it  is  highly  commendable  in  salad. 


us 


WATER.CRESSES. 

The  water-cress,  the  sight  alone  of  which  made  the  learned  Scaliger 
shudder  with  terror,  is  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  Crete.  It  was,  doubt- 
less, the  cresses  of  Alen  (Suabia),  which  are  cultivated  in  our  gardens, 
and  not  those  commonly  found  in  brooks  and  springs. 

The  Persians  were  in  the  habit  of  eating  them  with  bread  :*^  they 
made,  in  this  manner,  so  delicious  a  meal,  that  the  splendour  of  a 
Syracusan  table  would  not  have  tempted  them.'**^  This  is  one  of  those 
examples  of  sobriety  which  may  be  admired,  but  are  seldom  followed. 

Plutarch  did  not  share  the  opinion  of  the  Persians,  but  scornfully 
ranked  cresses  amongst  the  lowest  aliments  of  the  people.'^*  Neverthe- 
less, the  Romans,  as  well  as  the  Greeks,  granted  to  this  cruciform  plant 
a  host  of  beneficent  qualities»  and  among  others,  a  singularly  refreshing 
property.  Refreshing !  to  say  the  truth,  it  refreshes  much  in  the  same 
way  that  mustard  and  pepper  do.'^'  Boiled  in  goat's  milk,  it  cured 
thoracic  aflections  ;'*'  introduced  into  the  ears,  it  relieved  the  tooth* 
ache  :'^^  and  finally,  persons  who  made  it  their  habitual  food  found  their 
wits  sharpened  and  their  intelligence  more  active  and  ingenious'^* 

However,  it  does  not  appear  that  cresses  ever  enjoyed,  in  Home  or 
Athens,  a  culinary  vogue  equal  to  their  officinal  reputation ;  it  was  said 
that  its  acrid  taste  twisted  the  nose,'"  and  this  coarse  jest  naturally  did 
it  harm  to  a  certain  degree  with  the  rich  and  delicate,  fie  that  as  it 
may,  those  who  dared,  ate  it  dressed  it  in  the  following  manner: — 


KITCHEN  GARDEN.  80 

With  garum,  or  oil  and  vinegar  ;'^*  or  with  pepper,  ciimmin-8eed> 
and  lentiscus  (leayes  of  the  mastic-tree).'" 

The  water-cress />ar  excellence  grows  in  springs,  rivulets,  and  ditches, 
in  Europe.  Its  piquant  taste  is  rather  agreeable ;  it  is  eaten  as  a  salad 
or  seasoning,  with  poultry  and  other  roasted  meat  This  plant  increases 
the  appetite,  fortifies  the  stomach,  and  possesses  anti-scorbutic  qualities. 

A  great  consumption  is  made  of  it  in  certain  countries.  It  is 
cultivated  in  running  waters,  either  in  gardens,  or  sown  in  the  shade> 
where  it  is  watered  abundantly.  The  less  it  se^p  the  sun,  the  softer  it 
is. — ^BoBC 


X. 


PLANTS  USED  IN  SEASONING. 


Wb  will  point  out,  as  briefly  as  possible,  those  plants  mostly  used  in 
the  kitchens  of  the  ancients  to  heighten  the  flavour  of  their  dishes,  or 
to  give  them  a  particular  taste,  according  as  the  dish  or  fancy  might 
require  it  In  them  especially  lies  the  secret  of  those  irritamenta  ffula, 
or  excitements  of  the  palate,  which  Apicius  brought  so  much  into  &shion. 


POPPY. 

The  seed  of  this  plant  was  offered,  fried,  at  the  beginning  of  the 
second  course,  and  eaten  with  honey.*  Sometimes  it  was  sprinkled  on 
the  crust  of  a  kind  of  household  bread,  covered  with  white  of  eggs.*  Some 
of  it  was  also  put  into  the  panada,  or  pap,  intended  for  children* — 
perhaps  to  make  them  sleep  the  sooner. 


SESAME. 

This  seed  was  used  in  nearly  the  same  manner  as  the  poppy,  and 
it  occupied  a  distinguished  rank  among  the  numerous  dainties  served  at 
dessert.*  Certain  round  and  light  cakes  were  covered  with  this  seed.* 
The  Bomans  brought  sesame  from  Egypt' 


PLANTS  USED  IN  SEASONING.  87 


SOW-THISTLE. 

This  plant  furnished  a  kind  of  milk,  which  was  sometimes  drunk  : 
sometimes  various  kinds  of  meat  were  seasoned  with  it.'  It  was  after- 
wards given  up  to  rabbits,  and  there  is  every  probability  that  they  will 
retain  undisputed  possession  of  it. 


OKACH. 

Few  vegetables  have  been  more  exposed  to  injurious  accusations. 
Pythagoras  reproaches  it  with  causing  a  livid  paleness,  dropsy,  and  the 
scrofula,  in  those  persons  who  eat  it*  Nevertheless,  a  greedy  curiosity 
introduced  it  into  the  catalogue  of  culinary  preparations,  and  the  guests 
of  Apicius  tasted  more  than  once  the  fatal  orach  without  knowing  its 
pernicious  properties.  History  does  not  say  that  they  suffered  any 
pernicious  effects  from  it 

This  plant  is  also  eaten  like  spinach,  and  mixed  with  sorrel  to  soften 
its  acidity. — Bosc. 


EOCKET. 

Persons  about  to  undergo  the  punishment  of  the  whip  were  recom- 
mended to  swallow  a  cup  of  wine,  in  which  rocket  had  been  steeped. 
It  was  asserted  that  this  draught  rendered  pain  supportable.*  And  again, 
that  this  plant,  taken  with  honey,  removed  the  freckles  which  sometimes 
appear  on  the  face.'^ 

Whatever  may  be  the  degree  of  credence  accorded  to  these  two 
recipes,  this  vegetable  enjoyed  some  reputation  among  the  ancients,  who 
mixed  the  wild  and  the  garden  rocket  together,  so  as  to  temper  the  heat 
of  the  one  by  the  coldness  of  the  other." 


S8  PLANTS  USED  IN  SEASONING. 


FENNEL. 

It  was  employed  but  seldom  in  the  preparation  of  dishes  or  pastry ; 
but  it  was  believed  that  the  juice  of  its  stalk  had  the  property  of  restoring 
or  strengthening  the  sightJ 


11 


DILL. 

This  plant,  which,  according  to  the  ancients,  weakened  the  eyes," 
was  much  renowned  for  its  exquisite  odour,'^  and  its  stomachic  quali- 
ties." A  much-admired  perfume"  was  made  from  it ;  it  produced  an 
agreeable  sort  of  wine  or  liqueur ;"  and  a  small  number  of  choice  dishes, 
for  the  enjoyment  of  connoisseurs,  owed  to  it  the  reputation  they  had 
acquired." 


ANISE-SEED. 

The  production  of  an  umbelliferous  plant,  which  grows  wild  in 
£gypt,  in  Syria,  and  other  eastern  countries.  PUny  recommends  it  to  be 
taken  in  the  morning,  with  honey  and  myrrh  in  wine :"  and  Pythagoras 
attributes  to  it  eminent  Hygeian  properties,  whether  eaten  raw  or 
cooked.** 


HYSSOP. 

The  Greeks,  the  Romans — and  before  them,  the  nations  of  the  east'* 
— believed  that  hyssop  renews  and  purifies  the  blood.  This  plants 
mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  salt,  formed  a  remedy  much  extolled 
by  Columella."    It  was  crushed  with  oil  to  make  a  liniment,  used  as  a 


PLANTS  USED   IN   SEASONING.  89 

remedy  for  cutaneous  eruptions.''  An  excellent  liqueur  was  obtained 
from  it,  known  under  the  name  of  hyssop  wine  ;'*  and  lastly,  this  plant 
iras  used  in  a  number  of  dishes,  which  it  rendered  more  wholesome  and 
refreshing. 


WILD   MARJORAM. 

Nearly  the  same  qualities  were  attributed  to  this  herb  as  to  hyssop ;" 
and  it  was  employed  still  more  frequendy  in  the  composition  of  the 
most  delicate  condiments.  Dioscorides*'  and  Cato'^  make  copious  re- 
marks on  a  much-esteemed  liqueur,  which  they  called  wild  marjoram 
wine. 


SAVORY. 

An  odoriferous  herb,  which  entered  into  the  seasoning  of  nearly 
every  dish.*' 


THYME. 

Besides  the  various  culinary  purposes  for  which  the  ancients  used 
this  plant,  they,  like  ourselves,  extracted  from  thyme  aromatic  liqueurs, 
the  preparation  of  which  will  be  given  in  another  part  of  this  work. 


S0 


WILD  THYME. 

We  find  it  rarely  spoken  of  by  magiric  writers.     Pliny  believes  it  to 
be  most  efficacious  against  the  bite  of  serpents.'* 


SWEET  MARJORAM." 

Was  much  employed  in  the  Isle  of  Cyprus ;  very  little,  if  at  all,  in 
Rome,  where  they  knew  little  more  of  sweet  marjoram  than  the  oil 
extracted  from  it." 

G 


90  PLANTS   USED  IN  SEASONING. 


PENNYROYAL. 

The  ancients  entwined  their  wine  cups  with  pennyroyal,"  and  made 
crowns  of  it,  which  were  placed  on  their  heads  during  their  repasts,  by 
the  aid  of  which  they  hoped  to  escape  the  troublesome  consequences  of 
too  copious  libations.**  On  leaving  the  table,  a  small  quantity  of  this 
plant  was  taken,  to  facilitate  digestion/' 

Pennyroyal  occupied,  also,  an  important  place  in  high  gastronomic 
combinations. 


RUE. 


The  territory  of  Myra,  a  city  of  Lycia,  produced  excellent  rue.** 
Mithridates  looked  upon  this  vegetable  as  a  powerful  counter-poison  ;*' 
and  the  inhabitants  of  Heraclea,  suspicious — and  with  reason — of  the 
villany  of  their  tyrant,  Clearchus,  never  stirred  from  their  dwellings  with- 
out having  previously  eaten  plentifully  of  rue."  This  plant  cured  also 
the  ear-ache ;"  and  to  all  these  advantages,  it  joined  that  of  being  wel- 
comed with  honour  on  all  festive  occasions/* 


MINT. 

There  was  formerly — no  matter  where  or  when — a  beautiful  young 
girl,  who  was  changed  into  this  plant  through  the  jealous  vengeance  of 
Proserpine.**  Thus  transformed,  she  excited  the  appetite  of  the  guests, 
and  awakened  their  slumbering  gaiety.*'  Mint  prevented  milk  from 
curdling,  even  when  rennet  was  put  into  it.*' 


SPANISH   CAMOMILE. 

The  Bomans  sometimes  mixed  with  their  drink  the  burning  root  of 
the  Spanish  camomiLe  ;**  and  we  are  astonished  at  meeting  with  the 
name  of  this  formidable  plant  among  the  ingredients  of  some  of  their 
dishes. 


PLANTS  USED  IN  SEASONING.  91 


CUMMIN. 

The  condiments  prepared  with  cummin  had  a  very  gteat  reputation  ; 
and  culinary  authors  frequently  mention  this  vegetable,  which  the 
Greeks  and  Bomans  invariably  used/^ 


ALISANDEE. 

The  same  might  be  said  of  alisander,  which,  in  the  time  of  Pliny> 
passed  as  an  universal  remedy/'  and  which  Apicius  honoinrs  by  naming 
in  many  of  his  dishes. 


CAPERS. 

Toung  buds  of  the  caper  tree,  a  shrub — native  of  Asia,  where  the 
species  are  in  great  varieties.  It  was  but  little  thought  of  at  the  tables 
of  the  higher  classes,  and  therefore  was  left  to  the  people/' 

The  buds  of  the  caper  are  gathered,  and  thrown  into  barrels  filled 
with  vinegar,  to  which  a  little  salt  is  added ;  then,  by  means  of  several 
large  sieves  made  of  a  copper  plate,  rather  hollow^  and  pierced  with 
holes  of  different  sizes,  the  different  qualities  are  separated,  and  classed 
under  different  numbers.  The  vinegar  is  renewed,  and  the  capers  are 
replaced  in  the  barrel,  ready  for  exportation. 


ASAFOETIDA. 

This  plant,  which  we  have  excluded  from  our  kitchens,  aod  whose 
nauseous  smell  is  far  from  exciting  the  appetite,  reigned  almost  as  the 
chief  ingredient  in  the  seasooiug  of  the  ancients.  Perhaps  they  culti- 
vated a  kind  which  in  no  way  resembled  that  of  modern  times.     If  it 

g2 


92  PLANTS   USED   IN  SEASONING. 

were  the  same,  how  are  we  to  explain  the  extreme  partiality  which 
Apicius  shows  for  it  ?  and  which  he  says  must  be  dissolved  in  Inke-^ann 
water,  and  afterwards  served  with  vinegar  and  garum." 

It  is  certain  that  the  resin  drawn  by  incision  from  the  root  of  this 
plant  is  still  much  esteemed  by  the  inhabitemts  of  Persia  and  of  India ; 
they  chew  it  constantly,  finding  the  odour  and  taste  exquisite. 

"  The  neck  of  the  root  is  cleared  of  the  earth  it  is  covered  with,  and 
replaced  by  a  handful  of  herbs.  At  the  end  of  forty  days  the  summit 
of  the  root  is  out  transversely ;  then  a  small  bundle  of  herbs  is  laid  over, 
so  as  not  to  touch  it.  A  whitish  liquor  exudes  from  the  cut,  and 
every  other  day  it  is  gathered ;  the  cut  is  renewed  until  the  root  is  quite 
exhausted.  The  result  of  this  crop  is  laid  on  leaves,  and  dried  in  the 
sun." — ^Bosc. 


SUMACH. 

The  Romans  made  use  of  the  seed  to  flavour  several  kinds  of 
dishes." 


GINGER. 

This  root  was  known  at  Rome  under  the  Emperors,  and  many  per- 
sons have  confounded  ginger  with  pepper,  although  they  in  no  way 
resemble  each  other.  Pliny  refutes  this  error,  and  represents  it  as  a 
native  of  Arabia."    It  was  used  with  other  condiments." 

"  The  Indians  grate  this  root  in  their  broth  or  ragout;  they  make  a 
paste  which  they  believe  is  good  against  the  scurvy.  The  inhabi- 
tants of  Madagascar  eat  it  green,  in  salad,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  mixed 
with  other  herbs,  which  they  season  with  salt,  dil,  and  vinegar.  In 
other  places  ginger  is  taken  infused  as  a  drink ;  it  fortifies  the  chest, 
and  awakens  the  appetite.  It  is  preserved  in  sugar  after  it  has  been 
stripped  of  its  bark,  and  soaked  in  vinegar.  Delicious  preserves  are 
made  of  it  with  much  perfume,  and  which  keep  a  very  long  time." — 

DUTOUK. 


PLANTS  USED  IN  SEASONING.  98 


WORMWOOD. 

The  Egyptians  had  a  great  respect  for  the  wormwood  of  Taposiris, — 
no  doubt  on  account  of  the  medicinal  properties  which  physicians  attri- 
buted to  it. 

Heliogabalus  often  regaled  the  populace  with  wormwood  wine,"  and 
the  Romans  gave  it  to  the  victorious  charioteers.  Pliny  thinks  this 
plant  so  salutary  that  nothing  more  precious  could  have  been  presented 
to  them."  This  explanation  appears  to  have  had  but  little  plausibility^ 
and  it  has  been  more  rationally  supposed  that  this  liquor  prevented  or 
counteracted  any  giddiness  they  might  fe^l.  "  You  can  cure  yourself  of 
dizziness/'  says  Strabo,  "with  the  bitter  leaf  of  wormwood."" 

The  Roman  wormwood  wine  was  composed  in  the  following  manner : 

They  bruised  one  ounce  of  this  vegetable,  and  mixed  it  with  three 
scruples  of  gum,  as  much  spikenard,  six  of  balm,  and  three  scruples  of 
safiEron ;  to  which  was  added  eighteen  setters,  or  180  gallons  English,  of 
old  wine.  This  mixture  was  left  to  stand  some  time,  but  was  not  heated 
or  subjected  to  any  other  process.*' 

In  pharmacy,  wine  is  made  of  wormwood ;  also  a  syrup,  a  preserve, 
an  extract,  oil  by  infusion,  an  essential  oil,  and  wormwood  salt  It  is 
supposed  that  several  brewers  on  the  Continent  substitute  the  leaves  and 
flowers  of  this  plant  for  hops,  in  the  manufacture  of  beer.  It  is,  perhaps, 
a  calumny,  and  we  only  repeat  it  in  a  whisper. 

*'  The  leaves  of  wormwood  are  used  in  salad  to  make  it  more  digestible 
and  heighten  the  flavour.  They  are  preserved  in  vinegar,  and  to  season 
dishes.  Lastly,  they  are  considered  by  some  persons  as  a  remedy,  and 
the  frequent  use  of  them  to  bjB  indispensable  for  the  preservation  of  their 
existence." — Bosc . 


In  concluding  this  chapter,  it  will  be  necessary  to  anticipate  a  ques- 
tion which  naturally  presents  itself:  did  the  Romans  know  the  art  of 
forcing  fruits,  and  of  procuring,  at  one  season,  the  various  vegetables  or 
plants  which  belong  to  another  period  of  the  year  ? 

Some  verses  from  Martial  will  leave  no  doubt  on  the  subject : — 
"  Whoever  has  seen  the  orchards  of  the  King  of  Corey rus  (Alcinous), 


«4  PLANTS  USED  IN  SEASONING. 

dear  Entellus,  must  have  preferred  thy  rural  habitation.  Thou  knowest 
how  to  preserve  from  the  rigours  of  winter  the  purple  grapes  of  thy  vine 
bower,  and  prevent  the  cold  frost  from  devouring  the  gifts  of  Bacchus. 
Thy  grapes  live  enclosed  under  a  transparent  crystal,  which  covers 
without  concealing  them. 

*'  What  can  avaricious  nature  refrise  to  the  industry  of  man  ?  Sterile 
winter  is  constrained  to  give  up  the  fruits  of  autumn.'""' 

This  curious  passage  gives  us  to  understand  that  the  Bomans  had  hot- 
houses and,  no  doubt,  glass  bells  in  their  orchards  and  gardens,  to  bring 
sooner  to  maturity  some  of  those  productions  of  the  earth  which,  by 
their  delicate  flavour  and  perfume,  raised  the  insatiable  desires  of  a 
people,  decidedly  the  greatest  epicureans  ever  known  in  the  history  of 
gastronomy  to  the  present  dajt 


XI. 


FRUITS. 


Whbn  the  Creator  placed  the  first  man  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  he 
oonunanded  him  to  nourish  himself  with  the  firuit  it  contained ;'  and, 
from  that  epoch,  the  most  ancient  which  the  sacred  work  records,  this 
kind  of  aUment  is  incessantly  mentioned  in  the  history  of  all  nations,  and 
at  every  period  of  their  history. 

The  great  Hebrew  legislator  seems  to  have  considered  fruit  trees 
worthy  of  his  especial  care,  for  he  forbad  the  Jews  to  cut  them  down, 
even  on  their  enemies'  lands  ;*  and,  in  order  to  teach  his  people  how  to 
preserve  them  in  all  their  vigour,  he  declares  the  fruits  of  the  first  three 
years  impure,  and  consecrates  to  the  Lord  those  of  the  fourth.'  He 
even  goes  further;  he  exempts  from  military  service  any  one  who 
has  planted  a  vineyard,  and  all  fruit  trees  conferred  the  same  privilege 
until  the  first  vintage/ 

Heathen  nations  also  understood  the  importance  of  this  branch  of 
agriculture,  and  invented  protective  divinities— such  as  Pomona,*  Ver- 
tumnus,'  Priapus' — ^whose  sole  care  consisted  in  protecting  orchards  from 
the  inclemency  of  the  seasons,  and  dispelling  insects  and  robbers,  who 
would  damage  and  plunder  the  crops. 

Each  kind  had,  moreover,  a  benevolent  patron,  who  could  not 
honestly  refuse  to  be  useful  to  it :  thus  the  olive  tree  grew  under  the 
auspices  of  Minerva ;'  the  Muses  cherished  the  palm  tree ;'  the  pine  and 
its  cone  were  consecrated  to  the  great  Cybele;*^  Bacchus  complacently 
ripened  the  perfumed  pulp  of  the  fig"  and  the  rosy  grape,"  which 
placed  him  on  a  level  with  the  gods. 

Among  the  Greeks,  fruits  appeared  on  table  at  the  second  course ;" 
and  were  eaten  either  cooked,  raw,  or  in  the  form  of  preserves. 


9«  FRUITS. 

The  Romans  sometimes  breakfasted  on  a  small  quantity  of  dried 
fruits ;"  but  the  third  course  of  their  coBna^  or  principal  repast,  offered 
an  incredible  profusion  of  the  productions  of  their  own  orchards,  and  of 
those  of  three  parts  of  the  world." 

Rich  patricians,  after  they  had  exhausted  all  the  immense  resources 
of  an  incredible  luxury — ^in  their  garments,  habitations,  and  banquets — 
contrived  to  plant  fruit  trees  on  the  summit  of  high  towers,  and  on  the 
house  tops ;"  thus  suspending  forests  over  their  heads,"  as  well  as  vast 
reservoirs,  to  keep  alive  the  most  exquisite  fish." 

At  Rome  they  had  an  expensive,  but,  as  they  thought,  effective  pro- 
cess of  preparing  pears,  apples,  plums,  figs,  cherries,  &c.,  &c.,  and  which 
was  as  follows : — 

The  fruit  was  chosen  with  great  care,  and  put,  with  the  stalks 
attached,  into  honey,  leaving  to  each  one  sufficient  space  to  prevent 
their  touching  each  other." 

Our  housewives  of  the  19th  century  may,  perhaps,  be  curious  to 
try  this  Roman  experiment,  if  the  quantity  of  honey  which  it  requires 
does  not  frighten  them. 


XII. 


STONE  FRUIT 


OLIVE    TREE. 

Throughout  antiquity  -we  find  the  olive  tree  acknowledged  as  some- 
thing venerable  and  holy,  and  tcJsing  precedence  of  all  other  trees,  even 
the  most  useful  on  account  of  their  nourishing  firuits,  or  the  refreshing 
drmk  they  furnished.  The  wise  Minerva  gave  it  birth  ;*  and  its  foliage, 
which  adorned  the  brows  of  the  goddess,*  served,  thenceforth,  to  crovra 
victory,*  or  to  give  rise  to  the  sweet  hopes  of  peace.*  A  green  bough  of 
olive  rendered  the  suppliant  inviolable.'  The  deadly  arrows  of  Hercules 
were  made  of  its  wood.*  From  it  princes  borrowed  their  sceptre/  and 
the  shepherd  his  crook.* 

If,  abandoning  mythological  fictions  which  surround  the  olive  with  a 
charming  but  false  poetry,  we  interrogate  history  for  more  certain  in- 
formation concerning  this  revered  tree,  we  shall  find  that  Diodorus,  of 
Sicily,  informs  us  Minerva  discovered  and  made  known  to  the  Athenians 
its  useM  qualities.*  And  a  writer,  in  whose  possession  the  most  ancient 
records  in  the  world  were  found — ^Moses — who  has  recounted  the  birth  of 
vegetation/*  tells  us  also  of  a  patriarch  pouring  purified  oil  on  a  stone 
altar,"  before  the  olive  tree  was  known  in  Athens — nay,  before  Athens 
existed. 

Profane  historians  honour  Aristeus,  son  of  Apollo,  and  King  of 
Arcadia,  with  the  invention  of  oil  mills,  and  the  manner  of  procuring  the 
.  precious  fluid,"  the  abundance  of  which  was  such,  in  the  East,  that  it 
was  used  in  lamps,"  in  anointing,"  in  seasoning  of  dishes,"  and  in  nu- 
merous other  instances  too  long  to  enumerate." 


98  STONE   FRUIT. 

Thus  the  most  important  culture  among  the  Jews  was  that  of  the 
olive  tree.  There  were  large  plantations  of  it  in  all  the  provinces: 
Galilea,  Samaria,  and  Judea,  were  full  of  them.*'  It  must  not,  however, 
be  thought  the  Hebrews  used  olives  only  to  make  oil ;  they  knew  how  to 
preserve  them  in, brine,  to  be  eaten  at  table,  and  for  sale  to  strangers. 
Pliny  particularly  extols  those  of  Decapolis,  a  province  of  the  Holy 
Land  :  ''  They  are  very  small,"  he  says,  "  not  larger  than  capers;  but 
are  much  esteemed."" 

Among  the  Greeks,  the  oil  of  Samos  was  considered  to  be  the  purest 
and  finest:"  next  to  it  they  gave  preference  to  that  of  Caria  or  of 
Thurium." 

As  regards  olives,  the  Colymbades,  or  floating  kinds  were  more 
esteemed  than  any  other,  on  account  of  their  size  and  taste  ;'*  they  had 
an  exquisite  flavour  imparted  to  them  by  being  placed  with  different 
herbs  in  pots  of  oil :"  the  Halmade  olives  were  preserved  in  brine.*' 

The  cultivation  of  the  olive  tree  was  carried  to  a  great  extent  in 
Greece ;  a  host  of  poets  sang  in  honour  of  this  tree,"  which  produced 
so  sweet  a  fruit;  and  Theophrastus  speaks  of  it  very  frequently  in  his 
celebrated  treatise  on  plants.*' 

The  Bomans  were  not  acquainted  with  it  until  later ;  and  even  in  the 
year  249  B.C.,  they  possessed  so  few  olive  trees  that  a  pound  of  oil  sold 
for  twelve  As,  or  three  shillings;  less  than  two  centuries  after  (74  B.C.), 
ten  pounds  of  it  only  cost  one  As ;  but  Italy  had  so  far  increased  its 
plantations  at  the  end  of  a  few  years  (52  B.  c.)  that  it  was  able  to  furnish 
olive  trees  to  the  neighbouring  countries.**  Its  olives  and  oil  were 
thought  excellent;  however,  those  of  Grenada  and  Andalusia  were 
preferred  to  them,  even  in  the  time  of  Pliny,*'  on  account  of  their  sweet- 
ness and  delicate  flavour.  That  illustrious  naturalist  has  transmitted 
to  us  particulars  of  the  highest  interest  on  the  cultivation  of  the  olive 
tree,  and  the  various  preparations  which  its  fruit  requires,  or  rather,  to 
which  it  is  necessarily  subjected  for  the  luxury  of  the  table.*'  Those 
who  are  curious  on  this  subject  may  also  consult  Gato  (the  first  among 
the  Bomans  who  has  written  on  this  tree),*'  Varro,"  and  Columella,'* 
concerning  the  art  of  raising  the  plants,  of  gathering  the  olives,  of 
extracting  the  oil,  and  of  preserving  the  olives  themselves.  This  latter 
operation  was  performed  as  follows : — 

They  took  twenty-five  pounds  of  olives,  six  pounds  of  quick-lime, 
broken  very  small  and  dissolved  in  water,  to  which  twelve  pounds  of  oak 


STONE   FRUIT.  09 

ashes  and  water  in  proportion  were  added.  The  olives  were  left  to  soak  for 
eight  or  ten  hours  in  this  lye ;  then  taken  out,  washed  with  care,  and  im- 
mersed for  eight  days  in  very  clear  soft  water,  which  was  changed  several 
times.  They  then  took  hot  water  in  which  some  stems  of  fennel  had  been 
inftised ;  this  plant  was  taken  out,  and  the  same  water  saturated  with 
salt  until  an  egg  would  float  When  it  was  quite  cold,  the  olives  were 
put  into  this  pickle.** 

As  regards  the  large  olives,  or  colymhades^  they  were  sometimes 
crushed  after  the  flrst  operation,  that  the  brine  might  penetrate  more 
easily ;  and  odoriferous  herbs  were  added  to  give  them  a  better  flavour. 
This  was  the  way  they  prepared  those  from  the  marshes  of  Ancona — the 
only  ones  admitted  at  the  tables  of  gourmets,** 

At  Rome,  olives  made  their  appearance  in  the  first  course,  at  the 
beginning  of  the  repast;  but  sometimes,  after  their  introduction,  the 
gluttony  of  the  guests  caused  them  to  be  served  again  with  the  dessert: 
so  that  they  opened  and  closed  the  banquet.** 

The  distributions  of  oil,  to  which  Latin  authors  often  allude,  were 
somewhat  rare  for  a  long  period.  The  people  looked  upon  this  fluid 
more  as  an  object  of  luxury  than  a  necessary  of  life,  and  it  was  only  on 
extraordinary  occasions  that  they  were  gratified  with  it.  Thus,  when 
Scipio  Africanus  began  his  curule  edileship,  each  citizen  received  a 
measure  of  oil.*'  After  his  example,  Agrippamade  similar  distributions, 
in  the  reign  of  Augustus.  They  became  more  frequent  under  the 
Emperors;  and  Severus  ordered  that  an  immense  quantity  should  be 
brought  into  Rome.** 

Venafira,  a  town  of  Campania,  supplied  excellent  oil.*'  Pliny  says 
that  it  surpassed  that  of  ail  the  rest  of  Italy.**  However  in  those  days, 
as  at  present,  much  was  consumed  of  a  very  bad  quality :  for  instance, 
that  which  was  served  by  a  clumsy  Amphytrion  to  Julius  Geesar,  and 
with  which  this  prince  seemed  perfectly  satisfied — a  proof  that  the 
celebrated  warrior  was  either  a  man  of  exquisite  poUteness  or  an  epicure' 
of  very  scanty  ability.** 

Independently  of  the  culinary  preparations  in  which  oil  was  abun- 
dantly used,  the  ancients  also  employed  much  of  it  for  anointing  them- 
selves ;  and,  when  at  the  bath,  a  slave  always  carried  some  in  a  vase,** 
with  which  they  were  rubbed.  It  was  believed  that  the  vital  heat  was 
thus  concentrated,  the  strength  increased,  and  health  preserved. 

Augustus  inquiring  one  day  of  PoUio  what  ought  to  bo  done  to 


100  STONB   FRUIT. 

-preserve  health  in  extreme  old  age :  *'  Very  little,**  was  his  answer ; 
"  drink  wine,  and  rub  yourself  with  oil/*" 

We  shall  conclude  this  article  by  transcribing  the  recipe  of  an 
odoriferous  oil  for  which  the  Libumians  were  celebrated,  and  which 
Apicius  considered  worthy  of  his  attention. 

Pound  some  alder  and  oyperus  (sedges)  with  green  laurel  leaves  till 
they  are  reduced  to  a  very  fine  powder — put  this  powder  into  Spanish 
oil,  add  a  condiment  of  salt,*'  and  stir  this  mixture  with  great  care  for 
three  days  or  more,  then  let  it  remain  for  some  time.*' 

OUve  oil  was  little  known  in  France  under  the  two  first  races  of  her 
kings.  In  the  reign  of  Charlemagne  it  was  drawn  firom  the  east  and 
Afirica,  and  was  so  rare  that  the  Council  of  Aix-la-chapelle  (817) 
allowed  the  monks  to  make  use  of  the  oil  firom  bacon.  In  1491  the 
Pope  allowed  Queen  Anne  (of  Bretagne),  then  aftCii wards  the  whole 
province,  and  successively  the  other  French  provinces,  the  use  of  butter 
in  seasoning  on  fast  days. 


PALM   TREE. 

The  poet  Pontanus  has  related,  in  beautiful  Latin  verses,  the  history 
of  two  palm  trees  cultivated  in  the  kingdom  of  Naples.  For  a  long 
time  there  had  been  a  fine  one  growing  in  the  environs  of  OtraDto, 
loaded  every  year  with  flowers,  and  yet  producing  no  fruit,  in  spite  of 
the  vigour  of  the  tree  and  the  heat  of  the  climate.  But  one  summer 
every  one  was  much  surprised  at  seeing  this  same  tree  produce  a 
quantity  of  excellent  and  very  ripe  firuit.  Astonishment  changed  into 
admiration  when  it  was  discovered  that  another  palm  tree,  cultivated  at 
Brindes  (fifteen  leagues  distant),  had  that  same  year  blossomed  for  the 
first  time.  From  that  period  the  palm  tree  of  Otranto  continued  to 
yield  fi*uit  every  year,  notwithstanding  the  distance  between  it  and  the 
one  at  Brindes.** 

The  palm  tree,  which  mythologic  ages  consecrated  to  the  Muses,*' 
was  very  common  with  the  Hebrews,*'  to  whom  it  supplied  an  exhila- 
rating beverage  called  sechar,  which  is  often  mentioned  with  wine  of  the 
grape.*' 


STONE   FRUIT.  101 

Moreover,  everything  was  useful  in  this  tree. 

The  wood  was  employed  for  constructing  buildings  and  for  fuel ;  the 
leaves  were  used  to  make  ropes,  mats,  and  baskets ;  and  the  fruit  served 
as  food  for  man  and  cattle/*  From  the  dates  a  great  quantity  of  honey 
was  extracted,  but  very  little  inferior  to  ordinary  honey;*'  and  those 
which  were  not  consumed  were  sent  abroad  with  so  much  the  more  ease 
that  they  keep  well.''^ 

According  to  Pliny,  this  fruit  was  in  reputation  in  Greece  and 
Bome ;  and  he  names  several  excellent  species  which  came  from  Judea, 
and  principally  from  Jericho  and  the  valleys  of  Archelais,  Livias,  and 
Phasaelis/^ 

Two  Greek  writers"  inform  us  that  the  favourite  of  Herod,  Nicolas 
of  Damascus,  a  poet,  philosopher^  and  historian,  much  liked  by 
Augustus,  sent  to  the  Roman  Emperor  every  year  a  peculiar  kind  of 
date  from  Palestine ;  and  that  the  monarch,  who  became  very  partial  to 
them,  gave  them  the  name  of  his  friend.  Bread  and  cakes  were  also 
made  with  them. 

We  shall  often  have  occasion  to  remark  that  dates  were  frequently 
introduced  in  the  composition  of  the  most  exquisite  dishes  of  the 
Romans. 

Dates  not  quite  ripe,  if  exposed  to  the  sun,  become  in  the 
first  place  soft,  then  pulpy^  and  lastly  acquire  a  consistency  similar  to 
that  of  French  plums ;  they  can  then  be  preserved,  and  sent  to  foreign 
markets. 

Riper  dates  are  squeezed  to  draw  out  a  sweet  juice,  very  pleasant,  and 
which  is  put,  together  with  the  other  part,  in  large  vessels,  and  kept  in 
that  state,  or  buried  in  the  earth.  These  are  the  ones  commonly  used  by 
the  rich  as  food ;  the  others  are  given  up  to  the  poorer  class. 

Dates  are  eaten  either  with  or  without  preparation,  or  mixed  with 
different  kinds  of  viands.  Their  syrup  is  used  as  a  sauce  to  various 
dishes. 

They  are  also  completely  dried  for  exportation ;  when  reduced  into 
flour,  the  caravans  in  the  Desert  employ  them  as  food.  By  crushing 
them  in  soft  water  wine  is  made,  which  produces  a  strong  spirit,  very 
agreeable. 

The  best  dates  are  yellowish,  semi-transparent,  odoriferous^  and 
sweet* 


102  STONE   FRUIT. 


CHERRY   TREE. 

When  on  a  very  hot  summer  day  some  inviting  cherries  deliciously 
quench  our  burning  thirst,  we  very  little  think  of  oflfering  to  Mithridates 
a  souvenir  of  affection  and  gratitude.  Such  is  man :  he  enjoys  his 
wealth,  and  cares  very  little  for  the  benefactor  who  has  procured  it  for  him. 
This  ancient  King  of  Fontus,  of  toxologic  memory,  and  better  known 
by  physicians  than  gardeners,  did  not,  however,  pass  the  whole  of  his 
life  in  composing  poisons  and  their  antidotes;  for  his  royal  hands 
planted,  and  sometimes  grafted,  and  it  is  to  this  useful  pastime  that  we 
are  indebted"  for  the  sweet  fruit,  the  name  of  which  recalls  to  mind  the 
city  or  country  which  was  its  birth-place. 

Ancient  authors  have  told  us,  it  is  true,  that  Europe  is  indebted  for 
its  cherries  to  liUcullus/^  and  that  he  made  use  of  the  cherry  tree  to 
ornament  his  triumphal  car;  honour  is  therefore  due  to  the  Boman 
general,  but  on  condition  that  Mithridates  shall  lose  nothing  of  his 
glory,  or  be  eclipsed  by  the  renown  of  this  great  conqueror. 

The  researches  of  several  naturalists  lead  us  to  believe  that  cherry 
trees  abrpady  existed  at  that  period  in  Gaul.  This  tree  delights  in  cold 
climates ;  and  the  wildest  forests  of  France  contain  almost  the  whole  of 
its  varieties.  Perhaps  at  Rome  they  knew  no  other  than  the  wild  cherry 
tree,  which  on  that  account  was  very  little  sought  after,  and  Lucullus 
probably  brought  it  to  notice  by  bringing  some  grafts  or  fruits  from 
Gerasus.  In  this  manner  the  passage  of  Pliny"  and  that  of  Virgil" 
can  very  well  be  explained^  which  present  the  cherry  tree  as  a  new 
guest. 

Moreover,  the  Milesian,  Xenophanes,  and  the  physician,  Diphilus  of 
Siphne,  have  spoken  of  cherries  long  before  Lucullus  was  in  existence. 
Diphilus  praises  them  in  the  strongest  terms ;  he  says  they  are  stomachic, 
and  have  a  delicious  flavour.*'  This  certainly  cannot  apply  to  the 
sour  wild  fruit  which  is  to  be  met  with*  in  the  woods,  and  with  which 
the  most  inexperienced  palate  is  never  twice  caught. 

At  all  events  the  authority  of  Theophrastus  would  be  sufficient  to 
remove  all  doubts,  if- any  still  remained.  He  informs  us  tlaat,  in  his 
time,  the  good  cherries  of  Mithridates  passed  from  Lower  Asia  into 


STONE   FRUIT.  108 

Oreece/'  where  they  were  gladly  received  as  in  all  other  nations,  on 
account  of  their  form,  taste,  and  qualities.  This  happy  gastrologio  event 
was  accomplished  800  years  before  the  Christian  era,  whereas  the  intro- 
duction of  cherry  trees  by  LucuUus  took  place  228  years  later. 

The  capital  of  the  world  knew  not,  at  first,  how  to  appreciate  this 
present  as  it  deserved:  the  cherry  tree  was  propagated  so  slowly  in 
Italy,  that  more  than  a  century  after  its  introduction  it  was  far  from 
being  generally  cultivated." 

The  Romans  distinguished  three  principal  species  of  cherries  :  the 
Apronian,  of  a  bright  red,  with  a  firm  and  delicate  pulp  ;  the  Lutatian^ 
very  black  and  sweet ;  the  Cacilian,  round  and  stubby,  and  much 
esteemed/^ 

This  fruit  embellished  the  third  course  in  Rome,  and  the  second  at 
Athens, 

"  The  fruit  of  the  cherry  tree  is  eaten  raw,  cooked,  preserved  with 
eugar,  and  in  brandy ;  it  is  also  preserved  dry,  or  made  into  ratafia.  By 
fermentation,  the  juice  of  cherries,  with  the  kernel,  by  adding  sugar,  makes 
a  very  agreeable  liquor,  which  is  called  cherry  wine ;  a  brandy  is  pro- 
duced with  fermented  cherries  drawn  by  the  alembic,  very  powerful; 
that  named  kirscfien  wasser^  in  the  province  of  German-Lorraine, 
is  a  spirituous  liquor,  obtained  by  the  distillation  of  various  species  of 
wild  cherries." — ^Bosc. 


APRICOT    TREE. 

The  apricot  tree  was  called  by  the  Romans  Armeniaca,  the  tree  of 
Armenia,  where  it  originated.  It  must  be  looked  upon  as  a  useful 
monument  of  the  valour  of  the  masters  of  the  world,  if  it  be  true  that» 
after  their  conquest,  they  brought  it  from  that  province  into  Rome.*' 

The  Latins  also  named  the  aprioot  pracocia  (precocious),  because 
it  ripens  at  the  beginning  of  summer  (in  June)  before  other  fruits." 

At  the  time  when  Pliny  wrote  (a.d.  72)  the  apricot  tree  had 
only  been  known  at  Rome  for  30  years ;  and  apricots,  still  very  rare, 
cost  one  denarius,  or  sevenpence  halfpenny  each  :"  they  were  only  to 
be  found  in  the  first-rate  shops  of  the  fruit  market  or  emporium  of  the 
third  region,  near  the  Metasudanie,  which  was  only  open  every  ninth 


104  STONE    FRUIT, 

day ;  or  near  the  Naval  Camp,  outside  the  Trigeinina  Gate.  Some  years 
later  the  agriculturists  of  the  Roman  suburbs  brought  into  the  city  some 
excellent  ones  at  a  very  low  price ;  but  the  fashion  and  the  taste  for 
them  had  gone  by. 

"  The  green  apricot  is  preserved  before  the  stone  becomes  hard ;  when 
ripe  it  is  eaten  raw^  cooked,  or  stewed  in  marmalade ;  preserves  are  made 
of  it,  as  well  as  a  dried  paste,  which  keeps  a  long  time ;  they  are  also 
preserved  in  brandy.  The  stone  as  it  is,  or  broken,  is  used  in  ratafia 
of  Noyau.    Lastly,  the  kernel  produces  oil." — ^Dqtour. 


PEACH  TREK 

This  fruit  tree,  originally  from  Persia,  was  first  transplanted  into 
Greece,**  where  it  existed  a  long  time  before  it  passed  into  Italy.  It 
was  still  quite  a  novelty  in  Rome  towards  the  middle  of  the  1st  century 
of  the  Christian  era,  and  the  rich  alone  could  eat  peaches,  for  they  cost 
no  less  than  £ll  ld«.  4d.  the  dozen,  or  18«.  9d.  each.'*  This  is 
rather  dear  fruit,  however  good  it  may  be.  But  the  bill  of  fare  of  certain 
banquets  will  show  us,  by-and-by,  whether  the  Roman  gastronomies  knew 
how  to  spend  their  gold  profrisely,  when  they  wished  to  satisfy  a  caprice 
or  enjoy  some  dainty  curiosity. 

It  was  believed  in  Rome  that  the  peach  contained  a  deadly  poison 
when  gathered  in  Persia;*'  but  that,  once  transplanted  to  another  soil, 
it  lost  its  injurious  properties.  This  singular  opinion,  still  held  by 
many  persons  in  the  present  day,  has  been  refuted  by  Pliny,  who 
treats  it  as  a  ridiculous  idea  ;*'  at  any  rate,  Galen"  and  Dioscorides** 
assert  that  this  fruit  is  indigestible,  unwholesome,  and  that  it  often 
causes  fevers. 

The  high  price  of  peaches,  and  the  short  duration  of  their  fresh- 
ness, caused  amateurs  to  seek  the  means  of  preserving  them  for 
the  longest  possible  time.  The  following  is  the  recipe  given  by 
Apicius: — 

'*  Choose  the  finest  of  this  fruit,  and  place  them  in  water,  saturated 
with  salt.  The  next  day  take  them  out,  dry  them  with  the  greatest 
care,  and  then  put  them  into  a  vessel  with  savory,  vinegar,  and  salt'*'* 


STONE  FRUIT.  105 


PLUM  TREE. 

Plum  trees  were  known  in  Africa  from  time  immemorial;  and 
Theophrastus  speaks*  of  the  great  number  of  these  trees  which  were 
to  be  found  at  Thebes^  Memphis,  and  especially  at  Damascus/'  Athe- 
nesus,  also,  praises  the  excellent  plums  of  this  last-named  city  /*  and 
ve  know  that  time  has  not  lessened  their  ancient  reputation. 

Asia  and  Egypt  sent  a  great  quantity  to  Europe ;  and,  in  order  that 
they  might  keep  better  during  this  long  voyage,  a  part  of  them  were 
dried,  and  the  rest  were  preserved — that  is  to  say,  the  best — in  honey 
and  sweet  wine.^'  These  were  the  only  kind  known  in  Rome  in  the 
time  of  Gato  (150  years  B.C.),  but  the  Romans,  then  novices  in  the  art 
of  good  living,  would  have  but  ill-appreciated  the  delicate  and  perfumed 
pulp  of  Damascus  plums,  at  the  moment  when,  hardly  plucked  from  the 
tree,  their  fresh  and  velvet-like  bloom  delights  the  eye  and  tempts  the 
palate  of  epicures.  Two  centuries  later  the  science  of  good  living 
made  incredible  progress.  A  magiric  atmosphere  enveloped  the  capital 
of  the  universe  with  its  delicious  fragrance,  and  the  joyous  free  livers  of 
Italy  cultivated  in  their  gardens  plums  of  the  most  beautiful  purple  and 
gold,'*  far  superior  to  the  much-extoUed  fruit  from  Damascus  and  Mem- 
phis. The  fields  everywhere  offered  such  luxuriance  of  plum  trees  that 
Pliny,  the  opposition  man,  or  juste  milieu  of  that  time,  complained  of 
their  number,^'  and  grieved  at  what  he  fancied  a  useless  and  expensive 
profusion  of  them. 

The  ancient  Counts  of  Anjou  transplanted  the  plums  of  Damascus 
into  their  province ;  and  the  good  Sing  Ren6  of  Sicily,  Duke  of  Anjou 
and  Count  of  Provence,  introduced  them  into  southern  Europe.*' 

The  plums  of  Monsieur  are  thus  named  because  Monsieur,  the  bro- 
ther of  Louis  XIV.,  was  very  fond  of  them." 

The  plums  of  Heine  Claude  owe  their  name  to  the  first  consort  of 
Francis  I.,  daughter  of  Louis  XIL** 

The  plums  of  Mirahelle  were  brought  from  Provence  into  Lorraine 
by  King  Ren6." 


H 


XIII. 


PIP   FRUIT. 


QUINCE  TREK 

Tff IS  tree  (ippeats  to  have  been  a  natire  of  Gydon,  a  city  of  Crete ; 
from  hence  it  passed  into  Greece/  and  soon  became  the  delight  of  its 
voluptuoas  inhabitants.  The  environs  of  Corinth,  above  all,  were  noted 
for  the  sweetness  and  beanty  of  their  quinces/  which  the  enlightened 
luxury  of  Attica  preferred  to  all  others. 

Borne  did  not  fiEiil  to  enrich  itself  with  a  fruit'  to  which  the  inge- 
nuity  of  culinary  art  was  to  give  a  new  flavour.  Young  plants  were 
first  imported  from  abroad,  and  put  in  boxes  /  but  the  Romans  knew 
not  how  to  rear  them,  and  were  obliged  for  a  long  time  to  content  them- 
selves with  excellent  quinces  preserved  in  honey,  and  sent  from  Iberia 
and  Syria  to  the  great  capital/ 

At  last  they  learned  how  to  cultivate  the  quince  tree,*  and  subse- 
quently introduced  it  into  Oaul,  where  it  succeeded  admirably.  They, 
too,  could  then  enjoy,  with  a  certain  pride,  preserves  nothing  inferior  to 
those  of  Spain/  and  which  the  confectioners  in  the  **  market  of 
dainties,"*  kept  in  reserve  with  quince  wine*  for  the  tables  of  the  patri- 
cians ;  and  also  the  stomachic  exhilarating  liqueiur  extracted  from  the 
fruit  of  sweet  Cydoneum,'*  which  even  a  petite  maitresse  would  not 
have  disdained  at  a  Ught  morning  repast 

At  any  rate,  the  faculty  this  time  agreed  with  culinary  chemistry  in 
recommending  to  epicures  those  delicious  preparations.  It  was  asserted, 
besides,  that  the  quince  possessed  the  most  beneficial  qualities,"  first,  as 


PIP  FRUIT.  107 

an  aliment^  and  next,  as  a  coimter-poison :"  gourmandise  made  the 
mind  docile,  and  none  doubted  its  marvellous  virtues. 

This  fruit,  so  much  extolled,  was  preserved  by  placing  it  with  its 
branches  and  leaves  in  a  vessel,  afterwards  filled  with  honey  or  sweet 
wine,  which  was  reduced  to  half  thequantity  by  ebullition/* 


li 

16 


PEAR  TREE. 

Many  countries  have  disputed  the  honour  of  having  given  birth  to 
the  pear  tree.  According  to  some  it  was  a  native  of  Mount  Ida,  so  re- 
nowned for  its  refreshing  fountains ;  others  said  Alexandria ;  and  in  the 
opinion  of  some  writers  it  came  from  diflFerent  parts  of  Greece.  Let  us 
add  to  this  enumeration  Palestine^  where  this  tree  grew  at  a  very  remote 
period." 

It  results  from  these  different  allegations  that  the  ancients  were 
acquainted  with  the  pear  tree ;  that  they  cultivated  and  were  fond  of 
pears,  which  is  not  at  all  surprising,  as  they  are  an  excellent  fruit. 
Theophrastas  was  very  fond  of  them ;  he  speaks  of  them  very  often, 
and  always  with  praise.  The  same  thing  may  be  affirmed  of  Pliny, 
and  more  particularly  of  Galen,  whose  medical  authority  was  formerly 
of  so  much  weight.  The  learned  physician  of  Pergamo  is  pleased  to 
recognise  in  the  pear  strengthening  qualities  which  benefit  the  stomachy 
and  an  astringent  virtue  which  the  apple  does  not  possess  in  the  same 
degree." 

Like  us,  the  Greeks  and  Romans  distinguished  several  kinds  of  this 
fruit,  whose  names  indicated  their  taste  and  forms.  It  is  not  certain 
whether  they  possessed  the  Bon  Chretien,  which  honours  our  tables  in 
winter,  either  raw  or  cooked.  This  name  reminds  us  of  its  origin,  which 
we  will  relate. 

Louis  XL,  King  of  France,  had  sent  for  Saint  Fran9ois  de  Paule 
from  the  lower  part  of  Calabria,  in  the  hopes  of  recovering  his  health 
through  his  intercession.  The  saint  brought  with  him  the  seeds  of  this 
pear,  and  as  he  was  called  at  court  Le  Bon  Chretien,  this  fruit  received 
the  name  of  him  to  whom  France  owed  its  introduction." 


H  2 


106  PIP  FRUIT. 


APPLE  TREE. 

A  very  ancient  tradition — ^for  it  is  six  thousand  years  old — represents 
the  apple  as  being,  from  the  beginning  of  the  worlds  the  inauspicious 
fruit  to  which  may  be  traced  all  the  miseries  of  mankind.  We  crave 
permission  to  defend  it  from  this  accusation,  merely  by  these  few  words, 
**  That  it  is  nowhere  written." 

The  holy  books  rarely  speak  of  the  apple  tree.  If  we  are  not  mis- 
taken, it  is  only  mentioned  in  five  passages'*  of  the  sacred  writings,  and 
at  periods  very  distant  from  the  first  ofience  of  man.  Therefore,  nothing 
indicates  aversion  or  contempt  on  the  part  of  the  inspired  writers  for 
this  tree,  which  on  one  occasion  serves  even  as  a  graceful  term  of  com- 
parison '*^  from  which  it  might  be  concluded  that  the  inhabitants  of  the 
east  thought  as  much  of  it  as  other  nations. 

There  is  one  (and  perhaps  only  one)  example  of  a  singular  and  ex- 
cessive repugnance  to  apples.  It  is  said  that  Uladislas,  King  of  Poland, 
no  sooner  perceived  them  than  he  became  so  confrised  and  terrified 
that  he  immediately  fled.  It  certainly  required  very  little  to  disturb 
this  poor  prince ! 

Greece  produced  very  beautiful  apple  trees,  and  their  fruit  was  so 
excellent,  that  it  was  the  favourite  dessert  of  Philip  of  Macedon,  and  of 
his  son,  Alexander  the  Great,  who  caused  them  to  be  served  at  all  their 
meals.*'  Probably  they  were  obtained  purposely  for  them  from  the 
island  of  Eubcea,  which  enjoyed  an  extraordinary  reputation  for  apples." 

The  Athenian  legislator — the  wise  Solon — almost  succeeded  in 
throwing  discredit  on  this  aliment,  so  much  liked  by  his  fellow-citizens, 
by  a  sumptuary  law  which  he  thought  it  necessary  to  estabhsh. 

The  inhabitants  of  Attica  were  fond  of  good  living ;  and  when  one  of 
them  took  a  wife  he  spared  no  expense  to  give  splendour  to  the  nuptial 
banquet — a  very  excusable  pride  on  such  an  occasion.  Solon  was  in 
the  habit  of  interfering  rather  too  much  in  the  affairs  of  others.  Every 
one  has  his  failing,  and  this  was  his :  he  imagined  that  his  fellow  citi- 
zens fared  too  sumptuously  on  their  wedding-day ;  and,  in  order  to  cur- 
tail an  expense  contrary  to  his  ideas  of 'bconomy,  he  ordered  that  the 


PIP  FRUIT.  109 

bridegroom  should  be  content  with  a  single  apple,  while  his  guests  were 
regaling  themselves  at  his  expense.  Who  would  believe  it  ?  This  law 
was  religiously  observed  by  the  Greeks^  and  the  Persians  thought  it  so 
original  that  they,  in  their  turn,  adopted  it" 

The  Latins  gave  a  fiEivourable  reception  to  the  apple  tree,  and  culti- 
vated it  with  care.  Eminent  citizens  of  Rome  did  not  disdain  to  give 
their  names  and  patronage  to  different  kinds  procured  by  themselves,  or 
which  they  had  improved  in  their  orchards.  .  The  Manlian  apples  were 
jBO  called  after  Manlius ;  the  Claudian  after  Claudius,  their  patron ;  the 
Appian  owed  their  name  to  Appius.  Some  others  preserved  that  of  their 
native  country :  such  were  the  Sidonians,  the  Greeks,  and  the  Epirotes. 

After  the  conquest  of  Gaul,  the  Romans  introduced  all  these  fruits  ;'* 
and  as  the  climate  was  more  favourable  to  apple  trees  than  that  of 
Italy,  they  soon  multiplied  to  a  surprising  extent.  France  ought  to  be 
grateful  to  those  proud  warriors  for  a  present  that  enriched  that  pro- 
vince of  the  empire,  and  which  perhaps  still  contributes  to  its 
prosperity. 


LEMON  TREK 

Among  the  richest  productions  of  Media,  Virgil  mentions  a  tree,  to 
whose  fruit  he  attributes  the  greatest  virtues  against  all  poisons.  The 
description  he  gives  of  it  seems  to  belong  to  the  lemon  tree."  How- 
ever this  may  be,  its  origin,  and  even  its  identity,  have  given  rise  to 
the  most  animated  disputations. 

Many  have  asserted  that  Juba,  King  of  Mauritania  (60  years  B.C.), 
spoke  of  the  lemon  tree,  and  that  he  looked  upon  it  as  being  very 
ancient.  They  add,  that  the  Lybians  gave  to  its  fruit  the  name  of 
**Hesperide  apples,"  that  Hercules  stole,  and  which,  on  account  of 
their  colour,  were  called  "  golden  apples "  by  the  Greeks,  who  were 
indebted  to  that  hero  for  their  introduction." 

Others  maintain  that  no  one  has  spoken  of  them  before  Theo* 
phrastus,*'  who  called  them  "  Median  apples,*'  after  the  place  of  their 
origin;  and  that  consequentiy  those  persons  were  wrong  who  con- 
founded them  with  the  apples  taken  from  the  garden  of  the  Hes- 
perides.'* 


no  PIP  FRUIT. 

These  difficulties  will  probably  disappear,  if  we  remexaber  that  the 
ancients  have  given  to  the  lemon  tree  various  names"  which  belong  to 
other  trees.  The  truth  is,  that  the  Athenians  received  it  from  thm 
Persians,  who  were  neighbours  of  the  Medes,  and  from  Attica  it  spread 
all  over  Greece.** 

Lemons  were  only  known  to  the  Bomans  at  a  very  late  period,  and 
at  first  were  used  only  to  keep  the  moths  from  their  garments.  The 
acidity  of  this  fruit  was  unpleasant  to  them,  and  Apicius  makes  no  use 
of  it :  those  who  wish  to  satisfy  their  curiosity  on  the  subject  may 
read  the  remarks  of  Lister,  the  celebrated  physician  of  Queen  Anne,  and 
editor  of  the  works  of  this  famous  gourmet.*^ 

In  the  time  of  Pliny,  the  lemon  was  hardly  known  otherwise  than 
as  an  excellent  counter^poison.'* 

Fifty  years  after  that,  Palladius  reared  the  plants  which  he  had  re* 
ceived  from  Media,*'  and  at  last  this  tree  was  slowly  naturalized  in  the 
south  of  Europe. 

A  considerable  number  of  anecdotes  have  been  told  of  the  anti- 
venomous  properties  of  the  lemon.  Athenseus  speaks  of  two  men  who 
did  not  feel  pain  from  the  bite  of  dangerous  serpents,  because  they  had 
previously  eaten  of  this  fruit *^  Either  this  story  is  false,  or  men  and 
things  have  strangely  altered. 

Apicius  preserves  lemons  by  putting  each  of  them  into  a  separate 
vessel,  which  is  hermetically  sealed  with  plaster,  and  afterwards  sus- 
pended from  the  ceiling.*^ 

In  another  place  we  shall  speak  of  the  tables  and  beds  made  of  the 
lemon  tree,  so  fashionable  amongst  the  Bomans,  and  for  which  they 
spent  prodigious  sums. 

One  thing  remains  to  be  noticed;  and  that  is,  that  preserved  lemon 
peel  was  considered  as  one  of  the  best  digestives,  and  that  doctors  re* 
commend  it  to  weak  and  delicate  persons.' 


S6 


ORANGE    TREE. 

If  confidence  is  to  be  placed  in  some  authors,  the  native  land  of  the 
orange  tree  would  appear  to  be  the  gardens  of  the  Hesperides^  so  re- 


PIP  PEUIT.  Ill 

nuurkaUe  in  mythologio  ages,  and  it  was  found  also  in  Western  Africa, 
Maiuitama»  and  the  Fortunate  Islands ;  to  which  they  add  those  moun- 
tains of  Atlas  so  litde  known  in  a  botanical  point  of  view,  notwith- 
standing the  daring  excursions  of  seyeral  learned  men. 

According  to  other  observers,  it  originally  came  from  the  southern 
countries  of  China,''  from  the  islands  of  the  Indian  Archipelago,  or 
even  from  that  portion  of  the  globe  called  Oceania. 

One  incontestable  &ct  is,  that  writers  of  antiquity  were  completely 
igDatant  of  the  existence  of  this  superb  tree.  Had  they  known  it,  its 
majestic  height,  the  dark  green  of  its  foUage,  the  suavity  of  its  flowers,  its 
fruit,  so  fine,  bright,  and  so  flattering  to  the  taste,  could  not  have  failed 
to  inspire  them  with  brilliant  pages.  Theophrastus,  and  the  Latin 
geoponios,  never  would  have  neglected  to  speak  of  the  luxury  and 
fecundity  it  displays,  even  in  the  season  of  hoary  frost  Besides,  the 
name  of  Poriughan^  which  is  given  to  the  orange  by  the  Arabs — 
a  name  foreign  to  their  language,  but  which  is  again  heard  among 
the  Italians,  Spaniards,  and  even  in  the  southern  provinces  of 
France — is  it  not  an  indication  that  the  introduction  of  this  tree  has 
some  connection  with  the  Portuguese  voyages  to  India,  particularly 
those  of  Juan  de  Castro  in  the  year  1520  ? 

It  is  the  Portuguese  who  have  planted  the  orange  tree  in  the 
Canaries,  at  Madeira,  where  it  was  supposed  to  be  indigenous  on  account 
of  the  vigorous  vegetation  it  there  displays :  it  is  the  Portuguese  who 
have  introduced  this  tree  into  all  countries  washed  by  the  Mediterranean: 
and  it  is  still  the  Portuguese  who  have  furnished  the  parent  suckers, 
whence  the  Spaniards  have  been  enabled  to  form  their  immense  groves 
in  Andalusia  and  Algarvia.*'^ 

From  the  foregoing  recital  we  may  conclude  that  the  grand  poli- 
phagic  triumvirate  of  antiquity — ^Arohestratus,  Vitellius,  and  Apicius — 
never  tasted  this  fruit,  which  Heaven  reserved  for  the  appreciation  of 
modem  times.  Blessed  shades  I  if,  attracted  sometimes  by  the  exquisite 
vapours  of  our  stoves,  you  should  wander  again  round  those  succulent 
dishes  which  a  more  experienced  chemistry  enables  us  to  elaborate :  if 
fruitless  gastronomic  reminiscences  should  lead  you  into  the  delightfril 
retreat  of  some  one  of  your  disciples,  who  by  his  enlightened  skill  is 
there  preparing  the  treasures  of  the  dessert:  oh  I  turn  away  your 
eyes  from  those  enticing  fruits  which  display  their  golden  rays,  and 
rise  in  pyramids  upon  a  porcelain  pedestal.      Here  are  oranges,  the 


112  PIP   FRUIT. 

nectar  and  ambrosia  of  the  Olympian  ages,  which  you  doubtless  regret^ 
and  we  have  again  discovered.  These  wonders  of  sweetness  existed 
perhaps  in  China,  but  you  knew  it  not,  for  China  did  not  become  tL 
Roman  province. .  But  console  yourselves,  giants  of  cookery!  we  have- 
not  yet  attained  the  high  pinnacle  of  your  art ;  your  wild  boar  a  la 
Troyenne,  your  peacocks'  brains,  and  your  phenicopters'  tongues,  secure 
for  you  a  triumph  which  posterity  will  dispute  in  vain ! 

He  orange  known  under  the  name  of  "  Portugal  orange  **  comes 
from  China.  Not  more  than  two  centuries  ago  the  Portuguese  brought 
thence  the  first  scion,  which  has  multiplied  so  prodigiously  that  we 
now  see  entire  forests  of  orange  trees  in  Portugal." 

It  appears  to  have  been  the  custom  formerly,  in  England,  to  make 
new-year's  presents  of  oranges  stuck  full  with  cloves.  We  read  in  one 
of  Ben  Jonson's  pieces,  the  '*  Christmas  Masque,"  ''  He  has  an  orange 
and  rosemary,  but  not  a  clove  to  stick  in  it."** 

At  the  present  day  we  can  dispense  with  this  embellishment. 

The  first  orange  tree  cultivated  in  the  centre  of  France  was  to  be 
seen  a  few  years  ago  at  Fontainebleau.  It  was  called  Le  Conn4table 
(the  Constable),  because  it  had  belonged  to  the  Conn6table  de  Bourbon, 
and  had  been  confiscated,  together  with  all  property  belonging  to  that 
prince,  after  his  revolt  against  his  sovereign.** 


FIG  TRER 

Antiquity,  sacred  and  profane,  has  not  left  us,  on  any  other  tree, 
facts  so  clear  and  certain  as  upon  the  fig  tree ;  it  is  the  only  tree  of 
Eden  of  which  the  sacred  books  have  preserved  to  us  any  mention.** 
In  the  East  there  were  immense  plantations  of  it ;  Egypt  had  some 
also;*'  and  the  land  of  Canaan  produced  figs,  which  enabled  Moses 
to  judge  of  its  fertility.** 

The  Scriptures,  in  order  to  give  us  an  idea  of  the  happiness  and  tran- 
quiUity  the  Jews  enjoyed  under  the  reign  of  Solomon,  tell  us  that,  "  in 
Judea  and  in  Israel  all  dwelt  safely,  every  man  under  his  vine  and  under 
his  fig  tree."** 

,    And  the  firuit  of  this  tree  was  no  doubt  very  dear  to  the  Hebrews, 


PIP  FRUIT.  115 

since  Bubshakeh,  the  genera]  of  the  Assyrian  anny,  thought  to  seduce 
them  from-  their  obedience  to  Hezekiah,  King  of  Judea,  by  saying  to 
them :  "  Come  out  to  md,  and  then  eat  ye  every  man  of  his  own  Tine, 
and  every  one  of  his  fig  tree."** 

Thus  the  trade  carried  on  with  figs  in  Jerusalem  had  become  so 
considerable  and  active,  that  Esdras  was  obliged  to  interdict  it  on  the 
Sabbath  day.  It  appears  that  figs  were  arranged  in  small  masses,  to 
which  they  give  the  form  of  loaves  or  cakes,  either  round  or  square, 
which  were  sold  nearly  in  the  same  uray  as  at  the  present  day/' 

From  the  East  the  fig  tree  passed  into  Greece,  then  into  Italy^ 
Gaul,  Spain,  and  throughout  Europe. 

The  Athenians  pretended  that  this  tree  was  a  native  of  their  soil, 
and  this  people  never  wanted  mythologic  facts  to  support  their  asser- 
tions ;  they  imagined,  and  would  have  others  believe,  that  the  grateful 
Geres  rewarded  the  Athenian,  Phytalus,  for  his  hospitality  by  giving 
him  a  fig  tree,  which  served  for  all  the  plantations  of  Attica/* 

Whatever  may  be  the  way  it  came  to  them,  they  received  it  with 
transports  of  joy;  it  was  planted  with  great  pomp  in  the  centre  of 
the  public  square  at  Athens :  firom  that  time  this  spot  was  sacred  to 
them." 

Ere  long  the  fame  of  the  figs  of  Attica  spread  far  and  wide :  they 
were  the  best  in  Greece ;  and  the  magistrates  strictly  prohibited  their 
exportation.'*  This  law  was  afterwards  modified,  that  is,  the  exportation 
of  figs  was  allowed  on  payment  of  a  very  heavy  duty. 

They  then  appointed  inspectors,  whose  duty  it  was  to  discover  con- 
traventions, and  report  them :  thence  arose  the  name  of  Sycophant,*^ 
taken  by  those  informers — a  vile  and  dispised  set  of  men,  whose 
denunciations  were  often  false,  and  with  whom  the  infamous  authors 
of  a  base  calumny  were  eventually  assimilated.** 

In  Greece  every  one  feasted  on  figs :  it  was  a  sort  of  regular  gastro- 
nomic/«^ror«,  which  knew  no  bounds,  and  the  wise  Plato  himself  ceased 
to  be  a  philosopher  when  presented  with  a  basket  of  that  firuit  As  an 
aliment  it  was  consictered  so  wholesome  and  strengthening,  that  on 
the  first  introduction  of  them  they  constituted  the  food  of  the  athlet®, 
whose  patron,  Hercules,  had  also* fed  on  them  in  his  youth. 

The  superiority  of  the  Greek  figs  was  so  generally  acknowledged 
that  the  kings  of  Persia  even  had  a  predilection  for  them  :  dried  ones 
were  served  on  the  tables  of  these  ostentatious  princes. 


AS 


114  PIP   FRUIT. 

The  Bomans  belidved,  according  to  an  antique  tradition,  ihat  their  first 
princes,  BomuIuB  and  Bemns,  were  found  nnder  a  fig  tree  on  the  shore 
gf  the  Tiber ;  they  therefore  rendered  signal  honours  to  this  tree  when  it 
was  brought  into  Italy :  ihey  planted  it  in  the  Forum ;  and  it  was  under 
its  shade  that  a  sacrifice  was  offered  every  year  to  the  shepherdess 
who  had  suckled  their  founder/^ 

It  may,  nevertheless,  be  affirmed,  that  no  one  before  Gato  had 
noticed  the  fig  tree,"  which  probably  appeared  in  Borne  at  the  same 
period  as  the  peach,  apricot,  and  other  trees  of  Asia.  Sixty  years  after- 
warda  Varvo  speaks  of  it  as  a  novelty  from  beyond  sea,  and  points  out 
to  us  that  its  various  species  have  retained  the  names  of  the  countries 
whence  they  came." 

Those  varieties  were  so  numerous,  that  Pliny  counts  no  less  than 
twenty-nine  of  them,^  and  the  designation  of  the  greater  part  recalled 
to  mind  the  illustrious,  families  who  had  taken  them  under  their 
patronage. 

The  people  of  the  north,  especially  the  modems,  cannot  well  explain 
the  extraordinary  infatuation  of  the  ancient  southern  nations  for  the  fruit 
of  the  fig  tree.  Perhaps  we  ought  to  look  for  the  reason  in  the  nourishing, 
fresh,  and  sweet  qualities  of  its  pulp,  and  in  the  numerous  plantations 
of  those  trees^  which  sometimes  furnished  an  agreeable  food  to  entire 
Implies,  when  other  provisions  fitiled."  That  of  Philip  of  Macedon  owed 
its  preservation  to  the  figs  brought  to  it  by  the  Magnesians."  A  long 
time  before,  David  received  with  joy,  from  the  hands  of  Abigail,  two 
hundred  baskets  of  dried  figs,  for  himself  and  his  exhausted  men/^ 

More  than  once  the  fiur-famed  reputation  of  some  beautiful  plan- 
tations of  fig  trees,  brought  long  and  disastrous  wars  on  an  entire 
country,  as  steel  attracts  lightning.  Xerxes  left  Persia,  and  rushed  on 
Attica,  to  take  possession  of  those  delicious  figs,  whose  renown  only 
had  crossed  his  territory :  *'  and  it  was  partly  to  eat  the  figs  of  Borne 
that  the  Gauls  waged  war  against  Italy  :*'  thank  Heaven  we  have  now- 
more  respect  for  our  neighbours'  fig  trees. 

The  best  things  in  the  world  have  had  their  detractors,  and  the  fig 
is  not  an  exception.  Philotimus  and  Diphilus  looked  upon  it  as  bad 
food;"  Galen  was  unwell  after  partaking  of  figs,  and  he  recommends 
us  to  mix  almonds  with  them  ;"  Hippocrates  himself  thought  them 
indigestible,  and  advised  to  drink  plentifully  after  eating  them." 

All  these  great  men  may  have  been  right,  but  the  Greeks,  their  con- 


PIP  FRUIT.  115 

< 

tampoiaries,  acted  as  if  they  were  wrong }  happily  we  ar^  not  caUeit 
upoD  to  decide  between  thenu 

Figs  were  commonly  served  on  aristocratio  tables  with  salt,  pepper^ 
Tinegar,  and  some  aromatics ;  they  were  eaten  fresh,  or  dried  in  the  oyen, 
or  on  hurdles  in  the  sun. 


RASPBERRY  TREK 

The  ancients  hardly  mention  the  raspberry  tree,  which  they  placed 
on  a  level  with  the  bramble.  The  Latins  called  it  "  BrambU  of  Ida^" 
because  it  was  common  on  that  mountain.''  There  can  be  no  doubt, 
however,  that  the  Romans  knew  how  to  appreoiata  the  raspberry  tree^ 
so  much  esteemed  in  our  days. 


CURRANT  TREE. 

The  modems  have  attempted  to  ennoble  our  two  kinds  of  Qurrants 
by  decorating  them  with  Latin  names,  which  recall  their  antiquity.'' 
Vain  effort!  To  all  appearance  the  Greeks  and  people  of  Italy  wer^ 
not  acquainted  with  the  currant  tree,"  although  they  well  deserved  tq 
possess  this  delicious  fruit. 


STRAWBERRY  PLANT. 

Among  the  Greeks  the  name  of  the  strawberry  indicated  its  teimity» 
this  fruit  forming  hardly  a  mouthful.  With  the  Latins  the  name  re- 
minded one  of  the  delicious  perfume  of  this  plant  Both  nations  were 
equally  fond  of  it,  and  applied  the  same  care  to  its  cultivation.  Virgil 
appears  to  place  it  in  the  same  rank  with  flowers,"  and  Ovid  gives  it  a 
tender  epithet,'*  which  delicate  palates  would  not  disavow.  Neither 
does  this  luxurious  poet  forget  the  wild  strawberry/^  which  disappears 


Il«  PIP  FRUIT. 

beneath  its  modest  foliage^  but  whose  presence  the  scented  air  reveals- 
Transported  to  the  tables  of  the  Luculli,  by  the  side  of  its  more 
brilliant  and  more  beautiful  sister,  a  flattering  murmur  often  bore 
testimony  to  its  merit,  and  nature  triumphed  in  the  midst  of  ingenious 
guests,  soliciting  of  art  what  they  repudiated  in  nature. 


MULBERRY  TREE. 

The  ancient  mulberry  tree  was  considered  the  wisest  and  most 
prudent  of  trees,  because  it  took  care,  they  said,  not  to  let  the  smallest 
of  its  buds  come  to  light  before  the  cold  had  entirely  disappeared,  not 
to  return.  Then,  however,  it  hastened  ta  repair  lost  time,  and  a  single 
night  was  sufficient  to  see  it  display  its  beautiful  flowers,  which  the 
next  morning  brightly  opened  at  the  rising  of  Aurora/' 

The  voluptuous  Romans,  reposing  late  on  their  soft  couches  the  day 
after  the  &tigues  of  a  banquet  worthy  of  Vitelhus,  did  not  trouble 
themselves  much  about  this  interesting  phenomenon,  which  occurred, 
if  Pliny  does  not  mistake,  in  the  gardens  of  their  villas.  But  they  knew 
that  mulberries  agree  with  the  stomach,  that  they  afibrd  hardly  any 
nourishment,  and  easily  digest  :^'  therefore,  no  sooner  had  they  opened 
their  heavy  eyelids  than  an  Egyptian  boy — attentive  living  beU — at  a  sign 
disappeared,  and  quickly  returned,  bearing  a  small  crystal  vase,  filled 
with  mulberry  juice  and  wine  reduced  by  boiling.  This  beneficent  fruit 
preserved  in  this  mixture  all  its  sweet  flavour,'*  and  enabled  the  rich 
patrician  to  await  until  evening  the  hour  for  new  excesses. 

It  is  quite  evident  that  this  luscious  fruit  was  a  native  of  Canaan, 
for  the  high  road  by  which  the  tribes  of  Israel  went  up  to  the  feasts  at 
Jerusalem  lay  through  the  valley  of  Baka^  or  Mulberry  Tree;'*  and 
the  whole  tract  of  country  firom  Ekron  to  Gaza  abounded  in  these  trees* 


XIV. 


SHELL  FRUIT. 


ALMOND    TREE. 

This  tree«  whose  firait  was  called  at  one  time  ^' Greek  Nut/'  and,  at 
another, ''  Thasian  Nut/'^  is  a  native  of  Faphlagonia,  according  to  Her- 
mippus.'  The  nations  of  the  east  thought  much  of  almonds^  and 
Jacob  found  them  worthy  of  appearing  among  the  presents  he  designed 
for  Joseph.'  The  almond  tree  of  Naxos  supplied  the  markets  of 
Athens/  The  Romans,  in  their  turn,  sought  them,  and  heUeved,  like 
the  physician  spoken  .of  by  Plutarch,  that  it  was  only  necessary  to  eat 
five  or  six  almonds  to  acqtiire  the  ability  of  drinking  astonishingly/ 

Besides,  this  fruit  had  not  always  so  mean  a  destination :  the  dis- 
ciples of  Apicius  made  of  it  one  of  the  most  delicate  of  dishes.  Here 
it  is,  as  taught  to  them  by.  their  master  : — 

Take  almonds  that  have  been  pounded  in  a  mortar,  and  mix  them 
with  honey,  pepper,  garum,  milk,  eggs,  and  a  little  oil;  submit  the 
whole  to  the  action  of  a  slow  fire/ 

The  ancients  wer^  acquainted  with  the  oil  of  almonds/  of  which 
they  made  nearly  the  same  use  as  we  do  ourselves ;  but  they  possessed, 
in  addition,  an  in&Uible  means  of  augmenting  the  fertility  of  the 
almond  tree.  It  was  very  simple  : — A  hole  was  made  in  the  tree,  a 
stone  was  introduced  into  it,'  and,  thanks  to  the  virtue  of  this  new 
manure,  the  branches  soon  bent  under  the  weight  of  almonds. 

The  good  almonds  come  from  Barbary  and  the  south  of  France. 


118  SHELL  FRUIT. 

When  young,  they  are  preserved  like  green  apricots.  They  are  eaten  at 
table,  fresh  or  dry ;  in  comfits,  pastry,  &c. :  they  are  also  used  to  make 
orgeat  and  refreshing  emulsions.  The  oil  extracted  from  almonds, 
even  bitter  ones,  is  very  sweet ;  it  is  best  extracted  cold,  by  pressure. 
The  pulp  is  employed,  under  the  name  of  almond  paste,  for  several 
purposes,  one  of  which  is  to  render  the  skin  soft  and  flexible.^ 


WALNUT  TREE, 

Asia,  the  cradle  of  most  firuit  trees,  gave  birth  also  to  the  walnut 
tree.  It  is  believed  to  be  a  native  of  Persia,^^  and  its  pleasing  foliage 
already  adorned,  in  Biblical  times,  the  orchards  of  the  east.  One  of 
the  most  ancient  of  the  sacred  books  informs  us  that  it  was  known  to 
the  Jews,"  and  it  may  be  inferred  from  a  passage  in  the  Song  of  Solomon 
that  they  possessed  numerous  plantations  of  this  tree." 

Among  the  Persians,  walauts  were  not  lavished  on  the  first  com^, 
as  with  us ;  the  sovereign  reserved  them  for  his  dessert,  and  the  people 
were  obliged  to  abstain  j&om  them.  But  perhaps  it  may  be  said  that, 
however  fond  diis  prince  may  have  been  of  walnuts,  he  could  not  eat 
all  that  were  produced  in  his  states.  The  objection  is  embarrassing, 
we  own,  and  chroniclers  are  silent  on  this  point.  But  let  us  suppose 
that  this  generous  potentate  distributed  to  his  favourites  the  walnuts 
from  which  his  satiated  appetite  was  compelled  to  abstain;  and,  indeed, 
-we  find  that  a  king  of  Persia  sent  some  to  the  Greeks,  who  called  them 
'*  Boyal  Persian  nuts,""  in  gratitude  and  remembraiice  of  the  atigust 
gift. 

They  did  still  better ;  Itbe  king  of  Olympus  had  a  gr^at  liking  for 
this  firuit,  so  they  hastened  to  consecrate  it  to  him,"  and  the  **•  nuts  of 
Jupiter'*  were  cultivated  with  honour  in  the  whole  of  Greece*" 

Italy  received  the  walnut  tree  from  Attica,  and,  by  degrees,  the  con- 
qtwrors  of  the  world  introduced  it  to  the  different  countries  of  Europe. 

The  Bomans,  imitators  of  the  piety  of  the  Greeks,  placed  this  tree 
also  under  the  protection  of  the  most  powerful  of  their  gods  One  of 
their  most  whimsical  customs,  perhaps,  owed  its  origin  to  this  conse^ 
oration,  which  will  serve  to  explain  it : — 


SHBLL  F^UIT.  110 

After  the  wedding  feast  the  bridegroom  strewed  in  the  nuptial 
chamber,  at  night,  several  baskets  of  walnuts,  which  children  hastened 
to  pick  up.^'  This  was,  they  said,  a  kind  of  offering  to  Jupiter,  and 
thus  he  was  entreated  to  grant  his  supreme  patronage  to  the  husband, 
and  to  adorn  the  wife  with  the  virtues  of  Juno.^'  The  god  could  not 
have  failed  to  smile  at  this  part  of  the  request  of  blind  mortals,  and  it 
is  asserted  that,  at  times,  he  co^idesoended  not  to  grant  it. 

Others  have  given  a  different  interpretation.  Acoorditig  to  them, 
the  walnut,  being  covered  with  a  double  envelope  when  fresh,  became 
a  presage  of  abundance  and  prosperity.'* 

It  would  be  too  tedious  to  relate  all  the  singular  opinions  to  which 
this  ceremony  gave  rise.  The  most  reasonable  appears  to  be  that 
adopted  by  certain  commentators : — Walnuts,  say  they,  served  as  play- 
things for  children,  and,  by  throwing  them  on  the  ground  the  day  of 
his  wedding,  the  bridegroom  made  it  understood  that  he  and  his  com- 
panion renounced  the  frivolities  of  youth,  henceforth  to  devote  them- 
selves to  the  serious  exigencies  of  a  family.*' 

This  fruit  was  considered  astringent,'*  stomachic,  and  proper  to 
fftcilitate  digestion."  It  was  made  into  preserve,  and  eaten  in  small 
quantity,  mixed  with  figs.  In  this  manner  paralysis  of  the  tongue  was 
avoided — an  effect  toVhich  it  was  believed  those  who  partook  of  them 
to  excess  were  exposed.**  Oreen  walnuts  were  much  esteemed ;  they 
were  served  at  dessert,**  notwithstanding  the  opinion  of  Heraclides,  of 
Tarentum,  who  looked  upon  them  to  a  stimulant  to  the  appetite,  and 
advised  a  trial  of  them  at  the  beginning  of  a  repast'^ 

When  Pompey  had  made  himself  master  of  the  palace  of  Mithrr* 
dates,  he  had  search  made  everywhere  for  the  recipe  of  the  fitmous 
antidote  against  poison  used  by  that  king.  At  length  it  was  found ;  it 
was  very  simple :  however,  we  offer  it  to  the  curious : — 

Pound,  with  care,  two  walnuts,  two  dried  figs,  twenty  leaves  of  rue, 
and  a  grain  of  salt.**  Swallow  this  mixture  —  precipitate  it  by  the 
assistance  of  a  little  wine,  and  you  have  nothing  to  fear  from  the  most 
active  j)oison  for  the  space  of  twenty-four  hours. 


120  SHB^L  FRUIT. 


NUT   TREK 

The  Greeks  gave  hazel  nuts  the  name  of  "  Pontic  Nuts/'  and 
Theophrastus  calls  them  "  Nuts  of  Heraclea/*  because  the  territory  of 
that  capital  of  the  kingdom  of  Pontus  produced  the  best.'* 

The  Latins,  at  first,  retained  the  same  designation  for  this  firuit,  but 
afterwards,  the  environs  of  Preeneste  and  Avellinum  supplying  them 
with  a  great  quantity  of  excellent  nuts,  they  gave  them  the  name  of 
those  two  cities.'^  They  employed  also  a  diminitive*'  to  indicate  those 
which  came  from  the  first  of  these  localities.  The  French  Aveline 
(filbert),  and  Noisette  (hazel  nuts),  are  evidently  borrowed  from  the 
Boman  vocabulary. 

The  inhabitants  of  Preeneste  raised  the  nut  tree  to  a  sort  of  religious 
worship.  This  tree  had  preserved  them  from  famine  during  the  time 
Hannibal  beseiged  their  city,*'  and  since  that  memorable  epoch  it  had 
enriched  them,  for  the  ancients  preferred  hazel  nuts  to  all  other  shell 
fruit,  as  possessing  most  wholesome  and  nourishing  qualities.'^ 

It  was  the  custom  in  France,  some  centuries  ago,  at  the  time  of 
the  summer  solstice  (Midsummer  eve),  to  take  all  the  kitchen  utensils 
and  make  the  most  frightful  clatter  by  knocking  them  one  against 
another.  The  simpletons  of  those  times  imagined  that  there  were  no 
better  means  of  preventing  the  rain,  which,  in  their  opinion,  was  detri- 
mental to  filberts  and  hazel  nuts.'^  Hospinian,  who  relates  this  ridi- 
culous custom,  does  not  tell  us  what  results  they  obtained  by  all  their 
racket. 


PISTACHIO  TREE, 

This  tree,  esteemed  by  the  Romans,'*  is  a  native  of  India."  Lucius 
Vitellius  brought  some  plants  of  it  from  Syria  to  Home,  under  the  reign  of 
Tiberius;  a  little  time  subsequently,  a  knight,  named  Flaccus  Pompeius, 
introduced  it  also  into  Spain.'* 


SHELL  FRUIT.  121 

Galen  doubted  whether  pistachio  nuts  were  good  for  the  stomach." 
Avicenna  proved  the  contrary ;"  and  several  centiuies  before  tlie  Arabian 
physician^  Roman  epicures  had  courageously  demonstrated  that  this 
fruit  never  does  harm  in  whatever  form  it  may  be  presented,  whether 
raw  or  roasted,  alone  or  accompanied  with  garum  and  salt. 


CHESNUT  TREE. 

According  to  some  writers  the  chesnuttree  owes  its  name  to  the  city 
of  Oastana,  in  Thessaly,  where  they  maintained  it  originated.  On  the 
contrary,  it  comes  from  Sardis,  in  Lydia,  if  we  are  to  believe  tha 
physician,  Diphilus,  who  calls  chesnuts,  acorns  of  Sardis,  and  says  they 
jare  nourishing,  but  indigestible.'^ 

Amaryllis  was  fond  of  this  iruit  ;'*  but  Amaryllis  was  only  a  shep- 
herdess, and  her  beauty  did  not  prevent  her  from  having  rather  rustic 
tastes.  The  Roman  ladies  abandoned  the  chesnut  to  that  low  class  of 
citizens  whose  palates,  incapable  of  improvement,  remain  always 
stationary  in  the  midst  of  the  incessant  progress  of  cookery ;  sad  example 
of  invincible  frugality,  which  the  most  exciting/i^;7i^/«  fail  to  arouse. 

Nevertheless,  there  was  a  soft  and  tender  species  of  chesnut,  Casta- 
net molles,**  which  were  allowed  on  some  of  the  tables  of  the  higher 
olass  of  citizens,  and  recommended  themselves  by  their  delicate  pulp  to 
the  attention  of  the  guests  ;*^  perhaps  oil  of  chesnuts  was  obtained  from 
Xhis  particular  kind*^^ 

To  render  the  chesnuts  more  agreeable  and  wholesome  they  must  be 
•pealed  of  their  skins,  which  is  very  tough ;  put  into  boiling  water,  it 
penetrates  and  softens  the  bitter  pellicle  (the  tan)  covering  them,  and 
facilitates  its  removal  from  the  floury  substance.  When  the  chesnuts  can 
be  easily  stripped  of  this  pellicle  by  the  pressure  of  the  fingers,  take  the 
jar  from  the  fire ;  shake  them  well  on  all  sides.  The  tan  will  soon 
detach  itself  from  their  surface,  and  be  altogether  removed ;  then  take 
them  out,  and  after  they  have  been  shaken  in  a  sieve  made  purposely, 
they  are  washed  in  cold  water,  to  take  away,  with  what  remains  of  the 
tan,  the  bitter  water  they  may  have  preserved ;  they  are  then  cooked 
without  water,  in  a  well-covered  vessel,  and  upon  a  moderate  fire, 

I 


■I 


122  SHELL  FRUIT. 

*'To  eat  chesnuts  green  all  the  year,  boil  them  in  water  for  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes;  put  them  afterwards  in  a  common  oven,  one  hour 
after  the  bread  has  been  taken  out.  By  this  double  operation  the 
chesnuts  acquire  a  degree  of  cooking  and  desiccation,  by  which  they  can 
be  preserved  a  very  long  time,  provided  they  are  kept  in  a  dry  place. 
They  can  be  used  afterwards  by  putting  them  to  warm  in  a  bain-marie." 

— DUTOUR. 


POMEGRANATE 

Ceres,  disconsolate  on  account  of  the  loss  of  her  daughter,  to  whom 
Pluto  destined  the  sceptre  of  Hell,  implored  the  ruler  of  Olympus  to 
restore  Proserpine.  Jupiter  promised  that  the  fisivour  should  be  granted, 
provided  that  she  had  not  partaken  of  anything  in  the  infernal  regions. 
Now,  she  had  eaten  some  grains  of  a  pomegranate ;  very  few  indeed ; 
some  serious  authors  have  said  three ;  others,  quite  as  respectable,  say 
nine.  The  fact  is,  however,  Proserpine  had  broken  her  fast ;  therefore 
she  might  think  herself  fortunate  in  being  allowed  to  pass  six  months 
on  earth  and  six  months  in  the  abode  of  darkness/' 

This  little  mythologic  story  informs  us  that  the  pomegranate  tree 
was  known  to  antiquity,  and  that  the  garden  of  the  Elysian  fields 
oontained  most  excellent  finiit  for  the  use  of  its  melancholy  inhabitants. 

The  pomegranate,  whose  acidulated  flavour  is  so  pleasing  to  the 
inhabitants  of  hot  climates,  was  first  cultivated  in  the  east,  then  in 
AMca,  but  especially  in  the  environs  of  Carthage,  from  whence  the 
Bomans  brought  it  into  Italy,  where  it  was  commonly  called  the 
Carthaginian  apple  ;^'  it  was  also  named  Granatum,  on  account  of  the 
number  of  its  seeds.^* 

Pliny  distinguishes  five  different  species  of  promegranate;**  Columella 
teaches  the  way  to  rear  this  tree  ;*'  and  Apicius  treats  of  the  preservation 
of  its  fruit,  to  do  which  it  is  only  necessary  to  plunge  it  in  boiling 
water,  take  it  out  immediately,  and  suspend  it  fix)m  the  ceiling/' 

The  Greeks  were  very  fond  of  pomegranates.  The  finest  came  from 
Attica,  so  celebrated  by  the  genius  of  its  inhabitants  ^  and  from 
Bcdotia,^*  that  privileged  soil,  where  agriculture  and  stupidity  flourished 
together.  *• 


XV. 


ANIMAL  FOOP. 


Bread,  vegetables,  and  fruit  for  a  long  time  provided  man  with  a 
suffident  and  easy  alimentation.'     Wandering  with  his  flocks  in  search 
of  cool  pasture,  he  only  exacted  their  wool  wherewith  to  make  the 
clothing  requisite  for  his  migratory  life;'  their  services  to  assist  him  in 
hollowing  a  difficult  fiirrow ; '  and  their  first-bom  as  a  most  agreeable 
offering  to  the  all-powerful  master  of  heaven  and  earth.*    We  may 
also  suppose  that,  in  the  pastoral  ages,  the  wandering  tribes  of  Asia 
added  to  their  vegetable  food  the  milk  of  their  ewes,  goats,  or  cows, 
although  it  is  not  mentioned  in  the  Book  of  Genesis'  at  a  very  early 
period,  it  is  true,  but  which  forms  a  nourishment  nature  seems  to  point 
out  as  proper  to  infancy  and  old  age ;'  mankind,  therefore,  abstained  firom 
animal  food  during  many  centuries/     Ecclesiastical  and  profane  writers 
seem  to  agree  on  this  point.*  Habit  had  not  yet  produced  disgust,  and 
ourioBity,  the  fatal  mother  of  experience  and  sensuality.    To  eat  was  6xr 
them  the  most  natural  and  simple  action  of  life.    The  art  of  cookery 
tries,  makes  choice,  and  improves :  that  art  did  not  exist 

The  frightftil  cataclysm  which  overthrew  the  world,  and  of  which 
the  history  of  every  nation  gives  proofs  more  or  less  confused,  came  to 
modiff  this  state  of  things.  ''Men  were  obliged  to  be  fed  with  more 
substantial  food,"*  and  our  forefathers  were  allowed  to  add  to  vegetables 
and  the  herbs  of  the  country,  ^'  animated  beings,  and  all  that  which 
had  life  and  motion."'^ 

The  magiric  science,  therefore,  began  in  the  year  of  the  world  1656. 

From  that  period,  indeed,  the  cooking  of  meat,  however  little  com- 
plicated it  may  have  been^  required  an  attention,  care,  and  study,  which 

i2 


124  ANIMAL  FOOD. 

prepared  the  development  of  that  marvellous  faculty  to  which  no  pos* 
sible  limit  can  be  assigned — the  last  to  disappear,  and  to  which,  in  fEict, 
are  related  nearly  all  the  actions  of  human  life — the  sense  of  taste* 

Heathen  authors,  guided  by  the  lights  of  reason,  some  gleams  of 
tradition,  and  perhaps  not  absolutely  strangers  to  the  writings  of  Moses, 
agree  pretty  well  on  the  diet  of  the  Golden  Age;^^  that  age  of  innocence, 
acorns,  and  happiness,"  when  everywhere  were  seen  streams  of  milk,  and 
nectar,  and  honey,  flowing  from  the  hollow  oaks  and  other  trees  of 
the  forests." 

But  when  the  question  is  to  point  out  the  time  at  which  the  use  of 
animal  food  was  introduced,  ideas  become  clouded,  and  highly  intelligent 
minds,  bewildered  by  the  obscurity  which  envelops  the  subject,  have 
frequently  appealed  to  absurd  legends  and  ridiculous  fables,  invoking 
the  aid  of  their  false  and  contested  authority. 

Xenocrates  pretends  that  Triptolemus  forbad  the  Athenians  to  eat 
animals."  Man  must,  then,  have  been  still  frugivorous  for  four  centuries 
after  the  Deluge. 

This  opinion  found  contradictors,  who  maintained  that  man  con- 
tented himself  with  fruit  only  because  fire  was  wanting  to  cook  meat ; 
but  Prometheus  came,  and  taught  him  how  to  draw  the  useful  element 
from  the  flint  which  concealed  it,  and  was  the  first  to  venture  on  the 
sacrifice  of  an  ox.".   This  happened  in  the  year  of  the  world  2412." 

All  this  is  a  mistake,  say  other  and  very  sensible  writers ;  here  is  the 
truth  on  this  difficult  point :  The  goddess  Ceres  had  sown  a  field,  and 
the  wheat  came  up  as  desired,  when  a  pig  entered,  tumbled  abouty 
and  caused  considerable  damage,  which  so  irritated  the  lady  that  she 
punished  him  mth  death.  Now,  as  a  pig  is  good  for  nothing  except  to 
eat,  this  one  was  eaten ;  and  from  that  day,  so  fatal  to  the  swinish 
race,  mankind  learnt  to  appreciate  the  flesh  of  animals/'^ 

At  the  same  time,  Bacchus  killed  a  goat  he  found  nibbling  at  the 
tendrils  of  his  darling  vines ;"  and  Hyberbius,  son  of  Mars,  and  a  slasher, 
like  his  father,  amused  himself  by  killing  another,  in  order  to  become 
familiar  thus  early  with  scenes  of  combat."  These  goats  were  roasted ; 
and  as  experience  had  as  yet  furnished  no  rule  of  comparison,  and 
formed  no  taste — that  exquisite  sentiment  of  the  beautifrd  in  the  plastic 
arts,  and  of  the  good  in  the  culinary  science — it  was  decided  that  this 
dish  was  very  tolerable. 

Hitherto  the  bovine   race  had  only  lost  one  individual:  its  sad 


ANIMAL  FOOD.  125 

destiny  began  in  the  year  1506,  before  our  era,  under  the  reign  of  the 
fourth  king  of  Athens,  Erichtonius,  on  a  day  of  great  solemnity,  when 
an  ox,  pressed  probably  by  hunger,  came  near  the  altar,  and  devoured 
one  of  the  sacred  cakes  which  heathen  piety  had  dedicated  to  Jupiter. 
The  zealous  Diomus  rushed  forward,  and  pierced  the  heart  of  the 
sacrilegious  quadruped. 

It  might  be  supposed  that  the  anger  of  the  god  was  immediately 
appeased;  but  no!  the  terrible 'Jupiter  knitted  his  brows;  Olympus 
was  in  great  agitation ;  and  pestilence  came,  and  spread  its  ravages 
amongst  the  Athenians. 

*'  All  did  not  die,  but  all  were  struck;"'*  and,  to  propitiate  the  implacable 
scourge,  they  thought  of  nothing  better  than  to  institute  the  Buphonic 
Feast,  which  happily  re-established  their  health,  and  which  they  con-: 
tinned  to  celebrate  every  year.  They  sacrificed  an  ox,'^  ofiered  a  piece 
to  Jupiter,  and  the  faithful  divided  the  rest  among  themselves. 

At  Tyre,  in  Fhoanicia,  meat  was  consumed  on  the  altar,  but  the 
gods  had  the  profit  of  it,  and  nobody  else.  Some  fruit  and  a  few 
vegetables  were  sufficient  for  'the  fingality  of  people  enjoying  innocent 
and  primitive  customs.  But  it  happened,  in  the  time  of  Pygmalion,*' 
that  a  young  sacrificer  having  perceived  that  a  piece  of  the  victim  had 
£Edlen,  hastened  to  pick  it  up  and  replace  it  carefully  on  the  fire  of  the 
altar.  In  the  performance  of  this  operation  he  burned  his  fingers,  and 
instantly  put  them  into  his  mouth,  to  lessen  the  pain.  As  he  could  not 
help  tasting  the  fat  with  which  they  were  covered,  the  greedy  young 
man  experienced  a  new  sensation,  which  tempted  him  to  swallow  a 
mouthful — then  a  second — a  portion  of  the  victim  was  eaten ;  he  put 
another  piece  under  his  cloak,  and,  with  his  wife,  made  the  finest  supper 
in  his  life.  All  went  on  very  well  until  the  prince,  being  informed  of 
this  profanation,  loaded  them  with  reproaches,  and  condemned  both  to 
the  punishment  of  death. 

Gluttony,  however,  is  rash :  other  sacnficers  ate — at  first  in  secret — of 
this  forbidden  food ;  then  they  were  imitated ;  and,  at  last,  by  degrees 
meat  passed  from  the  altar  of  the  gods,  who  did  not  taste  it,  to  the 
tables  of  mortals,  who  feasted  upon  it."  People  may  or  may  not 
beUeve  this  anecdote,  which  informs  us  in  so  satisfactory  a  manner  of 
the  epoch  at  which  man,  fi*om  being  firugivorous,  became  carnivorous ; 
but  one  thing  is  certain,  that  in  the  time  of  Homer  (there  is  only  eighty 
years  between  him  and  PygmaUon),  the  flesh  of  animals  was  then  much 


126  ANIMAL   FOOD. 

in  fashion,  for  we  read  of  his  giving  to  his  heroes,  as  their  principal 
food,  a  whole  hog,  three  years  old,  and  oxen  roasted — not  even  jointed." 

Some  ideologists  and  dreamers  have  risen  agaii^st  the  use  of  meat ; 
their  declamations,  often  very  eloquent,  have  been  read;  but,  from 
Pythagoras,  a  sublime  and  honest  enthusiast,  down  to  the  whimsical 
J.  J.  Rousseau — who,  by-the-by,  was  very  fond  of  mutton  chops  and 
hceufd  la  mode,  although  he  exclaimed  against  the  cruelty  of  mankind, 
whose  hands  were  stained  with  the  blood  of  animals— no  nation  has  yet 
determined  to  adopt  the  patriarchal  diet  of  the  first  ages  of  the  world. 

Plutarch  was  a  vegetarian;  and  we  possess  one  of  his  treatises,  in 
which  he  endeavours  to  prove  that  flesh  is  not  the  natural  food  of  man." 
As  a  conclusive  answer —meat  was  eaten.  So,  when  an  ancient  philo^ 
sopher  one  day  denied  the  movement  of  matter,  a  person  reduced  him 
to  silence  by  walking. 

But^  if  animal  diet  has,  from  time  to  time,  met  with  a  small  number 
of  detractors,  what  an  immense  crowd  of  apologists  and  adepts  has  it 
not  also  found !  It  would  signify  nothing  to  name  individuals ;  let  u^ 
point  out  whole  nations.  Who  is  not  acquainted  with  the  delicacy  and 
luxury  of  the  Assyrians  and  Persians  ?  Who  is  not  aware  that  the 
genius  of  the  Greeks  improved  the  culinary  art,  and  that  their  cooks 
were  famous  in  history  ?  What  of  the  Syracusaus,  whose  dainty  and 
curious  ideas  passed  as  a  proverb ;  and  of  the  Athenians,  who  were  so 
passionately  fond  of  the  pleasures  of  the  table ;  or  of  Naples,  Tarentum, 
and  Sybaris,  so  celebrated  for  their  good  cheer?  The  Bomans  sur- 
passed even  these  refinements  and  sumptuous  repasts:  theirs  is  the 
honour  of  the  pontiffs*  feasts,  the  excesses  of  Caprece,  the  profusions  of 
Vitellius,  of  Galba,  Nero,  and  Caligula.  They  have  the  honour  of  the 
banquet  of  Oeta,  which  lasted  three  days,  and  ended  by  exhausting  the 
alphabetic  list  of  all  the  dishes  that  the  universe  could  supply. 

May  heaven  preserve  us  from  imitating  such  prodigies  of  intcmper* 
ance  and  gluttonous  folly ;  but  let  us,  at  least,  be  allowed  to  use  with 
moderation  the  good  that  Providence  has  granted  us,  and  which  it  has 
not  forbidden  us  to  make  agreeable  and  savoury.  The  inhabitants  of 
the  air,  earth,  and  water,  entered  within  our  domains,  as  well  as  the 
fruits  of  the  fields,  on  the  day  when  the  Creator  condescended  to  say  to 
his  creature : 

"  Every  moving  thing  that  liveth  shall  be  meat  for  you ;  even  as  the 
green  herb  have  I  given  you  all  things."" 


ANIMAL  FOOD.  127 


REARING  OF  CATTLE. 

All  ancient  legislators  have  bestowed  the  most  serious  attention  to 
the  rearing  and  preservation  of  cattle.  The  Mosaic  law,  in  this  respect, 
enters  into  details  which  reveal  the  most  profound  wisdom,  a  delicate  and 
minute  research  which  cannot  be  too  much  admired. 

More  attentive  to  propagate  useful  animals  than  to  flatter  the  sen- 
suality of  nations,  this  law  forbids  their  being  mutilated ;''  it  requires 
the  Hebrews  to  treat  with  generosity  the  companions  of  their  labour  ;** 
that  they  shall  interest  themselves  in  the  preservation  of  their  brother's, 
and  even  of  their  enemies'  oxen  ;*'  that  different  species  of  unequal 
strength  shall  not  be  yoked  together  to  the  plough  ;'^  and>  in  order  that 
the  cattle  may  not  suffer  from  an  excess  of  hard  and  constant  labour, 
Moses  assures  to  them  at  least  one  day  of  rest  in  a  week.'^ 

It  is  well  known  with  what  care  the  patriarchs  surrounded  their 
flocks ;  for  them  they  wandered  from  region  to  region,  and  only  stopped 
where  pasture  was  abundant.''  In  imitation  of  those  fathers  of  nations, 
the  princes  of  the  East,  and  the  Grecian  chie&,  were  at  first  shepherds ;" 
and  were,  perhaps,  indebted  to  the  innocent  occupations  of  the  fields  for 
the  sweet  and  sacred  title  of  pastors  of  man.'* 

The  founder  of  Rome  did  not  forget  the  flocks  and  herds,  in  those 
famous  laws  which  were  to  assure  the  prosperity  of  his  rising  city ;"  one 
of  them  allowed  the  possessor  of  an  estate  to  take  up  the  acorns  which 
might  fall  into  his  field  from  his  neighbour's  property,"  and  to  divide 
them  among  the  cattle  he  is  rearing. 

Under  the  republic,  it  was  severely  forbidden  to  ill-use  beasts  of 
burthen  and  others.  By  the  Licinian  law,  each  farmer  was  required,  to 
proportion  tlie  number  of  his  sheep  and  oxen  to  the  extent  of  his 
land ;"  the  Thorian  law  contains  very  wise  regulations  relative  to  the 
.quality  and  keeping  up  of  pasture.'*  Moreover,  it  is  to  be  remarked^ 
that  the  Bomans  never  fixed  the  limits  of  a  rural  property^  nor  formed  a 
new  colony,  without  giving  their  first  care  to  the  spots  appointed  to  feed 
,their  flocks,"  the  quiet  possession  of  which  was  assured  by  the  Emperors. 
Adrian,  among  others,  did  not  encourage  thieves.  This  prince  ordered 
that  whoever  carried  away  cattle  grazing  in  meadows  should  be  con- 


128  ANIMAL  FOOD. 

demned  to  work  in  the  mines ;  that  those  who  should  have  been  con- 
victed of  robbery  several  times  should  be  beheaded ;  and  that  thieves 
found  with  arms  in  their  hands  should  become  the  prey  of  wild  beasts/^ 

Illustrious  families  by  birth  often  added  to  their  name  a  sort  of 
epithet,  originating  either  from  bulls,  goats,  or  sheep,  which  were  brought 
up  on  the  land  of  their  villas.  This  singular  custom  proves  the  extra- 
ordinary attachment  which  the  Romans  had  for  their  flocks.  One  of 
these  enthusiasts,  Tremellius  Scrofa/^  had  written  a  treatise  on  the  art  of 
assorting  and  feeding  cattle.^'  Greek  and  Latin  geoponics  have  also 
transmitted  lo  us  some  details  full  of  interest,  and  which  often  contain 
most  useful  information  upon  the  various  species  of  animals  which  the 
ancients  preferred,  and  the  particular  care  they  took  in  the  preservation 
and  development  of  various  breeds/'  Pagan  theology  reckoned  among 
its  thirty  thousand  gods**  some  few  protective  divinities  of  flocks.  The 
shepherds  invoked  Pales*'  and  Anna  Perenna  ;*'  dealers  of  oxen  ofiered 
sacrifices  to  Bubona,*^  whose  special  care  it  was  to  see  that  they  were  fiEit 
and  healthy. 

The  animals  chosen  to  be  fattened  were  put  under  the  protection  of 
this  deity,  and  were  fed  in  the  following  manner : 

The  first  day  they  had  given  to  them  cabbages,  soaked  in  vinegar ; 
then,  for  five  days,  straw,  mixed  with  wheat  bran ;  from  the  seventh  day 
they  had  nothing  but  bruised  barley,  which  was  gradually  and  judi- 
ciously increased  till  the  twelfth  day.  These  oxen  were  fed  at  midnight, 
at  break  of  day,  at  twelve  o'clock,  and  at  three  in  the  afternoon.  They 
were  allowed  to  drink  only  twice — that  is,  after  the  third  and  fourth 
meal.**     On  the  thirteenth  day  they  were  led  to  market. 


MARKETS. 

• 

The  Hebrews  held  their  cattle  market  at  the  gates  of  their  cities ; 
and  from  this  circumstance,  perhaps,  is  derived  those  expressions  so  fre- 
quent in  the  sacred  writings :  "  The  gates  of  the  flocks,"  **  The  sheep's 
gate,"  &c.,*'  which  no  doubt  designated  the  different  quarters  of  Jeru- 
salem where  shepherds  and  cattle  dealers  were  accustomed  to  congregate* 

Among  the  Greeks,  vast,  airy,  public  places,  used  to  receive,  under 


ANIMAL  FOOD.  129 

the  orders^  and  with  the  authorisation  of  the  EptmeleteSy  or  curators^ 
the  ftTtimalfl  and  meat  necessary  for  the  subsistence  of  the  citizens. 

At  Borne,  the  homed  cattle  market  was  situated  in  the  eighth  region, 
behind  the  Capitoline  Mount'^  It  was  a  magnificent  place,  surrounded 
with  beautiful  galleries,  in  the  midst  of  which  stood  on  its  pedestal,  a 
gigantic  brazen  bull,  at  a  little  distance  from  the  temple  of  Her- 
cules—a round,  mean  edifice** — whpre  dealers  and  their  customers  went 
to  adore  this  god,  the  patron  of  butchers. 

The  way  to  reach  the  pig  market  was  by  going  round  the  Quirinal 
Mount,  near  the  bronze  horses  of  Tyridates,  in  the  seventh  region  of 
the  town/'  This  market  was  the  most  important  of  all,  oh  account  of 
the  immense  consumption  of  pork  by  the  Bomans. 

As  soon  as  the  officer  of  the  Boman  preefect  appeared,  the  principal 
butchers  gathered  round  him ;  he  examined  the  cattle,  regulated  the 
sale,  and  fixed  a  price  on  the  meat,  fi*om  which  they  were  not  allowed  to 
deviate,*'  and  then  only  was  the  market  open. 


BUTCHERS. 

Nothing  among  the  Greeks  indicates  that  they  had  butchers  in  the 
heroic  ages.  The  warriors  of  Homer  had  no  want  of  them,  so  great  was 
their  skill  in  cutting  up  the  enormous  pieces  placed  before  them.** 
Ulysses  acquired  a  reputation  by  his  dexterity  in  this  art ;  and  it  is  more 
than  probable  that  his  martial  companions  also  distinguished  themselves 
by  this  kind  of  merit. 

As  soon  as  luxury  had  introduced  into  Greece  that  effeminate  kind 
of  existence  which  only  permits  certain  men  to  be  engaged  in  the  pain- 
ful or  repulsive  details  of  every-day  life,  bouthuteSf  or  bullock 
slaughterers,  became  indispensable ;  and  of  them  the  meat  was  bought 
Iff  the  pound — weighed  in  the  scale  as  now.** 

The  Bomans  had,  at  first,  butchers  who  dealt  in  the  same  way,  and 
who  continued  to  do  so  for  a  long  time ;  but  they  afterwards  employed 
the  following  most  extravagant  method.  The  buyer  shut  one  of  his 
hands;  the  seller  did  the  same;  each  of  them  suddenly  opened  the 
whole  or  a  few  of  his  fingers.  -  If  the  fingers  were  even  on  each  side, 
the  seller  had  the  price  he  pleased ;  if  they  were  odd,  the  buyer  gave 


]S0  ANIMAL  FOOD. 

his  own  price.  Thia  was  oalled  micare,^^  The  mication  was  suppressed 
in  the  year  360,  by  a  decree  of  Apronianus,  which  is  worth  quoting, 
because  it  points  out  in  a  clear  and  precise  manner  the  attributions  of 
the  Boman  butcher,  and  the  system  of  sale  since  followed  : — 

'*  Beason  and  experience  have  proved  to  us,  that  it  is  of  public  utility 
to  suppress  the  practice  of  mication  for  the  sale  of  cattle,  and  that  it  is 
more  advisable  to  sell  by  weight  than  to  trust  to  a  game  with  the 
fingers.  We,  therefore,  ordain  that,  after  the  weight  of  the  animal  is 
ascertained,  the  head,  feet,  and  tallow,  shall  belong  to  the  butcher  who 
has  killed,  prepared,  and  cut  it  up :  this  shall  be  his  wages.  The  skin, 
flesh,  and  entrails,  shall  belong  to  the  master-butcher  who  is  to  retail  it. 
In  this  manner,  the  buyer  and  seller  will  know  the  weight  of  the  meat  on 
sale,  and  each  will  find  this  method  to  his  advantage.  *  *  *  We  will 
and  decree  that  this  ordinance  be  executed  for  ever,  under  pain  of  death."*' 

There  were  at  first,  in  Home,  two  corporations  or  colleges  of  butchers : 
one  had  to  take  care  that  the  city  was  always  sufficiently  supplied  with 
oxen,  calves,  and  sheep:"  the  other  was  to  provide  that  immense 
capital  with  the  quantity  of  hogs  necessary  ;*'  and  it  would  be  difficult  to 
form  an  idea  of  the  number  consumed  by  the  Bomans.  Every  day  a 
distribution  was  made  to  the  people,  by  Valentinian's  order,  of  124,086 
pounds  and  eight  ounces  of  pork ;  to  this  amount,  already  considerable, 
must  be  added  the  truly  prodigious  daily  sale;  for  the  entire  population, 
firom  the  highest  to  the  lowest,  were  all  passionately  fond  of  this  kind 
of  food." 

The  obligations  and  privileges  of  these  two  corporate  bodies  were 
nearly  the  same  as  those  of  the  bakers.'^  The  children  could  not,  imder 
any  pretext  whatsoever,  abandon   the   trade  of  their  fathers,  without 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE   No.  VIII. 

ScALBt  AND  Wbiqhts. — ^Tho  sDcients  bad  several  species  of  scales.  No.  1.  A  common  scale, 
with  tvo  basins,  and  a  movable  weight,  which  is  made  in  the  form  of  a  bead,  covered  with  the  pilens, 
because  Mercuiy  bad  the  weights  and  measures  under  hit  superintendence.  This  ornamented  scale  19 
engraved  on  a  stone  in  the  gallery  of  Florence. 

No.  2.  The  Roman  scale,  beautifully  made,  with  cme  tray,  several  ho<Ai,  and  the  movable  weight, 
in  the  shi^  of  a  shell. 

No.  S.    Common  heavy  weight. 

Nob  4.  The  Roman  weights  had  the  form  of  a  ^here,  partly  cat  above  and  below ;  the  greatett 
number  of  those  which  still  subust  are  of  basalt.  The  number  of  ounces,  or  of  pounds,  is  commonly 
engraved  on  the  top,  or  inlaid  with  silver.  All  round  it  are  inscriptions  with  the  name  of  the  temple 
where  they  were  preserved  after  they  had  been  stamped,  together  with  the  name  of  the  prince,  or  the 
prsBfect  before  whom  the  standard  mark  was  made. 

On  No.  4,  is  "  D.  N.  Honori.  Aug.  Domini  nostri  Honorii  Augusti  ;**  and  on  No.  5,  "  Temp.  Opia. 
Aug.,"  or  the  temple  of  Opis  Augusta. 


w 


ANIMAL   FOOD.  181 

incurring  the  entire  loss  of  their  share  in  the  cotnmon  benefit  aIloi?ed  by 
the  college.  And,  be  it  remembered,  this  trade  was  very  lucrative,  so 
much  so  that  those  who  followed  it  in  Rome  always  enjoyed  a  degree  of 
opulence  which  sometimes  caused  the  people  to  murmur.  They  elected 
from  among  themselves  a  chief,,  who  judged  their  differences ;  he  was, 
however,  subordinate  to  the  prefect  of  Rome/' 

The  members  of  the  two  corporations  cut,  weighed,  and  retailed  the 
meat ;  they  had  under  them  working  butchers,  who  killed,  skinned,  and 

ir 

trimmed  the  animals,  and  then  brought  them  each  one  to  the  shop  of 
his  master." 

In  the  sequel,  the  two  colleges  met,  and  formed  one.     Subsequently, 
under  the  reigH  of  Nero,  which  seemed  at  the  beginning  to  promise  the 
*most  brilliant  prospect,  the  principal  market  for  butchers  became  an 
edifice  equal  in  magnificence  to  the  Baths,  the  Circus,  and  Amphi- 
theatres.*^ Eventually  it  was  found  necessary  to  erect  two  new  buildings, 
on  account  of  the  increasing  extent  of  the  city  and  its  inhabitants.^ 
The  Roman  butchers  sold,both  fresh  and  salt  meat,  like  our  own  of 
the  present  day.     It  is  not  necessary  to  enter  into  any  explanation 
respecting  the  first ;  as  to  the  second,  their  method  of  preparation  was 
somewhat  different  from  the  way  we  manage  it  now : — ^The  animals 
they  intended  to  salt  were  kept  from  drinking  anything  on  the  eve  of 
the  day  they  were  to  be  killed.     They  boned  the  meat,  and  sprinkled  it 
lightly  with  pounded  salt ;  then,  after  having  well  dried  off  all  dampness, 
they  again  sprinkled  some  more  salt,  and  placed  the  pieces,  so  as  not  to 
touch  each  other,  in  vessels  which  had  been  used  for  oil  or  vinegar* 
They  poured  sweet  wine  over,  covered  the  whole  with  straw,  and  strewed 
snow  all  round,  in  order  to  make  the  meat  better  and  more  tender.'* 

When  the  cook  wanted  to  extract  the  salt,  he  first  boiled  the  meat 
well  in  milk,  and  afterwards  in  soft  water.*' 

The  flesh  of  various  animals  was  also  well  preserved  without  salt. 
The  only  thing  necessary  was  to  cover  each  piece  with  honey,  and  to 
place  it  in  a  vessel  hermetically  closed,  hung  in  a  cool  place.  This 
operation  was  usually  performed  in  winter,  and  succeeded  equally  well 
with  meat,  either  cooked  or  raw.*' 

The  following  are  some  of  the  statutes  of  the  pork  butchers  in 
France,  during  the  middle  ages  : — 

No  one  was  to  cook  pork  if  it  was  not  "  sufficient,  or  had  not  good 
marrow.** 


132  ANIMAL  FOOD. 

No  one  could  make  "  sausages  of  anything  but  pork." 

No  one  could  sell  "  black  puddings,  for  it  is  a  perilous  yiand.'*  *' 

The  French  word  charcutier  (pork  butcher)  is  derived  from  caro 
cocta^  chair  cuite  (cooked  meat). 

The  numerous  regulations  concerning  the  butchers  in  France  during 
the  14th  century  rendered  it  difficult  to  carry  on  the  trade : — 

Prohibition  to  buy  cattle  except  in  the  markets. 

Prohibition  to  buy  pigs  fed  by  barbers  or  oil  dealers* 

Prohibition  to  kill  cattle  not  a  fortnight  old. 

Prohibition  to  kill  cattle  on  the  eve  of  fast  days. 

Prohibition  to  sell  stale  meat. 

Prohibition  to  keep  meat  more  than  two  days  in  winter,  or  more 
than  one  day  and  a-half  in  summer. 

Prohibition  to  sell  meat  by  lamp  light  or  candle  light. 

The  regulations  respecting  the  cleanliness  of  the  slaughter  houses 
and  the  shambles  were  very  long  and  very  severe.'* 

A  butcher  in  Paris  kept  but  one  single  kind  of  meat,  in  the 
14th  century.  Pork  was  sold  only  at  Sainte-Genevidve,  mutton  at 
Saint-Marceauy  veal  at  Sunt-Germain,  and  beef  at  the  market  of  the 
Chatelet." 

Philip  Augustus  gave  statutes  to  the  butchers  of  Paris  in  the  year 
1182.  He  enjoined  them  to  observe  the  Sabbath,  and  permitted  them 
to  work  on  the  other  days,  with  the  exception  of  the  great  festivals.'* 

The  regulations  imposed  upon  them  in  the  1 7th  century  are  to  the 
effect,  that  they  shall  not  keep  the  fat  from  one  week  to  another ;  that 
they  shall  not  mix  the  different  kinds  of  suet ;  and,  lastly,  that  they 
shall  not  have  more  than  three  shops,  and  shall  not  allow  the  blood 
to  run  in  the  streets.'* 


XVL 


ANIMALS. 


THE  PIG. 

If  intelligence,  strength,  or  graceful  beauty  of  form  were  to  decide 
what  rank  this  numerous  class  of  animals — ^which  has  contributed  its 
quota  to  the  triumphs  of  the  culinary  art — should  occupy  on  our  tables^ 
the  pig,  with  its  vile  and  stupid  ugliness,  its  depraved  habits,  and  its 
waddling  obesity,  would  be  banished  for  ever  from  the  farm-yard  and 
larder  in  every  civilised  nation  of  the  world. 

But^  in  refusing  to  it  brilliant  external  qualities,  Nature,  by  a  wise 
compensation,  has  conferred  'on  it  others  much  more  solid ;  and  this 
quadruped,  so  despised  during  its  life-time,  does  not  fail  after  its  death  to 
conciliate  the  constant  &vour  of  rich  and  poor — of  the  man  indifferent 
to  the  attractions  of  good  cheer,  and  of  the  Sybarite,  ever  attentive  to 
enlarge  its  domain. 

Pliny,  the  naturalist,  places  the  pig  one  degree  below  the  scale  of 
beings^  Apicius,  the  cook,  gives  it  a  marked  preference  over  all  meats 
which  passed  through  his  skilful  hands.  From  this,  it  will  easily  be 
understood  that  the  pig  presents  itself  first  in  this  survey  of  the  animal 
diet  of  those  nations  who  have  transmitted  to  us  an  account  of  their 
gastrophagic  exertions* 

History  shows  us  this  animal  variously  appreciated  by  different 
countries.  Certain  people  consecrated  it,  when  living,  to  their  divinities 
most  in  vogue ;  others  honoured  its  image — a  symbol,  they  thought,  of 
the  quiet  happiness  of  states;  a  small  number  abhorired  it,  and  the 
greater  part  found  it  excellent  eating 


134  ANIMALS. 

The  inhabitants  of  Cyprus  abstained  from  it,  in  order  to.oifer  it  to 
Venus/  The  Cretans  loaded  it  with  acorns  and  all  the  comforts  of  life, 
because  Jupiter  was  first  suckled  by  a  sow  in  their  island.'  The 
Egyptian  priests  never  allowed  a  ham  to  grace  their  feasts ;  they  fled  at 
the  sight  of  pigs,  unclean  beings,  whose  presence  alone  defiled  them,' 
although  respected  by  the  whole  nation  on  account  of  the  services  they 
rendered  in  turning  up  the  earth,  and  covering  the  seeds  thrown  upon  it/ 

The  law  of  Moses  forbad  the  Jews  to  eat  this  quadruped,  or  to 
touch  it  after  its  death,*  and  more  than  once  they  exposed  themselves  to  the 
most  fiightful  torments  rather  than  be  defiled  by  this  proscribed  viand/ 

Tradition,  again,  strengthened  their  religious  dread,  by  interdicting 
the  fiuthful  from  even  pronouncing  the  name  of  this  animal,  from 
looking  at  it,  or  selling  it  to  foreign  nations/ 

The  fear  of  the  frightful  malady  to  which  the  pig  was  subject  in 
Palestine  was,  perhaps,  the  cause  of  this  prohibition*  Has  not  a  Jewish 
doctor  observed,  that  if  ten  measures  of  leprosy  were  to  fall  in'  the 
world,  this  unhappy  animal  would  take  nine  parts  fat  his  share/ 
However,  some  theologians  of  that  nation  b^U^v®  that  the  Messiah 
whom  they  expect  will  allow  them  the  use  of  this  now  odious  food/ 

Like  the  Jews,  the  Phoenicians^®  and  Indians'^  did  not  eat  pork. 
The  followers  of  Islamism  also  abstained  from  it,  in  consequence  of  a 
law  of  the  Koran,  which  Mahomet  boirowed  from  Moses/' 

The  Greeks  and  Romans  had  very  different  ideas.  They  knew  tliat 
their  gods  showed  a  particular  predilection  for  those  altars  on  which 
bacon  or  swine's  flesh  smoked ;  ^'  they  therefore  offered  this  meat  in 
sacrifice  to  the  Eiurth,  the  Lares,  to  Ceres  /^  and  many  a  time  a  medal 
struck  at  Rome  perpetuated  the  remembrance  of  .this  solemnity,  in 
lionour  of  the  goddess  of  harvest." 

The  pig,  emblem  of  fecundity  with  these  two  nations,^'  became,  on 
the  banners  of  Italy,  a  sign  of  pardon  and  peace.^'  Eangs  and  princes 
immolated  two  on  their  wedding-day ;  "  and  nations  subdued  by  the 
Roman  arms  prostrated  themselves  before  the  standard,  whose  image 
promised  them  the  clemency  of  their  conquerors/' 

The  re-establishment  of  the  succulent  quadruped  would  have  been 
complete,  if  the  cynical  carelessness  of  its  rather  inelegant  habits  had 
not  caused  it  to  become  a  symbol  of  debauchery  and  profligacy  of 


manners/' 


Hitherto  the  pig  has  only  figured  in  a  point  of  view  purely  his< 


ANIMALS.  135 

torical ;  we  have  not  sought  to  weaken  its  faults,  nor  have  we  made 
mention  of  the  qualities  attributed  to  it — for  example^  that  of  discovering 
truffles.  Nevertheless^  we  ought  not  to  lose  sight  of  the  fact,  that  this 
animal  has  not  passed  entirely  without  renown  through  the  centuries 
which  divide  us  from  the  earliest  ages  of  the  world.  We  shall  now 
speak  of  its  flesh,  its  exquisite  flavour,  and  the  place  it  occupied  in 
feasts :  there  it  reigned  with  honour ;  there  we  must  follow  it,  with  all 
that  antiquity  has  possessed  of  celebrated  men  in  the  science  of 
degustation  and  good  living. 

Nature  has  created  the  pig  for  man's  palate ;  he  is  good  only  to  be 
eaten ;  and  life  appears  to  have  been  given  to  him  merely  as  a  sort  of 
salt  to  prevent  his  corrupting.'^  It  is  true  that  he  possesses  only  a 
Tulgar  and  purely  animal  substance ;  but  how  good  is  this  substance, 
and  how  high  does  it  deserve  to  be  placed  on  account  of  its  delicacy 
and  flavour  ?  " 

Such  is  the  praise  of  which  a  physician  and  two  philosophers  have 
thought  it  worthy,    , 

The  pig  furnishes  a  strong  and  somewhat  heavy  kind  of  food;*' 
wherefore  wrestlers  were  recommended  to  eat  much  of  it,  and  Galen 
advised  It  to  persons  who  worked  hard,  or  used  violent  exercise,'^ 

But  it  was  not  necessary  to  recommend  to  the  Greeks  a  meat  of 
which  they  were  so  fond.  Look  over  the  long  work  of  Atheneeus — he 
everywhere  extols  it,  everywhere  speaks  of  it  with  fresh  complacency, 
and  in  pompous  terms.'^ 

An  Athenian,  renowned  as  a  man  of  taste  and  for  the  refined 
elegance  of  his  table,  would  have  thought  his  reputation  lost  had  he  not 
offered  to  his  guests  &t  andoutlles,  sausages,  pigs'  feet,  and  pork  cutlets; 
above  all,  he  was  careful  not  to  forget  salted  and  smoked  hams — the 
honour  of  the  banquet,  and  the  delight  of  the  human  race.''' 

The  Macedonian,  Garanus,  invited  twenty  of  his  best  friends  to  his 
wedding,  and  gave  them  a  feast,  of  which  gastrophagio  annals  have 
preserved  the  remembrance.  Each  guest  received  from  his  munificence 
a  flagon  and  crown  of  silver,  a  crown  of  gold,  and  vases  of  the  same 
precious  metal.  What  shall  we  say  of  the  dishes  displayed  at  this 
meeting  of  learned  epicureans  ?  Composed  by  the  art  of  the  most 
skilful  cooks,  struck  with  admiration,  they  ate  and  relished,  whilst 
unexpected  wonders  uncearingly  solicited  their  fatigued,  yet  not  satiated, 
appetites;  when  at  last  appeared  an  immense  silver  dish,  on  which  was 


136  ANIMALS* 

displayed  an  entire  roasted  hog,  whose  vast  sides  concealed  a  multitude 
of  quails  and  other  small  birds,  tetines  de  truie,  relishing  yolks  of  eggs, 
oysters,  and  a  host  of  shell  fish,  prepared  with  that  scientific  regard  for 
gastric  energy  which  considerably  increases  its  power.'' 

Macedonia  possessed  a  particular  species  of  pig,  greatly  envied  by 
the  rest  of  Greece.  Certain  individuals  of  this  giant  race  acquired 
enormous  proportions,  and  King  Eumenes  used  to  give  as  much  as 
sixty-four  pounds  sterling  for  one  of  these  animals,  provided  it  measured 
four  feet  seven  inches  in  height,  and  as  much  in  length.'* 

It  will  be  easily  understood  that  the  cooks  vied  with  each  other,  to 
Bee  who  could  form  unheard-of  combinations  with  the  succulent  pieces 
which  these  enormous  pigs  furnished.  They  disguised  the  taste  and 
form  in  a  thousand  different  ways,  and  the  most  experienced  palate  was 
always  the  dupe  of  these  exquisite  deceptions.  Thus  Titius  Quintus,  a 
clever  amateur,  being  enraptured  with  the  number  and  astonishing 
variety  of  dishes  which  his  host  caused  to  be  served,  at  Chalies  in 
Etolia,  what  was  his  surprise  when  the  amiable  Amphytrion  smilingly 
told  him  that  he  had  eaten  nothing  but  pork ! '" 

Bome,  be  it  observed,  knew  how  to  follow  the  example  of  Greece; 
and,  in  the  hands  of  its  skilful  cooks,  the  flesh  of  this  heavy  animal  was 
often  transformed  into  delicate  fish,  ducks,  turtle  doves,  or  capons.'* 

But  the  masterpiece  of  these  great  artists — the  neplus  ultra  of  their 
fertile  imagination — was  the  hog  a  la  Troyenne,  so  named  because  from 
the  depth  of  its  inside  Issued  battalions  of  thrushes,  myriads  of  ortolans, 
and  fig- peckers  (becaficoes) — an  ingenious  image  of  those  armed  cohorts 
inclosed  in  the  horse  of  Troy.*^  Everywhere  the  sumptuous  dish  is  cited, 
but  nothing  is  said  of  the  manner  in  which  it  was  prepared.  The  curious 
will  perhaps  be  thankful  to  find  that  this  omission  is  here  repaired : — 

The  animal  is  artistically  bled  under  the  shoulder.  When  all  the 
blood  has  flowed,  the  intestines  are  drawn  out  by  the  throat,  and  washed 
for  a  long  time  with  wine,  taking  care  to  pass  it  through  them.  The 
pig  is  then  hung  up  by  the  feet,  and  washed  also  with  wine.  An  ex- 
cellent gravy  must  be  prepared  beforehand,  with  meat  hashed  small 
and  well  peppered,  with  which  you  stuff  the  intestines,  and  then 
force  them  back  into  their  place  by  the  throat.  Pour  in  at  the  same 
time  a  great  quantity  of  gravy,  and  fill  the  animal  with  small  game. 
Half  of  the  pig  is  afterwards  covered  with  a  thick  paste  of  barley  meal, 
wine,  and  oil.    It  is  then  put  into  a  portable  oven,  on  a  small  metal 


ANIMALS.  187 

table,  where  it  is  roasted  by  a  slow  fire.  When  the  skin  has  assumed 
a  fine  colour  it  is  withdrawn,  and  boiled  on  the  other  side ;  the  paste 
covering  is  then  entirely  removed,  and  the  pig  a  la  Troyenne  may  be 
served."  The  Romans  reared  a  great  number  of  these  animals,  and 
also  procured  many  from  foreign  countries^  especially  from  Arcadia, 
which  produced  some  of  extraordinary  size.  Varro  relates  that  in  this 
part  of  the  Peloponnesus  he  was  shown  a  pig  so  fat  that  it  was 
impossible  for  the  animal  to  make  the  least  movement;  and  that 
a  mouse  had  settled  on  its  back  with  her  young  family,  softly 
ensconced  in  the  fat,  where  they  fed  at  the  expense  of  the  careless 
animal." 

Some  adopted,  with  a  kind  of  gastronomic  rage,  the  preparations 
and  rago^U  celebrated  in  Greece.'*  The  Trojan  pig  never  failed  to 
appear  on  tables  renowned  for  their  luxury ; "  and  sucking  pigs  were 
eaten  in  such  profusion,  that  the  censors  were  obliged  to  interdict  their 
use.  Alexander  Severus  renewed  this  prohibition."  The  large  pigs 
staffed  with  game  (an  expensive  dehcacy  of  patrician  tables)  also  called 
forth  new  sumptuary  laws,"  which  only  provoked  disdain,  and  which 
fieffihion  soon  rendered  obsolete. 

We  hardly  dare  mention  a  strange  dish,  in  great  request  among  the 
rich  and  luxurious,  who  alone  could  procure  it  The  first  preparation 
consisted  in  stifling  the  young  before  they  were  littered."  Thank 
Heaven,  this  culinary  atrocity  could  not  survive  an  epoch  without 
parallel,  perhaps,  in  the  history  of  human  follies,  by  we  know  not  what 
xefinement  of  incredible  gluttony,  of  fiightful  depravity,  and  atrocious 
cruelty,  which,  together,  prepared  the  downfall  of  the  Roman  colossus. 

Besides  this  disgusting  dish,  much  was  thought  at  Rome,  as  well  as 
at  Athens,  of  pig's  head,  spare-rib,  hams,  and  bacon.  Seven  other  parts 
occupied  the  second  rank — these  were  the  ears,  feet,  foreloin,  fillet, 
oheek,  intestines,  and  blood." 

WestphaUa  supplied  sumptuous  tables  with  much^esteemed  hams ; 
but  those  of  Sardinia,  Oatalonia,  and  Cantabria  were,  nevertheless, 
}>rderred.*'  They  were  sometimes  served  at  the  beginning  of  a  repast, 
in  order  to  excite  the  appetite ;  and  also  often  at  the  close,  in  order  to 
re*animate  its  extinguished  ardour,  and  provoke  new  libations.*^  One 
of  the  most  ancient  geoponics  teaches  how  to  prepare,  salt,  and  smoke 
hams; "  for  the  inhabitants  of  the  country,  and  the  lower  classes  in  the 
eitias,  showed  a  singular  taste  for  this  delicate  meat,  which  the  Gauls 

J 


188  ANIMALS. 

(great  amateurs  of  pork/'  sent  them  at  a  low  price,  with  an  enormous ' 
quantity  of  pickled  pork,  andouillettes,  and  sausages.^^ 

This  last  preparation,  very  celebrated  in  Lucania/'  served  as  a 
means  of  livelihood  to  a  great  number  of  Boman  women,  .who  also 
employed  themselves  in  making  excellent  black  puddings,  in  imitation 
of  those  eaten  in  Greece.** 

Bacon  was  then  of  great  utility,  as  in  the  present  day,  though  oil 
superseded  it  in  the  concoction  of  a  host  of  dishes.  Bacon  for  a  long 
time  served  almost  as  the  exclusive  food  of  the  Romans,*'  before  their 
imruly  luxury  had  given  it  up  to  the  soldiers  and  proletarians/*  It 
was  also  found  in  all  public  houses,*'  where  the  populace  habitually 
gorged  themselves  with  pork,  vegetables,**  and  hot  water.** 

The  ancients  salted  the  pig,  in  order  to  preserve  it ;  but  Apicius 
taught  them  a  very  simple  process  for  the  use  of  epicures,  which 
advantageously  replaced  common  brine.  You  take  middUng-sized 
pieces  of  pork,  cover  them  entirely  with  a  sort  of  paste,  composed  of 
salt,  vinegar,  and  honey,  and  place  them  in  vessels  which  you  close 
carefully.**    . 

We  will  now  indicate  some  of  the  dishes  most  in  vogue  prepared 
with  pork — a  meat  so  much  esteemed  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  and  in 
which  they  believed  themselves  to  have  discovered  fifty  different  flavours,** 
or  fifty  parts,  each  possessing  a  distinct  taste  from  the  other. 

Apician  Pork. — Roast  a  fine  young  sucking  pig ;  and  whilst  a  slow 
fire  gently  embellishes  it  with  a  golden  colour,  pound,  with  pepper  and 
alisander,  some  coriander  seed,  mint,  and  rue.  Then  pour  over  it  some 
wine,  honey,  garum,  or  gravy ;  mix  with  care  these  different  ingredients, 
and  pour  this  seasoning  on  your  roast,  as  soon  as  you  have  taken  it  firom 
the  spit  or  oven.** 

Macedonian  Pork. — Choose,  among  a  number  of  large  and  fine 
sucking  pigs,  the  one  which  appears  to  you  the  most  worthy  of  the 
culinary  sacrifice.  Draw  it  by  the  upper  part ;  clean  it  well,  and  fill  it 
with  chicken  sausages  chopped  small,  the  flesh  of  thrushes,  ortolans, 
and  pork ;  add  Lucanian  sausages,  dates  without  stones,  raisins,  and 
afterwards,  mallow,  beet,  leeks,  parsley,  coriander,  whole  pepper,  and 
pine  nuts ;  add  eggs,  and  a  good  quantity  of  well- peppered  gravy.  Bake 
it,  having  previously  scored  the  back  of  the  animal,  so  that  it  may  be 
basted  with  its  own  gravy.  When  a  delightftil  odour  shall  then  warn 
you  that  it  is  done,  cover  it,  before  serving,  with  a  relishing  mixture 


ANIMALS.  139 


» 


of  pepper,  rue,  garum,  or  gravy,  to  which  you  must  add  wine,  honey, 
and  a  little  oil." 

Stuffed  Sucking  Pig. — ^The  intestines  are  drawn  out  by  the  throat, 
and  an  opening  made  under  the  skin.  You  then  fill  with  stuffing  a 
bladder,  to  the  neck  of  which  is  securely  fixed  a  long  and  narrow  tube, 
which  will  convey  to  every  part  the  somewhat  liquid  substance  which 
you  will  express  from  the  bladder.  The  opening  is  then  closed  with 
parchment  sewn  to  the  skin.  It  is  hardly  necessary  to  say  that  this 
operation  should  be  performed  in  several  places. 

Let  us  now  see  to  the  inside.  Crush  pepper,  alisander,  wild  marjoram, 
and  a  little  benzoin  root ;  mix  with  this,  garum  or  gravy,  cooked  brains, 
raw  eggs,  flour,  and  pork  gravy ;  the  whole  must  be  boiled  on  a  slow  fire, 
and  the  pig  filled  with  it,  also  with  little  birds,  pine  nuts,  whole  pepper, 
and  garum.  It  now  only  remains  to  place  it  in  the  oven,  watch  over 
the  cooking,  baste  it  with  gravy,  and  serve." 

Aristoxenic  Ham. — Take  a  fresh  ham,  salt  it,  and  smoke  it  two 
days ;  then  rub  it  with  a  mixture  of  oil  and  vinegar,  and  hang  it  to  the 
ceiling."  Some  days  after  you  must  boil  it  with  a  great  quantity  of  figs 
and  three  bay  leaves ;  then  take  off  the  skin,  make  incisions  in  the 
flesh,  and  fill  them  with  honey.  Finally,  prepare  a  paste  of  flour  and 
oil,  with  which  cover  the  ham ;  put  it  into  the  oven,  and  withdraw  it 
only  when  this  crust  is  completely  done.** 

Lucullian  Ham. — Cook  a  ham,  newly  salted,  with  two  pounds  of 
barley  and  twenty-five  figs.  Then  bone  it,  and  sUghtly  scarify  the  skin 
with  an  iron  blade ;  put  it  into  the  oven,  taking  care  to  cover  it  with  a 
Uttle  honey.  When  it  begins  to  colour,  put  into  a  saucepan  some  cooked 
wine,  pepper,  wine  and  a  bunch  of  rue,  the  half  of  which  is  then 
poured  on  the  ham.  The  other  half  of  this  seasoning  serves  to  humect 
the  quenelles  which  you  have  taken  beforehand  from  the  ham  previous 
to  baking ;  these  must  be  well  soaked  with  gravy,  and  then,  if  you  have 
any  remaining,  pour  it  over  the  ham,  which  you  serve  surrounded  by 
the  queneUes.*' 

Ventre  de  Truie  a  FAthenienne. — It  is  boiled  with  sweet  herbs  and 
served  with  a  seasoning  of  cummin  seed,  vinegar,  and  silphium/^ 

Ventre  de  Truie  d  la  Romaine, — It  is  cooked  in  the  manner  before 
described,  and  seasoned  with  a  sauce  composed  of  pepper,  parsley  seed, 
dried  mint,  benzoin-root,  honey,  vinegar,  and  garum.'^ 

Fillet  of  Pork  d  la  Boeotienne. — When  it  has  been  covered  with  honey 

J  2 


UO  ANIMALS. 

and  vinegar,  and  baked  in  the  oyen,  it  is  eaten  with  a  seasoning  of 
pepper,  benzoin,  and  garum/' 

Tetines  de  Truie  d  la  Salienne. — Cook  them  in  water ;  make  several 
incisions ;  cover  them  with  salt,  and  place  them  in  the  oven,  or  on  the 
gridiron;  prepare  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  alisander,  with  garum, 
wine,  and  cooked  wine ;  thicken  with  fine  flomr ;  put  in  the  titines^  and 
serve/* 

Tetines  d  la  Flamitie. — ^Mix  the  flesh  of  a  sea-hedge  hog  with 
carrots  and  pepper ;  introduce  the  mixture  into  the  tHines;  sew  up  the 
opening  ;  cook  them  in  the  oven,  or  on  the  gridiroui  and  eat  them  with 
brine  and  mustard/^ 

Olympian  Pigs  Liver, — ^Take  the  liver  of  a  pig  that  has  been  fed 
only  on  figs,  bake  it,  and  serve  with  a  seasoning  of  oenogarum,  pepper, 
thyme,  alisander,  ganim,  oil,  and  a  little  vinegar/^ 

Capitolian  Pigs  Liver, — Make  incisions  in  the  liver  of  a  pig  that  has 
been  fed  on  nothing  but  figs,  and  put  it  into  garum  with  pepper, 
alisander,  and  two  bay  leaves ;  then  wrap  it  in  the  caul,  cook  it  on  the 
gridiron,  and  serve." 

Campanian  Bacon. — ^It  is  cooked  by  just  covering  it  with  water  and 
a  good  quantity  of  dill,  to  which  a  Utile  oil  and  salt  are  afterwards 
added." 

Quenelles  of  Pig^s  Liver  and  Brains, — Boast  a  pig*s  liver,  and  take 
off  all  the  fibrous  parts ;  sprinkle  it  with  pounded  pepper  and  rue ;  add 
some  gravy ;  stir  the  whole  well ;  then  cut  it  into  small  slices,  each  of 
which  you  must  cover  with  a  bay  leaf;  hang  them  over  the  smoke  as 
long  as  you  think  necessary. 

When  you  wish  to  eat  them,  roast  them  afiresh ;  then  put  them  into  a 
mortar,  with  pepper,  alisander,  and  wild  marjoram ;  stir  them,  add  gravy 
and  dressed  sucking  pigs'  brains,  pounded  with  care ;  then  add  five 
eggs,  and  dissolve  them  in  such  a  manner  as  to  make  the  whole 
thoroughly  compact ;  pour  over  it  some  gravy,  and  cook  in  a  saucepan ; 
when  cooked,  throw  it  on  a  very  clean  table,  and  cut  this  pulp  into 
small  square  pieces,  which  mix  in  the  mortar  with  pepper,  aUsander, 
and  wild  marjoram.  When  you  have  gently  stirred  aU  this,  it  must 
again  be  put  into  a  saucepan,  and  boiled  over  a  slow  fire.  At  the 
moment  of  ebullition,  pour  it  on  a  plate,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  and 


serve." 


Lucanian  Sausages, — Found  in  a  mortar  some  pepper,  cummin,  and 


ANIMALS.  HI 

winter  savory  with  bay  leaves,  and  moisten  with  gravy  and  garum ;  then 
add  to  this  mixture  some  pork,  chopped  small,  more  garum  and  pepper, 
and  a  good  quantity  of  bacon,  with  a  few  pine  nuts.  When  tliese  various 
ingredients  are  well  incorporated  one  with  another,  you  stuff  the  pre- 
pared intestines,  and  hang  up  the  sausages/* 

Imperial  Sausages. — Cut  some  pork  into  very  small  pieces,  which 
most  be  pounded  with  the  finest  breads  well-soaked  in  wine;  then 
pound  some  pepper  and  decorticated  myrtle  leaves,  and  add  some 
gravy.  Make  some  small  sausages,  and  put  inside  some  fir-nuts.  When 
these  sausages  are  finished,  you  must  cook  them  over  a  slow  fire,  with 
sweet  wine,  previously  reduced  to  a-third.'* 

The  following  is  the  seasoning  you  must  add  to  it : — 

Bone  some  small  chickens,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  leeks, 
dill,  and  salt.  When  this  is  cooked,  add  pepper  and  smallage  seed ; 
then  crumble  some  sesame  bread,  on  which  pour  some  very  thick  gravy, 
mix  the  whole  well,  and  serve  with  the  sausages.'^ 

The  Otiuls  had  very  considerable  herds  of  swine,  which  they  fed 
exclusively  upon  acorns.  The  inhabitants  of  the  towns  Tcared  them 
in  their  houses.  As  these  animals  went  frequently  out,  they  caused 
some  obstruction,  and  we  know  that  Philip,  grandson  of  Louis-le-Gros, 
lost  his  life  in  Paris,  in  consequence  of  a  furious  pig  having  run  between 
the  legs  of  his  horse,  and  caused  him  to  fall.  This  accident  took  pla^e 
on  the  1st  October,  1 181.  The  Srd  of  the  same  month  a  procla- 
mation was  issued,  forbidding  all  persons  to  let  their  swine  ramble 
through  the  streets  of  Paris.  A  short  time  after,  those  which  belonged 
to  the  Abbaye  Saint-Antoine  were  privileged ;  the  abbess  and  the  nuns 
having  represented  that  it  would  be  a  want  of  courtesy  to  their  patron 
saint  not  to  exempt  his  hogs  firom  the  general  rule.'* 

A  new  proclamation  of  the  20th  January,  1850,  interdicted  with 
still  greater  severity  the  rearing  of  swine  in  the  town  of  Paris,  under 
penalty  of  a  fine  of  60  sous  (two  shillings  and  four-pence);*  and  the 
police  were  authorized  to  kill  them  wheresoever  they  might  be  found, 
to  take  the  head  as  a  perquisite  for  themselves,  and  to  deposit  the 
carcase  at  the  Hotel-Dieu  (the  name  of  an  hospital),  charging  that 
establishment  with  the  cost  incurred  for  its  conveyance  " 

There  was  nothing  more  delicate  in  the  16th  century,  nothing  more 
odoriferous,  than  the  flesh  of  young  pigs  fed  on  parsnips,'*^  and  roasted^ 
with  a  stuffing  of  fine  herbs.'" 


1^  AinifALS. 


THE  OX. 

A  profound  sentiment  of  gratitude  has  been  often  the  cause  of  ren- 
dering to  the  ox  extraordinary  honours,  which  no  animal,  perhaps,  ever 
shared  with  him.  The  Egyptians  considered  this  quadruped  as  the 
emblem  of  agriculture,  and  of  all  that  serves  to  support  existence  ;'*  and 
incense  smoked  on  its  altars  at  Memphis  and  Heliopolis/^ 

The  PhoBuicians  religiously  abstained  from  its  flesh,  and  the  Phry- 
gians punished  with  death  whosoever  dared  to  slay  the  labouring  ox/' 

In  Greece,  during  the  heroic  ages,  an  ox  was  the  reward  adjudged 
to  the  conquering  wrestlers  and  pugihsts;  a  horse  was  the  prize  of 
racing  or  the  quoits." 

At  a  later  period  the  Athenians  decreed  that  dieir  coins  should  bear 
the  image  of  this  useful  quadruped ;''  and  though  they  then  offered  it 
to  their  gods,  the  ceremonies  even  of  the  sacrifice  testified  the  repug- 
nance felt  at  shedding  its  blood. 

The  sacnficer  fled  with  the  greatest  speed  after  he  had  struck  it ; 
he  was  followed,  and,  to  avoid  being  arrested,  he  threw  away  the  axe  he 
had  used,  and  accused  it  of  causing  the  death  of  the  innocent  ox.  The 
axe  was  then  seized  and  tried;  some  one  defended  it,  and  alleged  that  i 
was  less  guilty  than  the  grinder  who  had  sharpened  the  blade.  The 
latter  cast  the  odium  of  the  crime  on  the  grinding  stone,  so  that  the 
trial  was  never  ended,  and  the  pretended  offence  remained  unpunished/' 

For  a  long  time  the  greater  part  of  the  ancients  considered  it  a  sin 
to  eat  the  flesh  of  the  ox,  the  companion  of  the  agriculturist,  whose 
patient  vigour  hollows  the  furrow  which  is  to  be  the  means  of  his 
support.*'  But  the  bad  example  of  Proserpine,  who  prepared  one  for 
Hercules,"  caused  these  scruples,  one  by  one,  to  be  hushed,  the  solemn 
prohibition  of  the  legislator  of  Athens  forgotten;"  and,  in  spite  of  the 
obstinate  resistance  of  the  Pythagorians  and  the  disciples  of  Empedocles, 
every  one  declared  in  favour  of  the  doctrines  of  Zeno  and  Epicurus. 

Moreover,  it  is  certain  that  the  heroes  of  Homer  were  not  so 
scrupulous :  Menelaus  offered  roast-beef  to  Telemachus ;  Agamemnon 
also  presented  some  to  the  wise  Nestor ;  and  an  ox,  roasted  whole,  fre^ 
quently  appeased  the  robust  appetite  of  the  illustrious  chiefs  of  Greece." 


ANIMALS.  ^148 

If  we  go  back  to  centuries  still  more  remote,  and  ofwhicfa  a  venerable 
historian  has  preserved  us  an  account,  we  find  herds  of  oxen  were 
possessed  by  the  great  patriarchal  families.*  **  Abraham  cooked  a  calf 
and  served  it  to  the  three  angels,  in  the  valley  of  Mamre;*^  and  the 
flesh  of  this  animal,  whether  ox  or  heifer,  was  evidently  much  in  use 
in  the  primitive  ages,  since  no  particular  proscription  exempts  them 
from  those  beings  having  "  life  and  motion,"  and  which  are  to  serve 
us  as  food.*'  As  to  Moses,  far  from  interdicting  it  to  the  Israelites, 
he  places  the  ox  in  the  first  rank  of  pure  animals,"  whose  flesh  was 
allowed  them* 

The  oracle  of  ancient  medicine,  Hippocrates,  praises  the  flesh  of 
the  ox,  in  which  he  recognises  Uie  most  nutritious  qualities,  but  never- 
theless he  believes  it  to  be  heavy  and  indigestible.*' 

Of  what  material,  then,  must  have  been  the  stomach  of  Theagenes, 
of  Thasos — he,  who  devoured  a  whole  bull  in  one  day." 

To  be  sure,  the  same  exploit  is  attributed  to  Milo  of  Grotona, 
whose  ordinary  meal  consisted  of  eighteen  pounds  of  meat,  as  much 
bread,  and  fifteen  pints  of  wine.*'  These  formidable  polyphagists 
could,  without  much  expense,  indulge  their  fabulous  appetites;  for, 
in  the  time  of  Demosthenes,  854  B.C.,  an  ox  of  the  first  quality  cost 
only  eighty  drachmas,  or  about  two  pounds,  eleven  shillings,  and  eight- 
pence.'* 

Magiric  writers  have  left  us  very  few  details  on  the  diflerent  methods 
of  cooking  the  flesh  of  the  ox  or  calf.  It  appears  to  have  been 
generally  roasted,"  in  which  case  it  was  eaten  alone ;  but  sometimes  it 
was  eaten  boiled,  with  one  of  the  sauces  to  be  hereafter  mentioned. 

These  animals  were  fed  with  particular  care,  in  order  to  render  them 
more  worthy  of  the  luxurious  tables  for  which  certain  choice  pieces  were 
destined.  The  manner  of  fattening  oxen  has  already  been  described: 
it  is  only  necessary  to  add,  that  calves,  which  were  to  be  slaughtered, 
received  no  other  food  than  their  mothers'  milk ;  and  that,  frequently, 
they  were  not  killed  before  the  expiration  of  a  twelvemonth.** 

Double  tripe  was  reputed  as  an  excellent  food.     The  Asiatics, 


•  The  word  Ox— -Bo*— is  a  general  term  applied  equally  by  sacred  and  profane  writers  to 
the  boll,  oz,  and  cow. — Valla,  lib.  iv.,  cap.  42.  It  would  appear  that  the  castration  of  balls 
originated  with  the  Greeks,  though  they  and  the  Romans,  their  imitators,  saw  only  in  this 
operation  the  facility  of  subduing  them,  and  accustoming  them  to  the  yoke.~GEOPONlCS, 
COLUlfELLA,  PUIVT,  && 


144  ANIMALS. 

Greeks^  and  Bomans  were  particularly  fond  of  it.  It  was  served  at  a 
sumptuous  repast  prepared  for  Achilles ;  and  Homer  observes,  that 
this  dish  was  always  honourably  received  at  the  banquets  of  heroes/' 

Athenseus,  describing  a  feast  of  the  most  exquisite  elegance,  names 
double  tripe  among  a  host  of  dishes  he  enumerates;"^  he  also  says, 
speaking  of  a  state  dinner  at  which  Fhiloxenus,  one  of  the  generals 
of  Alexander  the  Great,  was  a  guest,  that  first  of  all  there  appeared 
large  basins  containing  the  intestines  of  animals,  disposed  with  art  around 
their  heads :"  and  it  is  thus,  he  adds,  that  even  the  gods  gave  them- 
selves up,  in  the  society  of  their  friends,  to  the  pleasures  of  good 
cheer.''  To  be  brief,  this  artless  chronicler  of  antique  gastrophagy, 
tells  us  that  after  the  sacrilegious  undertaking  of  the  Titans,  the  human 
race  enjoyed  such  perfect  happiness,  that  men  caused  to  be  served 
at  every  one  of  their  repasts  delicious  double  tripe  and  savoury  intes- 
tines.*' 

This  touching  example  of  felicity  and  innocent  gluttony  found  few 
imitators  at  Rome  among  that  class  of  voluptuous  men  who  entertained, 
at  enormous  expense,  tasters  whose  discriminating  palates  could  tell 
whether  a  fish  had  been  caught  at  the  mouth  of  the  Tiber,  or  further  ofiT; 
whether  a  goose's  liver  had  been  fattened  with  fresh  figs,  or  only  on 
dried  ones."®  For  them  tripe  could  have  very  little  attraction,  but  this 
rather  plebeian  dish  appeared  with  honour  on  modest  tables,  and  prole- 
tarian epicures  sought  for  it  with  eagerness.*" 

Beef  a  VIberienne. — Well  boil  an  excellent  piece  of  beef,  and  serve 
it  with  the  following  sauce.  Grind  and  mix  pepper,  alisander.  parsley 
seed,  wild  marjoram,  and  dried  onions;  moisten  with  sun- made  raisin 
wine ;  stir,  and  add  honey,  vinegar,  wine,  garum,  oil,  and  sweet  wine."* 

Stewed  Beef  h  la  Sarmate. — Carefully  choose  a  piece  of  beef,  which 
stew  slowly  for  a  long  time  with  leeks,  out  small,  onions,  or  beans. 
When  it  is  well  cooked,  pour  over  a  mixture  of  pepper,  benzoin,  and  a 
little  oil."' 

Dish  of  Veal  d  la  Syracusaine. — Cook  a  piece  of  veal,  on  a  slow 
fire,  with  pepper,  alisander,  carrots,  and  parsley  seed,  bruised  together  in 
a  mortar;  then  add  honey,  vinegar,  garum,  and  oil;  thicken  the  whole 
with  fine  flour,  and  serve."* 

Noix  de  Veau  h  la  Tarantaise. — Take  a  noia:  de  veau,  cook  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  pepper,  alisander,  and  fenugreek  seed ;  add,  later,  some 
wild  marjoram,  pine  nuts,  and  dates ;  then  moisten  with  a  mixture  of 


ANIMALS.  U5 

honey,  Tinegar,  garum,  mustard,  and  oil.    When  the  cookery  of  these 
yarious  substances  shall  have  made  an  homogeneous  whole,  serve.  ^*' 

Cisalpine  Preserve. — ^Mince  some  beef  in  very  small  pieces ;  do  the 
same  with  a  little  bacon ;  add  pine  nuts,  pounded  with  dates ;  pour  on 
the  whole  a  mixture  of  vinegar,  garum,  mustard,  and  oil ;  stir  well,  and 
throw  on  this  pulp  a  powder  of  strong  odoriferous  herbs.  Stir  it  a  long 
time,  let  it  rest,  compress  it  strongly  in  a  prepared  intestine,  close  the 
opening,  and  put  a  string  round  to  tighten  it  still  more.  This  preserve 
cannot  turn  bad.^** 

The  ox  was  so  precious  among  the  Bomans,  that  mention  is  made  of 
a  certain  citizen  accused  before  the  people  and  condemned,  because  he 
had  killed  one  of  his  oxen  to  satisfy  the  fancy  of  a  young  libertine,  who 
told  him  he  had  never  eaten  any  tripe.  He  was  banished,  as  if  he  had 
killed  his  fiurmer.^*' 

The  Brahmin  women  think  to  obtain  abundance  of  milk  and  butter 
by  invoking  one  particular  cow, — the  darling  cow  of  the  king  of  heaven ; 
the  type,  mother,  and  patroness  of  all  cows.  The  entire  species  are 
treated  with  the  greatest  deference ;  they  have  lavished  upon  them  every 
expression  of  gratitude,  and  one  day  of  each  year  is  set  apart  as  a 
solemn  festival  consecrated  to  their  worship.^** 

Some  centuries  ago  the  large  pieces  of  meat  were  boiled  first,  and 
then  roasted.  Boasted  meat  was  always  served  with  sauce.  Animals 
roasted  whole  were  generally  filled  with  an  aromatic  stuffing.  Sage  was 
the  common  seasoning  for  geese,  and  sucking-pigs  were  stufied  with 
chesnuts.  Some  minutes  before  these  were  taken  from  the  spit,  they 
were  covered  with  bread  crumbs ;  and  appeared  on  the  table  enveloped 
in  a  crust  composed  of  bread,  sugar,  orange  juice,  and  rose  water.*'* 

Baevf  Qras. — ^There  is  a  very  old  custom  in  the  whole  of  France,  and 
which  consists  in  leading  throughout  the  streets,  in  the  provincial  towns, 
on  Shrove  Tuesday,  a  fatted  ox,  ornamented  with  flowers  and  ribbons. 
This  ceremony  is  considered  as  a  commemorative  emblem  of  the  fe- 
cundity of  the  earth.  In  Paris,  the  ox  chosen  for  the  same  purpose  has 
generally  obtained  beforehand  the  prize  awarded  by  the  Agricultural 
Society.  The  horns  of  the  animal  are  gilded ;  he  is  afterwards  decorated  in 
a  sumptuous  manner,  and  led  through  the  principal  thoroughfares  of 
that  city,  on  Shrove  Sunday,  Monday,  and  Tuesday,  to  the  Palace  of  the 
Tuileries,  the  ministerial  residences,  the  Hdtel-de-Ville,  and  the  foreign 
embassies.     Troops  of  butchers,  dressed  in  appropriate  fancy  costumes. 


146  ANIMALS. 


botih  on  horseback  and  on  foot^  are  preceded  by  bands  of  music ;  and  the 
heathen  divinities,  drawn  by  eight  horses  in  a  richly  gilt  triumphal  car, 
form  one  of  the  most  splendid  and  grotesque  pageants  of  modem  times. 


THE  LAMB. 

Formerly,  sworn  examiners  of  the  clouds,  skilful  in  discovering  the 
storms  they  concealed,  announced  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  country  the 
hail  by  which  their  crops  were  threatened,  and  every  one  immediately 
offered  a  sacrifice  to  the  inimical  cloud,  in  order  that  it  might  carry  ruin 
and  desolation  elsewhere.  The  most  devout  sacrificed  a  lamb ;  the  luke- 
warm worshippers  a  fowl ;  some  even  contented  themselves  with  pricking 
their  finger  with  a  pin,  and  throwing  towards  heaven  the  drops  of  blood 
which  came  out.  The  cloud,  it  is  said,  satisfied  with  these  pious  offer- 
ings, soon  disappeared  never  to  return."* 

The  lamb,  an  oblation  pure  and  ^reeable  in  the  sight  of  the  gods, 
reconciled  the  earth  with  Olympus.  In  Egypt,  the  inhabitants  of  Sais 
and  Thebes  offered  it  to  their  divinities."^  Minerva  and  Juno  also  were 
pleased  to  see  its  flesh  smoking  on  the  altars  which  Greece  and  Italy 
raised  to  them."* 

These  practices,  no  doubt,  were  an  obscure  imitation  of  the  religious 
rites  which  Moses  prescribed  to  his  people,"*  and  which  heathen  nations 
adopted  in  their  turn,  one  firom  the  other."* 

The  Hebrew  law  forbad  the  killing  of  the  Paschal  lamb  before  it  was 
weaned,  and  also  the  cooking  of  it  in  its  mother's  milk.  It  was  to  be 
eaten  roasted,  with  unleavened  bread,  lettuces,  mustard,  or  bitter  herbs : 
whatever  might  remain  was  to  be  burnt  with  fire.  It  was  not  to  be 
boiled,  nor  a  bone  of  it  broken.  It  must  be  chosen  of  that  year,  a  male, 
and  without  fault  or  blemish."' 

Many  passages  of  the  sacred  writings  allow  us  to  appreciate  the  pas- 
toral riches  of  the  first  nations  of  the  East ;  and  an  idea  may  be  formed 
of  the  number  of  their  flocks,  when  we  are  told  that  Jacob  gave  the 
children  of  Hamor  a  hundred  sheep  for  the  price  of  a  field ;"'  and  that 
the  King  of  Israel  received  a  hundred  thousand  every  year  from  the 


ANIMALS.  147 

King  of  Moab,  his  tribatary,  and  a 'like  number  of  rams,  covered  with 
their  fleece."' 

The  delicate  flesh  of  the  lamb  was  the  ornament  of  the  tables  of  the 
Toluptuous  inhabitants  of  Sion  and  Samaria.  The  prophet  Amos 
reproaches  them  with  this  luxury,  and  threatens  them  with  the  Divine 
anger"'  on  that  account.  The  Greeks  carried  their  love  for  this  meat  to 
such  a  height,  that  the  magistrates  of  Athens  were  obliged  to  forbid  the 
eating  of  lamb  which  had  not  been  shorn."'  This  restriction  did  not 
prevent  the  epicures  of  Attica  from  buying  one  of  these  animals  every 
day,  which  cost  them  ten  drachmas"'  (6«.  !id.),  and  the  head  of  which, 
prepared  with  art,  heightened  the  beauty  of  the  first  course."^  Bome  and 
Italy  imitated  Greece,"'  and  the  flocks  of  the  fertile  Campania  hardly 
sufficed  for  the  exigencies  of  the  capital  of  the  world,  especially  towards 
the  end  of  autumn,  a  period  at  which  lambs  afforded,  according  to  the 
Bomans,  a  more  highly  flavoured  and  wholesome  meat  than  in  the 
spring."' 

LamVi  Head  h  la  Quirinale* — The  head  is  boiled  with  pepper, 
garum,  and  beans,  and  served  with  a  sauce  consisting  of  garum,  pepper, 
benzoin,  and  cummin,  to  which  is  added  a  little  oil>  and  small  pieces  of 
bread,  soaked  in  sweet  wine."* 

Quarter  of  Lamb  &  rEsquilin. — Place  a  quarter  of  lamb  in  a 
saucepan  with  onions  and  coriander,  chopped  very  small.  Then 
pound  pepper,  alisander,  and  cummin ;  put  to  it  some  oil,  wine,  and 
garum.  Four  the  whole  on  the  lamb ;  cook  well,  and  thicken  with  fine 
flour."' 

Palatine  Broil. — Leave  a  piece  of  lamb  during  some  time  in  a 
mixture  of  pepper,  benzoin,  garum,  and  oil.  After  having  cooked  it  in 
oil  and  garum,  put  it  a  Uttle  while  on  the  gridiron,  sprinkle  with  pepper, 
and  serve/** 

Roast  Lamb  d  la  Phrygienne. — Bake  a  lamb  and  serve  it  with  the 
following  sauce : — Mix  well  half  an  ounce  of  pepper,  six  scruples  of 
cinnamon,  a  little  ginger,  half  a  pint  of  excellent  garum,  and  the 
quarter  of  that  quantity  of  oil."' 

Lamb  &  la  Trimalcion. — Draw  a  lamb  at  the  neck ;  preserve  the 
intestines  entire,  and  wash  them  with  the  greatest  care ;  fill  them  with 
force  meat  and  garum ;  put  them  back  again  by  the  same  way ;  sew  up 
the  opening,  and  place  the  lamb  in  the  oven.  Then  mix  gravy  and 
milk ;  add  pounded  pepper,  garum,  wine,  sweet  wine,  and  oil ;  let  it 


148  ANIMALS. 

boil  only  an  instant;  thicken  with  fine  floar>  and  serve  it  with  the 
lamb."* 

Blount  informs  us  of  a  very  ancient  and  rather  strange  custom. 
He  says : — 

"  At  Eidlington,  in  Oxfordshire,  the  custom  is,  that  on  Monday 
after  Whitson  week,  there  is  a  fat,  live  lamb  provided,  and  the  maids  of 
the  town,  having  their  thumbs  tied  behind  them,  run  after  it,  and  she 
that  with  her  mouth  takes  and  holds  the  lamb  is  declared  Lady  of  the 
Lamb,  which,  being  dressed,  with  the  skin  hanging  on,  is  carded  on  a 
long  pole  before  the  Lady  and  her  companions  to  the  Green,  attended 
with  music,  and  a  morisco  dance  of  men  and  another  of  women,  when 
the  rest  of  the  day  is  spent  in  dancing,  mirth,  and  merry  glee.  The 
next  day  the  lamb  is  part  baked,  boiled,  and  roast,  for  the  Lady's  feast, 
where  she  sits  majestically  at  the  upper  end  of  the  table,  and  her 
companions  with  her,  with  music  and  other  attendants,  which  ends  the 
solemnity.""' 


THE  KID. 

The  kid  was  one  of  the  most  delicate  dishes  of  the  Hebrews :  Rebecca 
prepared  some  for  Isaac,  in  order  to  dispose  him  to  give  his  blessing  to 
Jacob."'  Moses  ordered  that,  for  the  Feast  of  Passover,  a  lamb  or  a 
kid  should  be  slain."^  Samson  carried  a  kid  to  his  young  wife  when 
he  wished  to  be  reconciled  to  her."*  The  brother  of  the  prodigal  son 
complains  to  his  &ther  that  he  has  never  given  him  a  kid  to  make 
merry  with  his  friends."* 

The  Egyptians,  who  represented  their  god  Fan  with  the  face  and 
legs  of  a  goat,  abstained  religiously  from  killing  a  kid  or  eating  its 
flesh."^  Their  veneration  for  this  animal  went  so  far,  in  some  countries, 
that  goat-keepers  appeared  in  their  eyes  invested  with  an  august  and 
sacred  character."*  The  Greeks  did  not  judge  it  convenient  to  adopt 
these  strange  ideas,  although  on  other  points  their  theology  was  suffi- 
ciently ridiculous.  The  kid  was  considered  one  of  the  most  dainty  dishes 
in  state  banquets;  it  was  served  whole,  on  a  silver  basin,  to  each  of  the 
guests  at  the  wedding  of  the  Macedonian,  Caranus."* 

The  kids  of  Attica  were  especially  praised,  and  a  considerable  trade 


ANIMALS.  H9 

was  made  of  them  in  Athens."'  Certain  connoisseurs^  whose  authority 
had  weight,  preferred,  however,  those  produced  in  the  Island  of  Mselos."' 
A  great  many  also  came  from  Sicily :  they  were  in  less  repute,  and  sold 
at  a  low  price.'" 

At  Rome,  the  kid  of  Italy  was  much  thought  of;  the  most  delicate 
were  fattened  at  Tivoli,**®  and  in  different  localities  of  the  Roman 
Campagna."* 

Kid  d  la  TranS'Tiberienne. — ^The  kid  is  to  be  cooked  slowly,  with 
a  little  milk,  four  ounces  of  honey,  an  oimce  of  pepper,  a  little  salt  and 
benzoin.  After  some  time,  add  eight  dates  crushed  in  a  mortar,  a  little 
gravy,  garum,  a  small  quantity  of  excellent  wine ;  the  whole  is  thickened 
with  fine  flour.*" 

Roast  Kid  A  la  Janiculum. — Empty  and  carefully  clean  a  kid ;  rub 
it  well  with  oil  and  pepper ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  a  large  quantity  of 
coriander  seed ;  place  it  in  the  oven,  and  bake  slowly."* 

Kid  a  la  Tarpiienne. — Empty  the  kid ;  stuff  it,  and  sew  it  up ;  then 
entirely  cover  it  with  a  thick  mixture  of  pepper,  rue,  winter  savory, 
onions,  a  small  quantity  of  thyme,  and  some  garum ;  then  place  it  in 
an  oven,  or  on  a  dish,  covered  with  oil.  When  the  kid  is  cooked,  you 
suiround  it  with  a  sauce  of  winter  savory,  onions,  rue,  dates,  mixed  with 
wine,  oil,  and  cooked  wine ;  sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  serve."* 

Kid  h  la  Tivoli. — Bake  the  kid;  then  pound  some  pepper,  rue, 
onions,  winter  savory,  and  Damascus  plums  (without  their  stones),  a 
little  benzoin,  which  you  must  dilute  in  wine,  garum,  and  oil;  throw 
this  sauce  on  the  kid  as  you  withdraw  it  from  the  oven,  and,  at  the 
moment  of  serving,  cover  it  with  boiling  wine."* 

Kid  &  la  Milissienne, — Draw  the  kid  at  the  neck,  and  clean  the 
intestines ;  then  pound  some  pepper,  alisander,  benzoin  root,  two  bay 
leaves,  and  a  little  Spanish  camomile ;  add  two  or  three  brains ;  mix 
them  well  together;  then  add  some  garum  and  a  little  salt ;  afterwards, 
a  small  quantity  of  milk  and  honey.  Fill  the  intestines  with  this 
stuffing,  and  place  them  round  the  kid,  which  you  then  put  into  a  large 
basin  on  the  fire.  When  half-cooked,  you  must  add  a  mixture  of  garum, 
oil,  and  wine.  Then  bruise  some  pepper  and  alisander  seed,  which 
moisten  with  the  gravy  of  the  kid,  and  a  little  cooked  wine ;  pour  it  into 
the  basin,  and  the  moment  before  serving  thicken  with  fine  flour."* 


190  ANIMALS. 


THE  ASS. 

The  ass  was  an  impure  animal,  according  to  the  law  of  Moses,  whose 
flesh  was  forbidden  because  it  did  not  nuninate.**'  However,  at  the 
siege  of  Samaria,  the  Jews  were  compelled  to  eat  it  for  want  of  other 
food.  The  famine  was  such,  that  the  head  of  an  ass  was  sold  for  eighty 
pieces  of  silver."* 

The  Roman  peasants  thought  the  flesh  of  the  young  ass  had  a  very 
agreeable  taste,"'  and  regaled  themselves  with  it  at  their  rustic  festivals. 
The  celebrated  Mecsenas  one  day  tasted  of  this  dish  at  the  house  of 
one  of  his  free  slaves ;  he  spoke  of  it  with  much  praise,  caused  it  to  be 
served  on  his  own  table,  and  even  succeeded  in  Introducing  it  on  those 
of  the  great  and  rich,  who  gave  up  the  onager,  or  wild  ass,  which  they 
had  hitherto  preferred,  to  humour  this  illustrious  favourite.  But  this 
new  gastronomic  conquest  had  only  a  short  vogue ;  and  was  forgotten 
after  the  death  of  Meceenas."*  Galen  tells  us  that  the  cooks  of  Alex- 
andria thought  much  of  the  ass,"^  whose  flesh,  he  says,  much  resembles 
that  of  the  stag."'  Still,  this  great  physician  disapproves  of  the  use  of 
this  food,  which  he  considers  unsuited  to  mankind."* 

It  is  asserted,  even  at  the  present  day,  that  the  flesh  of  the  young 
ass  is  a  pretty  good  dish ;  we  have  heard,  but  we  hardly  can  repeat  it, 
that  much  is  consumed  in  the  guinguettes  round  Paris,  where  the  artless 
customers  are  far  from  thinking  that  anything  else  but  veal  can  be 
served  to  them. 

The  modem  restaurateurs  of  the  Barri^res  of  Paris,  have,  perhaps, 
read  the  biography  of  Mecienas,  and  endeavour  to  render  popular  the 
dish  so  honoured  by  the  celebrated  favourite.    Who  can  blame  them  ? 


THE  DOG. 

We  must  beg  pardon  of  the  reader  for  informing  him  that  the  dog 
presented  a  very  relishing  dish  to  many  nations  advanced  in  culinary 
science.  To  them,  one  of  these  animals,  young,  plump,  and  delicately 
prepared,  appeared  excellent  food."* 


ANIMALS.  151 

The  Greeks,  that  people  so  charming  by  their  seductive  folly,  their 
love  of  the  arts,  their  poetic  civilization,  and  the  intelligent  spirit  of 
research  presiding  over  their  dishes — the  Greeks  (we  grieve  to  say  it) 
ate  dogs,  and  even  dared  to  think  them  good :  the  grave  -Hippocrates 
himself — the  most  nvise,  the  least  gluttonous,  and  therefore  the  most 
impartial  of  their  physicians — was  convinced  that  this  quadruped  fur- 
nished a  wholesome  and,  at  the  same  time,  a  light  food."' 

As  to  the  Bomans,  they  also  liked  it,"'  and  no  doubt  prepared  it 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  hare,  which  they  thought  it  resembled  in 
taste.'" 

However,  it  is  but  right  to  add,  that  this  dish,  which  we  will  not  even 
hear  mentioned,  was  never  favourably  received  by  the  fashionable 
portion  of  Boman  society,  and  that  the  legislators  of  ancient  gasbx)- 
phagy  even  repulsed  it  with  disdain. 

There  is  every  reason  to  beUeve  that  the  people  regaled  themselves 
with  a  roast  or  boiled  dog,  especially  once  a  year,  at  the  period  when 
they  celebrated  the  deliverance  of  the  Capitol  from  the  siege  of  the  - 
Gauls.  It  is  known  that,  at  this  solemnity,  a  goose,  laid  on  a  soft 
cushion,  was  carried  in  triumph,  followed  by  an  unhappy  dog  nailed  to 
a  cross,"'  whose  loud  cries  greatly  amused  the  populace.  In  this 
manner  they  commemorated  the  signal  service  rendered  by  one  animal, 
and  the  fatal  negligence  of  the  other.  The  Gauls  scaled  the  Capitol 
while  the  dogs  slept,  and  Bome  had  been  lost  if  the  deafening  cries  of 
the  geese  had  not  given  an  alarm  to  the  garrison,  who,  it  must  be 
allowed,  should  have  kept  better  watch. 

The  quadrupeds  last  mentioned  are  the  only  domestic  animals  of 
the  kind  used  as  food  by  the  ancients.  The  chase  afforded  them  several 
others,  which  we  shall  mention,  after  having  just  glanced  at  the  poultry 
— one  of  the  most  interesting  divisions  in  natural  history  for  the  serious 
and  reflective  appreoiator  of  gastronomic  productions. 


XVII. 


POULTRY. 


The  air  is  less  dense  than  the  earth,  said  Aristotle ;  poultry  ought,  then, 
to  stand  higher  in  estimation  than  quadrupeds/  It  is,  adds  Galen,  the 
lightest  and  best  of  all  aliments.'  After  this,  would  any  one  dare  to 
accuse  of  sensuahty  those  who,  wisely  following  the  diet  recommended 
by  these  great  men,  prefer  a  &Lt  capon  or  delicate  fowl,  to  heavy,  common 
butcher  s  meat  ? 

Our  masters,  the  ancients,  have  left  us  fine  examples  on  this  head. 
In  vain  did  impertinent  sumptuary  laws,  enemies  of  progress,  strive  to 
repress  the  luxury  of  the  farm-yards.  These  precautions  on  behalf  of 
abstinence  against  the  magiric  genius  were  unceasingly  met  by  a  resist- 
ance, as  energetic  as  it  was  truly  Boman.  Fannius,  Archius,  Cornelius, 
could  make  martyrs ;  but  let  us  say,  with  pride,  good  cheer  never  had 
cause  to  envy  them  deserters  and  apostates.  One  of  these  tyrannical 
decrees  was  just  published ;  a  tribune  of  the  people,  a  man  of  heart  and 
taste,  undertook  to  have  it  repealed.  He  courageously  mounted  the 
rostrum,  and  cried,  with  an  inspired  voice :  ''  Romans  I  you  are  treated 
like  slaves.  By  the  gods !  what  can  be  more  strange  than  the  new  law  ? 
They  would  force  you  to  sobriety,  whether  you  will  or  no !  They  would 
impose  temperance  on  you !  Ah !  renounce  this  pretended  liberty,  of 
which  you  are  so  jealous,  since  you  are  no  longer  allowed  to  ruin  your- 
selveSi  each  one  according  to  his  fiEincy,  or  die  of  indigestion  if  you 
please." 

This  discourse  was  received  as  it  deserved  to  be,  and  unanimous 
applause  proved  to  the  orator  that  he  was  addressing  men  capable  of 
understanding  him.    But,  alas !  this  excellent  tribune  had  a  dangerous 


POULTRY.  W8 

enemy :  the  censor,  Luoius  Flacous,  a  sort  of  fimatic  teetotaller  and 
carniphobis  of  that  timci  bad  suffioieat  credit  to  cause  this  wortiiy 
citizen  to  be  driven  from  the  senate.  But  Borne  revenged  him  by 
devouring  more  poultry  than  ever.' 

In  the  early  ages  of  the  Church,  poultry  in  general  was  regarded 
as  a  food  for  fast  days ;  and  this  opinion  was  founded  on  the  text  in 
Genesis,  where  it  is  said  that  birds  and  fishes  were  created  on  the 
fifth  day^  whereas  quadrupeds  were  created  on  the  sixth/ 

St.  Benedict,  in  his  rule,  does  not  formally  forbid  the  monks  any 
other  flesh  than  tliat  of  quadrupeds ;  and  St.  Columbanus,  in  his, 
permits  the  monks  the  flesh  of  poultry,  in  de&ulft  of  fish.  The  Greek 
monks  ate  it  down  to  the  10 th  century. 


THE  COCK 

An  object  of  divine  worship  in  Syria,*  the  cock  was  considered  by 
almost  every  nation  as  the  emblem  of  vigilance  and  courage.*  Thus, 
heathen  antiquity  consecrated  it  to  the  god  of  battles/  Themistocles, 
marc^ng  with  his  army  against  Xerxes,  King  of  Persia,  met  with  some 
cooks  fighting  furiously;  he  made  his  txx)op8  halt,  that  they  might 
observe  them,  and  he  then  addressed  a  spirited  discourse  to  them  on 
the  sobject.  He  conquered,  and  on  his  return  to  Athens,  desired  that 
every  year  a  cock-fight  should  commemorate  his  victory.'  These  eruel 
games  soon  spread  throughout  Greece,  and  feathered  champions  were 
roared  with  great  oare,  and  obtained  at  a  high  price  firom  Rhodes,  Btieotia, 
Mela»  and  Ghalcis.' 

Italy  also  wished  to  enjoy  this  barbarous  pastime.  At  Fergamus, 
any  spectator  might  throw  a  cock  into  the  arena,  and  a  prize  was 
awarded  to  the  lucky  possessor  of  the  bird  who  remained  master  of  the 
field  of  battle." 

This  warlike  bird  has  never  enjoyed  a  high  culinary  reputation ; 
neveAheless,  it  was  eaten  when  old,  that  is  to  say,  at  that  period  of  its 
life  when  its  flesh,  hard,  fibrous,  and  tough,  possesses  neither  juice  nor 
flavour — then  this  wretched  food  was  left  to  those  among  the  common 
people  who  joyously  feasted  in  .the  drinking- shops  of  Bome.     They; 

K 


154  POULTRY. 


however,  always  avoided  making  fricassees  of  white  cocks,  becau^  they 
were  oonsecrated  to  the  month,  and  proclaimed  the  hours." 


THE  CAPON. 

The  cock  being  banished  from  the  table  of  all  respectable  people, 
the  necessity  of  dressing  hens  became  evident,  for  it  was  necessary  to 
live.  Now,  you  are  aware  that  there  are  two  sorts  of  hens ;  one  sort 
consumptive  looking  and  tough,  the  other  tender,  plump,  and  before 
which  an  epicure  banishes  every  other  thought,  and  sighs  with  pleasure. 
These  last  were  preferred,  and,  in  order  to  render  them  more  worthy  of  the 
voluptuous  epicures  for  whom  they  were  intended,  they  learned  from 
the  inhabitants  of  the  island  of  Cos  the  art  of  fattening  them  in  dark 
and  closed  places,  with  certain  wonderflil  pastes,  which  increased  their 
deUcacy  and  tempting  whiteness.^' 

This  ingenious  invention  belonged  to  Greece  and  Asia.     Bome 
possessed  herself  of  it,  and  even  improved  it ;  but  soon  the  constant 
tyrant  of  the  kitchen,  the  Consul,  C.  Fannius,  who  thought  bad  what 
others  thought  good,  and  who  pretended  that  in  consequence  of  the 
immense  consumption  made  of  them,  the  result  would  be  that  not  a  living 
hen  would  be  left  in  the  empire,  ordered  that  for  the  future  the  Bomans 
should  dispense  with  fietttening  and  eating  this  deUcious  winged  animal.^' 
Fortunately,  the  law  said  nothing  about  young  cocks ;  this  silence 
saved  Boman  gastronomy,  and  the  capon  was  invented.*^    It  is  not 
necessary  to  relate  with  what  transports  of  dehght  this  new  creation  was 
greeted ;  it  will  be  easily  understood.     Bome  was  moved  ;  the  famous 
Greek  cooks,  who  consecrated  their  science  to  her,  were  on  tip-toe. 
Everywhere,  from  mouth  to  mouth,  spread  the  name  of  the  skilful 
enchanter,  who  could  in  such  a  manner  metamorphose  the  clarion  of 
the  farm  yard.     Fannius,  himself,  it  is  said,  wished  to  be  assured  of  the 
truth  of  the  prodigy  :  he  was  served  with  a  roast  capon,  and  the  praises 
he  bestowed  on  it  were  assuredly  the  triumph  of  the  bird,  of  epicures, 
and  of  art."    From  this  remarkable  epoch,  nearly  all  chickens  under- 
went the  ingenious  transformation  which  rendered  them  'so  welcome  to 
all  Lucullian  tables ; "  and  it  caused  such  a  destruction  of  birds,  that 


POULTRY.  155 

the  consul  repented,  bat  too  late,  that  he  had  only  named  hens  in  his 
sumptuary  law. 

Capon  a  la  DSliaque, — Draw  completely  a  fat  capon ;  then  bruise 
pepper,  alisander,  and  ginger,  which  you  must  mix  with  sausage-meat 
and  fine  flour,  and  a  pig's  brains  cooked ;  add  some  eggs,  then  some 
garum,  a  httle  oil,  whole  pepper,  and  several  pine  nuts.  Make  a  stuffing 
of  this  mixture,  and  put  it  into  the  capon,  which  afterwards  roast  before 
a  slow  fire." 


THE  HEN 

The  cackling  of  hens  infallibly  announced,  among  the  ancients, 
some  dreadful  calamity  to  the  person  who  had  the  misfortune  to  hear 
it."  This  fatal  omen  must  have  rendered  a  great  number  of  people 
unfortunate ;  for  whether  she  lays  eggs,  or  conducts  her  young  family, 
a  hen  generally  cackles. 

They  therefore  sought  to  diminish  the  number  of  these  birds  of  ill- 
omen ;  they  fattened  them  for  eating,  and  they  did  right,  since,  according 
to  learned  physicians,  the  flesh  of  these  birds  is  good  for  weakly  persons, 
as  well  as  those  who  are  convalescent."  Healthy  individuals  also  find 
this  food  suit  them  perfectly.  In  Greece  there  would  have  been  some- 
thing wanting  at  a  feast,  if  fat  hens  had  not  been  served.  They  em- 
bellished the  celebrated  wedding  repast  of  Caranus ;  aud  Athenseus  often 
speaks  of  them  when  describing  a  grand  banquet.'^ 

At  Borne,  the  art  of  fattening  them  became  a  serious  occupation^ 
which  was  long  studied,  and  had  its  precepts  and  rules.  Marcus  Loelius 
Strabo,  belonging  to  the  order  of  knights,  invented  aviaries  in  which 
hens  were  confined ;  '^  others  sought  and  discovered  the  means  of  giving 
to  their  flesh  that  particular  flavour  unperceived  by  uncultivated  palates, 
but  which  the  experienced  gastrophilist  always  appreciates.  They 
patiently  gave  themselves  up  to  laborious  experiments :  a  warm,  narrow, 
dark  spot  received  these  interesting  volatiles ;  the  feathers  of  their  wings 
and  tails  were  plucked,  and  they  were  gorged  twice  a  day  during  three 
weeks  with  balls  of  barley  flour  mixed  with  soft  water.  Great  clean- 
liness was  combined  with  this  diet :  their  heads  were  well  cleansed,  and 
care  taken  that  no  insect  should  enter  the  aviary." 

"K  2 


\&Q  POULTRY. 

Afterwards  barley  flour,  kBeadkd  witfi  milk,  was  preferred  ;  then, 
instead  of  milk,  water,  and  honey  were  employed.  Exoellent  wbeatea 
bread,  soaked  in  good  wine  and  ^ydromel.  waa  also  used  with  success." 

Skilfiil  breeders  by  ihes^  meaas  obtained  magnificent  hens  of  aa 
incredibly  exquisite  flavour^  and  which  weighed  no  less  than  sixteen 
pounds," 

The  Fannian  law  unfortunatQly  came,  and,  as  we  have  before 
observed,  brought  impediments  to  these  beautiful  results  by  interdicting 
aviaries  and  skilfully  prepared  pastes.  It  is  true  that  this  law  allowed 
a  farm-yard  hen  to  be  served  at  every  repast** — mais  une  poule  par 
jour  est'ce  contentement  ?  It  became  necessary,  then,  to  have  recourse 
to  a  mezzo'termine,  which  was  discovered  in  the  capon.  But  the 
favourite  dish  forbidden  by  the  consular  authority  was  not  altogether 
abandoned:  some  &ithful  epicureans  always  possessed  in  the  shade 
well-fiimished  aviaries ;  and  it  was  even  then,  we  are  assured,  that  Some 
and  the  universe  were  enriched  with  the  poularde.** 

Poularde  &  la  VimincUe. — Cook  a  fine  ben  in  its  gravy ;  pound 
and  mix  benzoin,  pepper,  oil,  and  garum,  a  little  thyme,  fennel  seed, 
ounmun,  mint,  and  rue ;  stir  for  a  long  time ;  add  some  vinegar ; 
pound  some  dates,  and  mix  them  with  honey  and  a  little  vinegar. 
Of  all  this  make  m,  homogeneous  seasooing,  and  pour  it  on  the  hen 
whj9n  it  is  cold.'' 


THE   CHICKEN. 

It  is  certainly  surprising  that  a  people  so  serious  as  the  Bomans 
generally  were,  should  make  the  success  of  the  greatest  enterprise  depend 
on  the  appetite  of  their  famous  sacred  chickens.  They  were  brought 
from  the  Island  of  Negropont,  and  were  kept  shut  up  in  cages ;  their 
guardian  was  designated  by  the  name  of  FuUarius." 

Publius  Claudius,  constrained  to  consult  these  strange  prophets 
before  engaging  in  a  naval  combat,  ordered  them  to  be  fed ;  they  refused 
to  open  their  beaks.  The  incredulous  general  ordered  them  at  once  to 
be  thrown  into  the  sea,  and  laughingly  exclaimed  to  the  dismayed 
Pullarius :  *'  Since  they  will  not  eat— well  I  then  let  us  make  them  drink. 


"SB 


^  POULTRY.  157 

DiodotuB  of  Sicily,  and' some  ancient  i^riters,  tell  us  tbftt  the 
Egyptians,  from  a  remote  period,  hatched  chickens  in  orens.  This 
process  is  decidedly  of  the  highest  antiquity,  and  was  applied  to  the 
eggs  of  all  kinds  of  poultry,"  In  the  last  century,  B6aumur  tried 
various  experiments,  and  recovered  this  art,  which  was  thought  to  have 
been  lost ;  others  again  have  followed  the  steps  of  this  skilful  observer, 
and,  at  the  present  day,  obtain  the  most  satisfactory  results. 

Chickens  have  ever  been  considered  an  estimable  food,  and  hardly 
yielded  to  the  two  glories  of  their  fiamily-^the  &ttened  hen  and  the 
oapon."  The  Greeks  served  them  at  all  their  feasts  of  ceremony,  and 
the  Bomans  granted  them  a  distinguished  place  among  the  dishes  of 
the  second  course. 

Apieian  Macedonia  of  Chicken. — Chop  small  the  meat  of  a  chicken, 
idhich  mix  wilii  a  kid's  breast,  imd  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  parsley 
seed,  dried  pennyroyal,  dried  mint,  ginger,  gfeen  coriander,  and  raisins; 
then  add  three  pieces  of  the  finest  oaten  bi-ead,  some  honey,  vinegar^ 
oil,  and  wine ;  some  time  after,  add  some  excellent  cheese,  pine  nuts, 
cucumbers,  and  dried  onions,  well  chopped.  Four  some  gravy  over  the 
whole,  iuid  when  it  is  cooked,  surround  the  dish  on  all  sides  with  snow, 
and  serve." 

Parthian  Chicken, — Open  the  croup  dexterously,  and  put  it  in  the 
saucepan ;  then  mix  some  pepper,  alisander,  a  little  carrot,  garum,  and 
wine;  fill  the  chicken  with  this  seasoning;  cook  well,  and  sprinkle 
with  pepper  before  serving/' 

Numidian  Chicken. — Begin  by  boiling  a  chicken  for  some  time ; 
then  place  it  in  a  stew-pan,  after  having  sprinkled  it  with  benzoin  and 
pepper*  Afterwards  bruise  some  pepper,  cummin,  coriander  seed,  ben- 
zoin root,  pine  nuts,  rue^  and  dates ;  add  honey,  vinegar,  garum,  and 
oil ;  boii>  thicken  with  fine  flour,  sprinkle  widi  pepper,  and  serve^'* 

Chicken  i  la  Fronionienne.  —Half  cook  a  chicken,  and  then  put 
into  the  saucepan  garum,  oil,  a  bunch  of  dill,  some  leeks,  winter  savory, 
and  green  coriander.    You  then  sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  serve*" 

Chicken  i  la  Caslienne. — Cook  a  chicken  with  garum,  oil,  wine, 
coriander  seed,  and  onion.  Then  put  some  milk  and  a  Uttle  salt  into 
another  saucepan,  with  honey  and  a  little  water,  and  cook  this  mixture 
over  a  very  slow  fife.  Throw  in  by  degrees  some  raspings  of  sweet 
biscuits,  and  take  care  to  stir  continually.  Put  the  chicken  into  this 
sauce,  and  then  serve  with  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  alisander,  and  wild 


168  POULTEY. 

maijoram,  mixed  with  hopey  and  cooked  vrine,  which  must  be  boiled 
and  thickened  with  fine  flour.'" 


THE    DUCK. 

The  duck  swims  so  well  it  was  thought  to  be  paying  a  compliment 
to  Neptune  by  sacrificing  it  to  him.*'  The  god  of  the  seas  never  found 
fault  with  this  ofiering. 

Attica  and  the  whole  of  Greece  sought  the  beautifiil  ducks  of  Bceotia,*' 
and  that  province  was  always  found  to  have  supplied  a  larger  number 
than  it  reared.  It  is  true  the  poulterers  of  Athens,  banishing  all 
scruples  of  conscience,  rarely  &iled  to  satisfy  their  customers  as  to  the 
doubtful  origin  of  a  white  nissa  (duck),  by  taking  Neptune  to  witness 
that  it  was  a  pure  Bcsotian,  a  real  duck,  as  they  said  emphatically,  of 
that  species  so  much  appreciated  by  connoisseurs.  Future  quidnuncs 
will  examine  whether  the  friendly  duck  of  the  English  and  the  political 
and  literary  canard  of  the  French  have,  or  have  not,  found  their  way 
from  Greece,  after  wandering  a  little  on  the  road. 

There  were  ducks  at  that  prodigious  dinner  of  the  opulent  Caranus, 
of  whom  we  have  already  spoken  several  times.     They  were  always 
served  at  the  tables  of  the  rich  Greeks ;  *'  and  Archigenes  reckons  them 
among  the  viands  which  agree  best  with  the  stomach.^^     Gato  was 
of  the  same  opinion ;  and,  if  we  are  to  believe  Plutarch,  he  made  them 
the  food  of  those  of  his  family  who  were  ill,  and  boasted  of  maintaining 
his  children,  servants,  and  himself  in  perfect  health,  by  the  aid  of  this 
diet  alone.^^  .  It  was  the  same  idea  that  made  Mithridates  mix  the  flesh 
of  ducks  with  all  he  ate,  as  an  antidote  against  poison,  which  he  feared.^' 
Hippocrates  evinces  a  contrary  opinion.      The  flesh  of  this  bird 
seemed  to  him  hard,  heavy,  and  indigestible.^'    Avicenna  goes  still 
further :  he  threatens  all  who  eat  it  with  fever.**    The  Eomans  were  no 
more  frightened  than  the  Greeks  at  the  decision  of  the  &ther  of  medi^ 
cine.    Lentulus,  one  of  the  high  magiric  authorities  of  Rome,  ordered 
that  the  duck  should  figure  in  the  most  honourable  manner  at  the 
brilliant  feast  of  which  Macrobius  has  preserved  us  an  account.*'    It 
must,  however,  be  remembered  that  polite  people,  who  observed  the 


POULTRY.  159 

forms  and  usages  of  society^  only  offered  to  their  guests  the  breast  aod 
head  of  this  biped ;  the  remainder  returned  to  the  kitchen/* 

Ducks  Brains  &  FEpicurienne, — Cook  some  duoks'  brains,  and 
mince  them  yery  small ;  then  place  in  a  saucepan,  with  pepper,  cummin, 
benzoin  root,  garum,  sweet  wine,  and  oil ;  add  milk  and  eggs,  and  submit 
the  whole  to  the  action  of  a  slow  fire,  or  rather,  cook  them  in  a 
baiurfnarie.*^ 

Apicius's  Seasoning  for  a  Roast  Duck* — ^Make  a  mixture  of  pepper, 
cummin,  alisander,  mint,  stoned  raisins,  or  Damascus  plums ;  add  a  little 
honey  and  myrtle  wine ;  place  it  in  a  saucepan ;  cook,  and  then  add  to 
these  substances  vinegar,  garum,  and  oil ;  afterwards  some  parsley  and 
savory ;  serve  with  the  roast  duck/' 


THE  GOOSE. 

When  a  flock  of  geese  are  obliged  to  pass  Mount  Taurus — the  dreaded 
abode  of  their  enemies,  the  eagles — each  of  them  takes  the  precaution 
to  hold  a  stone  in  its  beak,  in  order  that  he  may  keep  a  profound 
silence,  which,  otherwise,  his  natural  loquacity  would  render  impos- 
sible/' This,  if  true,  would  justify  Aristotle  in  attributing  foresight  to 
the  goose /**  a  quality  which  Scaliger  also  claims  for  this  bird/^ 

The  ancients  highly  esteemed  its  flesh.  Homer"'  and  Athenaeus" 
speak  with  praise  of  the  fat  geese  and  goslings  which  the  Greeks  ate. 

The  Egyptians  served  them  at  their  meals  every  day ;  it  was,  with 
veal,  the  favourite  dish  of  their  monarchs/*  and  they  did  not  forget  to 
offer  some  to  King  Agesilaus,  when  he  was  travelling  through  the 
country/* 

Some  eastern  nations  were  impressed  with  such  deep  veneration  for 
this  bhrd  that  they  swore  by  nothing  else/*  The  Britons  honoured  it, 
and  forbad  all  persons  to  do  it  the  least  harm/'  It  remained  for  Queen 
Elizabeth  to  prove,  at  her  joyous  dinners  of  the  20th  September,  that 
tastes  and  usages  are  modified  by  time.*'  And  moreover,  many 
centuries  before,  her  ancestors  had  been  greatly  wanting  in  respect 
towards  a  particular  kind  of  goose,  which  they  roasted  without  any 
ceremony.*'    A  well-deserved  sentiment  of  gratitude  rendered  them  dear 


r 


160  POULTRY. 

to  the  BomaoB :  their  noisy  olamour  had  formedy  saved  the  Capitol/' 
They  became  for  them,  as  for  the  Egyptians,"  a  symbol  of  safety,  and 
were  reared,  both  in  town  and  country,  to  guard  the  houses/' 

Those  which  were  kept,  out  of  gratitude,  in  the  Oapitol,  were  conse- 
crated to  Juno,  Isis,  Mars,  and  Piiapus,''  and  every  year  one  of  them 
was  chosen  for  the  brilliant  and  solemn  ceremony  we  have  already 
mentioned.** 

But,  alas !  time  obscures  and  e&cee  all  the  glories  of  this  world ;  and 
that  of  the  Roman  geese,  no  doubt,  had  to  submit  to  this  sad  fate,"  for 
they  were  eaten  at  least  a  century  before  the  time  of  Pliny.  Unfortunate 
bird !  Yes,  a  perfidious  art  fed  them  delicately  in  the  shade,  in  conve- 
nient aviaries,  where  nothing  was  wanting  for  their  c<Hiifort,  and  at 
the  end  of  a  few  days  the  poor  victims  made  but  one  step  from  this 
dangerous  retreat  to  the  place  of  execution."  The  £mperor  Alexander 
Severus  became  so  fond  of  this  dish,  that  on  his  great  festival  days  they 
served  him  with  a  goose  and  a  pheasant.'^  Nothing,  in  his  estimation, 
could  equal  the  exquisite  flavour  of  these  two  birds. 

The  luxurious  Romans,  however,  neglected  the  entire  animal,  and 
thought  only  of  the  liver.  They  invented  the  art  of  fattening  this  viscera, 
and  of  increasing  its  size  to  such  an  extent  tliat  it  often  weighed  two 
pounds.  To  obtain  this  result,  they  sin^)ly  led  their  victims  of  sensu^ly, 
during  twenty  days,  with  a  paste  of  dried  figs  and  water."  As  soon  as 
the  goose  was  killed,  the  liver  was  put  to  soak  in  milk  and  honey. 

It  is  not  known  exactly  to  whom  we  are  to  attribute  this  gastronomic 
discovery.  Bcipio,  Metellus,  and  Marcus  Sejus  disputed  the  glory  of 
the  invention."  At  all  events,  it  is  certain  that  the  same  method  was 
ubed  in  Greece  as  in  Italy ;  that  white  geese  were  chosen  in  preference,^* 
and  that  the  fat  livers  were  served  roadted,  or  firied  in  the  fi7ing-pan,  and 
enveloped  in  the  omentum,  a  membrane  which  we  term  the  caul.^' 
Pliny  assures  us  that  Apicius  found  means  to  increase  hvers  to  a 
monstrous  size,'*  which  almost  equalled  in  weight  the  whole  body  of  the 
animal/' 

The  wings  and  neck  of  the  goose  also  acquired  some  favour ;  the 
feet  were  added,  when  Messalinus  had  taught  how  to  peel  them  by 
passing  them  rapidly  over  the  fire,  and  then  preparing  them  with  cocks' 
combs.     The  remainder  was  only  good  for  the  common  people.'* 

Stuffed  goslings  also  enjoyed  a  reputation  among  the  Greeks,'*  who 
fitttened  them  by  giving  them^  three  times  a  day,  during  a  month,  a 


POULTRY.  Ifil 

znixtme  of  bran  and  floor)  moistened  with  hot  water  (two  parts  of  flour 
and  four  parts  of  bran) ;  but,  if  Palladiua  is  to  be  believed,  it  is  muoh 
better  to  feed  them  solely  with  millet,  and  as  muoh  water  as  they  may 
require." 

8eju8  Seasoning* — Bruise  pepper,  alisander,  coriander,  mint,  and 
rue ;  mix  with  it  garum  and  a  little  oil ;  pour  it  over  the  roast  goose, 
and  serve." 

Apician  Seasoning  for  a  Roast  Ooose^s  Liver. — Crush  in  a  mortar, 
and  then  well  mix,  pepper,  carrots,  cummin,  parsley-seed,  thyme,  onions, 
benzoin  root,  and  fried  pine  nuts ;  add  honey,  vinegar,  garum,  and  oil, 
and  serve  with  the  roast  liver  in  the  omentum." 

Boiled  Goose  d  la  Gauloise.-^BoTl  a  goose  with  garum,  oil,  wine, 
a  bunch  of  leeks,  coriander,  and  savory;  then  crush  pepper  and  pine 
nuts,  to  which  put  a  little  water.  Then  take  the  leeks,  coriander,  and 
savory  out  of  the  saucepan ;  put  in  their  place  the  mixture  mentioned, 
add  some  milk,  boil  it,  thicken  with  whites  of  eggs,  and  serve." 

In  the  sixteenth  century  they  had  dark  cages,  in  which  they  fattened 
poultry  with  ground  tares,  wheaten  flour,  and  barley  meal.  Oapons 
fattened  in  hutches,  where  they  could  not  turn,  nor  even  stir,  were 
esteemed  delicious.  They  fed  pigeons  on  the  crumb  of  bread,  steeped 
in  wine;  peacocks  on  the  sediment  from  cider. 

On  Michaelmas  Day,  the  S9th  of  September,  many  persons  in 
England  eat  roast  goose  for  their  dinner.  It  is  said  that  this  custom 
dates  from  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  who  was  being  served  with  a 
piece  of  goose  on  Michaelmas  Day,  at  the  very  moment  when  news 
was  brought  of  the  defeat  of  the  famous  Armada.  8ome  persons  affirm 
that  the  Queen  expressed  a  desire  that  this  dish  might,  each  year,  serve 
to  perpetuate  the  remembrance  of  so  signal  a  victory.  Would  it  not  be 
more  simple  to  suppose  that  EUzabeth  herself  already  conformed  to  a 
custom  which  had  existed  before  her  time  ?'^ 

At  Mans,  instead  of  letting  the  poultry  eat  freely,  they  are  shut  up 
in  a  dark  place^  and  made  to  swallow  pellets  of  about  two  inches  long 
and  one  thick,  composed  of  two  parts  of  barley  flour,  and  one  of  maize, 
made  with  sufficient  quantity  of  milk. 

"  In  the  time  when  the  French  had  a  decided  taste  for  spices  and 
aromatics,  they  imagined  to  vary  at  will  the  flavour  and  perfume  of  the 
flesh  of  fowls.  With  the  paste  used  to  fatten  them  was  mixed  musk, 
anise-seed,  and  comfits,  with  other  aromatic  drugs.  A  Queen  was  known 


162  POULTEY. 


to  spend  1,500  firanos  (£60)  in  fattening  three  geeodt  whose  liyers  she 
wished  to  render  more  delicate/' — ^Parmentisb. 


THE  PIGEON. 

The  dove,  a  bird  so  dear  to  Venus,'*  served  ambrosia  to  Jupiter,** 
and  became  the  interpreter  of  Dodona's  oracles."  Several  nations 
•consecrated  it  to  their  gods.'*  The  Jews  discovered  in  it  the  image 
of  the  sweetest  virtues,"  of  beauty,  innocence,  and  purity;"  and 
they  sacrificed  it  to  the  Almighty,  as  a  burnt  offering  agreeable  to  His 
unspeakable  hoUness.'' 

This  was  because  the  dove  or  pigeon  (begging  pardon,  here,  for  mixing 
varieties)  is  to  the  hawk,  according  to  an  expression  of  a  £GLther  of  the 
Church,  what  the  lamb  is  to  the  wolf," — a  symbol  of  good  by  the  side  of 
evil,  or  of  a  calm  and  peacefiil  conscience,  as  opposed  to  the  sad  and 
agitated  criminal.  Biit,  alas !  the  ancient  prerogatives  of  this  tender 
bird,  its  candour  and  innocence,  could  not  even  preserve  it  from  the  fate 
common  to  almost  everything  which  breathes.  Its  delicate  flesh — 
fatal  gift  of  Heaven  I — ^recommended  it  to  the  epicure ;  not  for  its  poetical 
qualities,  but  for  its  deUcate  flavour ;  and^  after  many  songs  of  praise, 
it  was  condemned  to  be  roasted. 

From  the  beginning  of  the  heroic  ages,  pigeons  were  caught  with 
snares  and  nets,"  in  order  to  feed  them,  and  be  able  to  procure  some 
at  once,  if  required  to  be  served  at  a  repast ;  for  they  formed  a  dainty 
dish  upon  the  tables  of  the  most  fastidious."  Of  course  they  figured  in 
the  joyous  wedding  feast  of  that  opulent  Garanus  who  entertained  his 
guests  so  sumptuously.'* 

The  Greeks,  therefore,  used  to  bring  up  an  immense  number  of 
pigeons,  and  built  for  them,  in  the  mpst  open  situations,  charming  pigeon- 
houses,  in  the  form  of  small  towers,  models  of  elegance  and  cleanliness, 
where  those  timid  birds  found  at  night  a  retreat,  always  fatal  to  some 
one  amongst  them." 

The  Romans  introduced  in  these  sorts  of  edifices  the  most  unusual 
luxury."  Each  kind  of  pigeon  had  a  particular  home'* — a  foolish  and 
expensive  taste,  which  they  continually  attempted  to  embellish.    It  was. 


POULTRY.  168 

however,  a  profitable  speculation  for  those  who  knew  how  to  be  satisfied 
with  pigeon-houses  of  more  simple  appearance.  A  brace  of  rather  or- 
dinary pigeons  did  not  cost  less  than  16s. :  the  finest  were  sold  at  J£4 
a  pair.  It  is  even  known  that  L,  Axius,  a  Boman  knight^  demanded 
and  obtained  £6  Ss.  for  two  young  pigeons  intended  for  a  patrician's 
table." 

Physicians  of  that  period  greatly  praised  the  flesh  of  these  birds ; 
they  recommended  it. to  the  sick  and  convalescent.'' 

Ro€Ut  Pigeon,  with  Servilian  Seasoning. — Bruise  some  dill  seeds, 
dried  mint,  and  the  root  of  benzoin;  add  some  vinegar,  dates,  garum, 
a  little  mustard,  and  oil ;  stir  well ;  then  mix  with  it  some  wine  reduced 
to  halt  and  pour  the  whole  on  the  roasted  pigeon.'' 


THE  GUINEA  HEN. 

This  bird,  called  by  the  ancients  the  "  Hen  of  Numidia/'comes  origi- 
nally firom  many  burning  regions  of  Africa.  In  Greece,  and  especially 
in  Bome,.  vanity  alone  gave  it  a  price  which  was  willingly  granted,  more 
on  account  of  its  scarcity  than  for  its  taste."  The  Guinea  hen  appeared 
at  great  banquets,  when  the  Amphytrion  was  more  anxious  to  show  his 
opulence  than  to  demonstrate  the  delicacy  of  his  dishes.  Martial,"  and 
Pliny,'"  the  naturalist,  raised  great  objections  against  this  ostentatious 
and  useless  rarity. 

Ouinea  Hen  &  la  Numide, — Cook  it ;  then  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with 
some  honey  and  garum ;  make  several  incisions  in  the  bird ;  baste  it 
with  its  own  gravy,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  previously  to  its  being 
served.*" 


THE   TURKEY    HEN. 

''  There  must  be  two  to  eat  a  truffled  turkey,"  said  a  gastronomist  of 
the  18th  century,  to  one  of  his  firiends — a  noted  gourmand — ^who  had  just 
come  to  pay  him  a  visit  "  Two !"  replied  the  visitor,  with  a  smile  of  sen? 


164  POULTRY. 

suaiity.  "  Tes,  two/'  anewered  the  first ;  ^*  I  never  do  otherwise :  for 
instance,  I  have  a  turkey  to-dmy,  and  of  conrse  we  must  be  two/*  The 
friend,  looking  earnestly  ai;  the  other,  said:  "You,  and  who  else?" 
"  Why,"  answered  the  gastronomist,  "  I  and  the  turkey." 

In  Greece,  more  than  one  stomach  would  have  been  capable  of 
challenging  nobly  the  voracity  of  this  modem  polyphagus :  witness  the 
insatiable  greediness  of  the  well-known  glutton  who  complained  that 
nature  ought  to  have  given  him  a  neck  as  long  as  the  stork,  that  he 
might  enjoy  for  a  longer  period  his  eating  and  drinking.^^' 

But  for  a  long  time  the  Greeks  were  quite  ignorant  of  the  culina.ry 
value  of  the  turiLey;  it  was  looked  upon  as  an  uncommon  curiosity,  and 
not  condemned  to  the  spit  Sophocles,  the  first  who  spoke  of  it,  pre- 
tended that  those  marvellous  birds  came  purposely  from  some  distant 
climate  beyond  the  Indies,  to  bewail  the  death  of  Meleager,  who 
took  possession  of  the  throne  of  Macedonia  (279  years  b.  c),  and 
who  was  soon  driven  from  it."*  This  Prince,  it  is  reported,  carried  them 
away  from  barbarous  regions,  that  they  might  enjoy  the  charms  of  Greek 
civilization ;  and  hence  could  there  be  anything  more  natural  than  to 
find  those  compassionate  volatiles  shedding  tears  for  their  benefiactor,  in 
one  of  Sophocles*  tragedies  ?  They  have  been  called  since,  Meleagrides, 
and  this  name  perpetuated  '*  misfortune,  favour,  and  gratitude." 

Aristotle  hardly  supplies  us  with  any  details  upoD  turkey  hens :  he 
merely  says  that  their  eggs  are  distinguished  by  little  specks  from  those 
of  the  commoor  hens,  which  are  white  ;"^  but  Glytus  of  Miletus,  his 
disciple,  gives  an  exact  description  of  them,  by  which  no  mistake  can  be 
made."* 

Egypt  also  possessed  some  of  these  birds ;  but  there  they  were  still 
more  rare  than  in  Greece,  and  formed  one  of  the  principal  ornaments 
in  the  triumphal  pomp  of  Ptolemy  Philadelphus,  when  he  entered 
Alexandria  Large  cages,  containing  nieleagrides,  were  carried  before 
the  monarch,  and  on  that  day  the  people  knew  not  which  to  admire 
most — the  prince  or  the  turkey."* 

They  were  introduced  into  Rome  about  the  year  115  before  our  era; 
but,  for  a  long  time,  they  were  objects  of  uncommon  curiosity :  and 
Varro,  the  first  of  the  Latins  who  speaks  of  them,  confounds  these  birds 
with  the  guinea  hens,  or  hens  of  Numidia."' 

A  century  later,  turkeys  greatly  multipUed,  and  vast  numbers  were 
reared  in  the  Eoman  farms.    Caligula,  who  had  the  good  sense  to  make 


POULTRY.  165 

^bis  own  apotheosis  during  hi&  life- time,  through  fear  lest  it  might  be 
refused  after  his  death»  ordered  a  sacrifice  of  peacocks^  guinea  heDs.  and 
turkeys  to  be  made  daily  before  his  statue."" 

It  appears,  howeYer>  that  the  breed  of  turkeys  soon  began  to  diminish 
in  Europe ;  very  few  were  reared,  and  that  only  as  a  curiosity :  in  the 
citadel  of  Athens,  towards  the  year  540  of  the  Christian  era;"'  and  in 
J510»  two  were  exhibited  in  Rome^  which  belonged  to  the  Cardinal 
of  Saint  Clement."'  Jacques  Coeur  brought  some  meleagrides from  India, 
in  1450 ;  they  were  the  first  ever  seen  in  France,  and  it  was  not  till  fifty- 
four  years  afterwards  that  Americus  Vespucius  made  them  known  to  the 
Portuguese.  In  our  days  these  ancient  inhabitants  of  Asia  or  America"' 
have  become  naturalized  among  us,  and  let  us  hope  that  the  day  is  yet 
distant  when  they  will  be  absentees  from  our  farm*yards  and  our  tables* 
We  admire  them  less  perhaps  than  Charles  IX.  did  when  a  turkey  was 
served  to  him  for  the  first  time,"'  but  we  shall  always  receive  with 
cheerfulness  the  majestic  dish  upon  which  appears  a  well-fed  turkey, 
trufSed,  and  smoking  hot. 

Turkey  h  VAfricaine, —  Roast  a  turkey;  bruise  some  pepper, 
alisander,  and  benzoin ;  mix  it  witli  wine  and  garum.  Pour  this  season- 
ing on  the  turkey,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  serve."' 

The  historian  of  Provence,  Bouche,  will  have  it  that  the  French  are 
indebted  for  the  turkey  to  King  Ren6,  who  died  in  1480.  Other  writers 
assure  us  that  this  volatile  was  introduced  during  the  reign  of  Francis  I. 
by  Admiral  Chabert  La-Bruy^re-Champier  speaks  of  it  as  a  recent 
acquisition,  and  Beckmann  refutes  those  who  date  its  existence  in  France 
previous  to  the  1 6  ch  century.  He  says  that  this  bird,  which  wa9 
wild  in  the  forests  of  America,  became  domesticated  in  Europe. 

It  is  also  said  that  we  owe  the  importation  of  it  to  the  Jesuits.  Ac- 
cording to  Hurtaut,  it  was  not  until  about  the  time  of  Charles  IX.  that 
turkeys  appeared  in  France."^  It  is  asserted,  adds  this  author,  that  at 
the  wedding-dinner  of  that  Prince  the  first  turkey  was  served,  and  that  it 
was.  admired  as  a  very  extraordinary  thing.  The  English  tasted  this  new 
dish  in  1525,  the  fifteenth  year  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII. 

To  fatten  turkeys — every  morning,  for  a  month,  give  them  mashed 
potatoes,  mixed  with  buck- wheat  flour,  Indian  com,  barley,  or  beans ; 
a  paste  is  made  of  it  which  they  are  left  to  eat  as  they  please.  Evjsry 
evening  what  remains  must  be  taken  away.  One  month  after,  you  add 
to  this  food,  when  they  go  to  roost,  half  a  dozen  baUs  composed  of 


1«6  POULTRY. 

barley  flour,  which  they  are  made  to  swallow  for  eight  days  successively ; 
at  the  end  of  that  lime  turkeys,  thus  fed,  become  excessiToly  fat,  delicious, 
and  weigh  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  pounds. 

In  Provence,  walnuts  are  given  to  them  whole,  which  they  are  com- 
pelled to  swallow  by  slipping  them  one  by  one  with  the  hand  along  the 
neck  until  they  have  all  past  the  oesophagus ;  they  begin  with  one 
walnut,  and  increase  by  degrees  to  forty.  This  kind  of  food  gives  an 
oily  taste  to  the  flesh. 

Turkey  eggs  are  good  boiled,  and  are  preferred  to  those  of  hens  for 
pastry ;  mixing  them  with  the  common  eggs  makes  an  omelette  more 
delicate. 

*'  To  obtain  all  the  advantages  possible  from  turkeys,  they  must  be 
killed  at  the  same  time  as  pigs ;  then  cut  the  turkeys  in  quarters,  and 
put  them  in  earthen  pots  covered  over  with  the  fat  of  the  pork,  and  by 
this  means  they  may  be  eaten  all  the  year  round." — Fakmentieb. 


THE  PEACOCK. 

The  peacock  comes  originally  from  India:  It  was  there  that 
Alexander  the  Great  saw  it  for  the  first  time.  He  was  so  struck  with  its 
magnificent  plumage  that  he  forbad  all  persons,  under  pain  of  death, 
to  kill  any."* 

Oriental  princes  kept  the  peacocks  which  travellers  brought  them, 
from  time  to  time,  in  their  aviaries."*  It  was  thus"'  that  a  certain  king 
of  Egypt  received  one,  of  which  he  thought  Jupiter  alone  worthy; 
wherefore  he  sent  it  in- great  pomp  to  the  temple  of  that  god."* 

These  birds  were  thus  known  over  various  parts  of  the  world. 
Samos,  which  seems  to  have  been  provided  one  of  the  first,  ornamented 
its  money  with  their  image."*  Their  reputation  soon  spread  far  and 
wide;"*  and  Athenian  speculators  sent  to  that  island  for  peacocks,  which 
were  shown  to  the  curious  once  a  month."^ 

This  variety  became  afterwards  an  article  of  commerce,  and  all 
wealthy  people  became  desirous  to  have  them.  A  male  and  female  cost 
£8,  sterhng."*  But  what  was  that,  when  delighted  eyes  could  contem- 
plate the  charming  and  lovely  colours  of  the  haughty  favourite  of  Juno ! 

At  Rome,  the  peacock  had  a  prodigious  success."*    When  alive,  the 


POULTRY.  leT 

Bomans  praised  its  beauty ;  when  dead,  it  appeared  on  the  tables  of  its 
enthusiastic  admirers. 

Quintus  Hortensius,  the  orator^  was  the  first  who  had  them  served 
in  a  banquet  given  by  him  on  the  occasion  of  being  created  an  augur."* 
This  gastronomic  novelty  made  an  extraordinary  sensation  at  Borne — as 
might  be  expected — and  the  peacock  became  so  much  in  fashion,  that 
no  banquet  could  possibly  be  given  unless  it  was  embellished  by  its 
presence."' 

Marcus  Aufidius  Livio  was  the  first  to  contrive  a  sure  way  to  fatten 
them  ;"*  and  he  succeeded  so  well  that  he  made  prodigious  sums  every 
year  by  the  sale  of  those  birds.* 

Horace  preferred  them  to  the  finest  poultry,"'  and  distinguished 
amateurs  thought  that  it  was  not  paying  much  for  a  young  peacock 
if  they  could  get  it  for  two  pounds  and  three  shillings."* 

The  ridiculous  consumption  which  was  made  of  these  birds  did  not 
allow  of  their  becoming  very  common.  Tiberius  reared  some  in  his 
gardens ;  and  he  condemned  to  capital  punishment  a  soldier  of  his 
guards  who  had  the  misfortune  to  kill  one."' 

Ultimately,  more  savoury  or  more  rare  dishes  took  the  place  of 
peacocks  flesh,  which  then  began  to  be  thought  hard,  unwholesome, 
and  of  difficult  digestion."^  However,  it  re-appeared  in  the  middle 
ages  at  the  nuptial  festivities  of  the  rich,  where  one  of  these  birds  wais 
served^  as  if  alive,  with  the  beak  and  claws  gilded.  To  do  that  well,  it  was 
necessary  to  skin  the  bird  very  carefully,  and  then  cook  it  with  aromatics, 
such  as  cinnamon,  cloves,  &c.  It  Was  then  covered  with  its  skin  and 
feathers,  and  served  without  any  appearance  of  having  been  stripped. 
This  luxury  was  to  gratify  the  sight :  nobody  touched  it.  The  peacock 
was  thus  preserved  for  several  years  without  being  damaged — a  property 
believed  to  be  peculiar  to  its  flesh,"*  but  which  was  owing,  no  doubt, 
to  the  aromatics  just  mentioned. 

Veacock  of  Samos, — Mix  some  pepper,  alisander,  parsley,  dill 
flowers,  dried  mint,  and  filberts,  or  fried  almonds ;  bruise  them  with 
green  smallagef  and  pennyroyal,  and  mix  the  whole  with  wine,  honey, 
vinegar,  and  garum.  Make  incisions  in  the  bird,  and  cover  it  with 
this  seasoning.^ 


\it 


•  No  less  than  ig52,000,  if  Pliny  really  means  the  grand  sesterce,  which  everything 
leads  OS  to  beliere. 

f  Smallage,  a  species  of  parsley,  knoim  by  the  name  of  celery,  is  diuretic  and  aperitive. 
The  celery,  as  cultivated  now,  is  derived  from  the  smallage* 


XVIII. 


MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS 


MILK. 

It  would,  probably,  be  impossible  to  trace  the  epoch  at  which  man 
began  to  make  use  of  milk  as  food.  Abraham  presented  some  to  the 
three  angels  who  appeared  fx>  him  in  the  valley  of  Mamre  ;^  and  it  is 
likely,  that  long  before  that  patriarch,  the  eastern  nations  had  recourse  to 
an  aliment  so  easily  acquired*  and  which  their  numerous  flocks  produced 
in  such  abuudance. 

Among  the  Jews,  milk  waa  always  considered  as  an  emblem  of  the 
wealth  of  a  country  and  the  fertility  of  its  soil ;  so  much  so,  that  the 
sacred  books  almost  invariably  speak  of  a  happy  region,  as  one  '^  flowing 
with  milk  and  honey.'"  This  metaphorical  expression  testifies  suffi- 
ciently to  the  taste  of  the  Hebrews  for  this  aliment,  which  their  King 
Solomon  recommended  to  them  in  these  terms:  ''and  thou  shalt  have 
goat's  milk  enough  for  thy  food,  for  the  food  of  thy  household,  and  for 
die  maintenance  of  thy  maidens.'" 

Profane  antiquity  agrees  on  this  point  with  our  holy  chroniclers.  It 
represents  to  us  the  first  men,  fi'ee  firom  passions  and  fears,  surrounded 
by  streams  of  milk  and  nectar,  from  which  they  drew  health  and  life.^ 
Happy  time!  ere  milk- maids  existed  to  practise  those  deceptions  they 
have  now  imbibed  from  the  deceitful  arts  of  chemistry. 

The  greater  part  of  the  wandering  tribes,  such  as  the  Getes  and 
Scythians,  were  galactophagists,"  or  drinkers  of  milk ; '  the  Gauls '  and 


MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS.  169 

• 

Germans  *  made  it  also  their  principal  food.  In  Greece  and  Italy,  the 
shepherds  decorated  the  vessels  in  which  they  had  just  milked  their 
flocks  with  crowns  of  flowers ;  and,  in  honour  of  the  rural  divinities, 
they  scattered  about  a  small  quantity  of  this  sweet  liquid.*  The  reapers 
oflTered  it  to  Ceres ; "  and  in  one  of  the  sections  of  Rome,  Mercury  was 
presented  with  milk  instead  of  wine. 

The  ancients  attributed  to  milk  from  cows,  ewes,  and  goats,  various 
Hygeian  qualities."  Hippocrates  forbade  it  in  cases  of  head-ache, 
fevers,  and  bilious  attacks ;"  but  he  sometimes  ordered  asses'  milk," 
which  was  considered  as  an  excellent  remedy,  and  a  most  wholesome 
aliment.^^ 

The  voluptuous  people  of  Rome  rubbed  their  faces  and  skins  with 
bread  soaked  in  asses'  milk,  to  make  them  fairer  and  prevent  the  beard 
from  growing  too  fast. 

Suetonius"  and  Martial"  speak  of  these  refinements  of  luxurious 
delicacies.  The  satirical  Juvenal  informs  us  that  bread  was  made  into  a 
kind  of  plaster  or  mask,  with  which  they  covered  the  face.*'  Poppeeia, 
wife  of  Nero,  was  the  first,  or  one  of  the  first,  to  bring  this  recipe  into 
fashion,  being  fiiUy  persuaded  that  she  would  thus  preserve  the  white 
ness  and  delicacy •  of  her  skin.  Five  hundred  asses  used  to  supply 
daily  the  necessary  quantity  of  milk  to  make  the  cosmetic  and  bath  " 
of  the  coquettish  empress. 

This  high  patronage  did  not  prevent  asses'  milk  from  losing  by 
degrees — and  very  unjustly,  no  doubt — the  reputation  it  acquired." 

Fashion — capricious  and  all-powerful  deity — undertook  to  re-instate 
its  virtues,  after  several  centuries  of  profound  forgetfulness.  The  success 
was  complete.    This  is  how  the  afiSair  took  place  : — 

Francis  I.,  finding  himself  weak  and  languishing,  the  physicians, 
after  a  long  consultation  on  the  monarch's  illness,  advised  remedies 
which  did  not  cure  the  royal  patient.  However,  the  King  of  France 
was  getting  worse  every  day,  and  his  state  gave  serious  apprehensions. 
Some  one  mentioning  to  his  Majesty  that  a  Jew  of  Constantinople 
was  noted  as  one  of  the  cleverest  doctors  in  the  world,  Francis  imme- 
diately ordered  his  ambassador  in  Turkey  to  send  him  this  Israelitish 
doctor,  whatever  might  be  the  cost  The  Jew  arrived,  and  prescribed 
no  other  remedy  than  asses'  milk.  The  king  found  himself  much 
better,  and  the  coiu*tiers  and  ladies  of  the  court  eagerly  followed  the  same 
diet,  even  for  the  slightest  imaginary  indisposition. 

L 


170  MILK,  BDT'TER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS. 

A  patient,  cured  by  the  use  of  this  wholesome  and  restorative  food, 
thought  of  expressing  his  gratitude  by  the  following  stanza : — 

'*  Par  sa  bont^,  par  sa  Bubstanoe 
D'ane  Anesse  le  lait  m'a  rendu  la  sant^  ; 
Et  je  dois  plus  en  cette  circonstance, 

Aux  ftneB  qu'a  la  faculty.** 

Macedoine  Germanique  of  Milk. — Pound  dry  almonds,  and  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  with  the  following  ingredients  :7— the  most  delicate 
parts  of  mallows  only,  and  white-beetj  some  leeks,  parsley,  and  other 
leguminous  herbs,  previously  cooked,  a  fowl  boiled  and  minced  small, 
the  brains  of  poultry  or  sucking  pigs,  also  boiled,  and  lastly,  some  hard 
eggs  cut  in  two.  Put  all  these  together,  as  mentioned  before ;  some 
little  time  after  that,  dAA  sausage  meat,  fowls'  livers,  fresh  cod  fish,  and 
oysters — the  whole  reduced  into  pulp — some  fresh  cheese,  pine  nuts, 
and  whole  pepper.  Whilst  this  is  boiling  on  a  very  slow  fire,  prepare 
the  following  seasoning :  pound  some  pepper,  alisander,  parsley  seeds, 
and  silphium ;  stew  separately  with  gravy ;  mix  raw  eggs  with  a 
great  quantity  of  milk  ;  add  it  to  the  preceding  seasoning ;  pour  it  over 
the  contents  of  the  stewpan,  then  pepper,  and  serve.'* 


BUTTER. 

A  learned  writer'^  has  maintained  that  the  ancient  inhabitants  of 
the  east  did  not  know  of  butter,  and  that  by  this  word  must  be  under- 
stood, when  it  occurs  in  the  holy  writings,  sour  milk  or  cream.  What- 
ever may  be  the  respect  due  to  the  grave  authority  of  Beckmann,  we  beg 
leave  to  adhere  to  the  opinion  of  various  translators  of  the  Biblci  and 
believe  with  them  that  the  Jews  knew  how  to  prepare  butter.  Indepen- 
dently of  the  signification  of  chemack,  to  which  a  profound  philosopher 
gives  the  same  sense,"  and  which  appears  very  naturally  to  ofibr  this 
acceptation,  we  could  still  fortify  our  opinion  by  the  passage  where  Job, 
recalling  with  sorrow  the  happy  days  of  his  youth,  says,  that  he  used 
to  wash  his  "  feet  in  butter.""  We  agree  that  these  words  are  under- 
stood in  a  figurative  sense,  and  that  the  man  of  God  wished  to  show 
by  it  that  he  was  the  possessor  of  a  great  number  of  floeks. 


MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS.         in 

But  it  is  neyertheless  true^  that  this  metaphorical  locution  recalls 
also  one  of  the  uses  made  of  that  &t  substance,  which  was  for  a  long 
while  employed,  like  oil,  to  soften  and  refresh  the  limbs. 

Indulgent  reader,  excuse  this  episode  upon  a  ground  which  we  ought 
not  to  touch,  and  let  us  re-enter  the  kitchen. 

The  Greeks,  who  understood  many  things,  and  knew  them  so  well, 
passed  over  several  centuries  without  once  thinking  that  the  milk  of 
their  ewes  and  cows  contained  a  food  already  well-known  by  several 
barbarous  nations.  Aristotle  mentions  the  serous  part  of  milk,  and 
cheese;**  but  he  hardly  suspects  the  existence  of  butter,  which  he 
describes  but  very  imperfectly  as  a  liquid  oil."  Antecedent  to  him, 
Hippocrates  never  thought  of  it,  except  as  a  foreign  remedy  which 
Asia  supplied  to  Greece.** 

It  was  only  fifty  years  after  Aristotle  that  it  began  to  be  noticed  as 
an  aliment.  The  Greeks,  in  imitation  of  the  Parthians  and  Scythians, 
who  used  to  send  it  to  them,  had  it  served  upon  their  tables,  and  called 
it  at  first  "  oil  of  milk,"*'  and  later,  bouiuros,  "  cow  cheese,"  probably 
on  account  of  the  quantity  made  from  the  milk  of  that  animal.** 

The  Germans,  according  to  Beckmann,  taught  the  Bomans  how  to 
make  butter,  but  they  never  employed  it  otherwise  than  as  a  remedy  in 
Italy. 

It  is  certain  that  in  the  time  of  Pliny  it  had  hardly  been  heard  of  at 
Rome,**  and  that,  according  to  this  writer,  the  barbarians  only — that  is  to 
say,  those  who  were  unfortunate  enough  not  to  be  either  Greeks  or 
Romans — made  their  food  of  it."  Towards  the  year  175  of  the  Christian 
era,  Galen  then  placed  butter  only  among  the  therapeutic  agents  useful 
in  medicine."  However,  more  than  a  century  before  him,  Dioscoridee 
wished  it  to  be  noticed  that  fresh  butter  made  of  ewes*  or  goats'  milk  was 
served  at  meals  instead  of  oil,  and  that  it  took  thef  place  of  fat  in  SMdiing 
pastry.** 

Herodotus  has  preserved  some  interesting  details  on  the  manipulation 
of  butter  among  the  Scythians.  They  received  the  milk  in  large  pails, 
and  beat  it  for  a  long  time  to  separate  the  most  delicate  part,  and 
appointed  for  this  labour  those  enemies  whom  the  fortune  of  war  deli- 
vered into  their  hands.  These  unhappy  creatures  were  deprived  of 
sight,  which  prevented  their  escape." 

The  Romans  set  about  making  butter  as  we  do.  Pliny  says :  "  Butter 
is  made  from  milk,  and  this  aliment,  so  much  sought  after  by  barbarous 

l2 


172  MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS* 

nations,  distinguished  the  rich  from  the  common  people.  It  is  obtained 
principally  from  cows'  milk ;  that  from  ewes  is  the  fattest.  Goats  also 
supply  some.  It  is  produced  by  agitating  the  milk  in  long  vessels  with 
a  narrow  opening.    A  little  water  is  added."  '* 

Formerly  it  was  required  in  many  countries  that  the  dealer  in  this 
article  should  seU  good  butter  to  his  customers.  In  France,  for  in- 
stance, intolerance  was  carried  so  far  as  to  forbid  ''  all  persons  to  re-scrape» 
beat,  or  work  up  any  butter,  either  fresh  or  salted;  change,  mix,  or 
mingle  it,  under  pain  of  being  whipped^**  Since  then  the  strangeness 
of  such  a  measure  has  become  palpable,  the  more  so  as  modem  good 
faith  and  honesty  render  it  more  useless  than  ever. 

During  the  early  ages  of  the  Church,  butter  was  burned  in  the  lamps 
instead  of  oil.     This  practice  is  still  continued  in  Abyssinia." 

The  cathedral  of  Rouen  has  a  tower,  called  the  ''  Butter  Tower."  It 
acquired  this  name  from  the  fact  that  George  d'Amboise,  who  was  arch- 
bishop of  that  city  in  1500,  seeing  that  oil  was  scarce  in  his  diocese 
during  Lent,  authorised  the  use  of  butter,  on  condition  that  each  diocesan 
should  pay  six  deniers  Toumois  (about  a  farthing)  for  the  permission. 
The  money  obtained  by  these  means  served  to  construct  the  ''  Butter 
Tower."" 

To  obtain  butter  instantly  it  is  only  necessary,  in  summer,  to  put 
new  milk  into  bottles  some  hours  after  it  has  been  taken  from  the  cow, 
and  shake  it  briskly.  The  clots  which  form,  thrown  into  a  sieve,  washed 
and  pressed  together,  constitute  the  finest  and  most  delicate  butter  that 
can  possibly  be  made. 

One  of  the  great  means  of  preserving  butter  fresh  for  any  length  of 
time  is,  first  to  press  all  the  buttermilk  completely  out,  then  to  keep  it 
under  water  (renewing  the  water  frequently),  and  to  abstract  it  firom  the 
influence  of  heat  and  air  by  wrapping  it  in  a  wet  cloth. 

When  butter  has  become  very  rancid,  it  is  melted  several  times  by  a 
moderate  heat,  with  or  without  the  addition  of  water,  and,  as  soon  as  it 
has  been  malaxated,  after  the  cooling,  in  order  to  extract  any  water  it 
may  have  retained,  it  is  put  into  brown  freestone  pots,  sheltered  from  the 
contact  of  the  air.  Frequently,  when  it  is  melted,  a  piece  of  toasted 
bread  is  put  into  it,  which  acts  in  the  same  manner  as  charcoal ;  that  is 
to  say,  it  attenuates  the  rancidity." 


MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS.  1T8 


CHEESE. 

A  demi-god,  AristcBus,  the  son  of  Apollo,  and  King  of  Arcadia, 
invented  cheese,**  and  the  whole  of  Greece  welcomed  with  gratitude  this 
royal  and  almost  divine  present.  Sober  individuals  willingly  ate  some 
at  their  meals  ;**  gluttons  perceived  that  it  sharpened  the  appetite ;  and 
great  drinkers  that  it  provoked  copious  libations.  Thus  the  aged 
Nestor,  wise  as  he  was,  brought  wine  to  Machaon,  who  had  just  been 
wounded  in  the  right  arm,  and  did  not  fail  to  add  to  it  goat  cheese,  and 
an  onion,  to  force  him  to  drink  more.** 

This  food  was  also  well  known  to  the  Hebrews,  and  the  holy  writings 
sometimes  mention  it.*' 

Mare's  milk,  or  that  of  the  ass,  makes  an  excellent  cheese,  but  much 
inferior  to  that  procured  from  the  camel,  for  which  an  epicure  could  not 
pay  too  dearly.  Cow-milk  cheese,  although  more  fat  and  undtuous, 
was  only  considered  as  third-rate.** 

The  Phrygians  made  exquisite  cheese  by  artistically  mixing  the  milk 
of  asses  and  mares.  The  Scythians  only  employed  the  former;  the 
Greeks  imitated  them.**    The  Sicilians  also  mixed  the  milk  of  goats  and 


ewes.** 


The  Bomans  smoked  their  cheeses,  to  give  them  a  sharp  taste ;  they 
possessed  public  places  expressly  for  this  use,  and  subject  to  police 
regulations  which  no  one  could  evade.** 

In  the  time  of  Pliny,  little  goat  cheeses,  which  were  much  esteemed, 
were  sent  every  morning  to  the  market  for  the  sale  of  dainties,  from  the 
environs  of  Rome.*'  With  the  addition  of  a  Utde  bread,  they  formed  the 
breakfast  of  sober  and  delicate  persons.  Asia  Minor,  Tuscany,  the  Alps, 
Gaul,  and  Nimes  especially,  furnished  very  good  ones  for  the  tables  of 
the  Bomans,**  who  sought  in  preference  certain  sweet  and  soft  qualities. 
The  greater  part  of  barbarous  nations  esteemed  only  the  strong  cheese.** 

The  Hebrews,  Greeks,  and  Bomans,  always  kept  some  of  these  last 
for  the  provision  of  their  armies,  and  it  was  among  them  a  military 
aliment.**  The  Athenians  fed  their  wrestlers  with  it,**  and  it  was  the 
sole  treat  of  the  shepherds  of  Italy.** 

The  lower  classes  and  country  people  prepared  with  cheese  and 


174  MILK.  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS." 

various  salted  substances  a  dish  they  thought  most  relishing,  and  which 
epicureans  only  mentioned  wjth  horror.  This  was  called  tyrotarichus^ 
and  Cicero  often  employs  this  word  to  designate  a  frugal  style  of 
cookery." 

Besides  those  countries  celebrated  for  the  goodness  of  cheeses 
already  mentioned,  there  is  Tromelia,  in  Achaia,^^  and  the  Idand  of 
Gythnus,  where  they  represented  their  cheeses  on  their  money,  an 
ingenious  manner  of  making  them  known,  which  succeeded  wonderfully 
trell;  and  lastly,  Salonia,  a  city  of  Bithynia,  renowned  for  its  rich 
pastures,  where  numerous  herds  of  cOws  were  kept,  and  whose  miik 
furnished  an  exquisite  kind  known  by  the  name  of  Saloiiite  cheese."  It 
appears  to  have  been  often  served  to  the  Emperor  Augustus,  who  ate  it 
with  brown  bread,  little  fish,  and  fresh  figs." 

The  art  of  giving  a  reUsh  to  the  cheese,  by  mixing  with  it  odoriferous 
herbs,  is  said  to  be  more  than  nine  hundred  years  old.  This  operation 
was  designated  j9^«t7/er,  showing  that  originally  parsley  was  introduced.*' 
We  cannot  say  whether  the  Romans  made  use  of  this  plant  to  give  a 
pungeficy  to  their  cheese,  but  it  is  certain  that  they  often  mixed  some 
herbs  with  it."  Thus  Columella  informs  us  that  sometimes  the  leaves 
and  small  branches  of  the  fig  tree  were  used  to  communicate,  an 
agreeable  flavour.^  The  same  writer  has  transmitted  to  us  a  very  simple 
process,  much  in  use  in  his  time,  for  preserving  cheese.  They  first 
covered  it  with  brine,  and  then  dried  it  in  a  thick  smoke  obtained  from 
straw  or  green  wood.*' 

The  following  are  some  of  the  dishes  of  which  cheese  served  as  the 
basis : — 

Salad  of  Cheese  h  la  Bithynienne, — Cut  some  slices  of  excellent 
bread ;  leave  them  for  some  time  in  vinegar  and  water ;  then  make  a 
mixture  of  this  bread  with  pepper,  mint,  garlic,  and  green  coriander  ; 
throw  on  it  a  good  quantity  of  cow's  cheese  salted ;  add  water,  oil,  and 


wine. 


Dish  of  Tromelian  Cheese. — Take  fresh  cheese ;  mix  it  well  with 
pepper,  alisander,  dried  mint,  pine  nuts,  sun  raisins,  and  dates ;  then 
add  honey,  vinegar,   and  afterwards,  garum,  oil,   wine,  and  cooked 


69 

wme. 


The  celebrated  cheese  of  Bouergue,  known  under  the  name  of 
"  Roquefort  cheese,"  was  made,  in  the  17th  century  as  follows — we  cite 
from  Marcorelle : — 


MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS.  176 

• 

''  The  cnrd  employed  is  made  from  sheep's  milk,  mixed  with  a  little 
goat's  milk.  It  is  broken  as  small  as  possible.  When  it  is  taken  from 
the  moulds,  it  is  bound  with  a  linen  band  and  taken  to  the  drying  room ; 
then  to  the  caves,  where  it  is  rubbed  with  salt  on  the  two  flat  sides  of 
the  surface.  The  downy  substance  which  subsequently  covers  the  crust 
is  frequently  scraped  off;  after  which,  it  is  left  to  ripen  on  tablets 
exposed  to  currents  of  air  which  proceed  from  the  interstices  of  the 
rocks  in  which  the  caves  are  formed." 

Besides  salt,  employed  as  a  seasoning  and  condiment  for  cheeses, 
they  GonUin  in  their  composition  diibrent  substances  which  give  rise  to 
aa  infinite  T^ety  of  odours,  taste,  and  colour.  In  the  Vosges,  for 
example,  ihej  mix  with  the  cheese  of  Oerardmer  seeds  of  plants 
belonging  to  4he  family  of  umbellifers.;  in  the  country  of  Limburg,  they 
incorporate  chopped  parsley,  scallions,  and  tarragon ;  the  Italians  make 
use  of  saffiron  to  colour  the  Parmesan  cheese,  and  the  English  of  roucou 
for  the  Cheshire  cheese.  Others  are  in  the  habit  of  cutting  away  a  portion 
of  the  middle  of  the  cheese,  and  filling  the  cavity  with  Malaga  or  Canary 
wine." 


EGGS. 

Orpheus,  Pythagoras,  and  their  sectators — good  and  humane  people 
as  ever  lived — unceasingly  recommended  in  their  discourses  to  abstain 
from  eggs,  in  order  not  to  destroy  a  germ  which  nature  had  destined  for 
the  production  of  chicken.^^  Many  allowed  themselves  to  be  persuaded, 
and  would  have  believed  it  an  unpardonable  crime  if  they  had  eaten  a 
tiny  omelette,  or  boiled  eggs. 

Many  of  the  most  learned  philosophers  held  eggs  in  a  kind  of 
respect  approaching  to  veneration,  because  they  saw  in  them  the  emblem 
of  the  world  and  the  four  elements.  The  shell,  they  said,  represented 
the  earth;  the  white,  water;  the  yolk,  fire;  and  air  was  found  under 
the  shell." 

In  India  and  Syria,  there  was  less  scruple  about  swallowing  a  few 
oggs ;  but  the  hens  were  devoutly  worshipped,  because  the  world  is 
indebted  to  them  for  chickens." 

The  Greeks  and  Bomans,  although  more  reasonable,  felt,  however. 


176  MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS. 

for  eggs  a  trifling  weakness  not  exempt  from  superstition.  They  already 
made  use  of  them  in  their  sacrifices,  and  carried  them  with  great  pomp 
in  the  festivals  of  Ceres/'  For  them  it  was  also  a  symbol  of  the 
universe,  and  an  expiation  would  not  have  been  complete  if  some  eggs 
had  not  been  broken  on  the  altar  of  the  irritated  gods.** 

Magicians  and  sorcerers,  who  abounded  in  Some,  estublished  singular 
fables  with  regard  to  eggs.  Livia,  the  happy  consort  of  Nero,  being 
enceinte^  consulted  a  sorceress,  who  said  to  her,  "  warm  in  your  bosom 
a  new  laid  q^^  until  hatched ;  if  a  male  chicken  comes  forth,  thank  the 
gods,  who  will  grant  you  a  son."  The  empress  followed  this  advice ; 
a  cock  chick  came,  and  the  princess  gave  birth  to  Tiberius/'  This 
anecdote  circulated  in  Rome,  and  all  ladies  in  the  same  interesting 
situation,  imitating  Livia,  amused  themselves  with  hatching  chickens. 

It  appears  that  the  egg  played  also  a  most  important  part  in  dreams. 
A  man  having  dreamed  that  he  had  eaten  one,  went  to  consult  a  sooth- 
sayer, who  told  him  that  the  white  signified  he  would  soon  have  silver, 
and  the  yolk  that  he  would  receive  gold.  The  fortunate  dreamer  really 
received  very  soon  afterwards  a  legacy  partly  consisting  of  those  two 
precious  metals.  He  hastened  to  thank  the  diviner,  and  offered  him  a 
piece  of  silver.  "  This  is  very  well  for  the  white,"  said  the  latter,  *'  but 
is  there  nought  for  the  yolk  ?"'°  It  is  not  known  whether  the  heir  was 
generous  enough  to  understand  this  bon  mot. 

All  these  pagan  follies  are  to  be  accounted  for  by  the  doctrine  of  the 
poet  Orpheus,  who  first  taught  the  Greeks  that  a  primitive  egg  had 
produced  all  other  beings;'*  a  very  ancient  idea,  no  doubt,  transmitted 
to  them  by  the  Egyptians,  who,  as  well  as  the  Phoenicians,  Persians, 
and  Chaldeans,  represented  the  world  by  that  symbol. 

It  is  now  time  to  describe  eggs  as  an  aliment. 

The  shepherds  of  Egypt  had  a  singular  manner  of  cooking  them 
without  the  aid  of  fire :  they  placed  them  in  a  sling,  which  they  turned 
so  rapidly  that  the  friction  of  the  air  heated  them  to  the  exact  point 
required  for  use." 

In  Rome  and  in  Greece,  new-laid  eggs  were  served  at  the  beginning 
of  a  repast;"  and  the  Roman  gourmets  asserted  that,  to  maintain 
oneself  in  health,  "  it  was  necessary  to  remain  at  table  from  the  eggto 
the  apple.""  We  have  adopted  the  half  of  that  proverb,  and  we  say 
every  day,  this  story  must  be  taken  up  ab  ovo. 

The  Romans  did  not  confine  themselves  to  hens*  eggs,  of  which  they 


MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS.  177 

preferred  the  long  ones;''  they  sought  those  of  the  partridge  and 
pheasant,  -which  Oa]en  considered  the. most  delicate/*  They  also 
thought  much  of  peacocks'  eggs.  It  was  Quintus  Hortensius  who  set  the 
example  of  this  luxury,''  which,  however,  was  discarded  by  degrees  when 
the  precious  fecundity  of  the  hens  of  Adria  began  to  be  appreciated." 

The  ancients  appear  to  have  been  very  partial  to  soft-boiled  eggs, 
which  may  be  sucked  at  once.  Nicomachus  mentions  them:  ''My 
fkther,"  says  he,  '^  had  left  me  a  poor  little  estate ;  in  a  few  months  I 
made  it  as  round  as  an  egg ;  then,  breaking  the  shell,  I  made  but  one 
gulp  of  it."  '• 

At  Bome,  this  aliment  was  prepared  in  twenty  different  manners ; 
they  pickled  it,*'  cooked  it  in  water,  on  hot  asHes,  on  charcoal,  and  in 
the  firyingpan.  Eggs  eaten  in  the  shell,  however,  were  thought  the  most 
wholesome." 

E^^8  d  la  Romaine. — Cook  some  eggs ;  cut  them,  and  throw  over  a 
seasoning  composed  in  the  following  manner.  Bruise  some  pepper,  ali- 
sander,  coriander,  and  rue,  to  which  add  garum,  honey,  and  a  little  oil." 

Hard  Eggs  a  VAthenienne, — Cut  each  egg  in  four,  and  sprinkle 
over  garum,  oil,  and  wine." 

Fried  Egg»  h  FEpanite, — Fry  some  eggs;  place  them  in  a  dish, 
and  season  with  a  mixture  of  pepper,  alisander,  pine  nuts,  garum,  ben- 
zoin, and  pepper." 

Egyptian  Egg  Pudding. — Take  the  yolks  of  a  good  number  of  hard 
eggs ;  reduce  them  to  a  paste  with  crushed  pine  nuts,  an  onion,  a  leek, 
some  gravy,  and  pepper;  add  a  little  wine  and  garum.  Stuff  an  intestine 
with  this  pulp,  and  cook." 

Dish  of  Eggs  d  la  Macedonienne* — Put  in  a  mortar  some  pepper, 
mint,  parsley,  pennyroyal,  cheese,  and  pine  nuts ;  when  this  is  well 
crushed,  add  honey,  vinegar,  fresh  water,  and  garum;  then  a  large 
number  of  yolks  of  eggs ;  mix  well  with  the  rest ;  throw  the  whole  into 
a  saucepan;  add  bread  soaked  in  vinegar  and  water, — which,  however, 
must  be  well  squeezed  out — ^with  fresh  cowVmilk  cheese,  cucumbers, 
almonds,  chopped  onions,  fowls*  livers,  and  garum." 

Lesbian  Eggs  aux  Roses, — Pluck  the  leaves  of  some  roses ;  take 
only  the  whitest  part,  and  put  them  into  a  mortar  with  garum.  Stir  a 
long  time ;  add  half  a  small  glass  of  gravy ;  stir  and  strain ;  put  into 
this  liquor  the  brains  of  four  fowls  and  eight  scruples  of  ground  pepper ; 
stir  a  long  time;   add  to  it  eight  eggs,  half  a  small  glass  of  wine, 


178  MILK;  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND  EGGS. 

and  as  much  cooked  wine,  and,  lastly,  a  little  oil.  Grease  well  the  iuside 
of  a  disb»  pour  the  whole  into  it»  and  place  it  over  a  very  slow  charcoal 
fire.     Cook,  sprinkle  with  pepper»  and  serve.'' 

It  was  a  custom,  common  to  every  agricultural  population  throughout 
Europe  and  Asia,  to  celebrate  the  new  year  by  eating  eggs;  and  they 
formed  a  part  of  the  presents  made  on  that  day.  Care  was  taken  to  dye 
them  different  colours,  particularly  red— the  favourite  colour  of  the 
ancients,  and  of  the  Celts  in  particular." 

It  appears  that,,  formerly,  people  consumed  an  astonishing  nimdber  of 
eggs  in  England  on  Easter  Sunday.  We  find  the  following  article  in 
an  account  of  expenses  for  the  king's  household  (Edward  I.)  on  the  oc- 
casion of  this  festival  i-^ 

**  For  four  hundred  and  a  half  of  eggs,  eighteen  pence."  "  At  that 
epoch  eggs  were  not  so  dear  in  England  as  they  are  now ;  nor  did  kings 
fail  to  eat  more  of  them. 

In  1533,  a  bishop  of  Paris,  authorised  by  a  bull  from  the  Pope, 
Julius  III.,  being  disposed  to  permit  the  use  of  eggs  during  Lent,  the 
parliament  took  offence,  and  prevented  the  execution  of  the  episcopal 
mandate.  It  is  this  severe  abstinence  from  eggs  during  Lent  which 
gave  rise  to  the  custom  of  having  a  great  number  of  them  blessed  on 
Easter  eve,  to  be  distributed  among  friends  on  Easter  Sunday ;  v^hence 
comes  the  expression,  'Uo  give  Easter  eggs."  Pyramids  of  them  were 
carried  into  the  king^s  cabinet  after  the  high  mass.  They  were  gilded, 
or  admirably  painted,  and  the  prince  made  presents  of  them  to  his 
courtiers.*' 


XIX. 


HUNTING. 


From  the  first  ages  of  the  world  man  has  passionately  loved  the  exercise 
of  hunting;  the  dangers  he  then  encountered  inflamed  his  courage.  It  was 
glorious  to  struggle  with  the  terrible  inhabitants  of  the  forest  or  the 
desert;  to  conquOT  them ;  to  bring  home  their  bleeding  spoils;  to  furnish 
an  heroic  name  for  the  songs  of  poets,  and  the  admiration  of  posterity. 

The  sacred  writings  have  handed  down  to  us  the  name  of  the  first 
mighty  hunter  before  the  Lord  ;^  they  inform  us  that  Ishmael^  in  the 
solitude  of  Arabia,  became  skilful  in  drawing  the  bow ;'  and  that  David, 
when  yet  young,  dared  to  fight  with  lions  and  bears.' 

Fable, i;hat  veiled  light  of  truth,  through  which  it  sometimes  glim- 
mers, caused  Hercules  to  be  ranked  with  the  gods  when  he  had  over- 
thrown the  lion  of  Nemeea,  the  hydra  of  Lema,  and  the  wild  boar  of 
Eryroanthus/ 

Diana  descended  to  the  earth,  and  pursued  in  the  forests  the  timid 
dtag.'  The  Greeks  raised  altars  to  her,  and  the  centaur  Chiron  learned 
of  her  the  noble  art  of  venery,  which  he,  in  his  turn,  taught  to  illus- 
trious disciples,  among  whom  are  mentioned  iBsculapius,  Nestor^  The- 
seus, Ulysses,  and  Achilles/ 

Pollux  trained  the  first  hunting  dogs,  and  Castor  accustomed  horses 
to  follow  the  track  of  wild  beasts.'  From  that  time^  heroes,  when  resting 
from  real  conquestSi  sought  diversion  in  games  nearly  as  formidable,  and 
imitative  of  their  combats,  which  often  placed  their  lives  in  danger. 
Ulysses,  for  example,  always  bore  the  scar  of  a  wound  inflicted  by  a 
irild  boar.* 


180  HUNTING 

The  most  grave  philosophers,  and  the  most  illustrious  poets  have 
bestowed  praises  on  the  chase. 

Aristotle  advised  young  men  to  apply  themselves  to  it  early.'  Plato 
finds  in  it  something  divine/*  Horace  looks  upon  it  as  healthixil  exercise, 
strengthening  to  the  body,  and  preparing  the  way  for  glory ;"  and  in- 
deed, this  heroic  and  royal  exercise^'  always  possessed  irresistible  attrac- 
tion for  the  greatest  men  of  antiquity. 

The  warriors  of  Homer,"  Pelopidas,"  Alexander  of  Macedon," 
Philopcemen,"  seemed  to  derive  from  it  fresh  warlike  ardour. 

The  ancients  hunted  in  the  open  country,  in  forests,  and  in  parks. 
Mounted  on  fiery  steeds,  armed  with  javelins  and  long  cutlasses,  or  with 
swords  and  lances,^^  they  excited  their  indefatigable  hounds,  and  pro- 
mised to  consecrate  to  Diana  the  stag's  horns,  or  the  tusks  of  the  boar," 
which  might  become  their  prey. 

The  Greeks  and  Bomans  reared  hunting  dogs  with  extreme  care, 
and  they  began  to  make  use  of  them  firom  the  age  of  eight  or  ten 
months."  These  animals  had  names,  short,  sonorous,  and  easy  to  be 
pronounced,  such  as  Lance,  Flower,  Blade,  Strength,  Ardent,  &c.'* 

The  strongest  and  most  courageous  came  from  England  and  Scot- 
land ; "  Crete,  Tuscany,  and  Umbria  were  the  nurseries  of  the  most 
expert."  The  Gallic  dogs  surpassed  all  others  by  their  agility  and 
astonishing  swiftness." 

Females  were  generally  preferred  to  the  males,'*  either  because  they 
were  more  docile,  or  pursued  the  game  with  more  ardour  and  persist- 
ence. It  may  be  as  well  to  remark,  too,  in  this  place,  that  the  Greeks 
thought  much  more  of  mares  than  of  horses  for  chariot  racing.'* 

The  dogs  were  always  chained.  Their  liberty  was  only  given  them 
at  the  moment  of  starting  for  the  chase.**  Their  fire  and  ferocity  were 
,  then  incredible.  They  dashed  off*  with  fury,  and  when  they  succeeded 
in  coming  up  with  their  prey,  some  would  sufier  their  legs  to  be  cut  off 
rather  than  loose  their  hold.  The  Indian  dogs,  trained  for  lion  hunting, 
often  gave  this  proof  of  obstinate  and  implacable  rage.'' 

The  ancients  also  took  game  by  means  of  pits  covered  over  with 
brushwood,  in  snares,"  with  traps,"  and  with  nets ;  **  moreover,  they 
often  made  use  of  bows  and  arrows,  and  understood  the  art  of  training 
falcons  and  hawks." 

Eastern  princes  amused  themselves  by  hunting  in  parks  where  a 
great  number  of  wild  beasts  were  kept"    The  Bomans  had  too  much 


HUNTING.  181 

taste  and  money,  and  too  great  a  desire  to  spend  it,  not  to  imitate  this 
expensiye  and  royal  luxury.  Fulvius  Hirpinus  possessed  a  park  of 
forty  acres  near  Yiterbo,  in  Tuscany.  Lucius  Lucullus,  and  Quintus 
Hortensius  hastened  to  create  more  beautiful  ones,  and  they  did  not 
fail  to  have  a  host  of  imitators." 

By  the  Boman  law,  hunting  was  unrestricted  :*^  only,  no  person 
could  pursue  game  on  another's  land  without  the  owner's  permission." 

Besides  the  pleasure  which  this  amusement  afforded,  the  ancients, 
like  ourselves,  discovered  profit  in  it ;  and  the  produce  of  their  chase 
became  one  of  the  finest  ornaments  of  their  feasts*  Isaac  ordered  his 
son  Esau  to  go  out  with  his  weapons,  his  quiver  and  bow,  and  to  pre- 
pare for  him  savoury  meat,  such  as  he  loved  (venison)*"  Solomon 
had  stags,  roebucks,  and  wild  oxen  served  on  his  table  every  day/^ 

Cyrus,  King  of  Persia,  ordered  that  venison  should  never  be  wanting 
at  his  repasts."  Is  it  necessary  to  add  that  it  was  the  delight  of  two 
nations  the  most  gastronomic  in  the  world  ? — of  the  effeminate  Greeks, 
and  more  especially  those  Romans  for  whom  the  animals  of  the  earth, 
ocean,  and  air  were  only  to  be  valued  in  proportion  to  the  impossibility 
of  obtaining  them  in  Europe,  Asia,  and  Africa;  an  immense  inheritance, 
conquered  by  noble  ancestors,  and  which  their  degenerated  sons  ran* 
sacked  for  their  satisfaction  and  insatiable  gluttony." 

The  English  have  always  loved  hunting — the  favourite  pastime  of 
their  kings. 

Alfred  the  Great  was  not  twelve  years  old  when  he  had  acquired 
the  reputation  of  being  a  skilful  and  indefatigable  hunter.^* 

The  noble  and  the  wealthy  differed  from  the  serfs  by  their  singular 
taste  for  this  royal  diversion ;  and,  in  their  pursuit  of  it,  they  spared 
neither  pains  nor  expense  in  procuring  those  famous  dogs  of  pure  race 
which  the  ancient  Greeks  and  Romans  prized  so  highly.  When 
Athelstan,  Alfred's  grandson,  had  subdued  Gonstantine,  King  of  Wales, 
he  imposed  an  annual  tribute.  The  vanquished  monarch  had  to  give 
him  gold,  silver,  cattle,  and,  which  is  remarkable,  a  certain  number 
of  hawks,  and  dogs  possessing  a  quick  scent,  and  capable  of  unkenneling 
wild  beasts.*'  Edgar^  the  successor  of  Athelstan,  changed  the  tribute 
of  money  into  an  annual  tribute  of  three  hundred  wolves'  skins.*' 

Notwithstanding  his  great  piety,  and  the  extreme  reserve  of  his 
habits,  Edward  the  Confessor  took  great  delight  in  following  the  hounds, 
and  exciting  their  ardour  by  his  cries.*' 


182  HUNTING. 

King  Harold  never  appeared  anywhere  without  his  favourite  hawk 
on  his  hand ;  neither  was  the  approach  of  the  British  Nimrod  annouuoed 
otherwise  than  by  the  joyous  barking  of  the  royal  pack/*  Indeed,  at 
that  epoch,  every  person  of  distinction  took  the  prince  as  his  model, 
and  gave  himself  Up,  heart  and  soul,  to  what  people  are  pleased  to  call 
•*  the  noble  exercise  of  hunting." 

This  aristocratic  taste  became  so  extremely  prevalent  under  the 
domination  of  the  Norman  kings,  that  a  writer  of  the  twelfth  century 
has  judged  it  with  great  severity.  "In  our  time/'  be  says,  "hunting 
is  considered  as  the  most  honourable  occupation,  the  most  excelleiit 
virtue.  Our  nobility  show  more  solicitude,  sacrifice  more  money,  and 
make  a  greater  parade  in  favour  of  it,  than  they  would  if  the  question 
were  war.  They  are  more  furious  in  the  pursuit  of  wild  beasts,  than 
they  would  be  if  they  had  to  conquer  the  enemies  of  Great  Britain. 
As  a  necessary  consequence,  th<ey  no  longer  retain  any  sentiment  of 
humanity;  they  have  descended  almost  to  the  level  of  the  savage 
animals  they  are  in  the  daily  habit  of  tracking  and  unkenneling.*'  ** 

These  uncomplimentary  observations  of  John  of  Salisbury^ did  not 
prevent  James  I.  from  pursuing  the  cherished  diversion  of  his  preder- 
eessovs.  That  prince  being  one  day  at  the  hunt  in  the  environs  of 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  remarked,  among  the  persons  composing  his  sulfee, 
an  opulent  citizen  magnificently  dressed,  whose  rich  costume  eclipsed 
that  of  the  lords  the  most  renowned  at  court  for  the  elegance  of  theit 
attire.  The  king  asked  who  the  hunter  was.  Some  one  replied  that  it 
was  Lamb.  "  Lamb,  say  you  ?  "  rejoined  the  king,  laughing ;  "  I  don't 
know  what  sort  of  a  lamb  that  may  be ;  but  what  I  know  well  i$,  that 
he  has  got  a  superb  fleece  on  his  back.' 


I*  4S 


THE  STAG. 

Roman  ladies  of  the  highest  distinction,  arrived  at  that  ago  when,  in 
making  an  estimate  of  life,  it  is  found  that  the  largest  portion  belongs  to 
the  past — these  ladies,  we  say,  failed  not  to  have  the  flesh  of  this  animal 
served  on  their  tables,  and  to  eat  as  much  of  it  as  possible.  Perchance 
it  had  but  a  slight  attraction  for  the  worthy  matrons,  and  yet  th^  pre- 
ferred it  to'  every  other,  for  this  reason,  that  the  stag  being  fwe  from 


HUNTING.  18$ 

iiHiladies  and  infirmities —at  least  so  it  was  thought — ^prolongs  iis  exist- 
ence far  bejond  the  bounds  which  nature  has  assigned  to  other  beings.*' 
The  noble  patrician  ladies  would  not  have  been  sorry  to  survive  their 
great-grandchildreUy  and  they  took  the  means  which  appeared  to  them 
most  likely  to  ensure  longevity/* 

If  the  celebrated  Galen  had  lived  in  their  time,  he  would  have  told 
those  credulous  Boman  ladies,  that  this  kind  of  food  could  not  fail  to  be 
hurtful  to  them ;  that  this  indigestible  and  heatiug  meat  is  more  likely 
lo  provoke  disease  than  to  dei^roy  its  germ ;  and  that,  consequently, 
death  finds  in  it  an  auxiliary  rath»  than  an  enemy/' 

Tme,  the  oraole  of  Pergama  wrote  nearly  all  this  a  century  later,  and 
yet  his  medical  authority  was  powerless  to  persuade,  although  it  may 
have  convinced  the  obstinate  epicureans  of  his  peripd. 

In  point  of  fiict,  whatever  Galen  may  say,  what  dreadful  accidents 
can  a  piece  of  stag  properly  cooked  produce  ?  Moses,  so  attentive  to  the 
health  of  his  people,  allows  them  the  use  of  it  ;*'  Solomon,  the  wisest  of 
men,  ate  it  every  day/^  Do  we  find  that  the  Jewish  monarch  and  his 
people  were  any  the  woise  for  preferring  this  food  ? 

At  Athens,  at  IU>me,  and  in  all  Italy,  whoever  possessed  the  intelli^ 
gence  of  appreciating  good  cheer,  took  care  to  ofier  to  his  fidenda  th^ 
shoulder  or  fillet  of  stag."  Nevertheless,  gastronomists  by  profession, 
who  so  generously  devoted  their  fortunes  to  the  service  of  the  ciilinarj 
art,  abandoned  the  whole  animal  to  their  slaves,  and  only  reserved  for 
themselves  the  most  tender  shoots  of  the  horns.  These  were  for  a  long 
time  boiled,  then  cut  into  very  small  pieces,  and  this  strange  dish,  sea* 
soned  with  a  mixture  of  pepper,  cammiB,  savory,  rue,  parsley,  bay 
leaves,  fat,  and  |»Qe  nuts,  sprinkled  with  vinegar,  and  fiied,  passed  Sox 
an  exquisite  and  dainty  treat,  worthy  of  t<be  most  flattering  praise^/* 

Quarter  of  Stag,  roast  h  la  Nemeenne. — Put  into  a  saucepan 
pepper,  alisander,  carrots,  wild  marjoram,  parsley  seed,  benzoin  root,  and 
fennel  seed ;  add  garum,  wine,  cooked  wine,  and  a  little  oil.  Boil  over 
a  slow  fire,  thicken  with  fine  fiour,  pour  on  the  roast  stag,  and  serve/^ 

Shoulder  of  Stag  h  t  Hortengius.-^^Cook  in  a  saucepan  carrots, 
alisander,  with  pepper  and  parsley  seed.  Add  honey,  garum,  vinegar, 
and  luke*wann  oil ;  thicken  with  fine  flour,  and  pour  this  sauo9  on  the 
riioulder  of  stag  when  roasted." 

FUlei  of  Stag  a  la  Persane — Boast  it,  and  at  the  moment  of 
placing  it  on  the  table,  cover  it  with  a  seaaqniiig  of  p^per,  a]i8ander« 


184  HUNTING. 

scallions,  wild  maijoram^  onions,  and  pine  nuts^  previously  mixed  with 
honey^  garum,  mustard,  vinegar,  and  oil*** 


THE  ROEBUCK. 

The  flesh  of  the  roebuck,  according  to  Galen,  has  none  of  the  bad 
qualities  which  he  attributes  to  that  of  the  stag."  Esculapius  and 
Gomus  for  this  once  agreed — ^which  very  seldom  happened— in  praising 
the  beneficial  properties  and  the  delicious  odour  of  these  timid  qua- 
drupeds. 

The  Oreeks  thought  much  of  the  roebuck ;  they  obtained  the  best 
fix)m  the  island  of  Melos,"  and  served  them  at  their  most  sumptuous 
repasts/'    They  were,  perhaps,  more  rarely  seen  on  Roman  tables. 

Roebuck  with  Spikenard. — ^Pound,  in  a  mortar,  pepper,  parsley  seed, 
dry  onion,  and  green  rue ;  add  spikenard,*  and  then  honey,  vinegar, 
garum,  dates,  cooked  wine,  and  oil ;  mix  well  the  whole,  and  cover  the 
roast  with  it/' 

Roebuck  aux  Prunes. — Mix  pepper,  alisander,  and  parsley,  after 
having  pounded  them.  Add  to  this  a  good  quantity  of  Damascus 
plums,  which  you  have  soaked  in  hot  water.  Then  add  honey,  wine, 
vinegar,  garum,  and  a  little  oil ;  and,  lastly,  leeks  and  savory.  Serve 
the  roebuck  with  this  sauce/^ 

Roebuck  aux  Amandes  de  Pin. — ^Bruise  pepper,  alisander,  parsley, 
and  cummin;  mix  with  it  a  great  quantity  of  fried  pine  nuts;  and  add 
honey,  vinegar,  wine,  a  little  oil,  and  garum.   Pour  it  over  the  roebuck." 


THE  DEER. 

Little  need  be  said  with  regard  to  this  charming  animal,  whose 
slender  and  graceful  form  was  the  admiration  of  those  who  visited  the 
parks  of  Lucullus  and  Hirpinus.  Its  flesh  was  thought  to  be  less 
wholesome  than  that  of  the  roebuck,  because  it  was  found  to  be  less 


HUNTING.  185 

succulent."    Apicius  has  consecrated  to  it  four  culinary  recipes,  all  very 
similar. 

Deer  h  la  Marcellus, — Put  into  a  saucepan  pepper,  gravy,  rue,  and 
onions ;  add  honey,  garum,  cooked  wine,  and  a  little  oil.  Boil  very  slowly, 
thicken  with  flour,  and  pour  the  whole  on  the  deer  when  roasted/* 


THE  WILD  BOAR. 

It  was  in  the  year  63  before  the  Christian  era :  the  consul  Marcus 
Tullius  Cicero  had  just  accused  and  convicted  Catilina,  and  Rome,  free 
from  present  danger^  had  forgotten  all  transitory  solicitudes  of  the  past 
to  welcome  joyous  banquetings. 

A  worthy  citizen,  excellent  patriot,  distinguished  gastronomist,  and 
possessor  of  an  immense  fortune,  of  which  he  made  the  best  use  (at  least 
so  said  several  choice  epicures,  his  habitual  guests),  Survilius  BuUus — 
such  was  his  name — thought  of  celebrating  by  an  extraordinary  banquet 
the  triumph  of  the  illustrious  consul,  and  the  dehverance  of  the  country. 
His  cook,  a  young  Sicilian  slave  of  the  greatest  promise,  and  whose 
mode  of  cooking  a  dish  of  sows'  paps  procured  him  one  day  a  smile  of 
approbation  from  Lucullus,  succeeded  especially  in  those  eminent  per- 
formances which  command  the  admiration  of  the  guests,  and  give  new 
strength  to  their  exhausted  appetites. 

BuUus  sent  for  him,  and  spoke  thus :  "  BecoUect  that  in  three  days 
Cicero  will  sup  here :  let  the  feast  be  worthy  of  him  who  gives  it." 

The  Sicilian  even  surpassed  himself.  As  soon  as  the  guests  had 
tasted  the  enticing  delicacies  of  the  first  course,  the  hall  echoed  with  an 
unanimous  concert  of  applause,  and  the  proud  Amphitryon,  intoxicated 
with  joy,  was  going  to  ask  that  a  crown  might  be  presented  to  his 
beloved  slave,**  when  the  cook  appeared,  followed  by  four  Ethiopians, 
who  gracefully  carried  a  silver  vase  of  prodigious  dimensions,  in  the 
shape  of  a  large  mortar.  This  extraordinary  dish  contained  a  wild 
boar;  baskets  of  dates  were  suspended  to  his  tusks,  and  charming  little 
wild  boars,  in  exquisite  pastry,  no  doubt — ^for  never  was  there  a  more 
tempting  culinary  exhalation — artistically  surrounded  the  enormous 
animal."     Every  voice  was  hushed;  the  guests  waited  in  silence  the 

M 


186  HUNTING. 

most  profound.*^  The  tables  of  the  second  serrioe  were  placed  ronnd 
the  guests,  who  raised  themselves  on  the  couches  with  greedy  curiosity. 
The  blacks  deposited  the  precious  burden  before  another  domestic,  a 
skilful  carver,  who  opened  the  wild  boar  with  incredible  dexterity  and 
precision,  and  presented  to  the  astonished  eyes  of  Bullus  and  his  friends 
a  second  entire  animal,  and  in  this  a  third ;  then  came  fresh  delicacies, 
all  gradually  diminishing  in  size,  until,  at  length,  a  delicious  little  fig- 
pecker  terminated  this  series  of  strange  viands,  of  which  Rome,  won- 
dering and  astonished,  long  preserved  the  gastronomic  remembrance/' 

Man  seldom  prescribes  to  himself  reasonable  hmits  in  the  vast  field 
of  vanity  and  ostentation.  At  first  it  was  thoiSght  an  enviable  boldness 
to  have  dared  to  serve  an  entire  boar  of  a  large  size.  Every  one  did  the 
same  thing,  and  at  length  it  became  quite  common.  It  was  necessary 
then  to  do  better.  One  thought  of  having  three  at  the  same  time ; 
another  had  four  ;  and  soon  the  extravagant — and  they  were  not  few — 
caused  eight  wild  boars  &  la  Troyenne  to  appear  at  a  single  repast.'* 
The  Macedonian,  Caranus,  a  man  of  spirit  and  of  merit,  placed  himself 
at  once  on  an  eminence  which  baffled  rivalry.  He  invited  twenty  guests 
to  his  wedding,  and  he  had  twenty  wild  boars  served.^' 

It  must  be  confessed  that  such  magnificence  rather  resembles  folly  ; 
but,  alas  !  has  not  every  nation  its  failings  ?  Besides,  the  flesh  of  the 
wild  boar  enjoyed  an  astonishing  reputation  in  Rome  and  Greece/*  and 
no  one  could,  with  credit  to  himself,  receive  his  friends  at  his  table 
without  presenting  them  with  the  fashionable  dish, — the  animal  appointed 
by  nature  to  appear  at  banquets." 

At  length,  however,  they  began  to  tire  of  this  enormous  dish ;  they 
divided  it  into  three  portions,  and  the  middle  piece  obtained  the  pre- 
ference." Ultimately  they  served  only  the  fillet  and  head ;  the  latter  of 
which  was  more  particularly  esteemed  by  the  Romans.^* 

The  Greeks  tried  their  appetites  by.  tasting  the  liver,  which  was 
served  at  the  first  course." 

The  Romans  sought  to  deprive  the  wild  boar  of  its  terrible  ferocity  ; 
they  raised  them  on  their  farms,"  and  sometimes  they  acquired  enormous 
proportions.  These  immense  beasts  weighed  no  less  than  a  thousand 
pounds."  But  delicate  connoisseurs  had  always  the  wisdom  to  prefer  the 
dangerous  inhabitant  of  the  forest  to  these  bloated  victims  of  enervating 
domesticity/'  whose  insipid  and  degenerate  flavour  hardly  betrayed  their 
origin. 


HUNTING.  187 

The  wild  boar  was  generally  served  surrounded  by  pyramids  of 
fruits  and  lettuces/* 

Wild  Boar  d  la  Pomp4e. — Clean  and  salt  a  wild  boar,  cover  it  with 
cummin ;  let  it  remain  in  salt  duriug  twenty-four  hours ;  then  roast  it ; 
sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  serve  with  a  seasoning  of  honey,  garum,  sweet 
and  cooked  wine." 

Quarter  of  Wild  Boar  d  la  Thebaine. — Cook  it  in  sea  water  with 
bay  leaves.  When  very  tender  take  off  the  skin,  and  serve  with  salt 
mustard,  and  vinegar." 

Fillel  of  Wild  Bpar  a  la  Macedonienne. — Pound  pepper,  alisander, 

wild  marjoram,  skinned  myrtle  leaves,  coriander,  and  onions ;  add  hooey, 

wine,  garum,  and  a  little  oil.     This  seasoning  must  be  submitted  to  a 

'  gentle  fire ;  thicken  with  flour,  and  pour  the  whole  over  the  wild  boar  as 

you  draw  it  from  the  oven." 

Wild  Boar's  Liver  a  la  Grecque, — Fry  it,  and  serve  with  a  season- 
ing of  pepper,  cummin,  parsley  seed,  mint,  thyme,  savory,  and  roasted 
pine  nuts  ;  to  which  add  honey,  wine,  garum,  vinegar,  and  a  Uttle  oil.*' 

Wild  Boars  Head  a  la  Cantabre. — Make  the  seasoning  in  the 
following  manner :  mix  well,  pepper,  alisander,  parsley  seed,  mint,  thyme, 
and  roasted  pine  nuts ;  add  wine,  vinegar,  garum,  and  a'htUe  oil ;  after- 
wards onions  and  rue  ;  thicken  with  whites  of  eggs ;  boil  over  a  slow  fire, 
and  stir  gently." 

Oreen  Ham  of  Wild  Boar  a  la  Gauloise^ — Insert  a  long  and  narrow 
blade  at  the  joint,  and  carefully  separate  the  skin  from  the  flesh,  so  that 
the  latter  may  be  well  covered  with  the  following  seasoning:  pound 
pepper,  bay  leaves,  rue,  and  benzoin ;  add  to  it  some  excellent  gravy, 
cooked  wine,  and  a  little  oil;  Fill  the  ham,  close  the  opening,  and  then  ' 
cook  it  in  sea  water,  with  some  tender  shoots  of  laurel  and  dill." 

Under  the  Norman  kings  the  wild  boar's  head  was  considered  a  noble 
dish,  worthy  of  the  sovereign's  table.  This,  we  are  told,  was  brought  to 
the  king's  table  with  the  trumpeters  sounding  their  trumpets  before  it  in 
procession.  "For,"  says  Holinshed,  "  upon  the  day  of  coronation  (of 
young  Henry),  King  Henry  II.,  his  father,  served  him  at  table  as  sewer, 
bringing  up  the  bore's  head  with  trumpetes  afore  it,  according  to  the 
ancient  manner." — Strott,  ''Manners  and  Customs^  No\  ii.,  p.  19. 

"A  very  small  consumption  is  made  of  the  old  wild  boar ;  the  flesh  is 
hard,  dry,  and  heavy  ;  the  head  only  is  good.  The  young  wild  boar  is 
a  fine  and  delicate  game,  also,  when  a  year  old.   The  ancients  submitted 

m2 


188  HUNTING. 

those  they  could  take  away  from  their  mother  to  castration^  and  left  them 
afterwards  to  run  about  the  woods,  where  these  animals  became  larger 
than  the  others,  and  acquired  a  savour  and  flavour  which  made  them 
preferable  to  the  pigs  we  rear." — Sonnini. 


THE  HARK 

Plutarch  contends  that  the  Jews  abstained  from  eating  the  hare,  not 
because  they  thought  it  unclean,  but  because  it  resembled  the  ass,  which 
they  revered."  This  is  only  a  pleasantry  on  the  part  of  the  celebrated 
writer,  with  no  other  foundation  than  the  fabulous  tale  of  the  grammarian 
Apion,  who  asserts  in  his  book  against  the  Jews  that  they  preserved  in 
Jerusalem  an  ass's  head,  which  they  adored.*'  We  know  that  a  sanitary 
motive  was  the  cause  of  this  animal  being  interdicted  to  the  Israelites  ;'* 
and  it  -has  been  also  remarked  that  the  ancient  Britons  abstained 
from  it."' 

This  mammlfer,  everywhere  very  common,  swarmed  in  the  East,  if 
we  are  to  believe  Xenophon,  who  saw  a  great  number  of  them  when 
marching  with  his  troops  to  join  young  Cyrus.'*  Greece  was  abundantly 
stocked  with  them  :"  the  inhabitants  of  islands  of  the  ^gean  sea  had 
more  than  once  to  deplore  the  ravages  which  hunger  caused  these  timid 
animals  to  commit,  and  whose  fecundity  they  cursed. 

Hegesander  relates  that,  under  the  reign  of  Antigonus,  an  inhabitant  of 
the  island  of  Anaphe  brought  two  hares  into  the  neighbourhood.  Their 
posterity  became  so  numerous  that  the  people  were  obliged  to  implore  the 
gods  to  preserve  the  harvest,  and  to  annihilate  their  formidable  enemies. 
As  the  immortals  turned  a  deaf  ear  to  these  complaints,  recourse  was 
had  to  Apollo  alone,  and  the  Pythonissa  deigned  to  return  this  oracle  : 
"  Train  hunting  dogs,  and  they  will  exterminate  the  hares."  "  The  advice 
was  good,  and  deemed  worthy  of  being  adopted. 

The  Greeks  esteemed  highly  the  flesh  of  this  quadruped,  which  was 
served  roasted,  but  almost  bleeding,"  or  made  into  deUcious  pies/^  much  in 
vogue  in  the  time  of  Aristophanes.'*  Hippocrates  had,  however,  for- 
bidden the  use  of  it  "The  hare,"  said  he,  "  thickens  the  blood,  and  causes 
cruel  wakefulness;""  but  epicurism  will  always  think  lightly  of  Hygeian 


HUNTING.  189 

precepts  which  do  not  accord  with  its  own  ideas.  At  all  events,  Galen 
was  not  of  the  same  opinion  as  his  colleague/^  and  Galen  must  be  right. 

The  Emperor  Alexander  Severus  eat  a  hare  at  each  of  his  repasts.'* 
Perhaps  that  prince  shared  the  opinion  of  the  Romans,  who  thought 
that  a  person  who  fed  on  hare  for  seven  consectuive  days  became 
fresher,  fatter,  and  more  beautiful.  A  lady,  named  Gellia,  had  a  large 
share  of  that  unfortunate  gift  of  nature  which  we  call  ugliness.  She 
resolved  to  make  a  trial  of  this  regimen,  and  submitted  to  it  with  a  re- 
gularity really  exemplary.  She  showed  herself  at  the  end  of  the  week, 
and  we  are  informed  that  no  one  thought  her  any  the  prettier  for  it." 

The  epicures  of  Home  contented  themselves  with  eating  the  shoulder 
of  the  hare,  and  left  the  remainder  to  less  fastidious  guests. 


100 


THE  RABBIT. 

r 

''The  conies  are  but  feeble  folks,  yet  make  they  their  houses  in  the 
rocks."  ^'^  They  taught  mankind,  it  is  said,  the  art  of  fortification, 
mining,  and  covered  roads."'  These  skilful  engineers  come  originally 
from  warm  climates  ;  from  Africa,  perhaps,  whence  they  were  brought 
to  Spain. 

They  there  became  so  numerous,  and  dug  so  well  their  holes  beneath 
the  houses  of  Tarragona,  that  that  city  was  completely  overthrown,  and 
the  greater  part  of  the  inhabitants  buried  beneath  its  ruins."' 

Catullus  calls  Spain  Cuniculosa  Celtiheria  (Celtiberian  rabbit  war- 
ren) ;  and  two  medals,  struck  in  the  reign  of  Adrian,  represent  that 
peninsula  under  the  form  of  a  beautiful  woman,  clothed  in  a  robe  and 
mantle,  with  a  rabbit  at  her  feet.  This  animal  was  called  in  Hebrew, 
SapAan,  of  which  the  Phoenicians  have  made  Sfania^  and  the  Latins 

Strabo  relates  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  Balearic  Islands,  despairing 
of  being  able  to  oppose  the  extraordinary  propagation  of  rabbits,  -^ich 
nearly  rendered  their  country  uninhabitable,  sent  ambassadors  to 
Rome  to  implore  assistance  against  this  new  kind  of  enemy."'  Augustus 
furnished  them  with  troops,  and  the  Boman  arms  were  once  more 
victorious."* 

Aristotle  says  nothing  of  the  rabbit,  which,  probably,  was  then  little 


I  do  HUNTING. 

knowo  Id  Greece.  It  afterwards  became  oommon  enoughi  and  that  of 
Macedonia,  in  particular,  found  favour  at  tables  renowned  for  delicacies.^*' 
Tbe  Bomans,  those  bold  innovators  in  cookery^  so  desirous  of  strange 
and  unheard  of  dishes,  would  only  consent  to  eat  rabbits  on  condition 
of  their  being  killed  before  they  had  left  off  sucking,  or  taken  alive 
from  the  slaughtered  mother,  to  be  immediately  transferred  to  the  ardent 
stoves  of  their  kitchens/*^*  It  was  certainly  reserved  for  that  people  to 
frighten  tbe  world  by  all  kinds  of  culinary  anomalies. 


THE  FOX. 

A  young  fox,  fattened  on  grapes,  and  roasted  on  the  spit,  is  a  tid- 
bit for  a  king  during  the  autumn.^*'  Such  was  the  idea  of  the  Roman 
peasants ;  but  we  must  be  allowed,  however,  to  differ  from  their  opinion. 


THE  HEDGEHOG. 

The  Greeks  willingly  eat  the  hedgehog  "*  in  a  ragout — a  dish  the 
Romans  never  envied  them. 


THE  SQUIRREL. 

This  charming  little  animal,  which  ought  never  to  please  but  when 
alive,  often  appeared  at  Rome  among  the  most  elegant  dishes  of  the 
feast.^^^  At  first  it  was  only  eaten  by  caprice :  unfortunately  for  the 
little  animal,  it  was  found  to  be  very  nice. 


THE  CAMEL. 

Aristotle  gives  the  greatest  praise  to  the  flesh  of  this  useful  animal, 
and  places  it  without  hesitation  above  the  most  delicate  viands.*''    The 


HUNTING.  191 

Greeks,  his  countrymen,  thought  it  worthy  of  being  roasted  for  the 
table  of  soyereigns,"'  and  the  inhabitants  of  Persia  and  Egypt  partook 
of  the  same  enthusiasm.  Borne  thought  the  camel  fit  for  the  solitude 
of  the  Desert^  but  not  for  the  ornament  of  banquets ;  and  really,  for 
this  once,  Rome  appears  to  have  been  right. 

*'  The  flesh  of  the  young  dromedary  is  as  good  as  that  of  veal,  and  the 
Arabs  make  of  it  their  common  food.  They  preserve  it  in  vases,  which 
they  cover  with  fat.  They  make  butter  and  cheese  with  the  milk  of 
the  female." — Dksmarest. 

The  ancients,  in  their  wars,  made  use  of  dromedaries.  The  soldiers 
when  upon  these  animals  formed  a  particular  militia.  In  the  Egyptian 
expedition  Bonaparte  renewed  this  ancient  custom,  and  that  cavalry 
caused  a  great  deal  of  injury  to  the  Bedouins  and  Arabs.  Besides  the 
rider,  each  dromedary  carried  provisions  and  munitions  of  war. 


^raE  ELEPHANT. 

Certain  wandering  tribes  of  Asia  and  Africa  were  thought  formerly 
to  be  very  fond  of  grilled  elephant."*  The  Egyptians  went  so  far  in 
their  pursuit  of  this  delicacy,  that  the  King  Ptolemy  Philadelphus  was 
forced  to  forbid  them,  under  pain  of  the  most  severe  laws,  to  kill  one  of 
these  animals,  whose  number  diminished  every  day.  The  law  was  dis- 
regarded,  and  the  elephant  only  possessed  greater  attractions  for  them."' 

In  our  days,  also,  some  semi-savage  nations  partake  of  the  same 
taste.  Le  Vaillant,  a  celebrated  traveller,  and  a  most  distinguished 
gastronomist,  tells  us  that  the  first  time  he  partook  of  an  elephant*s 
trunk,  which  was  served  him  by  the  Hottentots,  he  resolved  that  it 
should  not  be  the  last ;  for  nothing  appeared  to  him  of  a  more  exqui- 
site flavour."*  But  he  reserves  his  greatest  praises  for  the  foot  of  the 
colossal  quadruped.     We  will  let  him  speak  for  himself: — 

**  They  cut  ofi*  the  four  feet  of  the  animal,  and  made  in  the  earth  a 
hole  about  three  feet  square.  This  was  filled  with  live  charcoal,  and, 
covering  the  whole  with  very  dry  wood,  a  large  fire  was  kept  up  during 
part  of  the  night.  When  they  thought  that  the  hole  was  hot 
enough,  it  was  emptied :  a  Hottentot  then  placed  within  it  the  four 


192  HUNTING. 

feet  of  the  animal,  covered  them  with  hot  ashes,  and  then  with  charcoal 
and  small  wood ;  and  this  fire  was  left  burning  until  the  morning.  *  *  * 
My  servants  presented  me  at  breakfast  with  an  elephant's  foot  It  had 
considerably  swelled  in  the  cooking ;  I  could  hardly  recognise  the  shape, 
but  it  appeared  so  good,  exhaled  so  inviting  an  odour,  that  I  hastened 
to  taste  it.  It  was  a  dish  for  a  king.  Although  I  had  often  heard  the. 
bear's  foot  praised,  I  could,  not  conceive  how  so  heavy,  so  material  an 
animal  as  the  elephant,  could  ftimish  a  dish  so  fine  and  delicate.  *  *  * 
And  I  devoured,  without  bread,  my  elephant's  foot,  while  my  Hottentots, 
seated  around  me,  regaled  themselves  with  other  parts,  which  they  found 
equally  delicious."  "' 

The  Bomans  never  evinced  fondness  for  the  flesh  of  the  elephant. 
This  animal,  with  its  gigantic  proportions  and  rare  intelligence,  was 
found  to  be  so  amusing  to  the  nation  of  kings,  when  dancing  on  the 
tight  rope,*"  or  in  the  terrible  combats  of  the  Circus,"*  that  they  hardly 
thought  of  roasting  it,  or  making  it  into  fricassees.  We  cannot,  how- 
ever, affirm  that  the  gastronomic  eccentricity  of  some  Roman  epicure 
did  not  dream  of  a  monstrous  feast,  in  which  he  may  have  offered  to  his 
guests  an  elephant  &  la  Troyenne  on  a  silver  dish,  made  purposely  for 
the  occasion. 


XX 


FEATHERED    GAME. 


Moses  permitted  his  people  to  eat  game,  with  the  exception  of  birds  of 
prey  and  some  other  species  whose  flesh  appeared  to  him  hard  and 
unwholesome.' 

The  Egyptians  piously  offered  to  their  priests  the  most  delicate  birds, 
which  they  willingly  accepted,  and  eat,  in  order  not  to  weaken  their 
intelligence  by  the  use  of  more  simple  and  heavy  food.' 

Among  the  Greeks,  at  the  commencement  of  the  repast,  little  birds 
were  served  roasted,  on  which  was  poured  a  boiling  sauce,  composed  of 
scraped  cheese,  oil,  vinegar,  and  silphium.' 

Feathered  game  appeared  in  Italy  only  at  the  second  course.  The 
Bomans  were  very  partial  to  it,  and  many  epicureans,  possessing  strange 
tastes,  found  means  to  ruin  themselves  by  eating  pheasants  and 
flamingoes. 

The  celebrated  comedian,  ^sopus,  whom  Cicero  thought  worthy  of 
being  his  master  in  the  art  of  declamation,  had  one  day  the  fancy  to 
regale  himself  with  a  dish  of  birds,  the  whole  of  which,  when  living,  had 
both  learned  to  sing  and  speak.^  This  gluttony  of  a  new  kind  cost  him 
very  dear,  and  the  supper  of  the  barbarian  was  not  any  the  better 
for  it. 

Some  modem  nations — the  French  among  others — formerly  eat  the 
heron,  crane,  crow,  stork,  swan,  cormorant,  and  bittern ;  the  first  three 
especially  were  highly  esteemed,  and  Taillevant,  cook  of  Charles 
YII.,  teaches  us  how  to  prepare  these  meagre,  tough  birds.  Belon 
says  that,  in  spite  of  its  revolting  taste  when  unaccustomed  to  it,  the 
bittern  is,  however,  among  the  delicious  treats  of  the  French.*    This 


194  FEATHERBD  GAME. 

writer  asserts  also  that  a  falcon,  or  a  vulture,  either  roasted  or  boiled, 
is  excellent  eating ;  and  that  if  one  of  these  birds  happened  to  kill 
itself  in  flying  after  the  game,  the  falconer  instantly  cooked  it.  Liebaut 
calls  the  heron  a  royal  viand ! 

These  same  men  who  eat  vultures,  herons,  and  cormorants,  did  not 
touch  young  game:  they  thought  it  indigestible;  and,  for  instance, 
abstained  from  leverets  and  partridges. 

The  internal  parts  being  the  first  to  corrupt,  the  ancients  carefully 
drew  the  game  they  wished  to  preserve.  That  done,  they  filled  the 
inside  with  wheat  or  oats,  and  then  placed  it  in  the  midst  of  a  heap  of 
flour  or  grain,  with  the  feathers  or  hair  on. 

Thus  protected  from  the  contact  of  the  air  or  insects,  the  game 
kept  remarkably  well. 


THE  PHEASANT. 

Tlie  Argonauts  discovered  this  magnificent  bird  on  the  shores  of 
Phasis,  a  celebrated  river  of  Colchis,  and  introduced  it  into  Greece, 
where  it  was  unknown.'  This  tradition,  sung  by  the  poets,'  has  only 
met  with  one  contradictor,  Isidorus,*  who  pretends  that  the  pheasant  is 
a  native  of  an  island  of  Greece,  called  Phasis. 

All  nations  soon  hastened  to  receive  it  with  the  favour  its  rich 
plumage  and  the  exquisite  delicacy  of  its  flesh  deserve.  Carried  in 
cages  composed  of  precious  wood,  it  adorned  the  triumphal  march  of 
Ptolemy  Philadelphus,  at  his  entry  into  Alexandria.'  Ptolemy  Ever- 
getes,  successor  to  that  prince,  caused  pheasants  to  be  sent  from  Media, 
which  he  destined  for  his  aviary ;  and  he  never  eat  them,  so  much  did 
he  dread  the  idea  of  diminishing  their  number/^  But,  alas!  custom 
and  time,  those  jealous  enemies  of  the  greatest  glories,  eventually  put 
an  end  to  that  The  unfortunate  creature  was  stripped  of  its  feathers 
and  roasted ;  gluttony,  an  insatiable  monster  that  never  says  ''enough," 
rejoiced  at  being  able  to  count  it  among  the  number  of  its  conquests. 
The  Greeks  had  coops  for  pheasants  as  we  have  for  fowls,  not  to  please 
the  eye,  but  to  ornament  the  table,"  and  a  foolish  prodigality  caused  a 
whole  pheasant  to  be  served  to  each  guest  in  those  luxurious  repasts 
which  the  Athenians  gave  to  display  their  pomp  and  ostentatious 
hospitality." 


FEATHERED  GAME.  195 

Among  the  Romane,  Pliny  is  the  first  (or  we  are  mistaken)  i^ho 
mentions  this  hird,  then  very  uncommon  in  Italy^  since  they  went  in 
quest  of  it  to  the  banks  of  the  Phasis."  Its  rarity  did  not  prevent 
Vitellius  from  having  a  ragout  of  pheasants'  brains/*  mixed  with  other 
viands  of  an  unheard-of  delicacy,  in  the  immense  dish  called  by  him 
**  the  Shield  of  Minerva."" 

Pertinax  willingly  partook  of  pheasant,  but  on  condition  that  they 
cost  his  miserly  sensuality  nothing.  Heliogabalus  would  only  eat  them 
three  times  a  week.  Alexander  Severus  reserved  them  for  solemn  occa- 
sions." They  were  sacrificed  each  morning  to  the  statue  of  Caligula/' 
at  the  foot  of  which  the  vile  troop  of  courtiers  prostrated  themselves  at 
the  very  time  even  when  Ceesar,  in  a  fit  of  sanguinary  monomania, 
wished  that  the  Roman  people  had  but  one  neck,  that  he  might  sever  it 
at  a  blow." 

It  is  especially  from  the  commencement  of  the  14th  century  that  the 
pheasant,  better  appreciated  in  Europe,  has  resumed  in  banquets  that 
remarkable  place,"  constantly  assigned  to  it  throughout  this  new  era,  in 
which  our  taste  maintains  it,  and  from  which  our  posterity  will  never 
remove  it,  if  they  inherit  that  wonderful  sentiment  of  the  good  and 
beautiful  which  so  eminently  distinguishes  the  epicures  of  the  present  day. 

Let  us  add,  for  the  comfort  of  weak  stomachs,  that  the  medical  light 
of  Pergamo — the  illustrious  Galen — recommends  them  the  use  of  the  flesh 
of  pheasants ;'®  that  he  prescribed  it  for  himself,  and  found  it  a  most 
delightful  remedy. 

*'  Mingrelia,  or  the  antique  Colchis,  is  the  cradle  of  pheasants,  that 
species  of  birds  being  stronger  and  finer  there  than  anywhere  else,  but  it 
is  seen,  however,  all  over  Europe,  in  Africa,  and  Asia,  even  in  the  cold 
countries  of  the  north.  This  beautiful  bird  forms  an  article  of  com- 
merce with  the  Chinese,  who  sell  them  frozen  in  the  market  of 
Kiakta." — Sonnini. 


THE  PAKTRIDGE. 

The  Greeks  and  Romans  were  acquainted  with  partridges,  and  eat 
them.**  The  red,  at  first  very  rare  in  Italy,  were,  however,  advan- 
tageously replaced  by  the  white,  which  true  amateurs  procured  at  a 
great  expense  from  the  Alps.*' 


19fl  FEATHERED  GAME. 

The  Athenians  were  fond  of  seeing  them  fight,  and  raised  them  for 
this  cruel  sport."  Alexander  Severus  also  sought  in  these  sanguinary 
struggles  relief  from  the  cares  of  royalty.** 

Aristippus,  a  more  humane,  perhaps  a  more  luxurious,  philosopher, 
gave  as  much  as  fourteen  shillings  for  a  fine  fat  partridge,*'  which, 
passing  from  the  aviary  to  the  kitchen,  escaped  the  fatal  vicissitudes  of  a 
desperate  comhat. 

In  Greece,  people  who  knew  how  to  enjoy  life  thought  much  of  the 
leg  of  this  warlike  bird.*'  It  was  fashionable  not  to  touch  any  other 
part  At  Some,  when  politeness  was  not  of  so  much  consequence, 
they  sometimes  ventured  on  the  breast.  We,  barbarians,  eat  the  entire 
partridge. 


THE  QUAIL. 

The  dead  may  be  raised  by  the  means  of  a  quail,  said  the  ancients. 
Now  for  the  proof:  Hercules  having  been  killed  in  Lybia,  lolaiis 
took  one  of  these  birds,  which  fortunately  happened  to  be  at  hand, 
and  placed  it  beneath  his  friend's  nose.  The  hero  no  sooner  smelt 
it  than  his  eyes  opened  to  the  light,  and  Acheron  was  forced  to  give 
up  his  prey.*^ 

The  learned  Bochart  denies  this  prodigy.**  He  affirms  that  Hercules 
was  subject  to  epileptic  attacks,  and  that,  during  a  fit,  they  caused  him  to 
smell  a  quail,  whose  odour  quickly  cured  him.** 

The  Fhcenicians  insisted  that  he  was  quite  dead,  and  they  all  cried 
out,  "A  miracle!"'*  The  reader  must  decide  between  them  and  Bochart. 

In  the  Desert  the  Israelites  fed  on  quails ;"  and  this  food,  reserved 
for  them  by  Divine  goodness,  caused  no  discomfort  among  the  fugitive 
tribes.  The  Greeks  served  them  on  their  tables  with  partridges  :**  they 
raised  them  in  aviaries,  and  eat  them  all  the  year  round.**  Aristotle 
speaks  most  highly  of  them,  and  does  not  attribute  to  them  any 
dangerous  property.**  However,  quails  were  banished  from  all  Boman 
tables :  they  were  no  longer  carefully  fattened :  **  they  were  cursed,  and 
accused  of  causing  epilepsy  in  those  who  partook  of  their  fatal  and 
seductive  flesh.**  The  authority  of  Galen  confirmed  this  strange  pre- 
judice,*' and  these  innocent  birds,  having  lost  all  reputation  in  Italy,  no 


FEATHERED  GAME.  197 

doubt  easily  consoled  themselves  for  the  happy  ostracism  which  delivered 
them  from  a  too  expensive  glory. 

At  all  events,  it  is  probable  that  Home  had  wickedly  calomniated 
quails;  two  skilful  men,  devoted  to  the  cause,  undertook  to  defend 
them :  they  were  called  Hippolochus  and  Antiphanus."  Their  eloquent 
pleadings  caused  a  sensation ;  the  epicureans  were  moved,  and  some  of 
these  birds  were  recalled^  fattened,  and  roasted. 

Quails,  Uke  cocks  and  partridges,  seem  bom  to  fight  to  excess." 
The  Grecians  encouraged  their  warlike  ardour,  and  threw  them  into  the 
arena,  where  they  contemplated  their  furious  attacks  with  as  much 
pleasure  as  they  experienced  at  the  sight  of  gladiators  murdering  each 
other  in  order  to  amuse  them."  Solon — the  wise  Solon — required  that 
young  men  should  be  trained  to  courage  at  the  school  of  these  bold 
champions,  and  learn  from  them  to  despise  danger,  pain,  and  death/^ 
We  know  that  sensibility  was  little  thought  of  in  the  plan  of  education 
formed  by  the  great  legblator.  Long  after  him,  however,  the  Areopagus 
gave  a  dreadful  proof  of  this,  by  condemning  to  death  a  little  boy  who 
had  amused  himself  by  pulling  out  the  eyes  of  all  the  quails  unfortunate 
enough  to  fall  into  his  hands.  This  precocious  monster  was  too  pro* 
mifflng." 


THE  THRUSH. 

The  immortal  author  of  the  Iliad  did  not  disdain,  it  is  said,  to 
compose  a  poem  in  praise  of  thrushes.  These  verses  were  so  beautiful 
that  the  Greeks  learned  them  all  by  heart  in  their  infancy."  The 
singular  love  of  the  ancients  for  this  bird  renders  these  poetical  honours 
tolerably  probable.  More  than  once  Gomus  has  borrowed  the  lyre 
of  Apollo. 

In  Greece^  children  were  not  allowed  to  eat  thrushes,  because  it  was 
feared  that  their  delicious  flesh  might  cause  them  to  contract  too  early 
habits  of  gluttony  and  effeminacy.  Toung  girls  received  them  as  presents 
from  their  bethrothed  on  the  day  of  their  marriage.**  They  were  served 
at  the  most  siunptuous  feasts,**  and  Attica  enriched  with  its  gold  the 
bird-catchers  of  that  Daphne,**  so  celebrated  for  her  luxury  and 
scandalous  voluptuousness. 


198  FEATHERED  GAME. 

Home  inherited  this  gastronomic  rage.  One  of  Yarrows  aunts  reared 
thrushes  in  the  country,  and  sold  60»,000  of  ^em  every  year,  to  the 
Numerous'  epicures  of  the;  metropolis,  of  the  world.  She  derived  an 
immense  reyeniie  from  this  sp^jculation/'  'M&gnifi<ient  aviaries  were 
soon  seen  in  all  rich  Roman  ;villa9;'tbby  were  filled  with  thrushes^ 
and  the  multitude  of  these  birds  hecame  such -that,  they  furnished  a 
plentiful  manure  for  the  land."  .They,  were  fed  on  crushed  figs,  tnixed 
with  wheaten  flour;  I  they  hc^d  also  millet,  fiAd  great  care  was  taken  to 
preserve  \x\  the  aviary  ^  ciirrent  of  firesh  and*  pure  water  to  slaka  their 
thirst/'  .On.  days  of  triumph  amd  rejoicing;  a  dozen  of  these  tempting 
thrushes  cost  no  lese  than  twentjr- seven  shilGngs/^ 

On  those  soledon  occasions  more,  than  one  generous,  dttzen,. con* 
suiting  hi?  prodigality  more  than  hia  purse,,  ruined'  himself"  for  love 
of  bis 'guest^.-  Mpre  than  one  obsequious  ..dependant  spent  bis  last 
sesteroeis  in  cotnposing;  ingenious  >  crowba  of  thrushes,"  which  his 
haughty  patrons  .deigned  to  receive  as  a  homage.  It  is  true  he  was 
sometimjes  allowed  to  become  a  spectator  pf  the  repast  which  his  gift 
was  to  embellish  "-^certainly  a -most  flatting  recompense  for  his 
gratitude  and  servility ! 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  IX. 

Vabbo's  Maomificbnt  AriAKT. — ^A4ioinuig  his  Tilla  wa  a  part  of  the  house  caUed  the  Ornithon, 
or  the  Aviaiy,  of  which  some  ruins  are  atill  remuning,  between  the  two  small  rivers  Vinius  and  Casinas, 
but  can  hardly  be  made  oat.  More,  periiaps,  wa«  in  existence  wheo  the  famous  architect  and  antiquarian, 
Pierre  Ligorio,  drew  the  plan  and  profile  more  than  200  jears  ago.  This  drawing  of  Plate  IX.  is  ctm- 
fonnable  with  Varro's  own  description,  who  says  that :  "  At  the  entrance  there  are  two  porticoes,  or  two 
large  cages  (in  Uie  Plate  these  are  otaitted  for  want  of  space) ;  they  ard  buildings  with  colonnades  all  round, 
on  the  top  and  sides  there  are  nettings  spread  to  prerenl  iheescape  of  the  birds.  The  entrance  to  the  yards 
is  between  the  two  pavilions ;  two  basins,  long  and  wide,  are  alongside  of  the  court-yard  on  the  right 
and  left  of  U  ;  from  them  jou  pass  to  the  grand  double  colomafle,  the  first  ciroumference  of  which  is 
of  stone,  and  the  second  of  pine ;  the  distance  from  each  other  is  five  feet,  and  the  whole  of  this  middle 
space  is  filled  with  birds,  which  are  prevented  from  escaping  by  smaU  fillets  all  over  the  top  and  sides. 
There  are,  between  the  oolUmns,  Mke  a  small  theatre,  rails,  like  steps,  pot  forward  for  the  binls  to  perch 
upon.  There  are  birds  of  various  species,  particularly  singing  birds,  such  as  nightingales  and  blackbirds ; 
a  small  canal  supplies  them  with  fresh  water,  and  they  are  fed  from  under  the  netting.  Facing  the 
pedestals  of  the  -columns  is  a  stone,  raised  one  foot  nine  indies  above  the  quay,  and  t|iat  is  devated  two 
feet  above  the  level  of  the  water ;  its  width  is  five  feet,  to  enable  the  visitor  to  walk  round.  At  the  lower 
part  of  the  quay,  onf  the  water>side,  there  are  holes  ^practised  where  the  ducks  can  retire.  In  the  centre 
of  the  laiige  basin,  about  300  feet  in  diameter,  is  a  small  island,  bordered  by  a  small  colonnade,  under 
which  Varro  treats  his  friends ;  in  the  middle,  a  round  table,  which  a  servant  turns  on  a  pivot,  so  that 
in  succession  the  guests  are  supplied' with  dishes,  plates,  cups,  and  goblets.  There  is  seen  also  an  hemi- 
sphere, wher^  the  star  Lucifer  turns  in  the  day,  and  Hesperus  at  night ;  both  mark  the  hour,  and  are 
variable  ;  on  the  same  hemisphere  the  winds,  to  the  number  of  eight,  are  marked  with  a  hand  that  is 
always  moving  as  the  wind  changes,  the  same  as  the  clock  of  Cyprestus,  at  Athens." 

The  drawing  of  this  Aviai7  is  beautiful.*  It  appears  that  Fieire  Ugorio followed  Varro's  description; 
at  all  evenu,  the  drawing  of  this  Plate  perfectly  agrees  with  \u 


L.^ 


FEATHERED  GAME.  100 

Heliogabalus  eat  only  the  brains  of  these  birds.'*  This  dish  appeared 
to  him  most  excellent,  for  it  was  very  costly. 

The  extreme  delicacy  of  this  volatile,  which  poetical  connoissears 
have  celebrated  in  their  verses/'  recommends  it  to  those  with  weak 
stomachs  and  to  convalescents.  Fompey  being  ill,  his  physician 
ordered  him  a  thrush,  but  it  was  impossible  to  find  one  in  Rome. 
Some  one  advised  the  celebrated  general  to  apply  to  Lucullus,  who 
fattened  them  throughout  the  year.  ''What/'  cried  Pompey,  ill- 
bumouredly,  "  shall  I  have  to  thank  I^ucuUus's  pompous  luxury  for 
life!*'    He  refused  to  eat  the  thrush,,  and  he  recovered.'* 


.  THE  BLACKBIRD. 

What  has  been  already  said  of  the  thrush  precludes  the  necessity  of 
writing  much  on  the  blackbird,  for  both  these  kinds  of  birds  were  equally 
dear  to  the  gastronomists  of  Greece  and  Italy.''  They  were  fattened  in 
the  same  manner,"  served  on  the  same  tables.  The  blackbird,  in  fact, 
like  the  thrush,  re-established  the  strength  and  health  of  the  rich."  The 
poor  were  compelled  to  have  recourse  to  loss  expensive  remedies. 

*'  The  flesh  of  the  blackbird,  so  delicate  in  the  time  of  gathering  grapes, 
acquires  at  that  period  a  savour  which  makes  it  as  precious  as  the  quail, 
but  becomes  bitter  when  they  feed  on  the  juniper  berries,  the  ivy,  or 
other  simOar  fruits  Some  medicinal  properties  are  attributed  to  it ;  the 
oil  in  which  the  blackbirds  have  been  cooked  is  recommended  to  persons 
afflicted  with  sciatica:  and  the  soil  of  these  birds,  dissolved  in  vinegar,  is, 
we  are  Informed,  a  certain  specific  for  removing  the  freckles  of  the  face 
or  spots  on  the  skin." — Vieillot. 

In  1468,  Louis  XI.  ordered  one  of  his  authorised  ruffians,  named 
Perdriel,  to  seize  all  the  tame  blackbirds  he  could  find  in  Paris.  These 
poor  birds  were  sent  to  Amboise,  where  a  register  was  kept  of  what  they 
said  or  sung.  It  appears  that  the  king  intended  to  punish  those  citizens 
of  his  capital  who  taught  these  innocent  volatiles  to  repeat  abuse  of  the 
sovereign,  after  which  he  would  have  wrung  the  necks  of  the  too  in- 
telligent  birds.  Louis  XI.  could  not  carry  out  this  singular  idea, 
because  he  himself  was  shortly  after  the  Duke  of  Burgundy's  prisoner 
4it  P^onne.     Blackbirds  and  citizens  had  a  narrow  escape/ 


M 


200  FEATHERED  GAME. 


THE  STARLING. 

Drusus  and  Britannicus,  sons  of  the  Emperor  Claudius,  had  a  starling 
which  spoke  admirably  the  Greek  and  Latin.  Alone  he  studied  his 
lessons,  and  afterwards  recited  them  to  the  astonished  princes.*^  Science 
protected  the  learned  bird  from  the  fate  reserved  by  the  Greeks  and 
Romans  for  the  rest  of  its  family,  less  distinguished  by  their  erudition 
than  by  their  culinary  qualities.  Starlings,  roasted  in  the  kitchens, 
honourably  associated  with  partridges,  blackbirds,  and  thrushes,*'  and  the 
disciples  of  Galen  recommended  them  to  their  patients,  who  willingly 
submitted  to  so  nourishing  and  light  a  food/' 


THE  FLAMINGO. 

• 

A  profound  study  of  the  art  of  good  cheer  caused  the  Romans 
to  discover  that  the  thick  tongue  of  the  phenicopter,  or  flamingo, 
presents  towards  its  root  a  rather  considerable  adipose  appendage.  They 
tasted  this  lump  of  fat,  and  Rome  was  enriched  with  another  dish. 

It  has  been  asserted  that  the  glory  of  inventing  this  refinement  in 
gluttony  is  due  to  Apicius.  Italy  possessed  three  gastrophiles  of  this 
name  :  the  first  flourished  a  short  time  before  the  dictatorship  of  Julius 
Gffisar ;  the  second,  Marcus  Gabius,  held  a  school  of  sensuality  at  Rome, 
under  the  reigus  of  Augustus  and  Tiberius ;  the  third,  Ceelius,  was  con- 
temporary with  Trajan,  and  poisoned  himself  for  fear  of  dying  of 
hunger. 

We  possess,  under  the  name  of  this  last,  a  Latin  work  in  ten  books, 
from  which  we  have  borrowed  largely,  as  the  reader  may  have  akeady  re- 
marked. It  would  be  difficult  to  decide  to  which  of  the  three  Apicii  it 
belongs.  The  author  speaks  of  the  flamingo,  but  does  not  mention  its 
tongue :  the  treatise,  then,  is  not  the  work  of  M.  Gabius,  who  would 
doubtless  have  indicated  the  preparation  of  a  dish  of  which  Pliny  assures 
us  he  was  so  fond."    As  to  Goelius,  if  he  were  the  compiler  of  this 


FEATHERED  GAME.  201 

curious  volume,  as  it  is  thought,  how  comes  it  he  has  forgotten  a  dish 
80  justly  celebrated,  in  this  magiric  catalogue,  in  which  no  detail,  how- 
ever minute,  seems  to  escape  him  ?  It  would  appear  that  this  contested 
paternity  rightfully  belongs  to  the  first  Apicius,  unless  some  of  the 
learned  contest  it  on  the  ground  that  the  style  of  the  work  nowise  agrees 
with  the  latinity  of  his  century.** 

May  one  of  the  learned  societies  of  Europe  some  day  take  up  this 
arduous  question,  and  restqre  the  ancient  masterpiece  to  its  admirable 
author.  In  the  meantime  the  writer  of  the  present  work  will  continue 
to  venerate  the  memory  of  Geelius  Apicius,  and  oflfer  him  crowns  of 
smallage,  roses,  and  parsley,  for  his  name  embellishes  the  frontispiece  of 
those  pages  which  reveal  to  us  the  secrets  of  Koman  cookery ;  and  we 
repeat,  with  Sosie  : — 

"  Le  veritable  Amphitryon 
Est  rAmphitryon  oil  ron  dine.^ 

Honour  is  due  also  to  the  other  Apicius  for  his  ingenious  sauce  of 
flamingo  tongues.  True,  we  have  never  tasted  it,  for  this  expensive 
iancy  can  only  be  satisfied  in  the  marshes  of  the  Nile/^  It  is  still  little 
known  in  Europe,  but  the  most  fastidious  of  the  Bomans  regaled  them- 
selves with  it**  Three  Emperors,  Caligula,  Vitellius,  and  Heliogabalus — 
immortal  triumvirate  of  incomparable  polyphagists !  — carried  to  indigestion 
their  gastronomic  delirium,  their  love  for  this  famous  ragoiku^^  These 
great  authorities  are  conclusive. 

The  traveller,  Dampier,  wished  to  try  the  flesh  of  the  flamingo,  and 
he  thought  it  very  good,  though  lean,  and  very  black.'* 

''  The  flesh  of  the  phenicopterus  is  a  dish  more  sought  after  in  Egypt 
than  in  Europe ;  however,  Oatesby  compares  it  for  its  delicacy  to  the 
partridge;  Dampier  says  it  has  a  fine  flavour,  although  lean;  Dutertre 
finds  it  excellent  notwithstanding  its  marshy  taste ;  the  tongue  is  the 
most  delicious  part." — Vieillot. 


FIG-PECKER,  OB,  BECAFICO. 

The  Duke  of  C  *  *  *  *  had  received  from  nature  one  of  those 
culinary  organizations  which  the  vulgar  assimilate  with  gluttony,  and  the 
man  of  art  calls  genius.  Greece  would  have  raised  statues  to  him ;  the 
Roman  emperor  Vitellius  would  have  shared  the  Empire  with  him.     In 

N 


^02  FEATHERED  GAME. 

France  be  gained  the  esteem  of  aU  parties  by  inviting  tbem  to  sump-* 
tuous  banquets. 

This  rich  patrician  brought  up  with  tender  care  a  young  chef  de 
cuisine,  whom  his  major-domo  had  bequeathed  to  him  on  his  death- 
bed, as  Mazarin  did  Colbert  to  Louis  XIV.  The  disciple  profited  by 
the  learned  lessons  of  the  Duke;  already  the  young  chef  ^ a  head,  eye, 
and  hand  possessed  that  promptitude  and  certainty  whose  union  is  so 
rarely  combined:  there  remained  for  him  only  the  instruction  of  experience. 

One  day,  in  the  month  of  September,  some  guests  of  the  highest 
class,  all  professed  judges  in  the  order  of  epicureans,  met  together  at 
the  residence  of  the  noble  Amphitryon,  who  often  claimed  the  authority 
of  their  enlightened  judgment.  The  learned  Areopagit®  had  to  pro- 
nounce on  certain  new  dishes :  it  was  necessary,  by  dint  of  seduction, 
to  captivate  the  favour  and  patronage  of  these  judges  by  disarming 
their  severity. 

Everything  was  served  to  the  greatest  nicety,  everything  was  deemed 
exquisite,  and  they  only  awaited  the  dessert — that  little  course  which 
causes  the  emotion  of  the  great  culinary  drama  to  be  forgotten — ^when 
the  young  chef  appeared,  and  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  table  a  silver 
dish,  containing  twelve  eggs.  "  Eggs ! "  exclaimed  the  Duke.  The 
astonished  guests  looked  at  each  other  in  silence.  The  cook  took  one 
of  tlie  eggs,  placed  it  in  a  little  china  boat,  slightly  broke  the  shell,  and 
begged  his  master  to  taste  the  contents.  The  latter  contined  to  remove 
the  white  envelope,  and  at  length  discovered  a  savoury  and  perfumed 
ball  of  fat.  It  was  a  fig-pecker  of  a  golden  colour — ^fat,  delicate,  exqui- 
site— surrounded  by  a  wonderful  seasoning.^* 

The  good  old  man  cast  on  his  pupil  a  look  full,  of  tenderness  and 
pride ;  and,  holding  out  his  hand  to  him :  "  You  are  inspired  by 
Fetronius,"  said  he ;  *'  to  imitate  in  such  a  manner  is  to  create.  Courage ! 
I  am  much  pleased  with  you." 

This  classic  dish — a  revival  firom  the  feasts  of  Trimalcio— enjoyed 
only  an  ephemeral  glory.  Europe  was  on  fire ;  a  warlike  fever  raged 
everywhere ;  and  Paris  soon  forgot  the  eggs  of  Fetronius. 

The  fig-pecker  merits  the  attention  of  the  most  serious  gastronomists. 
The  ancients  reckoned  it  among  the  most  refined* of  dishes."  The 
Greeks  made  delicate  pies  of  this  bird,  which  exhaled  an  odour  so 
tempting,  that  criticism  was  disarmed  beforehand." 

The  Bomans   gave  it  their  entire  esteem,"  and  prepared  it  with 


FEATHERED   GAME.  208 

tru£9es  and  mushrooms/*  Among  them,  men  who  knew  what  good 
cheer  means,  thought  there  was  nothing  worth  eating  in  birds  but  the 
leg  and  lower  part  of  the  body.  Fig-peckers  were  the  only  exception  to 
this  rule :  they  were  served  and  eaten  entire. 

''In  the  southerly  parts  of  France,  and  in  Italy,  all  the  different  species 
of  linget,  and  almost  all  birds  with  a  slender  beak,  are  commonly  called 
beoafico,  because  in  the  autumn  they  attack  and  eat  the  figs,  and  thereby 
the  flesh  of  these  birds  becomes  then  &t  and  exquisite ;  but  that  really 
known  as  the  becafico  is  remarkable  for  its  delicacy ;  therefore  it  has  at 
all  times  been  recherchi  as  an  excellent  eating.  It  is  like  a  small  lump 
of  light  fat — savoury,  melting,  easy  of  digestion ;  and,  in  truth,  an 
extract  of  the  juice  from  the  delicious  firuits  it  has  fed  upon." — Yieillot. 


THE  ORTOLAN. 

Florence  and  Bologna  sent  to  Bome  cases  of  ortolans,  the  enormous 
price  of  which  irritated  instead  of  discouraging  gluttony.'*  They  arrived 
in  the  metropolis  of  the  world,  picked  and  separated  one  from  the  other 
by  layers  of  flour  to  prevent  decomposition."  Each  of  these  little  birds 
furnished  only  a  mouthful ;  but  this  incomparable  mouthful  eclipsed 
everything  else,  and  produced  a  sort  of  epicurean  extacy  which  may  be 
called  the  transcendantalism  of  gastronomy. 

Ortolans  were  submitted  to  the  same  treatment  as  fig-peckers  in 
tlieir  preparation. 


THE   OSTRICH. 

There  were  tribes  formerly  in  Arabia  who  fed  on  ostriches,  and  who 
for  this  reason  were  called  strutiophagists.'^'  Marmot  asserts  that,  in 
his  time,  they  were  eaten  in  Afirica,  although  their  flesh  was  glutinous^ 
and  had  a  bad  smell.  .  When  the  people  of  Numidla  took  any  that  were 
young,  they  reared  and  fatted  them,  and  led  them  to  feed  by  flocks  in 
tbe  Desert ;  and  as  soon  as  they  were  fat  they  killed  and  salted  them.'* 

The  Arabs  of  the  present  day  abstain  firom  them ;  but  it  is  said  they 
seek  much  the  fat,  which  they  use  plentifully  in  cooking. 

N  2 


204  FEATHERED    GAME. 

They  were  served  at  Rome  on  a  few  tables.     This  was  nothing  but  * 
a  depravation  of  taste. 

Heliogabalus,  who  understood  good  living  better,  contented  himself 
with  the  brains  of  ostriches.  Six  hundred  of  these  animals  furnished 
enough  for  one  meal.'®  The  devastation  was  great,  but  the  emperor 
had  made  a  good  supper. 

The  ostrich's  eggs  are  very  hard,  very  heavy,  and  very  large ;  their 
weight  often  equals  three  pounds.  The  colour  is  of  a  dirty  white, 
with  light  yellow  veins ;  they  are  good  to  eat.  In  Africa  they  are  sought 
after  as  ^friandisey  and  cooked  in  various  ways.  The  commonest  and 
the  best  is,  after  breaking,  to  mix  and  cook  them  with  a  good  deal  of 
butter.     They  are  large  enough  and  sufficient  for  a  man*s  meal. 

When  the  Arabs  have  killed  an  ostrich  they  open  its  throat,  and  make 
a  ligature  under  the  opening ;  three  or  four  i^en  take  the  bird,  and 
shake  it,  the  same  as  rincing  a  pouch ;  after  which,  the  ligature 
being  undone,  a  considerable  quantity  of  a  greasy  substance  comes 
out,  mixed  with  blood  and  fat  as  thick  as  coagulated  oil.  One  ostrich 
produces  as  much  as  twenty  pounds  of  it,  and  it  is  used  for  the  prepa- 
ration of  dishes,  for  the  cure  of  rheumatism,  humeurs  froides^  and 
paralysis.  The  Romans  used  this  grease  for  the  same  purposes,  and 
believed  it  possessed  the  most  precious  qualities. 


THE   STORK. 

In  spite  of  the  religious  respect  of  the  Romans  for  this  bird,  the 
emblem  of  peace  *^  and  domestic  virtues,  Sempronius  Ruius,  an  ancient 
preetor,  caused  his  cook  to  dress  some  young  storks ;  and  this  brought 
into  fashion  "  a  dish  which  caprice  alone  could  introduce  at  feasts." 


THE  SEA^SW ALLOW. 


Among  the  ancients,  the  swallow — joyous  herald  of  spring — pos- 
sessed little  attraction  for  those  men  whom  their  gluttony  has  rendered 
so  justly  celebrated,    Alas !  they  knew  not  the  ''  Salangan  swallow," 


FEATHERED    GAME.  205 

hirundo  esculenta;  they  never  tasted  those  birds  nests  which  Europe 
still  envies  the  East. 

The  inhabitants  of  the  Philippine  Islands  give  the  designation  of 
salaugan  swallow  to  a  little  coast  bird  (the  halcyon,  or  kingfisher),  cele- 
brated for  the  singular  construction  of  its  nest.  These  nests  have  been 
compared  to  those  which  the  Greeks  and  Romans  called  halcyon's  nests ; 
but  this  comparison  is  false,  since  the  marine  productions  to  which  they 
gave  this  name  are  not  birds'  nests  but  polypus's,  or  the  cylindrical 
covering  of  the  polypi — the  halcyonium — a  kind  of  medicament,  of  which 
there  were  several  varieties."* 

All  travellers  agree  that  the  Chinese^  and  other  eastern  nations,  have 
an  extreme  partiality  for  the  salangan  s  nest,  as  a  delicious  seasoning  for 
their  viands,  and  that  they  value  it  excessively ;  but  they  differ  strangely 
as  to  its  nature,  its  form,  and  the  places  where  it  is  found. 

According  to  some,  the  material  of  these  nests  is  a  froth  of  the  sea, 
or  the  spawn  offish,  and  strongly  aromatic  Others  say  it  has  no  taste. 
Some  pretend  that  it  is  a  juice  gathered  by  the  salangans  from  the  tree 
called  salambouc  :  some  maintain  that  it  is  a  viscous  humour  that  they 
give  out  from  the  beak  at  a  certain  period  of  the  year;  and,  lastly,  many 
affirm  that  these  birds  compose  it  entirely  from  the  remains  of  fish- 
zoophytes. 

With  respect  to  the  form,  some  say  that  it  is  hemispherical ;  others 
that  it  resembles  a  sheU  valve. 

As  to  the  places  where  the  salangans  build  their  nests,  some  observers 
assure  us  that  it  is  fixed  on  the  rocks  a  little  above  the  level  of  the  sea ; 
in  the  hollows  of  those  same  rocks;  and,  lastly,  that  they  conceal  them 
in  holes  which  they  burrow  under  ground.  According  to  Koempfer, 
these  nests,  so  far  as  they  are  known  to  us,  are  nothing  more  than  a 
preparation  concocted  from  the  flesh  of  the  polypi. 

The  celebrated  traveller  Poivre,  while  occupied  one  day  in  picking 
up  shells  and  coral  near  Java,  penetrated  a  rather  deep  cavern  at  a  short 
distance  from  the  sea  shore,  and  found  the  sides  of  it  covered  with  little 
nests,  in  the  form  of  a  deep  shell,  firmly  fixed  to  the  rock.  These 
nests  were  taken  on  board,  and  several  persons  who  had  been  in  Ohio  a 
immediately  recognised  them  as  being  identical  with  those  that  the 
Chinese  seek  with  such  avidity.  The  birds  which  had  built  them  were 
true  swallows,  of  about  the  size  of  the  humming  bird.  Poivre  adds 
that,  in  the  months  of  March  and  April,  the  sea  from  Java  to  Cochin 


200  FEATHERED  GAME. 

China  is  oovered  with  spawn^  which  has  the  appearance  of  half- dissolved 
glue,  and  that  he  had  learned  from  the  Malays  and  the  Cochin  Chinese 
that  the  salangan  builds  its  nest  with  this  spawn.  All  agreed  on  this 
point.  The  bird  picks  it  up  as  he  skims  the  water,  or  from  the  rocks 
where  the  spawn  coagulates.  It  is  at  the  end  of  Jtdy  and  the  com- 
mencement of  August  that  the  Cochin  Chinese  collect  the  nests,  and,  as 
the  young  birds  are  hatched  in  March  and  April,  the  species  do  not 
suffer  by  it. 

By  the  subsequent  examination  of  these  nests  it  was  found  that 
they  presented  the  form  of  the  half  of  a  hollow,  lengthened  ellipsoid. 
They  are  composed,  externally,  of  very  thin  lamin®,  nearly  concentric, 
and  laid  one  over  the  other.  The  interior  presents  several  layers  of 
irregular  net- work,  superposed  one  over  another,  and  formed  of  a  multi- 
tude of  threads  of  the  same  matter  as  the  external  laminae,  and  which 
cross  and  re-cross  in  every  direction. 

Their  composition,  which  has  a  slight  taste  of  salt,  is  of  a  yellowish 
white  and  demi-transparent ;  it  softens  in  warm  water  without  dissolving, 
and  increases  in  volume.  It  is  a  substantial  food,  and  would  be  excel- 
lent for  persons  suffering  from  exhaustion,  whose  debile  stomachs  ill 
perform  their  functions.  Poivre  declares  that  he  never  eat  anything 
more  fortiiying  than  a  pottage  made  with  these  nests  and  some 
good  meat. 

The  salangan  nests  are  of  two  sorts — the  white  and  the  black  It 
appears  that  the  white  nests  are  those  of  the  same  year,  and  that  the 
black  ones  belong  to  an  epoch  less  recent.  The  birds  are  engaged  about 
two  months  in  preparing  them,  and  the  Chinese  do  not  take  them  away 
until  the  young  ones  are  feathered,  and  begin  to  be  pretty  strong  on 
the  wing."* 


This  nomenclature  would  be  incomplete,  did  we  not  briefly  mention 
some  kinds  of  game  which  appeared  with  more  or  less  favour  on  the 
tables  of  the  ancients. 

The  Wood'HeUy  dear  to  the  Greeks,**  was  not  common  at  Rome  in 
the  time  of  Varro.  The  curious  reared  them  in  aviaries  with  other  rare 
birds." 

The  Bustard,  the  Water-Hen^  and  the  Teal,  found  many  admirers." 


I 
I 

I  « 


FEATHERED  GAME.  30T 

The  iftomaus  reared  the  last-named/'  and  judged  it  worthy  of  notice 
among  the  most  delicate  morsels  of  the  feast. 

The  Woodcock,  which  is  thought  to  he  the  rmtica  perdix  of  Martial," 
and  the  Snipe  do  not  appear  to  have  obtained  from  the  gastrophilists  of 
antiquity  that  attention  they  deserved.  This  delicious  game  was  ill- 
appreciated  in  Italy  and  at  Athens.  History,  that  "  conscience  of  pos- 
terity," reproaches  them  with  this  oversight,  and  is  astonished  that  the 
Curlew  should  have  usurped,  particularly  in  Greece,"  a  pre-eminence 
which  it  certainly  does  not  deserve. 

The  fat  of  the  snipe  is  of  a  most  delicate  savour,  which  it  acquires 
only  after  the  first  appearance  of  the  frosty  season.  It  is  cooked  hke 
the  woodcock,  without  being  drawn." — Vieillot. 

The  gourmets  have  a  way  of  knowing  when  the  flesh  of  the  wood- 
oock  is  arrived  at  the  degree  of  flavour  required  to  be  sought  after :  the 
bird  is  suspended  by  the  beam-feather  of  the  middle  of  its  tail ;  when 
the  body  gets  loose  and  full,  then  is  the  time  to  eat  it. 

''The  woodcock  is  cooked  with  the  entrails  in,  which,  being  pounded 
with  what  they  contain,  form  its  own  and  best  seasoning." — Sonnini. 

The  Crow,  an  object  of  superstitious  worship  among  the  Egyptians," 
oflered  to  the  less  scrupulous  inhabitants  of  Alexandria  a  dish  unequalled 
in  delicacy;'*  but  which  never  seems  to  have  tempted  the  nations  of 
the  west. 

The  Turtle  Bove^^  whose  timid  innocence  caused  it  to  be  revered  in 
Assyria,"  had  a  less  glorious  destiny  at  Bome.  It  was  roasted,  and 
epicures  greedily  devoured  the  legs.'^ 

The  Lark  joined  to  the  delicate  flavour  of  its  flesh  a  more  precious 
quality ;  either  roast  or  boiled,  it  infallibly  cured  persons  attacked  with 
the  colic.'*  We  cannot  say  whether  it  possesses  this  useful  property  at 
the  present  day. 

"  The  common  lark,  which  is  called  at  Paris  mauviette^  is  generally 
looked  upon  as  a  wholesome,  delicate,  and  light  game.  It  is  dressed  in 
various  ways ;  and  the  gourmets  appreciate  the  value  of  the  excellent 
lark  pies  which  have  established  the  reputation  of  the  town  of  Pithiviers 
in  France." — Sonnini. 

The  Romans  went  to  almost  fabulous  expenses  in  order  to  procure 
game.  What  enormous  sums,  may  we  not  imagine,  were  given  for  those 
dishes  of  flamingoes'  tongues  and  ostriches'  brains  already  mentioned ! 
What  must  have  been  the  cost  of  the  seven  thousand  birds  which  the 


908  FEATHERED   GAME. 

brother  of  Vitellius  served  to  the  voracious  emperor  !'•    And  yet  all  tliese 
follies  fall  far  short  of  those  they  committed  through  their  love  of  fish* 

The  inventive  genius  of  the  Greeks  discovered  in  ichthyophagy 
strange  refinements*  though  aliways  impressed  with  we  know  not  what 
kind  of  propriety,  which  seems  to  palUate  their  excesses.  The  Romans 
at  first  imitated,  and  soon  afterwards  surpassed  them.  Their  frightful 
gluttony  was  revived  by  crime,  and  exulted  in  barbarity.  The  sea  eels 
(conger,  or  murana  helena)  will  not  eat ;  let  a  slave  be  thrown  to  them, 
young  and  healthy,  his  fiesh  will  be  more  tempting  and  alive,  that  his 
struggle  against  unspeakable  tortures  may  the  better  irritate  the  devour- 
ing ardour  of  these  beloved  fish.  And  a  few  days  afterwards,  the  grave 
patrician,  or  the  noble  knight,  again  ofiered  them  this  human  food ;  and 
no  remorse,  no  doubt,  no  gloom,  ever  clouded  his  brow ;  no  thrill  of 
horror  crossed  his  mind,  while  he  feasted  on  those  sea  eels  he  had  fat- 
tened so  well. 

More  than  two- thirds  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  most  civilised  coun-* 
tries  were  plunged  in  slavery,  and  employed  solely  to  gratify  the  sen- 
suality of  the  other  third.  That  alone  gives  a  terrifying  idea  of  the 
contempt  in  which  man  was  held  by  his  fellow-man,  of  the  power  of 
egotism,  and  of  the  vast  corruption  resulting  from  it.  And  what 
cruelties  were  committed  in  the  face  of  heaven,  sanctioned  by  the  law, 
and  by  the  manners  and  customs  of  society  I  The  masters  had  absolute 
power  over  their  slaves,  and  could  punish  them  with  blows  or  death  at 
their  own  will  and  pleasure.*'  If  an  unfortunate  servant  happened  to 
taste  a  sauce,  or  the  remains  of  a  fish,  this  unpardonable  crime  was 
often  punished  by  crucifixion."  The  virtuous  Cato  sold  his  old  slaves 
at  whatever  price  they  would  fetch,  rather  than  feed  useless  beings.*' 
The  senator,  Q.  Flaminius,  put  one  of  his  domestics  to  death  as  a  new 
spectacle  for  one  of  his  friends,  who  had  never  enjoyed  the  pleasure  of 
seeing  a  man  killed.^®*  If  the  father  of  a  family  was  assassinated  in  his 
house,  and  the  murderer  was  not  discovered,  dl  the  slaves  were  subject 
to  the  capital  punishment.  One  of  the  grandees  of  Rome,  who  pos- 
sessed four  hundred  of  them,  having  been  killed  by  one  of  the  number, 
they  were  all  put  to  death.*"  At  the  funeral  of  rich  persons,  a  certain 
number  of  slaves  were  often  slain  as  victims  agreeable  to  their  manes. 

And  what  is  remarkable  is,  that  these  things,  which  we  can  hardly 
believe,  were  not  viewed  as  excesses,  not  even  as  an  abuse  of  power,  but 
simply  as  the  exercise  of  a  natural  right.     Such  scenes  were  witnessed 


FEATHERED  (fAME.  209 

daily,  without  exoiting  the  least  censure,  or  the  slightest  protestation,  on 
the  part  of  those  numerous  writeES  and  sophists,  who  passed  their  whole 
lives  in  declaiming  against  the  manners  of  the  age.  It  is  true  that 
l^slation  had  taken  the  lead  by  applying  to  slaves  this  dreadful 
aphorism :  '*  They  are  still  more  null  than  vile  ;'^ — Non  tarn  viles  quhm 
nuUi  aunt,^^^ 

Such  were  the  conquerors  of  the  world!     Such  were  those  Romans 
who  invented  dreadful  crimes  through  love  of  good  living ! 


XXI. 


FISH. 


Perhaps  it  has  not  b^en  sufficiently  remarked  that  the  science  of 
ichthyophagy  is  generally  developed  in  a  direct  ratio  with  the  civilization 
of  a  people.  Man  began  at  first  by  satisfying  the  imperious  necessities 
of  his  stomach ;  he  then  eat  to  live,  and  all  was  good  to  him.  Experience 
by  degrees  gave  rise  to  eclectism — choice.  It  was  then  discovered  that 
a  coarse  and  solid  food  might  be  replaced  by  a  delicate  and  savoury 
alimentation ;  joyous  appetite,  and  sensuality,  its  effeminate  companion, 
took  the  place  of  hunger,  and  this  happy  couple  gave  birth  to  the  more 
amiable  of  fairies,  who,  under  the  name  of  Gastronomy,  was  soon  to 
govern  the  world  and  prescribe  to  it  imperishable  laws. 

It  is  asserted  that  the  art  of  preparing  fish  was  one  of  the  first  boons 
of  this  powerful  sovereign,  and  that,  instructed  by  her,  Thetis  rendered 
ichthyophagist  the  god  of  light  and  the  fine  arts.^ 

The  Jews,  an  agricultural  people,  living  far  from  the  borders  of  the 
sea,  attached  but  very  little  importance  to  fishing  and  the  researches 
necessarily  attendant  on  it;  so  much  so,  that  we  hardly  perceive  any 
trace  among  them  of  this  kind  of  food,  which  Moses  did  not  entirely 
interdict,  since  that  wise  legislator  was  satisfied  with  prohibiting  fishes 
without  scales  or  fins.'  What  an  immense  wealth  remained  unexplored ! 
Let  us  pity  them  for  not  having  known  how  to  profit  by  it,  notwith- 
standing the  good  will  of  the  Phoenicians,  inhabitants  of  the  coast,  who 
brought  them  the  produce  of  their  maritime  excursions. 

Let  us  say  it :  the  Hebrews  were  tolerably  bad  cooks.  They  pos- 
sessed most  admirable  laws,  a  fertile  country,  courage  and  many  virtues, 
but  their  sobriety  never  would  allow  them  to  understand  the  art  of  good 
living.     In  that,  they  are  to  be  pitied. 


FISH.  211 

We  must  agree  that  the  Egyptians  had  better  taste.  Worshippers 
of  certain  fish,  they  used  to  embalm  them'  as  a  means  of  preservation ; 
and  what  is  still  better,  they  eat  others  in  spite  of  the  example  of  their 
priests,  who  never  touched  them.^  In  fact,  the  preparation  of  those 
dishes  required  the  trouble  of  a  little  study  and  culinary  labour ;  therefore, 
to  avoid  it,  they  eat  the  fish  raw  when  very  hungry ;  the .  epicures  dried 
them  in  the  sun,  and  they  were  served  salted  on  great  solemnities. 

But  it  was  left  to  a  woman  to  understand  this  wholesome  and  delicate 
food,  and  to  raise  it  to  the  rank  it  ought  always  to  have  occupied. 

Oatis — let  her  be  named  with  admiration — Queen  of  Syria,  and  no 
doubt  a  beautiful  woman,  was  so  fond  of  fish  that,  in  order  to  be 
continually  supplied  with  the  choicest  quality,  she  ordered  all  caught  in 
her  kingdom  to  be  broughr^  to  her,  and  that  none  should  be  eaten 
without  the  royal  permission.  This  law,  for  it  really  was  one, 
created  great  dissatisfaction;  but  she  very  sensibly  allowed  them  to 
complain,  and  continued  to  treat  herself  and  those  of  her  privileged 
subjects  whom  she  condescended  sometimes  to  admit  to  her  table,  with 
the  most  exquisite  dishes  of  fish,  such  as  the  tunny,  conger  eel,  and 
carp.*  It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  the  chroniclers  of  that  time  have 
forgotten  to  transmit  to  us  the  name  of  the  cook  of  this  illustrious 
Queen,  and  the  recipes  of  the  sauces  she  preferred. 

With  great  pleasure  we  turn  to  the  Greeks,  that  charming  people 
who  had  only  to  set  their  foot  on  the  most  barren  soil  to  cover  it  with 
flowers,  and  who  laid  the  foundation  of  ichthyophagy  as  well  as  all 
other  sciences. 

It  Appears,  however,  that,  at  first,  they  thought  but  little  of  fish  as 
an  aliment.  None  had  ever  been  served  to  the  heroes  of  Homer,  and 
Ulysses,  relating  that  his  hungry  companions  had  partaken  of  some  fish, 
seems  to  excuse  them,  by  saying :  "  Hunger  pressed  their  digestive 
organs."  •  To  be  sure  a  celebrated  philosopher,'  and  also  an  amiable 
epicurean,*  attributed  this  grievous  abstinence  of  those  warriors  to  the 
fear  of  being  enervated  by  dishes  too  delicious.  And  then,  the  terrible 
Achilles  and  the  impetuous  Ajax  could  not,  perhaps,  make  up  their 
minds  to  degustate  under  their  tents  a  sole  au  gratin^  or  a  fried  her- 
ring, with  the  slow  precaution  more  humble  mortals  willingly  submit  to. 

But  shortly  after  that,  fresh  and  salt  fish  became  one  of  the  principal 
articles  of  diet  with  the  Hellenes. 

Aristophanes    and    the   gastrophilist    Athenaeus,   allude    to   it   a 


212  FISH. 

hundred  times  in  their  writings,  and  yaiious  personages  ^e  the  subjects 
of  biting  sarcasms  on  account  of  their  excessive  partiality  to  the  mullet, 
scar,  and  turbot.  We  may  name,  among  others,  Philoxenes  of  Cythera, 
who  learning  from  his  doctor  that  he  was  going  to  die  of  indigestion,  for 
having  eaten  too  much  of  a  most  exquisite  fish :  ''  Be  it  so,"  he  calmly 
exclaimed ;  "  but,  before  I  go,  allow  me  to  finish  the  remainder." ' 

Everyone  knows  the  witty  jokes  of  Lucian,  who  informs  us  that  he 
knew  a  philosopher  who  examined,  with  the  most  serious  comicality,  the 
nature  of  the  soul  of  an  oyster." 

Highly  favoured  by  the  neighbourhood  of  the  sea,  the  Greek  popu- 
lation appUed  themselves,  with  that  peculiar  taste  which  characterized 
them,  to  distinguish  the  best  species;  and  skilful  cooks  knew  how 
to  give  to  fish  the  most  refined  flavour,  thanks  to  the  numerous  combi- 
nations of  ingredients  which  we  too  have  learned  from  the  ancient 
authors  who  have  written  on  dietetics.  They  possessed  various  ways  of 
preparing  them  with  salt  or  oil,  and  aromatics."  Athensus  has  trans- 
mitted to  us  some  very  important  precepts  upon  their  seasoning, 
^schylus  and  Sophocles  were  not  above  lowering  their  tragic  muse  by 
sometimes  introducing  remarks  on  fish  sauce. 

The  productions  of  the  sea  had  for  Athens  such  an  irresistible 
interest,  that  a  law  of  police  forbad  all  fishmongers  to  sit  down  until 
they  had  parted  with  the  whole  of  their  stock ;  so  that  the  uncomfortable 
position  of  standing  made  them  more  submissive,  and  induced  them  to 
dispose  of  the  fish  at  a  more  reasonable  price."  This  regulation  in  the 
"  Billingsgate''  of  Athens  was  very  rigorously  observed,  and  the  pur- 
chasers were  highly  delighted  with  it. 

They  also  required  that  the  fish  should  always  be  out  of  the  water ; 
and  this  wise  law,  consequently,  did  not  allow  its  being  preserved,  or 
the  price  to  be  increased."  And  finally,  as  soon  as  any  kind  of  fish 
was  brought  to  market,  they  were  required  to  call  the  customers  together 
immediately,  by  a  kind  of  market- bell,  which  was  a  sort  of  invitation  to 
come  and  make  their  purchases.^^ 

Some  would-be  philosophers,  members  of  the  opposition  of  that 
period,  thought  of  raising  their  voices  against  the  common  taste.  Sym- 
machus,  Polycrates,  and  Lamprias,  tried  to  prove,  in  their  writings, 
that  those  who  eat  fish  were  the  most  cruel  and  ferocious  of  men.  These 
tender  ichthyophilists  were  laughed  at,  and  their  works  had  no  sale. 

The  Romans  inherited  the  predilection  of  the  Greeks,  "  For  the 


FISH.  21 S 

damb  compauions  of  the  fair  Amphitryte ;"  but,  excited  by  the  love  of 
the  marvelloas,  they  stocked  the  sea  with  imaginary  beings ;  and  they 
saw  whales  of  four  acres,  fishes  of  two  hundred  cubits,  and  even  that 
eel,  or  that  serpent,  which  veridical  navigators  have  seen  again  in  our 
days.     It  was  then  thirty  feet  in  length,"  but  now  it  is  much  longer! 

Pliny,  who  believed  so  many  things,  swore  to  these  by  the  twelve 
great  gods  of  Olympus.  At  all  events,  we  are  much  indebted  to  that 
laborious  naturalist  for  very  precious  information.  He  has  made  us 
acquainted  with  the  scare,  which  the  Roman  epicures  preferred  to  every 
other  species.  After  the  scare,  the  eel-pout  or  lotas'-liver  enjoyed  a  great 
reputation*  The  red  mullet,  which  is  still  much  esteemed,  was  considered 
as  one  of  the  most  delicate  of  dishes,  and  the  Bomans  in  fashionable 
circles  employed  it  in  a  refinement  of  pleasure  of  a  singular  kind. 

It  is  well  known  that  this  fish,  when  the  scales  are  removed,  still 
remains  of  a  fine  pink  colour.  The  fops  of  Rome  having  remarked  that, 
at  the  death,  this  colour  passed  through  a  succession  of  the  most  beau- 
tiful shades,  the  poor  mullet  was  served  alive,  inclosed  in  a  glass  vessel ; 
and  the  guests,  attentive  and  greedy  of  emotions,  enjoyed  this  cruel 
spectacle,  which  presented  to  them  a  gradation  of  colours,  wnich  in« 
sensibly  disappeared." 

The  greatest  sensualists  killed  it  in  brine,  and  Apicius  was  the  first 
who  invented  this  kind  of  luxury.  The  brine  most  in  use,  in  such 
cases,  was  made  with  the  blood  of  mackerel,  and  that  was  one  of  the 
varieties  of  that  famous  garum  so  highly  praised  by  the  Latin  authors, 
and  which  was  to  them,  at  that  period,  what  the  fish  sauces  of  the 
English  are  now.  We  will  give,  in  this  work,  the  various  preparations 
of  this  so  celebrated  condiment,  and  the  reader  will  then  be  able  to 
judge  for  himself. 

Apicius,  the  man  of  culinary  progress,  proposed  a  prize  to  any  one 
who  could  invent  a  new  brine  made  with  the  liver  of  red  mullets. 
History  has  not  transmitted  to  us  the  name  of  the  fortunate  conqueror ; 
but  Juvenal  informs  us. that  Asinius  Celer  offered  sixty  pounds  for  one 
of  these  fishes  which  weighed  six  pounds.*' 

This  was,  after  all,  but  a  trifling  folly,  in  the  midst  of  so  many 
extravagances  which  several  writers  have  carefully  registered.  LucuUus, 
the  most  ostentatious  of  the  patricians,  had  a  mountain  cut  through  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Naples,  so  as  to  open  a  canal  and  bring  up  the 
sea  and  its  fishes  to  the  centre  of  the  gardens  of  his  sumptuous  villa.** 


214  FISH, 

The  love  of  fish  became  a  real  mania :  turbots  excited  a  furore  of 
admiration — the  murcena  Helena  was  worshipped.  Hortensius,  the 
orator,  actually  wept  over  the  death  of  the  one  he  had  fed  with  his  owa 
hands ;  the  daughter  of  Drusus  ornamented  hers  with  golden  rings ; 
each  had  a  name,  and  would  come  with  speed  when  it  heard  the  voice 
of  the  master,  whose  happiness  depended  on  his  fish.^' 

Sometimes,  in  a  moment  of  over  tenderness  for  his  dear  murmna 
Helena,  Vedius  Pollio,  a  Boman  knight  of  the  highest  distinction,  and 
one  of  the  intimate  friends  of  the  Emperor  Augustus,  could  find  nothing 
better  to  do  than  to  feed  them  with  the  flesh  of  his  slaves,  who  were 
thrown  to  them  alive.'^  It  is  true  that  these  wretched  creatures  gene- 
rally deserved  this  terrible  chastisement ;  for  instance,  Seneca  speaks  of 
one  who  had  the  awkwardness  to  break  a  crystal  vase  '^  while  waiting 
at  supiper  on  the  irascible  FoUio.  This  unfortunate  slave  having 
managed  to  escape  from  the  hands  of  those  who  were  conducting  him 
to  this  horrible  death,  he  went  and  fell  on  his  knees  at  the  feet  of 
CaBsar,  whom  he  implored  to  inflict  some  less  frightfiil  torture.  Augustus, 
moved  to  the  very  soul,  granted  him  his  liberty,  had  all  of  Vedius  s  vases 
broken,  and  ordered  that  the  pieces  should  be  used  to  fill  up  the 
reservoir  in  which  the  barbarous  knight  fed  his  murosna  Helena" 

Having  given  this  rapid  sketch  of  the  principal  periods  of  ichthy- 
ophagy  among  the  ancients,  little  remains  to  be  said  of  later  ages  in 
which  we  find  few  traces  of  any  particular  or  excessive  predilection  for 
this  kind  of  alimentation.  If  we  are  to  believe  Dio,"  the  first  inhabi- 
tants of  Great  Britain  never  eat  fish.  The  English  have  not  thought 
it  expedient  to  imitate  their  ancestors  in  this  respect. 

Under  the  reign  of  Edward  II.,  certain  fish,  especially  the  sturgeon, 
never  appeared  in  England  except  on  the  table  of  the  king:  it  was 
prohibited  to  all  others.  In  1138,  Stephen  wanted  to  modify  this 
interdiction ;  but  after  his  reign  it  was  again  in  vigour,  and  considered 
as  a  royal  prerogative. 

In  France,  anybody  could  eat  fish,  of  any  and  all  kinds ;  but  every 
fishmonger  was  obliged  to  obtain  permission  from  the  king  to  sell  it.'^ 

The  sumptuary  laws  of  that  kingdom  inform  us  of  nothing  very 
interesting  on  this  essential  of  gastrology.  We  find,  however,  by  the 
Edict  of  1294,  that  Philip-le-Bel  aUowed,  on  fast-days,  two  herring- 
pottages,  and  only  one  sort  of  fish — a  meagre  dinner,  if  ever  there  was 
one,  and  which,  thank  heaven,  has  fallen  into  complete  disuse.    Louis 


J'ISH,  215 

XII.  was  very  fond  of  good  cheer,  and,  consequently,  he  appointed  six 
fishmongers  to  supply  his  table  with  fresh-water  fish  ;**  Francis  I.  had 
twenty- two;**  Henry  the  Great,  twenty-four." 

Under  the  reign  of  Louis  XIV.  fish  acquired  a  singular  vogue  in 
the  city  as  well  as  at  court,  owing  to  the  marvellous  talent  of  that 
prince  8  cook,  who  discovered  the  art,  supposed  to  be  lost,  of  giving  to 
the  delicate  flesh  of  the  pike,  the  carp,  and  the  trout,  the  shape  and 
flavour  of  the  most  exquisite  game. 

At  this  period  we  have  the  celebrated  Vatel,  one  of  the  most  illus- 
trious officers  of  the  household  that  ever  flourished  in  the  palace  of 
the  Princes  of  Cond6.  This  inimitable  major-domo  understood  that  a 
dinner  without  fish  was  a  cheerless  one.  One  day  when  his  noble  master 
entertained  Louis  XIY.  at  a  royal  banquet,  at  Chantilly,  which  the 
genius  of  Vatel  rendered  more  brilliant,  the  fish  from  the  coast  failed ; 
he  sent  everywhere,  but  none  could  be  found.  He  was  completely 
bewildered :  he  met  his  august  master,  whose  kind  words,  full  of  bene- 
volence, only  served  to  increase  his  desperation ;  he  left  him,  ran  to  his 
chamber,  took  his  sword,  and  three  times  pierced  his  heart.  Shortly 
afler,  fish  arrived  firom  all  quarters.  Vatel  was  called— no  Vatel !  He  was 
sought  for,  and  at  last  discovered — Vatel  was  no  more  I 

It  appears  that,  in  former  times,  there  was  a  re.markable  consumption 
of  fish  in  England  on  the  4th  of  July,  the  Festival  of  St.  Ulric.  The 
following  verses,  by  Bamaby  Gouge  prove  it : — 

ST.  HULDRYCHE. 
"  Wheresoever  Iluldryche  hath  his  place,  the  people  there  brings  in 
Both  capes  and  pykes,  and  mullets  fat,  his  favour  here  to  win. 
Amid  the  church  there  sittieth  one,  and  to  the  auitar  nie. 
That  selleth  fish,  and  so  good  cheep,  that  every  man  may  buie  ; 
I^or  any  thing  he  loseth  here,  bestowing  thus  liis  paine. 
For  when  it  hath  beene  offred  once,  't  is  brought  him  all  againe, 
That  twise  or  thrise  he  selles  the  same,  vugodlinesse  such  gaine 
Both  still  bring  in,  and  plentiously  the  kitchen  doth  maintaine, 
Whence  comes  this  same  religion  newe  ?    What  kind  of  God  is  this, 
Same  Huldryche  here,  that  so  desires  and  so  delightes  in  fishe  ?  ^  " 

An  ordinance  of  King  John  informs  us  that,  in  the  14th  century, 
people  eat  porpoises  and  even  seals.'^  In  the  days  of  the  troubadours, 
they  fished  for  dolphins  and  whales  in  the  Mediterranean,  and  the 
flesh  of  these  sea  monsters  was  considered  excellent.'^ 


216  FISH. 


STURGEON. 

This  enormoas  cartilaginous  inhabitant  of  the  ocean,  the  Mediter- 
ranean, the  Bed,  Black,  and  Caspian  Seas,  received  from  the  Greeks, 
after  its  death,  honours  in  which  none  of  the  most  delicate  or  renowned 
fish  participated.  It  was  announced  to  the  guests  by  the  sound  of 
trumpets ;  and  slaves,  magnificently  dressed,  placed  it  on  the  table  in  the 
midst  of  garlands  and  flowers." 

Joy  brightened  every  face;  a  more  generous  wino  filled  fresh  goblets, 
and  some  flatterers — ^for  the  sturgeon  possessed  many — with  eyes  fixed 
on  the  noble  accipenser,  compared  its  flesh  to  the  ambrosia  of  the 
immortals." 

The  high  price  of  the  sturgeon  contributed  in  no  small  degree  to 
such  brilliant  praise.  This  king  of  banquets  would  have  ruined  a 
modest  citizen  of  Athens,  and  hardly  did  the  exiguity  of  its  proportions 
permit  its  figuring  among  the  expensive  rarities  of  an  Attic  supper, 
when  it  had  cost  only  a  thousand  drachms,  or  about  ^£16  sterling." 

The  Bomans,  imitators  and  emulators  of  the  luxury  of  the  Greeks, 
were  almost  equally  fond  of  this  fish ;  and,  like  them,  reserved  it  for 
princely  tables,  or  aristocratic  opulence.  It  would  seem,  however,  that 
the  enthusiasm  excited  by  the  sturgeon  somewhat  cooled  under  the 
reign  of  Vespasian.**  Perhaps  at  this  period  it  became  more  common, 
or  was  sold  at  a  more  moderate  price.  Nothing  more  was  requisite  in 
Bome  to  deprive  a  dish  of  its  most  brilliant  vogue  and  most  powerfid 
patronage. 

However,  the  poet  Martial,  by  nature  no  great  flatterer,  passes  a 
pompous  eulogium  on  the  monstrous  fish,"  and  judges  it  worthy  of 
being  placed  on  the  luxurious  tables  of  the  Palatine  Mount,  that  West- 
end  of  Bome,  rendered  illustrious  by  the  presence  of  kings,  nobles,  and 
emperors." 

We  have  before  observed  that  the  sturgeon  was  formerly  a  royal  dish 
in  England."  A  celebrated  traveller  assures  us  that,  at  the  present  day, 
the  Chinese  abstain  from  it,  and  that  the  sovereign  of  the  Celestial 
Empire  consigns  it  to  his  own  kitchens,  or  dispenses  it  to  a  few  of  his 
greatest  favourites." 


y' 


FISH.  217 

This  gigantic  acclpenser,  which  often  weighs  two  hundred  pounds,  is 
quite  common  in  Siberia,  where  they  even  catch  some  of  a  much  larger 
size,  since  some  of  the  females  have  been  found  to  contain  two  hundred 
pounds  weight  of  eggs.*'  In  1760,  one  was  caught  in  Italy  which 
weighed  550  lbs.  There  are  some  in  Norway,  the  head  alone  of  which 
yields  a  tun  of  oil,**  and  whose  immense  proportions  would  formerly  have 
astonished  the  most  intrepid  gastrophilists  of  Athens,  Syracuse,  and  Rome. 

An  alimentary  substance,  called  caviar,  furnished  almost  exclusively 
by  Russia  to  the  rest  of  Europe,  is  prepared  from  the  spawn  of  several 
kinds  of  sturgeons. 

The  spawn  of  the  large  sturgeon  produces  caviar  of  an  inferior  qua- 
lity ;  that  of  the  common  sturgeon,  and  the  sterlet,  is  prized  as  being 
more  delicate,  when  it  is  carefully  separated  from  the  vessels  and  mem« 
branes  with  which  it  is  intersected,  well  impregnated  with  brine,  pressed, 
and  slightly  dried.  White  caviar,  it  is  said,  is  the  best  of  all.  It  is 
reserved  for  the  court." 

There  are  two  sorts  of  caviar :  granulated  caviar,  and  sack  caviar. 

The  manufactiure  of  the  first  named  is  performed  by  pressing  the 
spawn  on  a  sieve,  and  rubbing  it  in  every  direction  to  remove  the  pel- 
licles which  adhere  to  it,  after  which  it  is  put  into  strong  brine  for  one 
hour,  then  drained  in  a  sieve,  and,  finally,  pressed  close  into  barrels,  so 
as  to  entirely  fill  them  before  the  head  is  fastened  down.*' 

The  manufacture  of  the  other  kind  of  caviar  only  difiers  in  two  par- 
ticulars. The  spawn  is  manipulated  while  in  the  brine,  in  order  to  soften 
it,  and  it  is  put,  in  small  portions  of  about  half-a-pound  each,  into  linen 
bags,  which  are  powerfully  twisted  to  extract  all  the  brine  before  it  is 
pressed  into  the  barrels. 

The  workmen  employed  in  these  operations  make  a  third  kind  of 
caviar  with  the  refuse.  This  sort,  used  only  by  the  poorest  classes, 
deserves  no  notice. 

For  some  years  past,  they  have  introduced  the  method  of  salting  the 
roes  as  they  are  taken  from  the  fish,  and  packing  them  into  barrels, 
where  they  reqiain  seven  or  eight  months ;  after  which  they  are  again 
salted,  and  then  dried  in  the  sun. 

Caviar  occupies  a  very  distinguished  place  in  Russian,  Turkish, 
German,  and  Italian  gastronomy.  The  Greeks,  in  particular,  live  upon 
it  almost  exclusively  during  the  long  Lent  fasts  prescribed  by  their 
Church.*' 


218  FISH. 


RED  MULLET. 

Philoxenes,  of  Cythera,  sapped  one  night  with  Dionysias,  tyrant  of 
Sicily.  It  happened  that  the  prince  was  served  with  a  magnificent 
mullet,  whereas  a  very  small  one  was  presented  to  his  guest  The  phi- 
losopher took  his  fish  in  his  hand,  and,  with  a  very  serious  air,  held  it 
to  his  ear.  Dionysius  asked  him  what  he  was  doing.  "  I  am  busy 
with  my  Galathea,"  replied  Philoxenes,  '*  and  I  am  questioning  him  on 
the  subject  of  Nerea ;  but  I  can  obtain  no  answer  from  him,  because  he 
was  taken  at  too  early  an  age.  I  am  certain,  however,  that  the  other, 
evidently  much  older,  which  lies  before  you,  is  perfectly  well  acquainted 
with  what  I  wish  to  know."  The  tyrant,  who  happened  that  evening  to 
be  in  a  good  humour,  laughed  at  the  joke,  and  ofiered  the  larger  mullet 
to  the  witty  gastronomist.^* 

The  unbridled  and  cruel  luxury  of  ancient  Rome  required  that  this 
fish  should  be  cooked  by  a  slow  fire,  on  the  table  and  under  a  glass,  that 
the  guests  might  gloat  on  its  sufferings  before  they  satiated  their  appe- 
tites with  its  flesh.*^  It  is  true  this  barbarous  gratification  was  very 
expensive,  and  it  was  necessary  to  be  very  rich  to  indulge  in  it — conse- 
quently it  was  decidedly  very  fashionable,  quite  natural,  and  in  the  very 
best  taste. 

Ordinary  mullets  weighed  about  2  lbs.  ;*'  these  hardly  deserved  that 
their  dying  agonies  should  for  an  instant  amuse  the  guests ;  they  were 
worth  only  about  iE  15  or  £20  each.  But  sometimes  fortune  threw  in 
their  way  much  larger  ones ;  and  the  opulent  amateur  esteemed  himself 
only  too  fortunate  when  he  could  obtain  a  fish  of  three*'  or  four  pounds** 
for  a  much  higher  sum  than  he  had  paid  for  the  slave,  tutor  of  his 
children. 

Grispinus  was  fond  of  mullets.  He  obtained  one  weighing  four  or 
six  pounds,  for  which  the  fishmonger  asked  only  £60.*'  This  was  giving 
it  away ;  and/;ertaiuly  the  man  did  not  understand  his  trade.  Crispinus, 
on  becoming  the  possessor  of  this  wonderful  treasure,  was  astonished  at 
his  good  fortune,  and  the  whole  of  Rome  long  refused  to  believe  it. 

In  the  reign  of  Tiberius,  three  of  these  fish  were  sold  for  30,000 
sesterces,**  or  £209  9«.  Sd. ;  and  this  emperor  was  one  day  generous 


FISH.  219 

enough  to  give  up  to  P.  Octavius,  for  the  low  price  of  6,000  sesterces,  a 
very  fine  mullet  which  had  just  been  presented  to  him." 

And  yet  some  persons  of  culinary  authority  paid  but  little  attention 
to  the  flesh  of  this  deUcate  fish ;  they  sought  only  the  liver  and  head ; 
and  if  they  paid  for  it  so  dearly,  it  was  solely  to  find  some  few  mouth- 
fuls  more  in  these  two  parts,"  to  which  caprice,  enthusiasm,  that  fever  of 
admiration,  and  we  know  not  what  extraordinary  gastronomic  rage,  gave 
an  inestimable  price^  which  at  the  present  day  excites  only  a  smile  of 
incredulity. 

Pliny  speaks  of  a  mullet  caught  in  the  red  sea,  which  weighed  eighty 
pounds."  "At  how  much,"  adds  this  great  naturalist,  "would  it  have 
been  valued  had  they  caught  it  in  the  environs  of  Rome!"  We  may 
suppose,  without  the  least  exaggeration^  that  many  a  senator  would  have 
offered  £i  ,600  to  become  its  possessor. 

It  is  thus  that  the  mistress  of  the  world  foolishly  dissipated  in 
ephemeral  whims  the  immense  treasures  poured  into  her  lap  by  tribu- 
tary kings — conquered  and  spoliated  nations.  Each  day  her  patricians, 
knights,  and  nobles,  tired  of  their  importunate  opulence,  solicited  new 
diversions,  and  invented  new  excesses.  The  mullet  for  a  moment  satis- 
fied their  prodigality,  and  amused  their  barbarity;  but  Heliogabalus 
appeared,  and  he  imagined  prodigies  of  gluttony  which  excited  at  once 
admiration  and  envy.  The  liver  of  this  fish  appeared  to  him  too  paltry ; 
he  took  it  into  his  head  to  be  served  with  large  dishes  completely  filled 
with  the  gills."  Now,  we  know  that  the  mullet  possesses  only  two. 
This  dish,  whose  price  would  have  enriched  a  hundred  families,  was 
worthy  of  the  Sardanapalus  of  Some,  who,  at  the  age  of  eighteen,  had 
exhausted  the  treasures  of  the  empire,  and  whom  a  violent  death  seized 
most  d  propos,  at  the  moment  when  he  had  attained  the  extreme  limits 
of  crime  and  infamy. 

The  Romans  served  the  mullet  with  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  rue, 
onions,  dates,  and  mustard,  to  which  they  added  the  flesh  of  the  sea 
hedge-hog  reduced  to  a  pulp,  and  oil." 

When  the  liver  alone  was  to  be  eaten,  it  was  cooked,  and  then  sea- 
soned with  pepper,  salt,  or  a  little  garum — some  oil  was  added,  and 
hare  s  or  fowl's  liver,  and  then  oil  was  poured  over  the  whole.*' 

The  Greeks  knew  how  to  appreciate  the  mullet.  They  thought 
highly  of  those  caught  on  their  own  shores",  and  placed  them  in  the 
first  rank  of  the  most  exquisite  dishes  of  their  delicate  cookery. 

02 


220  FISH. 

"  It  is  with  the  eggs  of  mullets,  when  salted,  pressed,  washed,  and 
dried,  that  the  preparation  known  as  botargo  or  botarcha  is  made.  It 
is  very  recherche  in  Italy,  and  other  southern  countries,  as  a  seasoning." 
— Dr.  Cloquet. 


SEA-EEL. 

The  sumptuous  ahode  of  L.  Crassus  echoes  with  his  sighs  and 
groans.  His  children  and  slaves  respect  his  profound  sorrow,  and 
leave  him  with  intelligent  affection  to  solitude — that  friend  of  great 
grief;  so  grateful  to  the  aflBicted  soul,  because  tears  can  flow  unwit- 
nessed. Alas  1  the  favourite  sea-eel  of  Crassus  is  dead,  and  it  is  uncer- 
tain whether  Crassus  can  survive  it ! 

This  sensitive  Roman  caused  this  beloved  fish  to  be  buried  with 
great  magnificence :  he  raised  a  monument  to  its  memory,  and  never 
ceased  to  mourn  for  it." 

This  man,  who  displayed  so  Uttle  tenderness  towards  his  servants, 
had  an  extraordinary  weakness  concerning  his  fine  sea-eels.  He  passed 
his  life  beside  the  superb  fish-pond,  where  he  lovingly  fattened  them 
firom  his  own  hand.  Ornamented  with  necklaces  of  the  finest  pearls, 
and  earrings  of  precious  stones,*'  all,  at  a  signal,  swam  towards  him ; 
several  fearlessly  took  the  food  he  offered  them ;  and  some,  as  familiar 
as  their  absent  and  regretted  companion,  allowed  their  master  to  caress 
them  without  seeking  to  bite  or  avoid  him.'^ 

This  singular  passion,  which  at  the  present  day  we  can  hardly  be- 
lieve, in  spite  of  the  respectable  authority  of  the  most  serious  writers, 
was  very  common  at  Home,  amongst  those  who  were  rich  enough  to 
rear  such  fish.  C.  Hirtius  was  the  first  to  construct  fish  ponds  on  the 
sea  shore,  to  which  many  visitors  were  attracted  by  their  magnificence.*' 
The  family  of  Licinius  took  their  surname  of  Mur(ena  from  these  fish, 
in  order  thus  to  perpetuate  the  most  silly  affection,  and  the  remembrance 
of  their  insanity.** 

Sea-eels  necessarily  pleased  men  cloyed  with  pleasures,  and  who 
substituted  a  kind  of  cold  and  cruel  curiosity  for  the  terrible  emo- 
tions which  beings  peculiarly  organized   hope  to    find  in  evil-doing: 


FISH.  221 

gladiators  murdering  each  other ;  lions  or  tigers  lacerating  the  hestiarii ; 
all  these  agonies  of  the  amphitheatre  had  long  since  lost  the  attraction 
of  novelty.  It  was  a  much  more  exciting  spectacle  to  witness  a  swarm  of 
sea-eels  tearing  to  pieces  an  awkward  or  rebellious  slave ;  besides,  it 
greatly  improved  the  fish.  The  atrocious  Vedius  PoUio,  who  under- 
stood these  matters,  never  failed  to  have  sea-eels  served  him  after  their 
odious  repast,  that  he  might  have  the  pleasure  of  eating  some  part  of 
the  body  of  his  victim." 

Thank  Heaven  I  however,  some  amateurs  of  this  dreaded  fish  were 
not  so  barbarous ;  they  fattened  them  very  well  without  having  recourse 
to  such  criminal  food.  Veal  was  cut  into  thin  slices,  and  steeped  in  the 
blood  of  the  animal  for  ten  days,  after  which  the  fish  greedily  regaled 
themselves  with  it.** 

It  was,  doubtless,  in  this  manner  that  the  skilful  speculator,  Hirtius, 
— the  same  already  mentioned — nourished  his  sea-eels,  which  pro- 
duced him  an  immense  revenue.  His  fish  ponds  contained  so  great  a 
number  that  he  was  able  to  offer  six  thousand  to  JuUus  Caesar  on  the 
occasion  of  the  public  feast  that  general  gave  the  day  of  his  triumphal 
return  from  the  conquest  of  Gaul." 

The  greater  part  of  the  Roman  emperors  were  exceedingly  fond  of 
sea-eels.  The  greedy  Vitellius,  growing  tired  of  this  dish,  would  at 
last  only  eat  the  soft  roes :  and  numerous  vessels  ploughed  the  seas  in 
order  to  obtain  them  for  him.**  This  exquisite  rarity  again  appeared 
too  common  to  the  maniac  child,  who  dismayed  and  astonished  Rome  for 
the  space  of  three  years.  Heliogabalus  brought  the  soft  roe  of  the  sea 
eel  into  disrepute  by  ordering  that  the  peasants  of  the  Mediterranean 
should  be  gorged  with  it.*'  This  folly  amused  him,  and  only  cost  several 
millions.  That  was  a  trifie  when  compared  with  the  blood  which  almost 
always  flowed  to  satisfy  his  whims. 

The  Greeks  and  Latins  thought  much  of  sea-eels  caught  in  the 
straits  of  Sicily.**  They  were  sometimes  served  surrounded  with  craw- 
fish ;*'  but  more  frequently  they  were  dressed  with  a  seasoning  much  in 
fashion,  composed  of  pepper,  alisander,  savory,  saflfron,  onion,  and 
stoned  Damascus  plums.  These  various  substances  were  mixed  together, 
and  to  them  were  added  wine,  sweet  sun-made  wine,  old  wine  reduced  by 
boiling,  garum,  vinegar,  and  oil.'* 

At  Rome  the  fish  market  was  abundantly  supplied  with  sea-eels  from 
the  Tiber.    Connoisseurs  thought  nothing  of  them ;"  they  were  sold  at  a 


222  FISH. 

low  price,  and  their  disgrace  became  complete  directly  they  appeared  on 
plebeian  tables. 

The  Egyptians  venerated  this  fish,  and  always  esteemed  it  sacred/' 
Among  the  Sybarites,  just  appreciators  of  its  culinary  qualities,  the 
fishers  and  sellers  of  sea-eels  were  exempt  from  all  taxes/'  They  often 
procured  some  of  such  enormous  size,  that  we  should  be  tempted  to 
accuse  the  old  chroniclers  of  exaggeration,  if  we  were  not  aware  that 
this  animal  attains  considerable  dimensions.  In  the  year  1 786  a  sea-ed 
was  taken  in  the  Elbe,  weighing  sixty  pounds.  This  extraordinary  fish 
measured  seven  feet  two  inches  in  length,  and  twenty-five  inches  in  the 
girth/* 


LAMPREY. 

In  spite  of  its  soft  and  viscid  flesh,  this  fish  occupied  in  Rome  a  most 
honourable  rank  among  the  multitudinous  dishes  which  intemperance 
was  ever  augmenting,  and  preference  was  given  to  that  species  caught  by 
enterprising  speculators  in  that  strait  which  separates  Sicily  from  Italy. 
These  good  people  averred  that  lampreys  which  rise  to  the  surface  of  the  sea 
are  immediately  dried  up  by  the  sun,  and  cannot  any  more  descend  to  the 
depths  of  the  ocean.'^  This  little  story  did  no  harm  to  their  sale ;  on  the ' 
contrary,  they  became  on  that  account  more  curiously  interesting. 

It  was  also  said,  and  the  serious  Gesner  himself  has  repeated  this 
fable/*  That  if  the  fish  fastens  its  mouth  to  the  side  of  a  vessel  it  im- 
mediately stops,  and  that  the  combined  power  of  the  wind  and  the  efibrts 
of  the  rowers  are  unavailing."  The  fact  is  that,  by  means  of  a  kind  of 
suction,  it  can  fasten  firmly  on  any  bodies ;  and  one  weighing  only  three 
pounds  has  been  seen  to  sustain  in  the  air,  with  its  mouth,  a  stone  weigh- 
ing  twelve  pounds.'* 

The  lamprey  has  not  always  been  the  fashion,  but  it  has  had  brilliant 
and  glorious  epochs.  In  1135  it  caused  so  great  a  fit  of  indigestion  to 
Henry  I.,  King  of  England,  that  that  prince  died  in  consequence  of  it.'* 
Since  then,  in  the  IGth  century,  it  has  been  honoured  with  the  reputation 
of  having  caused  more  than  one  death.*'  It  was  sold  at  a  very  high  price, 
£8  at  least,  and  at  certain  periods  the  Roman  nobles  even  paid  as  much 
as  £20  for  one  of  these  fish.*'  The  ancient  metropolis  of  the  world 
had  sometimes  strange  reminiscences  of  her  former  grandeur. 


FISH.  223 

The  Italian  epicures  of  that  remarkable  era  used  to  kill  the  lamprey 
in  Candian  wine.  A  nutmeg  was  placed  in  the  mouth,  and  a  clove  in  each 
of  the  openings  of  the  gilis.  They  rolled  them  round  in  a  saucepan, 
and  after  adding  crushed  almonds,  bread  crumbs,  Gandian  wine,  and 
spices,  the  whole  was  cooked  over  a  slow  fire." 


SEA-WOLR 

Hicesius,  one  of  the  most  estimable  ichthyophagists  of  antiquity, 
does  not  hesitate  to  place  the  sea- wolf  above  all  the  fish  which  by  their 
excellence  were  dear  to  Greece  ;'*  and  the  great  Archestratus  says,  that 
the  lubridan  (a  species  of  the  sea-wolf)  is  a  child  of  the  gods.'* 

The  Bomans,  touched  no  doubt  by  these  magnificent  praises,  granted 
to  the  sea-wolf  that  favour  which  a  high  reputation  commands.  The 
immense  sturgeon  itself  was  eclipsed  by  it,  and  the  sea-wolf  had  the 
glory  of  throwing  this  powerful  and  renowned  rival  into  oblivion.** 

Their  love  for  its  white  and  tender  flesh  knew  no  bounds,"  and  the 
fishermen  of  the  Tiber  were  no  longer  equal  to  the  task  of  supplying 
them  for  the  impatient  gluttony  of  the  rich  inhabitants  of  the  Palatine 
Mount.  Still  this  fish  only  fetched  a  high  price  when  taken  in  a  certain 
part  of  the  river ;  firom  any  other  place  it  hardly  commanded  a  few  as 
(pence).  Between  the  Sublicius  and  Senatorius  bridges,  a  deep,  black, 
and  fetid  water  announced  the  presence  of  the  continual  flood  of  filth 
which  the  giant  city  poured  into  it  night  and  day.  It  was  in  the  midst 
of  these  impurities  that  shoals  of  sea- wolves  were  seen  disporting ;  they 
fattened  on  that  shocking  slime,  and  thence  passed  to  the  delicate  tables 
of  LucuUus  and  Caesar." 

The  Greeks  contented  themselves  with  lubridans  taken  ^n  clear  water* 
and  preferred  the  head  to  any  other  part." 


SCAKUS,  OR,  PAREOT-FISH. 

The  scarus  —  its  modem  name  is  still  problematic  —  furnished  the 
Greeks  with  one  of  those  exquisite  dishes  the  remembrance  of  which  never 


224  FISH. 

dies.  The  Bomans  were  not  yet  acquainted  with  it,  when  Octavius,  the 
commander  of  a  fleet,  brought  on  board  the  vessels  a  great  quantity  of  this 
fish,  which  he  ordered  to  be  thrown  into  the  sea  along  the  coast  of  Cam- 
pania, and  which  soon  became  the  delight  of  the  epicures  of  Rome." 
History  has  shown  too  much  disdain  by  neglecting  to  say  more  than  a  few 
passing  words  on  the  subject  of  this  great  service.  May  a  tardy  homage 
of  gratitude  be  paid  to  the  memory  of  the  benefactor  of  his  country. 

The  scarus  was  prepared  without  being  embo welled,  and  epicures 
found  it  impossible  to  satiate  themselves  with  the  entrails,^*  which  ob- 
tained for  it  a  gastronomic  vogue  it  long  enjoyed  without  a  rival.'*  It 
was  asserted  that  the  fish  ruminates;''  that  it  feeds  only  on  herbage ;"  and 
that,  far  from  being  mute,  like  the  other  inhabitants  of  the  water,  it 
not  only  emits  sounds,  but  is  able  to  express  by  its  cries  the  difierent 
sensations  it  experiences.'*  These  anomalies,  either  real  or  supposed, 
had,  perhaps,  as  great  a  share  in  rendering  the  scarus  celebrated,  as  the 
delicacy  of  its  flesh,  and  the  exquisite  flavour  of  its  intestines.  Merit 
the  most  real  can  so  rarely  keep  the  field  unsupported  by  cajollery. 


TURBOT. 

Rome  and  Italy  were  indebted  to  the  prestor,  Sempronius,  or  to 
Rufus  Rutilius,'*  for  the  turbot,  which  they  taught  their  countrymen  to 
appreciate.  This  fish  quickly  obtained  the  success  which  it  merited, 
and  was  compared  to  the  pheasant,  as  soles  were  likened  to  partridges, 
lampreys  to  quails,  and  sturgeons  to  peacocks.  Some  preferred  turbot 
from  the  Adriatic  Sea,  others  that  of  Ravenna  ;'*  but  all  united  in 
declaring  that  there  was  not  a  more  delicious  food,  and  that  a  feast  loses 
all  its  charm  when  this  delicacy  is  wanting. 

In  the  reign  of  Domitian  a  monstrous  turbot  was  taken ;  such  a  one 
had  never  been  seen  in  the  imperial  kitchens."  The  emperor  convoked 
the  senate,  ond  deferred  to  them  to  decide  in  what  dish  it  should  be 
cooked,  in  order  that  it  might  be  served  whole.  The  deliberation  was 
long  and  stormy ;  all  Rome  was  in  a  state  of  expectancy ;  and  the  august 
assembly  strove  to  prove  itself  worthy  of  the  high  confidence  reposed  in 
it  by  Ceesar.  At  length  the  illustrious  old  men  were  tolerably  unanimous 
in  their  idea  that  the  best  way  would  be  to  make  a  dish  expressly  for 


FISH.  225 

the  fish — ^since  there  was  none  large  enough  ready-made — and  also  that 
a  stOTe  should  be  constructed  vast  enough  to  allow  the  dish  to  be  placed 
commodiously  upon  it.'' 

The  emperor,  the  city,  and  the  court  applauded  the  profound  wisdom 
of  this  decision  ;  and  "  le  turbotfut  mis  d  la  sauce  piquanteJ*  •* 

Aristotle  does  not  mention  this  fish ;  but  his  compatriots  esteemed 
highly  the  turbots  of  AtticaJ 


100 


TUNNY. 

The  Greeks  greatly  praised  the  tunny  fish  of  Pachynum."*  Persons 
who  prided  themselves  on  their  knowledge  in  the  art  of  good  living,  eat 
only  the  belly  part,**'  and  never  touched  the  remainder. 

The  Synopians  formerly  gained  immense  sums  by  the  tunny  fishery 
along  their  shores,"*  the  effigy  of  which,  perhaps  in  gratitude,  they 
stamped  on  their  money.  This  fish  came  from  Palus  Meotides,  and 
passed  thence  to  Trebizond  and  Pharnacia,  whence  it  followed  the  coast 
of  Sinopus,  and,  at  length,  reached  Byzantium,  where  they  took  nearly 
all  those  which  escaped  the  fisheries  of  the  two  first-named  stations."^ 

The  Bomans  ofiered  tunny  fish  in  sacrifice  to  Neptune,  in  order  that 
that  god  might  deign  to  prevent  the  xiphias  fish  from  tearing  their  nets, 
and  forbid  the  too  officious  dolphins  to  assist  in  their  escape.'^*  They 
sold  it  at  a  ver^good  price  during  the  autumn  and  winter ;  but  it  fetched 
less  in  summer  because  it  was  thought  to  be  unwholesome  during  that 
season."*  The  jole  and  belly  were  thought  the  most  delicate  parts."' 
They  were  either  firied  or  boiled,  with  pepper,  alisander,  cummin,  onion, 
mint,  sage,  and  dates,  to  which  was  added  a  mixture  of  honey,  vinegar, 
oil,  and  mustard."' 

Archestratus,  who,  on  account  of  his  gastronomic  voyages,  was  looked 
upon  as  a  high  authority,  asserts  that  Sicily  and  the  neighbourhood  of 
Constantinople  furnished  excellent  tunny  fish ;  but  that  the  best  were  those 
firom  Samos."*  These  latter  were  much  renowned  among  the  Greeks, 
who  carefully  prepared  the  entrails,  and  feasted  on  this  dish.  Atheneeus 
relates,  on  this  subject,  a  witticism  of  the  poet  Dorio,  a  keen  and 
caustic  spirit  of  the  period  of  Aristotle  and  Philip  of  Macedon.    Being 


226  FISH. 

at  dupper  with  that  prince,  a  guest  ridiculously  praised  a  dish  of  tunny- 
fish  intestines,  just  placed  on  the  table.  "  They  are  certainly  excellent/' 
said  Dorio,  ''  when  eaten  as  I  eat  them."  ''  How,  then,  do  you  eat 
them  ?  "  rejoined  the  gastronomic  courtier.  "  With  the  firm  determi- 
nation," replied  the  poet,  "  of  thiuking  of  nothing  better."  "' 

This  fish  abounds  in  certain  seas,  and  Pliny  avers  that  it  obstructed 
the  navigation  of  the  Indian  Sea  to  such  an  extent,  that  the  fleet  of 
Alexander  the  Great  was  obliged  to  change  its  course,  in  order  to  avoid 
this  impassable  barrier."^ 

Tunny  fish  sometimes  attain  an  immense  size.  Father  Getti  tells 
us,  that  some  were  caught  in  Sardinia  weighing  no  less  than  1,000  lbs., 
and  sometimes  even  1,800  lbs."' 


CONGEIUEEL. 

Near  Sicyona,  a  city  of  the  Poloponnesus,"'  they  formerly  caught 
conger-eels  of  such  immense  size,  that  it  required  a  waggon  drawn  by 
oxen  to  carry  a  single  one."*  The  body,  the  whole  of  the  head,  and 
even  the  intestines  "*  were  eaten.  This  dish,  worthy  of  being  offered 
by  Neptune  to  his  divine  colleagues,  was  capable,  like  ambrosia,  of 
bestowing  immortality  on  those  who  had  the  good  fortune  of  tasting 
it,  and  the  dead  would  return  to  life,  had  it  been  possible  to  serve  them 
with  a  piece  of  this  exquisite  fish."' 

These  childish  exaggerations  have  not  prevented  Galen  from  treating 
the  conger-eel  with  very  little  respect :  he  affirms,  that  nothing  is  more 
hard  or  indigestible."'  And,  indeed,  epicureans  of  some  repute  allowed 
only  the  head  to  appear  on  their  tables ;"'  and  then  only  at  rare  inter- 
vals, and  under  the  auspices  of  a  relishing  sauce  which  assured  its 
reception. 

The  Romans  had  still  less  esteem  for  this  too  highly  praised  fish. 
However,  sometimes  a  fried  conger-eel  occupied  on  the  si^ma  an  obscure 
place,  in  the  midst  of  a  seasoning  flavoured  highly  with  pepper,  ali- 
sander,  cummin,  wild  marjoram,  dried  onion,  and  hard  yolks  of  eggs; 
with  which  a  skilful  hand  carefiiUy  mixed  to  the  whole,  vinegar,  &weet 
wiue,  garum,  and  cooked  wine."* 


FISH.  2-27 


EEL. 


In  some  parts  of  Egypt  the  eel  was  not  eaten,  because  it  was  thought 
indigestible.'"  In  other  places  it  received  religious  worship.*"  They 
were  ornamented,  whether  they  liked  it  or  not,  with  silver,  gold,  and 
precious  stones,  and  priests  daily  offered  them  the  entrails  of  animals 
and  cheese."* 

The  Greeks  thought  highly  of  eels.  "  Behold  the  Helen  of  feasts !" 
cried  Eidicastes,  at  the  moment  when  one  was  served  ;  *'  I  will  be  her 
Paris ! "  "'  and  the  glutton  seized  and  devoured  it  immediately. 

Boeotia — where  this  fish  was  immolated  to  the  gods"* — the  straits 
of  Sicily,"^  and  the  Copian  lake,  furnished  eels  remarkable  for  their 
delicacy  and  size;"*  these  were  served  fried  and  enveloped  in  beet 
leaves."'  They  enjoyed  a  high  reputation  among  the  Sybarites,  a  choice 
nation,  who  would  have  invented  cookery  if  the  art  had  not  already 
existed,  and  among  whom  a  repast  was  so  serious  a  matter,  that  a  whole 
year  was  not  thought  too  loug  in  order  to  meditate  upon  it  and  get 
it  ready."' 

But  Hippocrates  did  not  like  the  eel,  and  he  forbade  it  to  his 
patients,  and  to  persons  attacked  with  a  pulmonary  affection."'  So  that 
this  Queen  of  Luxury,  as  Archestrates  calls  it,"®  met  with  as  many 
enemies  as  partisans.  Egypt  adored  it,  Greece  was  enamoured  of  it, 
Bome  despised  it,  and  the  plebeian  alone  reserved  it  to  the  humiUation 
in  his  brutal  orgies."* 

Apicius,  however,  has  condescended  to  notice  this  fish.  Mix,  says 
he,  pepper,  alisander,  parsley  seed,  dill,  and  dates ;  add  to  this  honey, 
vinegar,  garum,  oil,  mustard,  and  cooked  wine ;  "*  serve  this  sauce  with 
the  eel. 

Nations  have  their  ages  of  splendour — viands  have  their  epochs  of 
celebrity  and  glory.  This  one  seems  to  us  fast  falling  into  decay,  in 
spite  of  some  isolated  efforts  in  order  to  make  it  reflourish. 

When  Rockingham  was  named  member  of  parliament,  he  ordered 
thirteen  barrels  of  eels  to  be  brdught  to  London,  for  the  banquet  he 
gave  on  that  occasion."'  No  one  to  our  knowledge  has  since  prepared 
so  gigantic  a  matelote. 


228  FISH. 


1S4 


Travellers  formerly  saw  in  the  Ganges  beautiful  eels  800  feet  long 
— a  magnificent  species  never  seen  in  Europe. 

''  The  eel,  so  much  despised  by  the  Romans,  is  rather  in  favour  in 
several  countries;  certain  species  are  much  esteemed,  that  named 
GuiseaUy  among  others^  deserves  the  preference  it  always  obtains  at 
Rouen." — ^Bosc. 


PIKE. 


The  pike  was  very  little  esteemed  by  ancient  gastronomists,  who 
viewed  it  only  as  an  ignoble  inhabitant  of  muddy  water,  and  the  im- 
pjacable  enemy  of  frogs."*  It  was  a  received  opinion  that  this  despotic 
ruler  of  ponds  lived  for  several  centuries,  and  it  may  be  correct. 

Among  the  examples  of  longevity  of  this  fish,  the  most  remarkable 
is  that  of  the  pike  of  kaisers -lantern^  which  was  nineteen  feet  long, 
weighed  350  lbs.,  and  had  Uved  at  least  235  years.  It  is  reported  that  the 
Emperor  Barbarossa  himself  threw  it,  on  the  5th  of  October,  1262, 
into  the  pond  where  it  was  caught  in  1497;  and  that  this  enormous  pike 
wore  a  golden  ring,  which  was  made  so  that  it  would  expand,  and  on 
which  was  engraved  the  date  when  the  fish  was  spawned.  Its  skeleton 
was  for  a  long  time  preserved  at  Mannheim."' 

The  multiplication  of  pikes  would  be  immense  if  the  spawn  and 
pickrel,  in  the  first  year  of  their  existence,  were  not  the  prey  of  several 
other  fishes ;  for  it  has  been  calculated  that  in  a  female  pike  of  middling 
size  184,000  eggs  were  found. 

*'In  the  north,  and  peirticularly  in  Siberia,  the  pike  is  preserved  salted 
and  smoked ;  the  largest  only  are  used,  those  weighing  about  two  pounds. 
When  they  have  been  drawn,  cleaned,  and  washed,  they  are  cut  in  pieces, 
stratified  with  salt,  in  barrels.  A  brine  is  formed  in  which  they  are  left 
for  three  days,  then  they  are  dried  or  smoked  for  one  month.  After 
this  time  they  are  put  in  another  barrel,  with  fresh  salt,  wetted  with 
vinegar." — ^Bosc. 


mSE.  229 


CARP. 

The  carp  occupied  a  very  honourable  rank  with  the  Greeks  and 
Latins,  but  only  as  a  fish  of  the  second  order."'  At  Athens,  they 
picked  out  the  bones  and  stuffed  it  with  silphium,  cheese,  salt,  and 
marjoram."'  The  Romans  boiled  it  and  mixed  it  with  sows'  paps,  fowls* 
flesh,  fig-peckers,  or  thrushes ;  and  when  the  whole  was  made  into  a 
kind  of  pulp,  they  added  raw  eggs  and  oil ;  then  they  sprinkled  it  over 
with  pepper  and  alisander ;  after  which  they  poured  wine»  garum,  and 
cooked  wine  over  it;  and  when  the  culinary  combination  was  completed 
in  the  stewpan,  by  the  assistance  of  a  slow  fire,  it  was  then  thickened 
with  flour/" 

In  several  countries  it  is  known  at  what  period  the  carp  was  natu- 
ralized. Peter  Marshall  brought  it  to  England  in  1614  ;  Peter  Oxe  to 
Denmark  in  1560.  A  few  years  after,  it  was  introduced  into  Holland 
and  Sweden.  The  fecundity  of  this  fish  is  surprising ;  no  less  than 
621,600  eggs  were  found  in  a  carp  weighing  nine  pounds;  and  it  is 
very  long-lived.  Several  have  been  seen  in  the  moats  of  the  castle  of 
Ponchartrain,  which  were  proved  to  be  150  years  old.  Carp  are 
capable  of  acquiring  considerable  dimensions.  The  most  gigantic  on 
record  was  that  caught  at  Bisshofe-hause,  near  Frankfort  on  the  Oder ; 
it  weighed  70  lbs,' 


140 


EEL-POUT. 

The  liver  of  the  eel-pout  (also  known  by  the  names,  lota,  lote,  and 
lotus)  is  particularly  large,  and  so  delicate  that  a  certain  Countess  of 
Beuchlingen  squandered  a  large  portion  of  her  income  to  gratify  her 
taste  for  them."*  That  lady,  worthy,  by  her  refined  and  antique  taste, 
of  the  proudest  period  of  Roman  extravagance,  was,  perhaps,  not  aware 
that  the  most  fastidious  epicureans  of  Italy,  enthusiastic  admirers  of 
the  liver  of  this  fish,"'  had  it  served  with  a  sauce  composed  of  vinegar, 
grated  cheese,  and  garlic;  to  which  they  added  leeks  and  onions, 
chopped  fine  J 


14S 


2S0  FISH. 


TROUT. 

Elian  speaks  of  a  fish  found  in  the  river  Astrseus,  in  Macedonia/^ 
which  Gesner  believed  to  be  identical  with  the  trout.  It  does  not 
appear,  however,  that  the  Greeks  knew  the  real  value  and  merit  of  this 
fish ;  but  on  the  other  hand,  the  Romans  assigned  to  it  the  foremost 
rank,  next  to  the  sturgeon,  red  mullets,  and  the  sea-eel,  especially  when 
they  had  been  fattened  in  the  thick  waters  of  the  Tiber,  on  the  very  spot 
where  the  labridans  acquired  their  plumpness  and  valued 

The  trout  was  dressed  like  the  preceding  fish. 


145 


GOLD  FISH. 

This  fish,  dear  to  the  Greeks,^^'  had  the  honour  of  giving  its  name 
to  the  celebrated  icythyophagist,  Sergius,  who  was  passionately  fond  of 
it,  and  who  took  the  name  Orata  (from  Aurata — gold  fish),  to  preserve 
in  his  family  the  remembrance  of  his  gluttony  or  of  his  affection.**' 
His  compatriots,  the  Romans,  highly  valued  the  gold  fish,***  and  sought 
with  eagerness  those  which  had  fed  on  the  shell  fish  of  the  lake  of 
Lucrin"* — that  precious  reservoir  between  Baiee  and  Cumse,  which 
never  deceived  the  hopes  of  the  gastronomist,  nor  the  greedy  expec- 
tations of  the  fishermen."" 

The  gold  fish  was  served  with  a  gravy  composed  of  pepper,  alisander, 
carrots,  wild  marjoram,  rue,  mint,  myrtle  leaves,  and  yolk  of  eggs; 
mixed  with  honey,  vinegar,  oil,  wine,  and  garum."*  The  slow  cooking 
of  these  various  ingredients  gave  them  the  required  homogeneousness. 


WHITING. 

The  flesh  of  this  gadus  is  so  light  that,  according  to  an  old  French 
proverb,  the  "  Merlans  manges  ne  pesant  non  plus  dans  Vestomac  que 


FISn.  281 

pendus  a  la  ceinture^  "*  **  Whitings  weigh  no  more  when  eaten  than 
when  hung  to  the  girdle."  Nevertheless,  the  Greeks  did  not  think  much 
of  it,  and  they  said  that  the  whiting  was  only  good  for  those  who  could 
not  obtain  more  delicate  fish.^" 

The  Romans,  less  severe  or  not  quite  so  particular,  cooked  their 
whitings  with  a  sauce  composed  as  follows : — put  with  the  fish,  in  a 
stewpan,  some  garum,  chopped  leeks,  cummin,  savory,  and  a  sufiScient 
quantity  of  cooked  wine,  and  some  wine  slightly  diluted ;  cook  it  on  a 
slow  fire."* 


COD  FISH. 

The  cod  fish  supplied  the  ancients  with  the  most  exquisite  dish 
next  to  the  sturgeon."'  The  only  fault  found  with  it  ^vias,  that  it  cost 
'  less  than  others.  The  Greek  cooks  sprinkled  it  with  grated  cheese, 
moistened  with  vinegar ;  then  they  threw  over  it  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
few  drops  of  oil."'  Persons  with  delicate  stomachs  did  not  scruple  to 
partake  of  this  ahment,  which  Galen  warranted  as  being  excellent."' 

The  average  size  of  this  fish  is  about  three  feet  in  length  ;  but  some 
are  found  of  ten  feet.  The  common  weight  is  fifteen  pounds,  and  some 
have  been  seen  weighing  60lbs.  Leuwenhoek  has  said  that  9,344,000 
eggs  had  been  found  in  one  fish.  It  is  probable  he  made  a  mistake,  as 
a  cod  fish  of  our  days,  weighing  50lbs.,  produced  only  3,686,000  eggs — 
a  number  sufSciently  prodigious,  and  which  shows  pretty  well  its  great 
fecundity."*' 

It  is  supposed  that  the  discovery  of  the  great  and  small  banks  of 
cod  fish  is  due  to  the  Basque  fishermen,  who  arrived  there  in  pursuit  of 
whales,  one  hundred  years  before  Columbus  voyage.  Others  give  that 
honour  to  James  Cartier,  a  native  of  Falkland  Islands. 

"  As  early  as  the  1 4th  century,  the  English  and  the  inhabitants  of 
Amsterdam  busied  themselves  with  cod  fishing ;  and  later,  the  Irish, 
Norwegians,  French,  and  Spaniards  competed  with  them  more  or  less 
successfully.  In  1633,  Francis  I.  having  sent  J.  Verrazzano,  and 
afterwards,  Jacques  Cartier,  to  explore  the  neighbourhood  of  Newfound- 
land, the  French  fishermen  followed  them,  and  brought  back  also  this 
fish  from  those  distant  countries  in  the  beginning  of  the  I6th  century. 


232  FISH. 

"  Man  aDQually  seizes  upon  a  prodigious  quantity  of  cods,  and  were 
it  not  for  the  immense  extent  of  the  means  of  reproduction  allowed  to 
it  by  nature,  the  species  for  a  long  time  past  would  have  been  annihi- 
lated. It  is  even  hardly  conceived  how  it  has  been  possible  to  preserve 
it;  for  it  is  well  known,  that  as  early  as  1868,  the  inhabitants  of 
Amsterdam  had  brought  up  fishermen  on  the  coast  of  Sweden  ;  and,  in 
the  first  quarter  of  1792,  according  to  a  report  presented  to  the  minister, 
Roland,  at  the  National  Convention,  that,  from  the  ports  of  France 
only,  210  vessels,  forming  together  191,158  tons,  went  out  for  the  cod 
fisheries;  and  that  every  year  more  than  10,000  vessels  of  all 
nations  employed  at  this  trade,  throw  in  the  commercial  world  more 
than  40,000,000  of  salted  and  dried  cod.  If  we  add  to  this  enume- 
ration the  havoc  made  among  the  legions  of  these  fishes  by  the  great 
squales,  sharks,  and  others,  besides  the  destruction  of  a  multitude  of 
young  ones  by  the  other  inhabitants  of  the  seas  and  sea  birds,  together 
with  the  myriads  of  eggs  destroyed  by  accident,  it  really  is  extraordinary 
to  see  this  fish  in  so  great  a  quantity  now ;  but  who  can  wonder,  since 
each  female  can  every  year  give  birth  to  more  than  9,000,000  of  young 
ones." — Dr.  Cloqdet. 


PERCH. 

The  Greeks  were  acquainted  with  the  perch."'  Diodes  used  to  give 
the  flesh  to  the  sick  ;"•  Xenocrates  extolled  those  firom  the  Bhine  ;"^  and 
Ausonius,  the  poet,  has  sung  the  praises  of  those  fed  in  the  Moselle.^^' 

With  the  Romans,  this  fish  obtained  a  renown  almost  equal  to  that 
bestowed  on  the  trout ;  and  all  eyes  bespoke  its  welcome  at  supper, 
when  it  appeared  on  the  table,  covered  with  a  seasoning  in  which  pepper, 
alisander,  cummin,  and  onions  were  artistically  combined  with  stoned 
Damascus  plums — thanks  to  the  clever  use  of  wine,  vinegar,  sweet 
wine,  oil,  and  cooked  wine.  This  ingenious  amalgamation  acquired 
over  a  slow  fire  the  requisite  consistence  and  cohesion.**' 


FISH.  238 


SCATE. 

The  ancients  liked  or  disliked  scate,  according  to  the  places  where 
they  eat  it.  So,  now,  this  fish  is  rejected  in  Sardinia^  and  thought  ex- 
cellent in  London  and  Paris/'^ 

The  Greek  gastronomists  of  fashion  sometimes  partook  of  the  back 
of  the  scate  ;***  the  remainder  seemed  unworthy  of  their  attention,  and 
a  certain  poet  maintains  that  a  piece  of  stuff,  boiled,  offers  to  the 
palate  a  flavour  quite  as  agreeable/'* 

Italian  gluttony  always  gave  a  cold  reception  to  this  dish,  which  they 
owed  to  the  Greek  cooks,  and  which  their  magiric  writers  have  not  suf- 
ficiently studied. 

Aristotle  knew  of  two  species  of  scate  ;**'  Pliny  speaks  of  them  ;*" 
Lac^pdde  enumerates  thirty-nine  species."' 

That  celebrated  naturalist,  Buffon's  pupil  and  competitor,  assures  us 
that  several  eastern  nations  consider  the  smoke  arising  from  the  eggs  of 
scates,  thrown  on  burning  coals,  and  inhaled  by  the  mouth  and  nostrils, 
as  an  excellent  remedy  against  intermittent  fever.*^*     It  would  cost  but 

I 

little  to  make  the  experiment. 


SALMON. 

It  is  reported  that  the  salmon  was  thus  named  on  account  of  its 
frequent  leaping.^^^  It  has  been  sung  by  Ausonius/"  Its  absence  left  a 
chasm  in  the  delights  of  Greece,  and  it  was  late  before  it  became  known 
in  Rome.  Pliny  is  the  first  of  Latin  authors  who  name  it.^^'  Ichthy- 
ophagy  will  cherish  the  memory  of  this  laborious  author.  He  speaks 
with  praise  of  the  salmon  taken  in  the  Garonne  and  Dordogne.  He 
extols  those  of  the  Bhine,  but  he  seems  to  give  a  decided  preference  to 
those  magnificent  fishes  covered  with  a  silvery  mail,  which  disport  in  the 
limpid  waters  of  that  picturesque  and  beautiful  Aquitaine.'^^* 

Two  centuries  ago,  there  was  such  a  great  quantity  of  salmon  taken 
in  the  rivers  of  Scotland,  that,  instead  of  being  considered  a  delicate 

*  It  is  a  question  whether  they  coald  compete  in  quality  with  those  caught  in  the  Severn 
at  the  present  day. 


234  FISH. 


dish,  it  served  commonly  as  food  for  servants,  who  it  is  said,  stipulated 
sometimes,  that  they  should  not  be  obliged  to  eat  that  common,  tasteless 
aliment  more  than  five  times  per  week."* 


SEPIA,  OE,  CUTTLE-FISH. 

m 

Pliny  has  extolled  the  constancy  of  conjugal  offection  in  the  cuttle- 
fish, and  the  courage  with  which  the  male  defends  his  companion  in  the 
moment  of  danger."'  The  poet  Persius  describes  its  flight,  protected 
by  the  thick,  black  liquid  with  which  it  blinds  its  enemies.  Apicius, 
struck  more  by  its  succulent  quaUties,  opens  this  fish,  empties  it,  and 
stuffs  it  with  cooked  brains,  to  which  he  adds  raw  eggs  and  pepper ;  he 
then  boils  it  in  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  alisander,  parsley  ^ed,  and 
cooked  wine,  mixed  with  honey,  wine,  and  garum."'  Thus  prepared, 
the  cuttle-fish  passed  at  Bome  as  an  estimable  dish,  and  which  might  be 
offered  at  an  unpretending  repast* 


SWORDFISH. 

The  Greeks  were  fond  of  the  swordfish,  and  often  partook  of  it,"' 
with  a  sauce  of  which  oil  was  the  basis,  and  with  which  were  mixed 
yolks  of  eggs,  leeks,  garlic,  and  cheese."'  The  Romans  thought  very 
little  of  this  fish,  and  prayed  Neptune  to  send  it  far  from  their  nets. 


SHAD. 


iko 


The  shad  was  caught  during  the  summer,  and  sold  to  the  people, 
who  boiled  it  and  dished  it  up  with  strong  herbs  and  oil.    This  plebeian 
fish  was  excluded  from  all  respectable  banquets. 

"  Modem  taste  has  allowed  this  estimable  fish  to  re-appear  on  the 

•  We  saw,  in  1836,  while  at  Golne  Castle,  about  one  ton  weight  taken  out  of  the  water 
in  a  few  hour<(. 


FISH.  235 

table,  where  it  ie  always  seen  with  pleasure.    This  fish  is  caught  in 
most  of  the  great  riyers  of  Europe,  Asia,  and  northern  Africa." — ^Bosc, 


RHOMBO,  OE,  RHOMBUS. 

The  rhombo  claimed  the  attention  of  the  discriminating  ichthyopha- 
gists  of  Rome  by  the  delicacy  of  its  flesh,  and  few  fish  would  have  been 
preferred  to  it  had  it  not  been  feared  that  it  rendered  digestion 
difficult."^  Some  intrepid  stomachs,  however,  greeted  this  dish  without 
much  repugnance  when  presented  to  them  fhed  and  sprinkled  with 
pepper,  in  the  midst  of  a  seasoning  in  which  pepper,  cummin,  coriander, 
benzoin,  wild  marjoram,  and  rue,  heightened  by  a  little  vinegar,  were 
mixed  with  dates,  honey,  cooked  wine,  and  oil.  This  boiling  sauce  was 
poured  over  the  rhombo,  but  not  before  it  had  been  enriched  with 
ganim,"*  which  we  had  almost  forgotten — that  inevitable  brine  which 
the  aiicient  magiric  genius  placed  everywhere,  and  whose  prodigious 
renown  ought  to  have  preserved  it  from  oblivion. 


MUGIL. 

This  fish,  singular  instrument  of  a  punishment  invented  by  Home,"' 
entered  into  the  bill  of  fare  of  a  fashionable  supper,  but  one  without 
that  magnificence  which  a  feast  of  parade  exacts.  It  was  prepared  with 
pepper,  aUsander,  cummin,  onion,  mint,  rue,  sage,  and  dates,  mixed  with 
honey,  vinegar,  mustard,  and  oil."* 

The  Greeks  also  esteemed  mugils,  and  gave  a  preference  to  those 
sold  by  the  fishermen  of  Scyathus."* 


MACKEREL. 

Commentators  do  not  agree  on  the  origin  of  this  word.  Scaliger, 
who  perceived  Greek  in  everything,  says  it  is  derived  from  makarios, 
"  happy."  But,  then,  in  what  does  the  felicity  of  this  fish  consist  ?  The 

p2 


286  .   FISH. 

old  writer  BeloD,  more  wise  in  his  conjecture,  thinks  this  word  comes 
from  the  Latin,  macularelli,  "  little  spots,"  because  it  is  marked  on  the 
back  with  black  stripes.'" 

Let  the  etymology  be  what  it  may,  the  epicurean  cares  very  little 
about  it.  Mackerel  was  much  liked  in  Greece,  where  it  was  believed 
to  be  a  native  of  the  Hellespont;*"  and  throughout  Italy,  where  it  was 
supposed  to  come  originally  from  Spain.*" 

It  is  very  probable  that  from  mackerel  was  obtained  one  of  the 
varieties  of  garum,  known  by  the  name  ot  garum  sociorum.  Further  on, 
we  intend  to  devote  a  special  chapter  to  the  subject  of  this  celebrated 
condiment. 

"  Neither  the  size  nor  the  weapons  of  mackerel  make  them  formid- 
able ; J  they  have,  however,  a  violent  appetite,  and  on  account,  perhaps, 
of  the  confidence  they  feel  in  the  number  of  each  shoal,  they  are  bold 
and  voracious,  frequently  attack  fishes  larger  and  stronger  than  them- 
selves, and  even  dart  with  blind  audacity  upon  the  fishermen  who  bathe 
where  they  happen  to  be.  Thus  Pontoppidan  relates  that  a  sailor, 
bathing  in  the  port  of  Oarcule,  in  Norway,  missing  one  of  his  com- 
panions, saw  him  a  few  minutes  afterwards  dead,  the  body  mangled  and 
covered  with  a  multitude  of  mackerel,  tearing  his  remains  to  pieces.^ — 
Dr.  Cloquet. 


HADDOCK. 

The  haddock,  like  the  sturgeon,  was  surrounded  with  the  ridiculous 
honours  of  an  almost  divine  pomp.*"  It  was  served  interwoven  with 
garlands,  and  trumpeters  accompanied  the  slaves  who,  with  uncovered 
heads  and  foreheads  crowned  with  flowers,  brought  to  the  guests  this 
dish,  the  merit  of  which  was,  perhaps,  exaggerated  by  capricious 
fancies.*" 


TENCH. 

Ausonius,  who  lived  in  the  4th  century  of  the  Christian  era,  is  the 
first  who  has  spoken  of  the  tench,  in  his  poem  of  the  "  Mosiella,"^*^  It 
was  abandoned  to  the  common  people,  who  alone  feasted  on  it.*"  This 
fish,  long  the  victim  of  an  unjust  disdain,  ultimately  conquered  from 
the  great  that  esteem  which  they  at  first  refused  to  it. 


nSH.  '         237 


DRAGON  WEAVER. 

The  dragon  weaver  traversed  unseen  the  long  and  brilliant  gastrO' 
nomic  period  of  the  Romans.  Greece  rendered  it  more  justice ;"'  but 
its  too  modest  qualities  were  not  able  to  preserve  it  from  forgetfulness 
and  indifference. 


LOLIGO. 

At  Some  the  loligo,  a  species  of  cuttle-fish,  was  sometimes  served 
with  pepper  and  rue,  mixed  with  garum,  honey,  sweet  wine  boiled,  and 
a  few  drops  of  oil.' 


194 


SOLE. 


This  fish,  which  the  Greeks  caught  on  the  coast,"^  was  much  sought 
after  on  account  of  the  delicacy  of  its  nourishing  and  light  flesh."* 
The  flounder,  the  brill,  the  diamond  and  Dutch  plaice,  which,  together 
with  the  sole,  were  known  under  the  general  name  oi passer esy  enjoyed 
an  equal  esteem,  and  had  attributed  to  them  the  same  qualities. 


ANGEL-FISH. 

In  Holland  there  are  angel  fish  of  enormous  size;"'  and  Aldro- 
vandus  relates  that  some  have  been  seen  which  weighed  as  much  as 
160  lbs."'  In  the  time  of  this  natiuralist  the  common  people  did  not 
eat  them  very  willingly. 


FILE-FISH. 

The  flesh  of  this  species  of  the  bulistes  is  only  good  when  fried,  ac- 
cording to  Marcgrave.  Columella  thinks  much  of  it,"*  aijd  Pliny  ranks  it 
among  the  saxatiles,  the  most  esteemed  by  connoisseurs.' 


soo 


238  FISH. 


PILCHARD. 

Among  the  Ghreeks  this  fish  was  considered  only  afl  fit  for  the  people. 
Those  from  the  environs  of  Phaleres  were  much  esteemed,  when  left 
only  an  instant  in  boiling  oil.**^  The  Romans,  who  gave  them  the  first 
rank  among  salt  fish,'"'  stufied  them,  in  order  to  render  them  better,  in 
the  following  manner : — "* 

They  bruised  pennyroyal,  cummin,  pepper,  mint,  and  pine  nuts ; 
these  they  mixed  with  honey,  and  with  this  paste  they  filled  the 
anchovy,  after  having  carefully  boned  them.  They  then  wrapped  them 
in  paper,*  and  cooked  them  in  a  bain-marie,  or  saucepan,  immersed  in 
boiling  water.  They  were  served  with  oil^  dregs  of  fish-brine,  and 
cooked  wine."* 


LOACH. 

The  Greeks  liked  loaches,'*'  but  many  abstained  from  eating  them, 
lest  the  Syrian  goddess,  the  protectress  of  these  fishes,  should  gnaw  their 
legs,  cover  their  bodies  with  ulcers,  and  devour  their  liver.'** 

The  inhabitants  of  Italy,  free  from  this  singular  superstition,  cleaned 
the  loaches,  left  them  some  time  in  oil,  then  placed  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  some  more  oil,  garum,  wine,  and  several  bunches  of  rue  and  wild 
marjoram.  Then  these  bunches  were  thrown  away,  and  the  fish  was 
sprinkled  with  pepper  at  the  moment  of  serving.'*' 


GUDGEON. 

The  gudgeon — thought  excellent  by  every  one,  but  which  no  one 
mentions — appeared  with  honour  in  the  most  magnificent  repasts  at 

*  This  papcT  did  not  resemble  our  own  of  the  present  day ;  it  was  a  kind  of  ptipjrus, 
which  perfectly  resisted  all  moisture. 


FISH.  239 

Athens.'*'  At  Borne,  it  was  served  fried,  at  the  beginning  of  supper  ;*** 
and  it  disposed  the  guests  to  attack  boldly  the  culinary  corps  de  riserve^ 
which  took  up  the  position  as  soon  as  the  skirmish  with  the  gudgeon 
was  over. 

"  This  fish  is  in  abundance,  principally  in  France  and  Germany ;  it 
is  very  good,  and  easily  digested.  They  are  served  either  fried  or 
stewed ;  when  done  as  last-mentioned,  they  must  be  drawn  and  wiped 
dry,  put  in  a  flat  stewpan  with  butter,  salt,  pepper,  good  red  wine, 
spring  onions,  mushrooms,  shalots,  thyme,  bay  leaves  and  basil — these 
last  plants  chopped  very  fine ;  stew  the  whole  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and 
serve." — Bosc. 


HERRING. 

Herrings  were  unknown  in  Greece  and  Bome.  Bosc  says  it  is  a 
manna  that  nature  doubtless  reserved  for  the  northern  nations,  which 
they,  however,  have  only  turned  to  account  in  modern  times. 

The  first  herring  fishery  known  in  Europe  was  on  the  coast  of  Scot- 
land ;  but  that  nation  knew  not  how  to  profit  by  the  treasure  that  the 
sea  offered  them.  All  the  Scotch  historians  mention  this  fishery,  the 
produce  of  which  was  bought  by  the  Dutch.  This  transaction  took 
place  under  the  reign  of  King  Alfred,  about  the  year  836. 

After  some  time  the  Scotch  quarrelled  with  the  Dutch,  who  under- 
took .the  herring  fishery  themselves.  As  they  caught  a  great  many 
more  than  they  could  consume,  they  salted  them,  and  sold  them  in 
fbreign  countries.  Such  was  the  origin  of  that  immense  commerce, 
which  had  its  rise,  according  to  Eidous,  about  the  year  J  820,  a  short 
time  after  the  Teutons  had  established  themselves  in  the  Baltic. 

It  is  said  that  we  owe  the  art  of  salting  and  barreling  herrings  to  a 
Dutch  fisherman,  named  William  Beuckels,  who  died  in  1449.  The 
Dutch  nation  raised  a  mausoleum  to  his  memory ;  and  it  is  asserted 
that  Charles  V.,  who  visited  it  in  1536,  eat  a  herring  upon  it  to  render 
homage  to  the  author  of  a  precious  discovery. 

In  the  year  1610,  Sir  Walter  Baleigh  gave  a  statistical  account  of 
the  commerce  carried  on  by  the  Dutch  in  Bussia,  Germany,  Flanders, 
and  France,  with  the  herrings  caught  on  the  coasts  of  England,  Scotland, 


240  FISH. 

and  Ireland.     The  sale  of  this  fish  amounted,  in  one  year,  to  the  sum 
of  ^£2, 650,000. 

It  has  been  erroneously  thought  that  the  herring  was  the  hadec,  or, 
alecj  of  the  Romans.  This  name  was  given  by  them  to  a  kind  of 
brine ;  '^°  it  was  not  the  name  of  any  particular  fish. 

There  are  two  prevalent  methods  of  preserving  herrings,  and  fish- 
mongers sell  them  under  the  denominations  of  salted  herrings  and  red 
herrings. 

The  process  employed  for  the  first-named  is  as  follows : — 

As  soon  as  the  herring  is  out  of  the  sea,  a  sailor  opens  it,  removes 
the  gills  and  the  entrails,  washes  the  fish  in  salt  water,  and  puts  it  into 
a  brine  thick  enough  for  it  to  float.  After  fifteen  or  eighteen  hours,  it 
is  taken  out  of  the  brine  and  laid  in  a  tub  with  a  quantity  of  salt*  It 
remains  in  this  tub  until  the  port  is  reached.  There  the  herrings  are 
placed  in  barrels,  where  they  are  artistically  arranged  one  over  another, 
with  fresh  salt  between  each  layer.  Care  is  always  taken  to  employ 
fresh  brine. 

Red  herrings  are  prepared  by  leaving  the  fish  at  least  twenty-four 
hours  in  the  brine ;  and  when  they  are  taken  out,  little  twigs  are  run 
through  the  gills,  and  then  they  are  suspended  in  a  kind  of  chimney, 
made  on  purpose,  under  which  a  small  fire  is  made  with  wood,  which 
produces  a  good  deal  of  smoke.  The  herrings  remain  in  this  state  until 
they  are  suflSciently  dry,  that  is  to  say,  about  twenty-four  hours. 

In  Sweden  and  Norway  they  are  somewhat  diflerently  prepared. 
The  Icelanders  and  Greenlanders  simply  dry  them  in  the  air.*" 


ANCHOVY. 

Sonnini  thinks  that  garum  was  simply  composed  of  anchovies  cooked 
and  crushed  in  their  brine,  to  which  was  added  a  little  vinegar,  and 
chopped  or  pounded  parsley. 

The  fishermen  of  the  Mediterranean  and  the  coasts  of  the  ocean 
salt  almost  all  the  anchovies  they  take.  They  cut  oflF  their  heads,  which 
are  thought  to  be  bitter,  take  out  the  entrails,  wash  them  in  soft  or  salt 
water,  and  stratify  them  in  barrels  with  salt.     The  fishermen  of  Provence 


FISH.  241 

tBink  it  is  essential  to  the  good  preservation  of  anchovies  that  the  salt 
be  red ;  and,  consequently,  they  colour  it  with  ochreous  earths.  More- 
over, these  fishermen  do  not  change  the  brine  which  is  formed  in  the 
barrels :  they  simply  fill  them  up  when  any  is  lost  by  evaporation  or 
leakage. 

The  fishermen  of  the  north  only  use  bay  salt,  and  they  change  the 
brine  three  times,  whence  it  results  that  their  anchovies  keep  much 
longer ;  but  the  greater  acridness  of  those  which  have  remained  in  the 
same  brine  is  esteemed  a  good  quality  by  most  consumers,  and  therefore 
they  are  more  sought  after. 

In  sea  ports,  anchovies  are  eaten  either  fried  or  roasted.  Salted 
anchovies  are  to  be  preferred  when  they  are  new,  firm,  white  outside, 
vermilion  coloured  inside,  and  firee  from  all  putrid  smell.  After  having 
taken  out  the  backbone,  and  washed  them  well,  cooks  commonly  make 
use  of  anchovies  in  salads,  and  to  flavour  sauces  made  with  butter, 
cullis,  &c.    In  this  case  they  are  employed  raw. 

They  are  not  unirequently  fried,  after  having  been  deprived  of  the 
salt,  and  surrounded  with  an  appropriate  paste.  Some  persons  toast 
slices  of  bread,  cover  them  with  strips  of  anchovies,  and  serve  them  with 
a  sauce  composed  of  oil,  vinegar,  whole  pepper,  parsley,  scallions,  and 
eschalots,  all  in  abundant  quantities,  and  chopped  very  small.'^' 


SHELL   FISH. 

The  Emperor  Caligula  had  ma,de  immense  preparations  to  invade 
Great  Britain.  He  set  ofiT,  and  when  he  arrived  in  sight  of  that  Albion 
he  was  going  to  attack,  he  commanded  his  troops  to  form  in  close  array 
along  the  shore,  the  trumpets  to  sound  the  charge,  and  sat  himself  on 
the  quarter-deck  of  his  galley,  from  whence  he  might  have  directed  the 
action.  For  a  short  time  he  contemplated  his  warlike  cohorts,  and 
having  thus  gratified  his  pride,  he  ordered  his  troops  to  pick  up  the 
shells  which  abounded  on  the  strand,  and  returned  to  Bome,  where  he 
showed  the  "  spolia  opima  **  the  ocean  had  delivered  up  to  him. 
Caligula  expected  to  receive  the  honours  of  a  triumph  ;  but  the  senate. 


242  FISH. 

having  some  sense  of  modesty  left,  would  not  award  them,  and  the  im- 
placable Gcesar,  from  that  moment,  swore  the  ruin  of  the  senators.'^' 

The  inhabitants  of  Greece  and  those  of  Italy  thought  a  great  deal 
of  shell  fish,  which  was  always  served  at  the  beginning  of  the  repast, 
just  as  they  came  from  the  sea :  others  cooked  under  the  ashes,  or  fried. 
In  most  cases  they  were  seasoned  with  cummin  and  pepper.*" 

The  purveyors  of  fish  in  Bome  gave  the  preference  to  those  taken 
in  the  lake  of  Lucrinus.'"  The  Greeks  esteemed  those  fix>m  the  pro- 
montory of  Polarea.*" 

The  city  of  Baise,  in  Campania,  celebrated  for  its  charming  position, 
and  the  unreserved  lax  manners  of  its  inhabitants,  was  not  less  renowned 
for  its  culinary  labours,  and  the  nicety  which  presided  over  their  joyftil 
banquets.  Apicius  has  left  us  the  recipe  of  a  most  exquisite  stew, 
emphractum,  which  the  epicureans  of  Rome  often  went  to  degust  among 
their  rivals,  the  Campanian  gastronomists. 

Cut  up  oysters,  muscles,  and  sea-hedgehogs ;  let  the  pieces  be  rather 
small ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  pine  almonds,  fried  and  chopped, 
some  parsley,  rue,  pepper,  coriander,  and  cummin ;  add,  with  proper 
care  and  discretion,  some  cooked  wine,  garum,  and  oil ;  cover,  and  boil 
the  whole  for  a  long  time  on  a  slow  fire.*'' 

We  will  point  out  the  shell  fish  most  in  vogue  in  Italy,  and  for 
which  the  seasoning  was  generally  composed  of  a  mixture  of  pepper, 
parsley,  dried  mint,  alisander,  a  great  quantity  of  cummin,  and  a  little 
of  the  decoction  of  spikenard."' 


OYSTER. 

The  pontiflPs  of  pagan  Rome,  men  of  exquisite  delicacy  and  matured 
taste,  caused  oysters  to  be  served  at  every  repast.*"  This  little  piece  of 
epicurism  was  very  expensive,  and  it  was  necessary  for  these  grave  per- 
sonages to  carry  the  whole  of  the  devotion  which  characterized  them  in 
their  love  of  good  cheer  to  the  highest  degree,  to  dare  eat  of  a  dish  still 
uncommon  a  century  before  the  Christian  era.  At  this  epoch  a 
borriche  (a  sort  of  basket)  of  oysters  was  worth  one  hundred  sestercea 
(^9).""    It  is  unnecessary  to  remark  that  the  poor  never  tasted  them. 


I 


FISH.  24& 

The  Gteeks  and  Romans,  like  ourselves,  were  remarkably  fond  of 
this  ddJelotiB  shell  fish,  and  eat  them  (French  fashion)  at.  the  beginning 
of  a  banquet."^  For  this  reason  Athenian  epicures  called  oysters  "  the 
gastronomic  prelude  to  the  supper."  *"  They  were  often  served  raw,"' 
and  were  then  dexterously  opened  by  a  slave  on  the  table,"^  in  presence 
of  the  guests,  whose  experienced  eyes  greedily  sought  the  light  purple 
net  which,  according  to  them,  surrounds  the  fattest  and  best"* 

The  inhabitants  of  Italy  preferred  large  oysters,'"  and  exacted  that 
this  dainty  manna  of  the  sea"^  should  be  always  fresh  and  abundant  at 
their  feasts."'  This  displayed  wisdom  on  their  part :  this  delightful 
fish  excites  the  appetite  and  facilitates  digestion."'  To  add  to  its 
delicate  flavour,  the  "  Boman  club  of  epicureans,"  a  useful  association, 
which  modem  Europe  envies  antiquity,  caused  to  be  sent  from  Spain, 
at  a  vast  expense,  that  precious  garuni,'"  the  recipe  of  which  seems  to 
have  been  lost,  and  the  condiment  itself  forgotten  by  the  whole  of  the 
Peninsula. 

The  magiric  genius  of  Home  did  not  hesitate  to  demonstrate  that 
oysters  do  not  form  an  exception  to  the  law  of  perfectibility  which 
governs  all  beings,  and  that  it  is  possible  to  render  their  flesh  more  suc- 
culent and  delicate  by  transporting  them  from  their  damp  cradle  into 
reservoirs  exposed  to  the  mild  influence  of  the  sun."'  Sergius  Orata 
or,  perhaps,  Fulvius  Hirpinus,  was  the  first  who  received  this  happy 
inspiration.  He  caused  to  be  constructed,  near  Pouzzole,  a  short  time 
before  the  civil  war  of  Pompey,  a  fishpond,  where  he  stowed  oysters, 
which  he  fattened  with  paste  and  cooked  wine  worked  into  the  con- 
sistence of  honey"* — sapa  et  farre.  This  worthy  Boman  enriched 
himself  by  the  sale  of  them,'"  and  bequeathed  a  name  to  posterity 
—a  two-fold  happiness  for  the  gastronomist  Fulvius,  whose  good  fortune 
the  poet  Homer  did  not  partake. 

Apicius  esteemed  highly  oysters  from  the  lake  of  Lucriuus,  from 
Brindes,  and  Abydos,  and  studied  deeply  the  succulent  qualities  of  this 
shell  fish.  He  knew  how  to  preserve  them  fat,  fresh,  and  alive,  during 
long  and  fatiguing  journeys ;  and,  thanks  to  a  delicate  attention  on  the 
part  of  this  immortal  bon  vivant,  the  great  Trajan  was  enabled  to  regale 
himself  with  oysters  sent  from  Bome  while  carrying  on  a  distant  war 
against  the  Parthians."^  This  present  of  the  king  of  epicureans  to 
the  master  of  the  world  was  worthy  of  both  the  giver  and  receiver,  but 
it  completed  the  ruin  of  the  generous  Apicius. 


244  FISH. 

The  Boman  ladies  shared  their  husbands'  taste,  and  eagerly  partook 
of  oysters  from  the  lake  of  Lucrinus,  brought  into  fashion  by  Sergius 
Orata,  and  when  their  £a,tigued  stomachs  struggled  painfully  with 
gluttony,  this  delicacy  soon  obtained  an  easy  triumph  by  disposing  the 
appetite  to  fresh  exertions.  The  means  of  defence,  however,  were  not 
very  formidable ;  sometimes  a  little  warm  and  limpid  water — oftener  a 
dazzling  plume  from  the  bird  of  Juno — hastened  the  struggle,  and, 
without  eflfort,  decided  the  victory.'"  This  ingenious  method  was  very 
much  relished  by  polyphagists,  and  the  Emperor  Yitellius  particularly 
honoured  it."* 

Cape  Pelorus  furnished  the  Greeks  with  highly  prized  oysters,*"  which 
were  eaten  alone,  fried,  stewed,  or  nicely  dressed  with  marsh-mallows, 
dock-leaves,  and  with  some  kind  of  fish."* 

The  Romans  at  length  became  disgusted  with  those  found  on  the 
coasts  of  Italy,  or  in  the  Dardanelles ;  an  instinct  of  greediness  caused 
them  to  prefer  oysters  from  the  Atlantic  ocean,  and  especially  from  the 
shores  of  Armorica,  now  called  Britany."'  Bordeaux  supplied  imperial 
tables,  and  this  high  distinction  is  sufficient  for  its  praise.'^* 

It  may  not  be  useless  to  remark  here,  that  no  sooner  had  Ausonius 
praised  this  fish  in  his  lines  than  it  was  forgotten,  and  did  not  re-appear 
till  the  l7th  century  on  the  tables  of  distinguished  personages.  May 
our  descendants  be  more  just  than  our  forefathers. 

At  Rome  oysters  were  served  with  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  ali- 
Sander,  mixed  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  vinegar,  garum,  oil,  wine,  and  a 
litde  honey.'" 

They  were  preserved  in  a  vase  smeared  with  pitchy  washed  with 
vinegar,  and  hermetically  closed.*" 

''  Oysters  of  a  fine  quality  are  generally  of  easy  digestion,  but  not 
very  nourishing,  particularly  when  eaten  raw.  They  are  sought  for  to 
open  the  appetite,  which  is  the  case,  owing  to  the  nature  of  the  water, 
agreeably  salted,  contained  in  them.  Some  mention  is  made  of  persons 
who  can  eat  from  fifteen  to  twenty  dozen  without  being  ill.  It  is  not 
the  same  when  cooked ;  then  they  become  hard,  more  tough,  and,  con- 
sequently, indigestible.  They  are  also  eaten  pickled  with  vinegar  and 
sweet  herbs  In  this  state  they  arc  sent  to  countries  distant  from  the  sea, 
piled  up  one  upon  the  other,  without  the  shell,  in  small  barrels." — De 
Blainville. 


FISH.  245 


SEA-HEDGEHOG. 

Under  this  deDomination  were  classed  all  animals,  more  or  less 
orbicular,  whose  envelope  bristles  with  calcareous  points,  on  which 
account  they  were  compared  to  hedgehogs. 

The  Greeks  thought  them  delicious  when  caught  at  the  full  moon,*^' 
and  prepared  with  vinegar,  sweet  cooked  wine,  parsley,  and  mint.*" 
Oxymel  often  replaced  vinegar."* 

The  Romans  also  esteemed  highly  this  dish,  which  was  recom- 
mended to  sluggish  appetites  under  the  auspices  of  the  faculty  ;'^^  and 
Apicius  furnished  the  following  recipe  for  the  preparation  of  it : — 

"  Procure  a  new  saucepan,"  thus  says  the  great  master,  "  place  in  it 
a  little  oil,  garum,  sweet  wine,  and  pepper.  When  the  mixture  begins 
to  boil,  stuff  the  sea  hedgehogs,  then  submit  them  to  the  action  of  a 
slow  fire ;  add  a  large  quantity  of  pepper,  and  serve."  "' 


MUSSEL. 

The  two  great  nations  of  antiquity  have  granted  uncommon  praise 
to  mussels,  and  partook  of  them  at  their  most  sumptuous  feasts.  At 
the  wedding  repast  of  the  graceful  Hebe,  Jupiter  wished  the  inhabitants 
of  Olympus  to  exchange  for  this  shell  fish  their  celestial  though  mono- 
tonous ambrosia.'"  Epicharmus,  who  records  the  fact,  does  not  inform 
us  with  what  sauce  the  chef  de  cuisine  of  the  gods  dressed  the  flesh  of 
those  mussels.  The  reader  must  thus  content  himself  with  the  seasoning 
invented  by  simple  mortals,  and  which  appeared  good  to  them.  It  was 
composed  of  a  suitable  mixture  of  pepper,  alisander,  parsley,  mint,  with  a 
quantity  of  cummin  seed,  a  little  honey,  vinegar,  and  garum.**'  With 
this  mixture  they  covered  the  boiled  and  widely  opened  mussels,  and  the 
guests  found  it  impossible  to  satiate  themselves  with  this  dish,  so  much 
more  digestible  and  nourishing  than  oysters.^ 


950 


246  FISH. 


SCALLOP. 

The  effeminate  inhabitants  of  Tarentum^  the  abode  of  luxury,  de- 
lighted in  good  living,  and  boasted  of  possessing  the  finest  scallops  of 
Campania,  and  of  the  whole  empire.'"  The  infallible  authority  of  this 
voluptuous  city  in  matters  of  taste  gave  a  surprising  vogue  to  this  fish. 
Bome,  and  all  the  population  of  Italy,  believed  it  was  forced  to  eat  the 
scallops  of  Tarentum  prepared  with  oysters,  and  at  other  times  with 
mussels. 

It  now  remains  to  be  mentioned  that  some  kinds  of  testacea  appeared 
worthy  of  the  reputation  they  acquired  among  the  ancients. 


TORTOISE. 

The  Greeks  and  Latins  speak  with  admiration  of  the  enormous  size 
of  certain  tortoises  in  their  time,  the  whole  species  of  which  were  com- 
prised under  the  generic  word  testudo.'^*  The  Indian  Sea  produced 
some  so  large,  that  the  shell  of  one  only  amply  served  to  roof  a 
comfortable  and  elegant  cottage.'"  The  inhabitants  of  the  shores  of  the 
Red  Sea  never  troubled  themselves  with  building  sloops ;  large  shells  of 
tortoises  spared  them  the  trouble,  by  supplying  them  with  charming 
little  barks,  which  lightly  floated  on  the  water.'**  And,  lastly,  in  the 
Ganges,  tortoise  shells  were  found,  capable  of  containing  no  less  than  20 
amphora,  or  about  660  pints.*" 

The  inhabitants  of  the  Peloponnesus  did  the  tortoise  the  signal 
honour  of  representing  its  image  on  their  money.'"  The  blood  cured 
diseases  of  the  eye,'"  and  the  flesh — in  great  request — was  thought 
excellent  eating.  It  was  cut  into  pieces  of  a  middling  size,  and  placed 
m  a  saucepan  with  pepper,  rue,  and  scallions,  crushed  in  the  same 
mortar ;  over  this  was  poured  honey,  garum,  raisin  wine,  common  wine, 
and  a  small  quantity  of  good  oiL  At  the  moment  of  ebullition,  the 
whole  was  thickened  with  flour.'" 


FISH.  247 


Sometimes  the  tortoise  was  boiled,  and  covered  with  a  seasoning,  for 
which  the  following  is  the  recipe : — 

Mix  pepper,  alisander^  parsley,  mint,  and  wild  marjoram,  with  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  honey,  ganim,  wine,  cooked  wine,  and  oil ;  add  mustard 
and  vinegar."* 


SEA-CRAWFISH. 

Apicius  sought  relief  from  his  culinary  studies  at  Mintumus,  in 
Campania,  where  that  great  master  regaled  himself  with  delicious  sea- 
crawfish,  in  order  to  keep  up  his  gustatory  powers.  Genius  reposes 
amidst  studious  leisure.  Being  told  that  Africa  produced  some  of  these 
testacea  of  an  immense  size,  immediately  the  worthy  Roman  tears  him- 
self away  from  the  sweet  solitude  he  had  created ;  he  freights  a  vessel, 
^olus  smiles  on  the  undertaking,  Neptune  protects  him,  and  he  arrives 
in  sight  of  the  African  shore.  Scarcely  was  he  disembarked  when  some 
fishermen  brought  him  a  few  sea-crawfish ;  he  examines,  rejects  them, 
and  demands  finer  ones  to  be  brought.  He  is  informed  that  it  will  be 
impossible  to  procure  any  larger  than  those  before  him.  At  this  Apicius 
smiles  disdainfully,  and  commanding  the  presence  of  his  pilot,  orders 
him  to  steer  back  for  Italy.'**  Decidedly  magiric  genius  never  revealed 
itself  by  a  more  sublime  action. 

However,  Pliny  somewhere  mentions  certain  magnificent  sea-craw- 
fish, which  he  describes  as  being  four  cubits  in  length*** — very  large 
ones,  certainly. 

Boman  tables  often  presented  to  the  sight  of  guests  boiled  sea-craw- 
fish, peppered  and  garnished  with  asparagus,'*'  but  they  were  generally 
covered  with  a  gravy  composed  of  honey,  vinegar,  wine,  garum,  oil,  and 
cooked  wine;  to  which  were  added  scallions,  chopped  small,  pepper, 
alisander,  carrots,  cummin,  and  dates.  Mustard  was  then  mixed  with 
the  whole."* 


LOBSTER. 

Antiquity  rendered  justice  to  the  lobster,  and  the  taste  for  it  did  not 
change,  being  founded  on  truly  estimable  and  sterling  qualities.    It  was 


248  FISH. 

opened  lengthwise,  and  filled  with  a  gravy,  into  the  composition  of  which 
entered  both  pepper  and  coriander.  It  was  then  slowly  cooked  on  the 
gridiron,  and  every  now  and  then  hasted  with  the  same  kind  of  gravy, 
with  which  the  flesh  became  impregnated.^ 


s«« 


RIVER  CRAYFISH. 

The  Greeks  were  remarkably  fond  of  this  fish,***  especially  when 
obtained  from  Alexandria.*"  They  were  not  less  esteemed  in  Bome, 
where  they  eat  them  boiled  with  cummin,  and  seasoned  with  pepper, 
aJisander,  parsley,  dried  mint,  and  a  great  quantity  of  cummin ;  the 
whole  carefully  and  well  ground,  and  mixed  with  honey,  vinegar,  and 
garum,  to  which  was  sometimes  added  some  liquid  perfume.**' 

"  Crayfishes  can  be  preserved  several  days,  not  too  warm,  in 
baskets  with  some  fresh  grass,  such  as  the  nettle,  or  in  a  bucket  with 
three-eighths  of  an  inch  of  water.  If  there  were  enough  water  in  it  to 
cover  them,  they  would  die  in  a  few  moments,  because  their  great  con- 
sumption of  air  does  not  allow  them  to  live  in  water  unless  it  is  con- 
tinually renewed." — Bosc. 


CRAB. 

Would  you  like  to  eat  crab  sausages  ?  Boil  some  of  these  animals ; 
reduce  them  to  a  pulp ;  mix  with  this  some  spikenard,  garum,  pepper, 
and  eggs ;  give  to  this  the  ordinary  shape  of  sausages,  place  them  on 
the  stove  or  gridiron,  and  you  will,  by  these  means,  obtain  a  delicate 
and  tempting  dish.*'*  Apicius  assures  us  of  the  fact :  Apicius  was  a 
connoisseur ! 

A  crab  may  also  be  served  whole,  boiled,  and  accompanied  by  a 
seasoning  of  pepper,  cummin,  and  rue,  which  the  cook  skilfully  mixes 
with  garum,  honey,  oil,  and  vinegar.*** 

Is  it  preferred  stufied  ?  Then  fill  it  with  a  skilful  mixture  of  cummin, 
mint,  rue,  alisander,  pine  nuts,  and  pepper,  the  whole  long  soaked  in 
garum,  honey,  vinegar,  and  wine.*'* 


FISH.  249 


FROGS. 

The  ancients  thought  nothing  of  frogs,  which  they  left  at  liberty  to 
propagate.  There  was  such  a  great  number  among  the  Abderites,  that 
these  good  people  gave  up  to  them  their  native  soil,  and  left  the  place 
in  search  of  another  spot. 

At  the  present  day,  in  some  countries,  frogs  sere  sought  for  as  a  most 
agreeable  and  wholesome  food;  in  other  parts — England  in  particu- 
lar— they  are  disdainfully  shunned.  But  in  France  there  is  a  great 
consumption  of  them,  especially  in  the  spring.  About  a  century 
since,  they  were  greatly  in  fashion  at  Paris ;  and  it  is  stated  that  a  coun- 
tryman from  the  province  of  Auvergne,  named  Simon,  made  a  consider- 
able fortune  by  feeding  and  fattening  them  in  one  of  the  suburbs  of  that 
city,  which  were  sent  to  him  from  Auvergne. 

"  In  Germany,  the  various  parts  of  the  frog  are  eaten,  the  skin  and 
intestine  excepted ;  but  in  France  they  are  satisfied  with  the  hind  legs, 
which,  by  the  size  of  their  muscles,  are  themselves  equivalent  to  all  the 
rest  They  are  dressed  with  wine  as  fish^  with  white  or  brown  sauce  ; 
fried,  or  roasted ;  when  tender,  and  properly  done,  it  is  a  most  delicate 
dish." — Bosc. 


Before  the  conclusion  of  this  article,  we  mav  as  well  mention  a 
frightful  fish  which  modem  good  taste  has  banished  from  our  tables, 
but  which  the  ancients  allowed  to  appear  at  theirs.  It  is  the  PolypuSy 
highly  esteemed  both  in  Greece  and  Italy,  when  caught  at  a  certain 
period,  and  its  numerous  immoderate  legs  stretched  far  over  the  edges 
of  the  dish  prepared  to  receive  it.'" 

This  monster  was  cut  in  pieces,  and  eaten  with  a  sauce  composed  of 
pepper,  garum,  and  benzoin."* 

It  will  be  easily  understood  that  ancient  nations  must  have  early  ac- 
customed themselves  to  fishing,  the  origin  of  which,  doubtless,  goes 
back  to  the  first  ages  of  civilization.  The  holy  writings  often  mention 
fishermen,"'  fish-hooks,  and  nets.  Homer  speaks  of  them,"*  and  the 
poet,  Hesiod,  who  flourished  thirty  years  before  Homer,"'  places  on  the 


260  FISII. 

shield  of  Hercules  an  attentive  fisherman,  ready  to  throw  his  net  over 
some  fish  pursued  by  a  dolphin.*'* 

The  Egyptians  also  practised  this  occupation ;  of  which  the  following 
anecdote  is  a  proof: — 

Antony  being  in  Egypt,  the  beauteous  Cleopatra  sought  to  amuse 
him  by  inventing  for  his  entertainment  each  day  new  kinds  of  pleasure ; 
but  the  Roman  general,  seized  with  a  violent  love  of  fishing,  fled  from 
the  societv  of  his  numerous  courtiers,  and,  alone  on  the  borders  of  the 
sea,  or  an  isolated  lake,  vainly  waiting  for  the  smallest  gudgeon,  he  for- 
got  long  hours  of  vaiti  expectancy  and  useless  patience.  The  queen 
undertook  his  cure.  She  commanded  a  diver  to  plunge  into  the  water, 
and  there  a  hook  a  fish  to  the  line  of  Antony.  He,  seeing  it  agitated, 
joyfully  withdrew  it  from  the  water,  and  unhooked  a  salted  sardine, 
Cleopatra  then  exclaimed :  ''  Leave  to  Egyptians  the  task  of  fishing ; 
Romans  should  take  only  kings,  cities,  and  emperors."  *'' 

The  inhabitants  of  Italy  fished  exactly  in  the^same  manner  we  do  at 
this  day  ;"•  but  Roman  luxury,  always  greedy  of  extravagant  profusion, 
invented  those  celebrated  fish  ponds  which  cost  immense  sums,  both  to 
build  and  maintain  ;  *"  and  to  which  Lucullus,  Hortensiud,  and  Phi- 
lippus,  whom  Cicero  sumamed  the  "  Tritons  of  fish  pools,"  ***  conse* 
crated  almost  entirely  their  anxiety  and  fortunes. 

This  folly  was  carried  to  such  a  height  that  fish  ponds  were 
constructed  on  the  roofs  of  houses.***  More  reasonable  persons  con- 
tented themselves  with  bringing  river-water  into  their  dining-rooms."* 
The  fish  swam  under  the  table,  and  it  was  only  necessary  to  stoop  and 
pick  them  out  the  instant  before  eating  them.*** 

These  expensive  habits  could  only  suit  the  most  opulent  and  least 
numerous  class  of  Romans.  The  honest  citizen  modestly  provided 
himself  at  the  fish-market,  and  the  part  not  eaten  by  him  the  first 
day  was  submitted  to  a  very  simple  process,  which  assured  its  preser- 
vation. For  this,  it  was  only  necessary  to  cover  it  with  boiling  vinegar 
as  soon  as  it  had  been  fried.*'* 

Fish  was  also  well  preserved  by  surrounding  it  with  snow,  and 
placing  it  at  the  bottom  of  an  ice-house. 


Its 


XXII. 


THE   COOK. 


The  author  of  a  rare  and  very  carious  ^ork/  which  no  one  at  present 
nas  time  to  read,  formed  the  charitable  project  of  reconciling  medicine 
»  and  gastronomy.  This  was  a  noble  euterprize,  worthy  of  a  true  phi- 
lanthropist, and  which  assuredly  presented  less  difficulties  than  people 
may  think.  In  eflFect,  what  was  the  moot  question  ?  To  agree,  deforma^ 
without  interfering  with  the  substance;  to  examine  whether  culinary 
preparations  poison,  as  has  been  said,  the  food  which  nature  gives  us, 
and  unceasingly  paralyze  the  salutary  action  of  the  dietetic,  which  the 
faculty  prescribe. 

For  many  centuries  cooking  has  been  exposed  to  these  odious  re- 
proaches, the  gravity  of  which  we  do  not  pretend  to  attenuate ;  and  yet, 
ever  pursuing  its  brilliant  career  amidst  revolutions  and  ruins,  the  ma* 
giric  art,  endowed  with  eternal  youth,  embellishes  each  new  era  of  civi- 
lization, receives  its  most  constant  homage,  and  survives  it  when  it  fades 
away.  Let  us  speak  plainly :  mankind  has  thrown  on  cooks  all  the 
faults  of  which  they  ought  to  accuse  their  own  intemperance.  It  was 
no  doubt  easier,  than  to  avoid  the  fatal  abuse  of  pleasure^  and  the  evils 
it  brings  with  it ;  but  there  was  the  crying  injustice,  which  we  do  not  hesi- 
tate to  denounce ;  there  lay  the  obstacle  it  was  necessary  to  overcome, 
in  order  to  bring  about  a  peaceful  understanding  between  the  disciples 
of  Galen  and  the  followers  of  Apicius. 

Gourniandise  would  never  have  rebelled  against  the  kitchen  if  all 
polyphagists  had  obtained  from  the  good  Ceres  the  gift  she  granted  to 
Pandarea^ — a  celebrated  eater,  who  could  pass  days  and  nights  at  table, 
without  experiencing  the  slightest  indigestion.' 

Q  2 


252  THE  COOK. 

"But,"  say  you,  "Seneca,  the  philosopher,  perpetually  comhats, 
with  the  authority  of  his  virtuous  language,  those  dangerous  men  who 
are  busied  with  a  single  stomach,*  and  who  lay  the  foundation  for  a  train 
of  maladies." 

The  reply  to  this  is,  thai  Seneca,  the  pedant,  should  have  thundered 
against  the  stomach,  which  alone  iS  guilty  (he  has  sometimes  done  so) ; 
that  this  atrabilarious  preceptor  of  Nero,  attacked  with  an  incurable 
consumption,  could  only  eat  very  little,  which  much  enraged  him ;  and 
that  his  imprecations  on  the  subject  of  the  excessive  riches  and  pro- 
digious luxury  of  the  Romans  of  his  age,  neither  hindered  him  from 
possessing,  and  unceasingly  increasing,  a  more  than  royal  fortune ;  nor 
from  feeding — well  or  ill — several  thousand  slaves ;  nor  from  pompously 
displaying  in  his  palace  five  hundred  tables — only  five  hundred — of  the 
most  elaborate  workmanship,  of  the  rarest  wood,  all  alike,  and  orna- 
mented with  precious  incrustations/ 

How  often  have  people  extolled  the  Lacedaemonians  and  their  legis- ' 
lator,  Lycurgus.  Well,  Lycurgus  mercilessly  commanded  poor  little 
children  to  fast  when  they  looked  fresh  and  fat.*  Strange  law-giver  of  a 
strange  people,  who  never  learned  to  eat,  and  yet  who  invented  the  cele- 
brated "  black  sauce,"  the  Jus  nigrum,  for  which  the  entrails  of  the  hare 
served  as  the  foundation.  So  true  it  is  that  cookery  always  pre- 
serves certain  imprescriptible  rights  over  the  most  fervent  disciples  of 
frugality. 

Moralists  do  not  cease  to  repeat  that  Rome  would  never  have  had 
sumptuary  laws  had  it  not  been  corrupted  by  cooks  from  Athens  and 
Syracuse.  This  is  an  error.  All  the  ordinances  of  the  consuls  pro- 
scribed profusion,  excess—in  a  word,  all  the  ruinous  expenses  of  a 
passionate  and  ridiculous  gastrophagy,"  at  the  same  time,  respecting  the 
magiric  art  itself;  that  is  to  say,  that  industrious  chemistry  which 
composes,  decomposes,  combines,  and  mixes — in  a  word,  prepares 
difierent  substances  which  gluttony,  delicacy,  the  fashion,  or  luxury  may 
confide  to  it  for  the  space  of  a  few  minutes. 

Why  render  the  cook  responsible  for  the  extravagant  tastes  and 
follies  of  his  age  ?  Is  it  for  him  to  reform  mankind  ?  Has  he  either 
the  means  or  the  right  ? 

What  is  asked  of  him  ?  and  what  can  be  asked  ?  To  understand 
exactly  the  properties  of  everything  he  employs,  to  perfect,  and 
correct,  if  necessary,  the  savours  on  which  he  operates ;  to  judge  with 


THE   COOK.  253 

a  tnie  taste,  to  degustate  with  a  delicate  palate,  to  join  the  skilful  address 
of  the  hand,  and  the  prompt  and  comprehensive  glance,  to  the  bold  but 
profound  conceptions  of  the  brain;  and  above  dll— it  cannot  be  too 
often  repeated— to  identify  himself  so  well  with  the  habits,  the  wants, 
even  the  caprices  and  gastronomic  eocentricities,  of  those  whose  existence 
he  embellishes,  that  he  may  be  able,  not  to  obey  them,  but  to  guess 
them,  and  even  have  a  presentiment  of  them/ 

Such  is,  to  use  an  original  expression  of  Rabelais,  "tottte  rariiilerie 
de  gueule**  which  the  cook  can  master.  It  is  the  sum  total  of  what  has 
been  bequeathed  to  us  by  some  great  men,  whose  scattered  instructions, 
lying  here  and  there  in  books  of  morality  and  philosophy — there  are 
numerous  analogies  between  the  act  of  eating  and  tlie  art  of  living 
well — have  been  collected  with  scrupulous  care,  classed  with  all  the 
attention  we  can  command,  and  will  serve,  we  hope,  to  beguile  the 
studious  leisure  of  the  lovers  of  antiquity  and  the  culinary  science. 

Mankind  had  long  obeyed  that  imperious  and  periodical  necessity 
which  has  been  called  hunger,  when  it  announces  its  presence  with  its 
brutal  exigencies,  before  any  one  thought  to  form  a  code  of  doctrine  cal- 
culated to  guide  a  sensation  which,  by  its  energy  and  duration,  procures 
us  the  most  thrilling  and  lasting  pleasures. 

The  primitive  nations  no  doubt  gave  themselves  up  to  their  native 
gluttony.  They  eat  much,  but  they  fed  badly.  They  did  not  yet  possess 
gastronomy  ;  and,  consequently,  they  had  no  cooks,  in  the  serious  and 
complete  acceptation  of  the  word. 

The  heroes  of  Homer  prepared  their  repasts  with  their  own  hands, 
— and  what  repasts,  gods  of  taste! — and  prided  themselves  on  their 
culinary  talents.  Ou  la  vanitS  va-t-elle  se  nicher  ?  Ulysses  surpassed 
all  others  in  the  art  of  lighting  the  fire,  and  laying  the  cloth.*  Patroclus 
drew  the  wine,  and  Achilles  very  carefully  turned  the  spit.' 

The  conquerors  of  Troy  shone  more  in  the  combat  than  under  the 
tent  which  served  them  as  kitchen. 

At  length  the  aurora  of  tlie  magiric  ages  began  to  dawn  :  it  is  not 
a  revolution,  it  is  a  creation  which  is  preparing  to  appear.  Man  has 
only  known  hunger ;  he  shall  now  become  acquainted  with  the  charms 
of  an  appetite.  The  King  of  Sidon  learns  how  to  eat,  and  it  is  Cadmus, 
the  grandfather  of  Bacchus,  the  future  founder  of  Thebes,  who  takes 
upon  himself  to  instruct  this  august  mouth." 

And  since  that  time  how  many  illustrious  followers  have  descended 


254  TUB  COOK. 

into  the  arena,  bow  many  glorious  names  will  not  culinary  annals  have 
to  register ! 

Somebody  will,  perhaps,  one  day  publish  a  chronological  history  of 
celebrated  cooks.  In  the  meantime,  it  may  not  be  amiss  to  recall  to 
memory  a  few  illustrious  men,  whose  services  and  genius  an  ungrateful 
posterity  has  too  soon  forgotten. 

Thimbron,  among  the  Greeks,  took  the  culinary  art  from  its  cradle : 
he  watched  devoutedly  over  its  development,  and  only  descended  into 
the  tomb  after  having  won  the  heart  of  the  whole  of  Greece,"  for  his 
favourite  science.  Timachidas  of  Bhodes,  cook  and  poet  of  the  highest 
renown,  composed  an  epopee  on  the  art  which  he  professed,  in  the 
midst  of  emanations  from  the  stoves  and  the  spit'^'  His  verses,  glowing 
with  the  sacred  fire  which  inspired  him,  lighted  up  the  magiric  vein  of 
several  of  his  disciples,  among  whom  Numenius,  Hegemon,  and  Metreas, 
are  still  cited." 

Artemidorus  collected  and  commented  on  all  the  words  in  use  in 
the  kitchens  of  his  time.^*  Greece  owed  to  this  patient  terminologist 
the  possession  of  a  culinary  language,  subject  to  certain  unchangeable 
rules. 

MithoBcus  gave  the  "  Sicilian  Cook  " — a  remarkable  type  of  a  mul- 
titude of  tiresome  and  insipid  imitations." 

At  length  Archeslratus  appeared.  He  was  of  Syracuse,  and  passed 
all  his  life  in  profoundly  meditating  on  the  functions,  strength,  ano- 
malies, and  resources  of  the  stomach.  He  discovered  the  laws  which 
govern  that  organ,  and  presented  to  the  world  his  magnificent  treatise 
on  gastronomy" — an  inestimable  master-piece  of  laborious  investi- 
gation of  which  time  has  deprived  us,  together  with  the  works  of  his 
useful  predecessors. 

We  must  not  omit  the  names  of  some  celebrated  theoricians,  to  whom 
the  art  owes  its  rapid  progress: — Fhilozenus  of  Leucadus,  devoted 
himself  to  the  difficult  study  of  degustation,  and  practised  several  expe- 
riments, which  were,  however,  ill- appreciated  by ,  his  contemporaries. 
Thus,  in  the  public  baths,  he  accustomed  his  mouth  and  hands  to  the 
contact  of  boiling-water,  in  order  to  be  able  to  seize  and  devour  burning 
viands,  the  instant  they  were  placed  on  the  table.  He  recommended 
cooks  to  serve  everything  very  hot,  so  that  he  alone  exercised  mastication 
and  deglutition,  while  other  guests  less  inured,  were  obliged  to  content 
themselves  with  looking  at  him." 


THE  COOK.  256 

PitJiyiius  invented  a  sheath  that  covered  the  tongue,  and  protected 
it,  without  paralyzing  its  action,  against  a  caloric  dangerous  to  its  deli- 
cate tissue."  This  ingenious  cuirass  was  not  appreciated,  and  history, 
in  its  thoughtlessness,  has  not  even  transmitted  to  us  a  description  of  it. 
It  was  then  the  good  time  of  Athens :  gluttons  had  made  way 
for  epicureans ;  hunger,  to  a  less  fierce  and  gross  sensation,  already 
subjected  to  examination  and  discussion.  The  magiric  art  possessed 
its  rules,  its  various  partisans,  its  professors,  and  disciples.  Great  mas- 
ters studied  deeply  the  appetite — indispensable  basis,  on  which  will 
always  rest  the  culinary  exegesis;  and  they  finished  by  classing  it 
definitively,  according  to  the  three  degrees  of  intensity  which  observation 
discovers  in  it 

Tlie  hold  appetite,  said  they,  is  that  which  is  felt  when  fasting*  It 
reflects  but  very  little ;  is  not  squeamish  about  viands,  and  loses  all 
reserve  at  the  sight  of  a  very  indifferent  ragoiLt. 

The  indolent  appetite  requires  to  be  encouraged.  It  must  be  en- 
ticed, pressed,  irritated.  At  first,  nothing  moves  it — but  after  having 
tasted  a  succulent  dish,  it  rouses,  is  astonished,  its  ardour  becomes  ani- 
mated, and  is  capable  of  performing  prodigies.  It  is  this  appetite  which 
has  consecrated  the  trivial  but  true  proverb:  " Lappitit  vient  en 
mangeant.'* 

The  eclectic  appetite  owes  nothing  to  nature ;  it  is  the  child  of  art 
Happy,  thrice  happy,  the  skilful  cook  to  t^hom  it  says :  "  Thou  art  my 
father  1"  But  how  difficult  is  this  creation^ — how  rare !  It  is  the  work 
of  genius  — but  listen.  Some  guests,  chosen  amidst  veteran  epicureans, 
seat  themselves  round  a  table  covered  with  culinary  ofierings  worthy  only 
of  the  God  of  Feasts,  and  a  small  number  of  the  faithful.  Their  indo^ 
lent  appetite  examines,  compares,  judges,  and,  at  length,  abandons  itself 
to  the  incomparable  dainties  irom  which  it  unceasingly  seems  to  draw 
new  ardour.  But  alas !  pleasure,  like  pain,  has  its  limits  here  below. 
Strength  grows  less,  and  becomes  extinguished ;  the  eye  loses  its  greedy 
covetousness ;"  the  palate  languishes ;  the  tongue  becomes  paralysed ; 
the  stomach  sinks,  and  that  which  before  pleased,  now  creates  only 
fatigue  and  disgust  It  is  then  that  a  cusinier  hors  ligne^  tries  a  bold 
diversion,  which  must  never  be  risked  if  the  artist  does  not  feel  in  him- 
self that  force  of  generous  efforts  which  is  no  other  than  genius.  By 
his  orders,  three  or  four  dishes,  prodigies  of  science  and  of  luxury,  ap- 
pear on  the  altar,  wliich  the  sacrificers  no  longer  heed.    At  tliis  sight. 


2&e  THE  COOK. 

their  looks  brighten;  desire  revives;  the  smile  reappears ;  the  magiric 
fades  shines  forth  with  all  its  splendour ;  the  chest  dilates,  and  you  no 
longer  distinguish  your  former  guests.  A  man  has  transformed  them. 
Each  one  chooses,  tries,  tastes — is  silent,  and  lost  in  wonder.  The  appe- 
tite is  perhaps  tired,  but  not  satiated ;  and  the  skilful  cook  at  length 
enjoys  a  deserved  triumph. 

In  this  solemn  moment  he  received,  among  the  ancients,  a  crown  of 
flowers*® — sweet  and  noble  recompense  of  his  arduous  toil.  Nay,  a  more 
substantial  proof  of  gratitude  often  greeted  his  new  dishes.  In  Greece, 
the  inventor  alone  had  a  right  to  prepare  them  during  a  whole  year,  and 
drew  from  it  all  the  honour  and  profit.  It  was  necessary,  in  order  that 
these  culinary  preparations  should  fall  into  the  public  domain,  that  some 
one  of  his  colleagues  should  succeed  in  surpassing  him.*^ 

At  this  epoch,  the  best  cooks  came  from  Sicily.  Trimalcio  was  one 
of  the  most  celebrated.  Athenaeus  tells  us  that,  when  he  could  not  pro- 
cure rare  and  highly  esteemed  fish,  he  understood  so  well  how  to  imitate 
their  form  and  flavour  with  common  fish,  that  the  most  cunning  epi- 
cures were  always  entrapped.  This  reminds  us  of  a  certain  cook  of 
Louis  XIV.,  who,  on  Good  Friday,  served  the  king  with  a  dinner,  appa- 
rently composed  of  poultry  and  butcher's  meat,  which,  in  reality,  oifered 
nothing  but  vegetables,  and  prepared,  too,  au  maigre. 

The  Bomansj  inheritors  of  the  luxury  of  Asia  and  Greece,  did  not 
erect  a  temple  to  the  greedy  Addephagia,  goddess  of  good  cheer,  who  pos- 
sessed altars  in  Sicily ;"  but  they  thought  it  impossible  to  repay  too 
highly  those  who  knew  how  to  extend  the  limits  of  the  pleasures  of  the 
table,"  and  a  generous  senator  ofiered  his  chef  at  least  four  talents,  or 
more  than  JE800  a  year. 

This  is  yet  but  little  compared  with  the  magnificence  of  Antony. 
He  gave  a  supper  to  Cleopatra ;  that  princess  praised  the  delicacy  of 
the  feast,  and  immediately  her  lover  called  for  the  cook,  and  presented 
him  with  a  city,  in  recompense. 

How  times  are  changed  I  We,  at  the  present  day,  treat  all  this  as 
pompous  and  ridiculous  prodigality.  It  is  because  our  somewhat  mean 
epoch  judges  the  olden  times  by  the  narrow  ideas  of  order,  foresight, 
and  economy.  The  ancients  enriched  their  Archimagiri,  wasted  their 
revenue  in  feasts,  and  then  killed  themselves.  We  have  adopted  a  very 
difierent  style  of  living.  But,  at  the  same  time,  how  far  are  our  most 
sumptuous  banquets  behind  the  most  modest  collations  of  Greece  and 


THE   COOK.  2.^7 

Home  I  Lucullus  caused  to  be  served  to  Cicero  and  Pompey  a  little 
ambigUy  which  cost  £1,000.  There  were  only  three  of  them  to  partake 
of  it! 

The  Emperor  Claudius  had  generally  six  hundred  guests  at  his 
table." 

Vitellius  did  not  spend  less  than  £3,200  for  each  of  his  repasts ;" 
and  the  composition  of  his  favourite  dishes  required  that  vessels  should 
unceasingly  ply  between  the  Gulf  of  Venice  and  the  Straits  of  Cadiz." 

It  must  be  confessed  that  cooks  of  that  gastronomic  era  had  to  fulfil 
an  incessant  and  most  laborious  task.  What  was  then  more  natural 
than  to  abandon  to  them  some  thousands  of  those  sesterces,  which  the 
profusion  of  the  master  devoured  by  millions,  in  the  form  of  pheni- 
copters'  tongues,  scarus  or  parrot- fishes'  liyers,  and  peacocks'  brains  ? 

We  see  that  the  Caesars  encouraged  this  frightful  gastronomic  mono- 
mania. Tiberius  ga^  more  than  £3,000  to  the  author  of  a  dialogue, 
in  which  the  interlocutors  were  mushrooms,  fig-peckers,  oysters,  and 
thrushes.*' 

Galba  breakfasted  before  day- break,  and  the  breakfast  would  have 
enriched  a  hundred  families."  -ffilius  Verus  invented  the  pentaphar- 
macum^  a  kind  of  Macidoine,  composed  of  sows'  flanks,  pheasants, 
peacocks,  ham,  and  wild  boars'  flesh."  Geta  insisted  upon  having  as 
many  courses  as  there  were  letters  in  the  alphabet,  and  each  of  these 
courses  must  contain  all  the  viands  whose  name  began  by  the  same 
letter." 

These  follies,  which  cooks  were  forced  to  obey,  continued  to  astonish 
the  world  until  the  moment  when  Bome — ^with  her  gods,  the  monuments 
of  her  ancient  glory,  and  of  her  recent  turpitudes — crumbled  beneath  the 
invincible  weight  of  that  horde,  of  barbarians,  that  mysterious  and 
implacable  scourge,  which  Divine  vengeance  reserved  for  the  punishment 
of  unheard-of  crimes. 

r 

But,  as  we  have  before  remarked,  the  magiric  art  always  survives 
revolutions  and  ruin  of  empires.  Modern  Italy  inherited  the  wrecks 
of  Roman  cookery,  and,  thanks  to  her,  Europe  is  at  the  present  day 
acquainted  with  the  delights  of  good  cheer,  and  the  charm  of  joyous 
repasts. 

Under  the  reign  of  Louis  XII.  there  arose  a  company  of  sauce 
manufacturers,  who.obtained  the  exclusive  privilege  of  making  sauces. 
Their  statutes  (1894)  inform  us  that  the  famous  sauce  h  la  cameline. 


85R  THE    COOK. 

sold  by  them,  was  to  be  composed  "  of  good  cinnamon,  good  ginger, 
good  cloves,  good  grains  of  paradise,  good  bread,  and  good  vinegar." 
The  sauce,  Tence,  was  to  be  made  of  "good  sound  almonds,  good 
ginger,  good  wine,  and  good  verjuice/*  We  find  in  Taillevant,  the  cele- 
brated cook  of  Charles  V.  and  Charles  VI.,  besides  the  cameline, 
Feau  benite  (holy  water) — the  sauce  for  pike,  le  saupiguet,  le  moBtechany 
la  gelatine,  la  sauce  h  Valoscy  au  mo&tt  that  of  milk-garlic,  cold,  red, 
and  green  sauces,  sauce  Robert,  Poitevine,  d  Madame  rappee,  and 
&  la  dodine. 

Platina,  a  Latin  author  of  |he  15th  century,  speaks  of  other  sauces, 
in  the  composition  of  which  sugar  was  frequently  employed,  according 
to  the  proverb  of  those  times :  "  Sugar  never  spoiled  sauce." 

In  the  middle  ages,  poultry,  butchers'  meat,  and  roast  game,  were 
never  eaten  dry,  as  they  are  now,  any  more  than  firied  fish.  There  were 
different  sauces  for  all  those  dishes,  and  even  for  Ihe  different  parts  of 
each  animal.  The  cooks  of  those  days  strove  to  acquire  a  reputation 
by  inventing  strange  and  grotesque  sauces,  which  had  no  other  merit 
than  that  of  being  surprising  and  difiBcult  to  make,  as,  for  example : 
"  eggs  cooked  on  the  spit,"  "  butter  fried  or  roasted."  &c." 

We  recognize  in  some  of  our  most  common  raffoHts,  those  of  which 
our  ancestors  were  so  fond  in  the  middle  ages,  such  as  the  boBufh  la 
mode,  a  la  persillade,  au  vinaigre  et  persil,  le  miroton  de  bceuf,  teau 
percS  de  gros  lard^  fricassee  de  poulet,  blanquette  de  veau  rdti;  but  we 
have  lost  the  pot-pourri,  composed  of  beef,  veal,  mutton,  bacon,  and 
vegetables,  and  the  galimafreey  a  kind  ot  fricassee  of  fowl,  seasoned 
with  wine,  verjuice,  and  spices,  and  thickened  with  the  famous  sauce 
cameline.^* 

The  cooks  frequently  placed  on  iheir  masters'  tables  rago&ts  and 
other  dishes  borrowed  from  foreign  nations.  They  had  a  German  brouet, 
a  Flemish  chaudeau,  eggs  a  la  Florentine,  and  partridges  a  la  Catalane, 
They  knew  the  olla — a  mixture  of  all  sorts  of  vegetables  cooked  with 
different  kinds  of  meats,  which  we  owe  to  the  Spaniards,  as  well  as  the 
ragoiit  of  fowl,  called  h  la  Chipolata^  and  the  keneffes — a  kind  of 
forced-meat  balls  made  of  bread  and  meat,  to  which  the  Germans  are 
very  partial,  and  the  pilau — a  dish  of  mutton,  fowl,  and  rice,  bor- 
rowed from  the  Turks." 

The  art  of  cooking  with  its  innumerable  paraphernalia  of  sauces  with 
gravy,  pepper,  cinnamon,  garlic,  scallion,  brains,**  with  its  gravy  soups. 


P7      77 


C^~y 


*'\ 


'f^ 


xvqa*! 


•  K  t     del 


Cftti.nt  A: Sjtadl^i*'  s^^i*.! 


''        !  » 


'  '  I 


»•. 


i  ••   .1 


:  I  -    ■'     'tl 


',     \' 


•  ;■  'i 


{. 


ii 


■•  ' '  > 


!     i    • 


.    [;;)      . 


.i     '     "I 


..I 


*  ,    > 

1 


:     i    '-  |f»  -^    !    1 


II* 


1         <>    .  L . 


j     «        i  I       I    '!     /•       ^     » 


t  !       ^ 


I . 


I  -  •' 


n    .,  . 


■  1 


.'!. 


•^    . '    ' 


<  1 


(■   '     1 


I   I 


•  1 


.r,  .■ 


<i 


«» 


'      J    •  . 


1  t 


II  .    .    .1 


I    •  '     I. 


'  ■     .  .'  ' 


I        >  I 


t       ' ''   . 


I    ■  V 


«.    ■.    • 


THE   COOK.  259 

milk  pottage,  and  ra^oAts,  had  a  signal  triumph  at  the  wedding  of 
Charles  VI.  of  France.  On  that  occasion  a  skilful  cook  covered  the 
great  black  marble  table  of  the  royal  palace "  with  a  hundred  dishes 
prepared  in  a  hundred  different  ways.- 

The  good  physicians  did  not  proscribe  the  art  of  cooking ;  several 
of  their  number  even  deigned  to  write  treatises  upon  it.** 

A  certain  monkish  servant,  moved  by  an  indiscreet  zeal,  wished  not 
only  to  mortify  himself  but  all  the  Franciscans  of  the  monastery.  Con- 
sequently, he  prepared  the  repasts  in  the  worst  manner  he  could.  But 
the  community  held  a  chapter,  and  he  was  condemned  to  receive  fifty 
lashes ;  many  of  the  monks  wanted  to  enforce  a  more  rigorous  discipline 
by  giving  a  hundred.*' 

In  the  middle  ages,  the  cook  of  a  house  of  any  note  always  seated 
himself  in  a  high  arm  chair  to  give  his  orders ;  he  held  a  long  wooden 
spoon  in  his  hand,  with  which  he  tasted,  without  quitting  his  place,  the 
various  dishes  that  were  cooking  on  the  stoves  and  in  the  saucepans, 
and  which  served  him  also  as  a  weapon  with  which  to  chastise  the  idle 
and  gluttonous.** 


THE  KITCHEN. 

Let  us  enter  together  one  of  those  vast  kitchens,  where  two  thousand 
years  ago,  the  marvellous  suppers  of  some  rich  senator  were  concocted. 
In  every  direction,  slaves  are  coming  loaded  with  meat,  game,  sea-fish, 
vegetables,  fruit*  and  those  expensive  delicacies  of  which  the  dessert  of 
the  Romans  was  principally  composed.  The  slaves  have  been  over  the 
principal  markets  of  the  city,  especially  those  of  the  Trigemina  gate, 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XI. 

No.  1.  RenoMns  of  a  kitcheiMioTe  in  the  hoaae  of  Panso,  at  Pompeii,  mach  like  those  of  the 
present  day;  a  knife,  a  strainer,  and  a  kind  of  fryingpan  with  foar  cavities,  probably  intended  to 
cook  eggs. 

No.  2.  Stock-pot,  in  bronze,  to  hang  over  the  fire,  if  we  may  jadge  from  the  eye  at  the  top  of 
the  handle. 

No.  3.    A  similar  one  of  another  shape,  for  boiling. 

No.  4.    Ladles  of  various  forms,  for  making  libation  from  larger  vessels. 

No.  6.  A  brazier;  the  thickness  of  the  sides  are  hollow,  and  intended  to  contain  water,  and  the 
four  turret*,  are  provided  with  moveable  lids,  at  the  side  is  a  cock  to  draw  off  the  water.  The  centre  of 
course  was  filled  with  lighted  charcoal,  and  if  a  tripod,  or  trivet,  were  placed  above  it,  many  processes 
of  oo(Aing,  such  as  boiling,  stewing,  or  frying,  might  be  perfonned. — ** Pompeii"— ^ Lib,  of  Eni,  Know." 


260  THE   KITCHEN. 

of  the  Metasudante,"  of  the  Suburd  Way,"  and  the  Sacred  Way."  Each 
one  lays  his  basket  at  the  feet  of  the  procurator  or  major-domo,  who 
examines  the  contents^  and  registers  them  on  his  tablets ;  **  then  he  has 
placed  in  the  pantry,  contiguous  to  the  dining  room,  those  of  the 
provisions  which  demand  no  preparation,"  but  whose  graceful  and 
symmetrical  arrangement  is  confided  to  two  MoIiblii  servants  designated 
under  the  name  of  siructores.** 

All  these  porters  are  under  the  immediate  orders  of  a  confidential 
servant — ohsonator — charged  with  buying  the  provisions  necessary  for 
the  household,  and  who  is  obliged  to  make  himself  acquainted  with  the 
taste  of  his  master  and  also  of  each  -guest,  that  he  may  procure  nothing 
which  they  dislike." 

The  remaining  comestibles  are  placed  in  an  airy  and  spacious  apart- 
ment adjoining  the  kitchen,  and  at  the  back  of  the  house."  There, 
around  a  table  loaded  with  numerous  wooden  figures,  representing  a 
variety  of  animals,  some  attentive  young  men  are  practising,  under  the 
direction  of  an  experienced  master,  the  diiBBcult  art  of  carving  game  and 
poultry;*'  whilst  a  melodious  symphony  accustoms  their  skilful  hands  to 
hasten  or  retard  their  graceful  movements  according  to  the  time  of  tlie 
music."  In  this  learned  rehearsal  the  eye  and  ear,  alike  charmed,  pass 
alternately  from  the  peaceful  emotions  of  the  pensive  adagio  to  the 
lively  cadences  of  the  rapid  allegro,  and  from  the  harmonious  and  calm 
andante  to  the  captivating  and  joyous  accents  of  a  fvenzi^A  prestissimo. 

In  this  spacious  laboratory  the  most  delicious  emanations  invite  us. 
The  chief  of  the  cooks,  the  Archimagirus^^  seated  on  a  raised  platform, 
embraces  at  a  single  glance  the  series  of  stock-pots  and  brick  stoves," 
very  similar  to  those  in  use  at  the  present  day,  at  which  the  silent  crowd 
of  assistants,'^  ministers  of  his  will,  elaborate  and  watch  the  expensive 
dishes  destined  to  form  a  splendid  supper.  As,  at  the  moment  of  battle, 
the  general,  motionless  on  a  height  which  commands  a  view  of  his 
army,  hastens,  orders,  scolds  his  scattered  battalions,  absent  and  yet 
everywhere,  animating  with  his  own  inspiration  the  warlike  masses,  and 
exciting  them  with  the  excitement  of  his  own  soul,  he  invokes  victor}', 
and  victory  replies,  "  Behold  me  1"  The  Archimagirus  has  also  his  days 
of  triumph ;  and  in  the  evening,  perhaps,  the  king  of  the  feast  will 
place  on  his  head  a  crown  of  flowers,  precious  recompense  of  bis  talent 
and  success. 

At  some  distance  from  the  culinary  autocrat,  on  the  opposite  side,  an 


THE   KITCHEN.  261 

immeDse  iron  grate,"  carefully  supplied  with  wood,"  which  an  unhappy 
slave  unceasingly  blows  with  liis  breath  into  a  flame,"  throws  around  its 
lurid  glare.  The  LareSy  grotesque  figures,  roughly  carved  in  stone,  pro- 
tect this  spot.  A  cock  is  sacrificed  to  them  in  the  monlh  of  December." 
Some  learned  men,  have  supposed  that  the  Greeks  and  Bomans  had 
no  chimneys ;  it  is,  however,  easy  to  prove  the  contrary.  Philocleo,  a 
character  in  the  comedy  of  the  "  Wasps*,  of  Aristophanes,  hides  himself 
in  a  chimney.  A  slave  who  hears  him,  cries  out,  "  What  a  noise  there  is 
in  the  pipe  of  this  chimney!"     Philocleo,  being  discovered,  exclaims, 


<( 


I  am  the  smoke^  and  I  am  trying  to  escape.'  " 


Appian,  speaking  of  the  proscriptions  of  the  triumvi]*s,  relates  that 
several  citizens  fled  into  the  pipes  of  the  chimneys.*' 

These  two  examples  will  preclude  the  necessity  of  more  ample 
citations. 

A  vast  cauldron  of  brass  from  Argos,"  or  Do<i(>na,f'  placed  'on  a 
tripod  above  the  fireplace,  furnishes  the  hot  water  required  for  the  service 
of  the  kitchen.  The  frying-pan,  beside  it,  serves  in  the  cooking  of 
certain  delicate  cakes  or  fish." 

The  magiric  laboratory,  to  which  the  reader  is  invited,  is  very  nicely 
decorated  with  a  profusion  of  utensils  similar  in  every  respect  to  our  own 
in  point  of  shape— such  as  gridirons,  cullenders,  dripping-pans,  and 
tart  dishes.  These  objects  are  of  tolerably  thick  bronze,  plated  with  fine 
silver."  Charming  shells  of  the  same  metal,  serve  to  mould  the  pastry," 
which  is  afterwards  disposed  with  order  on  the  shelves  of  a  country 
oven,"  or  in ,  the  upper  part  of  the  authepsa, — a  kind  of  saucepan  of 
Corinthian  brass,  of  considerable  value,  and  made  with  such  art  that  its 
contents  cook  instantly  and  almost  without  fire."  This  simple  and 
ingenious  vessel  possesses  a  double-bottom;  the  uppermost  one  holds 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No,  XII. 

From  tlie  ancients  very  little  in  left  us  of  their  kitithen  utennils;  however,  the  vessels  and  instruments 
which  they  used  must  have  been  in  great  variety ;  they  had  boilers  called  by  the  nunies  otcaldariumt 
eaeabu$t  Cortina^  adhenum;  chaldron,  Ubes:  stewpan,  iartago;  saucepan,  jniUarium;  the  cullender, 
with  smaU  holes  perforated,  Pliny  calls  column  and  more  modern  writers  vema ;  spoons,  in  Latin, 
eochUar  or  cochleare;  forks  and  hooks,  to  draw  the  meat  out  of  the  siockpots,  they  named  creagra  and 
/w«ctna;the  dishes  were  called  ianees,  duct,  paitna,pa/e/ia,  or  oaf int;  and  distingnii»hed  from  plates 
by  the  size,  and  sometimes  the  shape. 

No.  1.    Stockpot,  with  a  large  ladle  and  cullender  attached,  with  small  holes ;  appeared  on  the  • 
column  of  Trajan,  together  with  the  stewpan  of  Silenus. 

Na  2.    Broken  stewpan.  in  bronze. 

No.  3.    Smaller  one.   These  three  articles  of  kitchen  utensils  are  from  the  cabinet  of  M.  I'A  bbc 
Charlet.— "  Antiquili*  4a  Mtmifaucmu 


202  THE  KITCHEN. 

the  light  delicacies  destined  for  the  dessert,   and   the  fire  is  under- 
neath." 

The  diploma,  or  double- vase,  which  has  sometimes  been  confounded 
with  the  authepsa,  does  not  in  the  least  resemble  the  latter.  It  is  thus 
they  named  the  vessel  called  by  us  a  "  bain-marie  i^^^  the  ancients  made 
great  use  of  this  mild  and  gentle  process  of  cooking,  which  is  often  men- 
tioned in  the  treatise  of  Apicius.*' 

These  brass  boilers,  which  boil  on  the  hearth,  supported  by  three 
feet,  are  precisely  like  those  used  by  the  French  at  the  present  day.** 
Boilers  also  of  a  rather  different  kind  are  sometimes  used,  in  which  the 
operation  of  ebullition  takes  place  sooner  than  in  the  first  mentioned ; 
they  are  closed  with  a  cover  in  the  form  of  a  dome,  and  a  large  hollow 
cylinder,  fixed  beneath,  hastens  and  keeps  up  the  action  of  the  caloric.*' 

The  saucepans,  around  which  a  host  of  cooks  are  busily  engaged,  are 
for  the  greater  part  made  of  brass  or  earthenware,^^  tolerably  wide  and  deep, 
which  they  place  on  the  stoves,  and  in  which  are  concocted  the  delicate 
and  scientific  preparations.  Some  are  of  silver/'  The  caprices  of 
luxury  have  led  them  to  suppose  that  certain  expensive  viands  acquire 
greater  perfection  when  cooked  in  this  precious  metal. 

A  confidential  slave,  charged  with  the  care  of  the  plate,  is  cleaning 
and  poUshing  near  a  dresser  a  large  number  of  bronze  chafing-dishes, 
which  are  to  be  used  at  table  to  prevent  the  plates  from  becoming  cold. 
It  is  in  speaking  of  this  useful  invention  that  Seneca,  the  philosopher, 
says,  "  Daintiness  gave  birth  to  this  invention,  in  order  that  no  viand 
should  be  chilled,  and  that  everything  should  be  hot  enough  to  please 
the  most  pampered  palate.  The  kitchen  follows  the  supper.**  ^'  Each  of 
these  elegant  utensils  is  supported  by  three  geese.  It  measures  about 
seven  inches  from  the  extremity  of  one  of  the  bird's  heads  to  the  op- 
posite edge  of  the  circumference.  This  kind  of  tray  is  fifteen  lines,  or 
an  inch  and  a- quarter  deep,  and  the  feet  raise  it  about  two  inches  above 
the  plane.    The  three  geese  have  their  wings  spread,  and  terminate  by 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XIII. 

No.  1.  This  boiler  is  made  of  bronze ;  tlie  lower  p«n  was  filled  with  water,  aad  made  to  boil  bj 
means  of  the  cylinder,  covered  with  a  lid,  in  which  lighted  charcoal  was  introduced ;  the  aahes  escaped 
through  holes  perforated  at  the  bottom,  and  the  basin  has  a  tap  to  let  the  water  oat. 

No.  2.    A  flat  saucepan,  or  tauti  pan,  with  a  fluted  handle,  and  a  ram's  head  at  the  end. 

No.  3.    A  kettle  similar  to  our  teapots. 

No.  4.    A  gridiron,  and  a  dripping-pan. 

No.  5.    A  triTct,  a  cleaver,  and  a  butcher's  knife. — St.  Noiv,  "  Cabinet  tf  HtrcuUmtum." 


•»  .       ■ 


=fp 


=^ 


I 


a 


r 


.» 


1  • 


- »"        ■     <     .      ! 


I.; .1'  '    I.    ♦  I   '      I 


1>.'. 


:.'   .♦   '.i 


1 


'    •  I     * 


}t  .  }  \ 


.  f 


'   1 1 ' 


II     ..:    '.^ 


'  '.M    ■«'    ■    '  III.   ^•- 

Kt    r.f        ;..;:•.      .        •'   ,    • 

I  *  •  I  * 


'It    •• .  ••    ,1".  '   ..  ',} 
»»■         '  ■     :  1.1      ■  '        .<• 

I ,  ■  n  •  ••     u  '  .  • .     . ;  «        i  *  ' 


«   . 


l ,  1  i  ■ 


«   » 


*    i 


t »    *    t    » 


r.» 


)• 


•  < ! 


:      li 


1 


I  • 


'  '    ///'/.     .    .  1'..    J   •   1."^ 


I  '. 


1 


,   t  \ 


i  I 


i( 


[.  '.v       J<.'.         ' 


I   I 


.1 .» 


1    '  '■ 

I 


I 


.   '        ,    '   M' 


'(   '      1 


.    \>  I    1'    .. 


'       I    ( 


.     ,*    •/«  1       »  'I 

I      ,.     ■     ..t    : 


■  >  1 


.  •     ^.  '. 


>     \i 


J".    J  '■ 


I  »     I   •••: 


t  J  ii;  -r  ;    •  .;: 


*    -J 


I     I 


I     \ 


■J  I  :  I  I  .  i 


i«  J.  I  -^  ■:     ; 


>       1 


N. 


«        ..:...  I-    r,  ^     \ 


>1..  f 


l> 


'  I.  I  .'  ■  • ' , 


THE   KITCHEN.  203 

* 

neats'  feet.  The  heads,  raised  on  the  breasts,  form  graceful  handles.^' 
These  chafing-dishes,  arranged  systematically  on  the  sigma,  produce  a 
dehghtful  effect. 

Dishes  of  massive  silver  occupy  another  compartment  of  the  vast 
cupboard.  An  opulent  family  could  not  possibly  do  without  this  luxury. 
Sylla  had  some  which  weighed  200  marks,  and  Rome  would  produce 
more  than  five  hundred  of  the  same  weight/^  It  was  in  fact  a  perfect 
furore^  which  afterwards  greatly  augmented.  In  the  time  of  the 
Emperor  Claudius,  one  of*  his  slaves,  named  Drusillanus  Botundus, 
possessed  a  silver  dish  weighing  1,000  marks,  which  was  served  in  the 
midst  of  eight  smaller  ones  weighing  100  marks  each.  These  nine 
dishes  were  arranged  at  table  on  a  machine  which  supported  and  placed 
them  prominently  in  view. 

The  patincB,  such  was  the  name  of  these  magnificent  pieces  of  plate, 
served  for  ragoHts  and  fish ;  the  catinusy  an  immense  vase  of  earthen- 
ware among  the  poor,''  and  of  silver  with  the  rich,  is  more  especially 
reserved  for  liquid  dishes,  with  much  gravy>  and  what  we  call  pottage.'' 

Those  silver  cups  and  saucers,  of  the  same  shape  and  size  as  those 
we  employ  for  tea,  have  a  destination  very  strange  to  our  ideas.  They 
are  used  to  drink  hot  water.  They  are  worked  in  relief,  with  a  taste  and 
delicacy  which  we  cannot  too  much  admire." 

The  Roman  spoons,  rather  difierent  from  our  own,  end  on  one  side 
by  a  point,  to  pick  shell  fish  from  their  shell,  and  at  the  other  by  the 
bowl  of  a  spoon,  with  which  eggs  were  eaten." 

Doubtless,  forks  were  unknown  to  the  Greeks,  since  Atheneeus  relates, 
**  that  Pithyllus  " — surnamed  the  Dainty — "  did  not  content  himself  with 
covering  his  tongue  with  a  species  of  net,  to  appreciate  the  taste  of  the 
various  dishes,  but  cleaned  and  rubbed  it  with  a  fish.  He  also  enveloped 
his  hands  in  a  kind  of  glove,  to  eat  everything  burning  hot ;" ''  a  useless 
precaution  if  he  had  used  a  fork. 

This  indispensable  addition  to  a  modem  table  was,  perhaps,  not 
common  at  Rome,  but  nevertheless,  it  was  to  be  seen  at  the  residence  of 
some  wealthy  families.  The  slave  before-mentioned  holds  several  in  his 
hand.     These  forks  are  remarkable  for  the  beauty  of  their  workmanship. 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  Na  XIV. 

No.  1.     ChafiDg-dish  to  keep  every  thing  hot 

Na  2.    Silver  cup,  beautifally  chased,  to  drink  hot  water. 


264  THE   KITCHEN. 

The  stags*  feet  which  terminate  the  handles,  and  the  fillets  with  which 
they  are  ornamented,  bear  witness  by  their  execution  to  the  rare  talent 
of  the  goldsmith.  They  are  five  inches  and  a  half  in  length,  and  have 
only  two  prongs.** 

Other  servants  dispose  the  earthenware  pails,  in  which  the  wine  is 
to  be  placed  to  cool/*  and  prepare  the  drinking  cups  and  crystal  flagons.*' 
One  of  them  replenishes  with  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper,  little  vases  de- 
signated by  the  name  of  acetabulum,  ''  vinegar  cruet.'*  **  These  are  so 
many  models  of  the  most  exquisite  elegai^ce,  in  bronze,  silver,  and, 
sometimes,  gold.  They  are  manufactured  simply  of  earthenware,  for 
the  use  of  the  middle  classes  of  people.** 

The  knives,  destined  to  serve  at  table,  are  of  brilliant  steel,  and  care- 
fully sharpened;  they  bear  each  on  the  handle  some  whimsical  ornament, 
and  seem  to  have  served  as  models  for  those  which  were  so  much  in 
fashion  towards  the  beginning  of  the  17th  century,  and  which  were 
called  Chinese  knives.*' 

The  most  precious  plate  is  arranged  before  the  arrival  of  the  guests 
on  the  abacus,  or  sideboard,  which  decorates  the  dining  room.  This 
splendid  piece  of  furniture,  which  will  be  noticed  hereafter,  was  intro- 
duced into  Home  187  years  B.C.     It  was  also  called  the  Delphic  table.** 

However,  the  Archimagirus  has  drawn  up  a  list  of  the  repast,  which 
contains  the  bill  of  fare  of  the  dishes,  and  which,  both  in  Greece  and  Rome, 
was  iClways  presented  to  the  guests.*'  He  descends  from  his  platform, 
and  goes  to  cast  an  inspiring  glance  on  the  work  of  each  subordinate. 
Nothing  escapes  his  learned  investigation,  from  the  peacocks'  eggs  of  the 
first  service,  to  the  soft  cheese  conunonly  eaten  at  the  third.**  Above  all, 
he  examines  with  minute  attention  the  ovens,  at  which  preside  those 
second  cooks  of  whose  talents  he  is  not  certain,  and  who  belong  to  that 
class  of  erratic  artists  who  are  to  be  met  with  every  day  at  the  forum, 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XV. 

Na  1.  Roman  silver  spoon,  found  at  Autiin,  in  France.  Martial  says  expressly  that  spoons  were 
used  by  the  ancients  to  eat  eggs  and  shell  fish. 

No.  3.  Brass  knife,  firom  Herculaneum.  The  shape  of  the  handle  is  rather  singular,  being  too  small 
for  the  band,  but  it  was  probably  covered  with  horn,  wood,  or  ivory.  However,  it  may  have 
been,  the  knife  is  thirteen  inches  in  length,  from  the  tip  to  the  ring,  which  was  used  to  hang  it  up.  The 
handle  is  three  inches  long,  and  the  blade  in  its  largest  width  is  one  inch  and  a  quaiter.  It  was  used 
no  doubt  for  sacrifices. 

No.  8.    A  simpulum,  or  a  sort  of  spoon  for  salt  or  eggs. 

No.  4.  A  simpulum.  or  cup  with  a  long  handle,  commonly  ending  with  a  hook,  which  was  used  as 
a  ladle  to  take  wine  or  other  liquids  out  of  huge  vessels. 

No.  5.    Fork  mentioned  in  the  text,  and  given  as  antique  in  the  "  Reeuell  d'  Antiq."  III.,  PI.  84. 


/ 

^ 


'A 


1 


t 
9 


•      I 

I 


I. 


1 


M 


;j' 


'W  M 


V, 


t 

Ik 


I\ 


I 


.  j'f       '  .    ..  I.!  -.Pi.'! 

(■ill  ' 


.'  1 


'..hi     ' . 


•  .i 


'111 


I'  •> 


I  . 


>  I 

I  • 


1  f  ' 


.!'.-..., 


,   ,   .  M' 


I  »' 


r    .. 


it  ;  ff     • 


J    I 


•    X 


V   i. 


'  I 


.     r 


.1 


,         T 


.  I 


.  ■•  I 


II   ' 


«    ' 


1  *< 


,  • ' 


L.s  I:    •!.'    .    '      ' 
>      I  .  •   > 


.' 


I' 


'   ■..»    ■  . 


I  ! 


I. , 


♦  1 

*  J 


I  * 


\vL 


I  ■ 


I    1  •■      ••  -    .s.    •■    ' 
)    J,      ;•■    *     «.i'l        '   ■     '" 


t    ? 


!.   N  .    \ 


•••    (  ; 

'    1 


II         \    \     1 ,  ^ 


•  1     ' 


:t 


I      n  I'l      • 


.'    I  '. 


A 


jj 


^  ^ 


'r\ 


i 


\ 


\ 


THE  KITCHEN.  265 

where  they  wait  till  some  one  comes  to  request  their  services."  His 
remarks,  full  of  sense  and  precision,  proclaim  profound  study  and  con- 
summate experience.  **  Never  will  this  depsiticius  bread,"  *'  says  he 
to  one  of  them,  "  obtain  the  necessary  lightness  by  baking ;  the  flour 
should  have  been  passed  through  a  Spanish  sieve  of  linen  thread  ;*' 
Use  the  Gallic  sieve  of  horsehair  for  the  artocreasy*^^  and  one  of 
papyrus,  or  Egyptian  rush,'*  for  the  coarser  kinds  of  flour."  "  The 
grasshoppers  require  great  precaution,"  he  exclaims,  an  instant  after, 
approaching  a  young  Sicilian  ;  "  fry  them  so  that  they  obtain  only  a 
hght  gold  colour."  **  Then,  passing  to  a  third  stove,  he  shows  to  one  of 
his  favourite  pupils  how  to  season  highly  an  excellent  sauce  of  snails 
(this  hors-d^ceuurey  dear  to  the  Bomans),  and  by  what  marks  to  distin- 
guish  those  fattened  by  art  in  particular  inclosures,  from  those  which 
feed  in  gardens  and  are  only  fit  for  the  common  people.'*  He  then 
stops  before  a  stewpan,  where  a  cook  is  browning  large  worms  of  a 
whitish  hue,  which  breed  in  the  hollows  of  trees,  and  are  considered 
by  the  Romans"  as  a  most  delicious  dish :  "  The  flour  with  which 
these  cossi  were  fed  was  heated,"  says  he ;  "  they  will  present  to  the  teeth 
only  a  soft  and  insipid  substance."*' 

We  will  not  accompany  this  great  master  any  further :  his  instruc- 
tions are  already  known  to  us.     An  enthusiastic  disciple  of  Apicius,  he 
practises  the  lessons  of  that  illustrious  professor;  and  we  should  only  . 
hear  from  him  precepts  which  we  have  already  faithfully  transmitted. 

When  the  moment  of  supper  is  arrived,  we  shall  find  the  Archi- 
magirus  presiding  at  that  gastronomic  order  of  battle  on  which  depends 
the  success  of  the  day.     May  Vesta  and  Comus  be  propitious  to  him. 

In  the  14th  century,  the  refectories  and  kitchens  of  the  numerous 
communities  of  Paris  presented  a  curious  scene.  Immense  coppers 
contained  the  pottage  and  boiled  meat,  and  monster  gridirons,  on  four 
T^heels,  covered  vast  braziers.  All  the  utensils  of  these  kitchens  were 
of  remarkable  dimensions. 

*  Pie  of  meat  and  flour. 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XVI. 

No.  1.    Roman  silver  knife  handle.  • 

No.  2.    Roman  silver  spoons. 

No.  3.    A  very  deep  dish  of  metal,  either  for  sauces  or  some  kind  of  liquid. 


H 


XXIII. 


SEASONINGS. 


The  animal  and  vegetable  kingdoms  furnish  us  with  an  abundant  and 
wholesome  food,  whose  flavour  gastronomic  caprice  unceasingly  modifies 
by  the  aid  of  various  substances  which  we  denominate  seasonings.  It 
is,  above  all,  the  perfect  knowledge  of  these  ingredients,  the  manner  of 
employing  them,  and  their  skilful  mixture,  which  constitute  the  art  of 
the  cook.  Labour  and  custom,  and  a  kind  of  routine  which  the  palate 
acquires  easily,  will  suffice  for  those  who  content  themselves  with  this 
calling,  and  who,  carefully  preserving  the  timid  traditions  of  the  past, 
view  progress  as  ruin  and  devastation,  and  the  fruitful  boldness  of  in- 
spiration as  ridiculous  and  fatal  innovations. 

Heresy,  and  even  schism  (pardon  these  expressions),  should  be 
allowed  in  cookery,  as  soon  as  they  receive  the  sanction  of  the  doctors 
is'banquets — the  sole  judges  competent  in  such  matters.  It  is  to  the 
art  professed  by  Apicius  that  the  celebrated  line  of  Voltaire  appears 
more  peculiarly  to  apply : — 

"  Tous  lea  genres  sont  bons,  except^  rennuyeuz.*" 

Innovate,  then,  studious  disciples  of  the  illustrious  Roman  :  consult 
only  the  measures  of  your  strength,  the  conscience  of  your  genius,  and 
the  infallible  good  taste  of  some  chosen  guests.  Create  for  your 
seasoning  unheard-of  combinations,  the  strangeness  of  which  shall  strike 
and  astonish  ;  whose  flavour  shall  subjugate  and  stifle  criticism  beneath 
the  sweet  efibrts  of  a  voluptuous  mastication. 

Learn  how  to  make  your  areopagitee  eat :  this  innocent  seduction 
will  insure  your  triumph. 

Treat  not  with  too  much  disdain  these  Boman  recipes ;  for  although 
the  formidable  list  may  excite  a  smile  from  the  reader,  and,  perhaps. 


SEASONINGS.  2CT 

the  scorn  of  the  cook,  a  great  and  prolific  idea  slumbers  beneath  the 
cold  ashes  of  the  ovens  of  Apicius  which  a  breath  may  rekindle ;  and, 
at  the  same  time,  resuscitate  some  of  those  culinary  wonders  of  a  bygone 
civilisation,  and  endow  our  modern  age,  so  impatient  of  the  future,  so 
curious  concerning  the  past. 

Two  Phoenicians — whose  names  are  never  mentioned  by  forgetful 
posterity — Selech  and  Misor,  taught  mankind  the  art  of  heightening 
the  flavour  of  their  food  by  mixing  with  it  a  certain  quantity  of  salt. 
The  science  of  seasoning  has  no  other  origin/ 


SALT. 


The  law  of  Moses  commanded  the  Jews  to  mix  salt  with  everything 
offered  in  sacrifice.'  This  prescription  sufficiently  testifies  the  use  of 
this  condiment  at  an  epoch  which  the  uncertainty  of  profane  writers 
appears  to  invade  on  all  sides,  and  which  the  great  Hebrew  legislator 
alone  enlightens  with  a  ray  invariably  steady  and  pure. 

The  Asphaltite  lake  produced  abundance  of  salt.'  It  was  sent  even 
to  Borne,  and  was  considered  by  Galen  as  the  most  desiccatory  and 
digestive  of  any  kind/ 

The  Greeks  placed  this  substance  in  the  list  of  things  which  ought 
to  be  consecrated  to  the  gods ;  and  it  is  in  this  sense  that  Homer  gives 
it  the  epithet  of  divine.  Pagan  superstition,  of  which  some  traces  may 
still  be  remarked  in  the  J  9th  century,  threatened  with  some  great  mis- 
fortune any  one  who  spilt  salt ;  and  it  was  deemed  a  signal  impiety  to 
forget  placing  salt-cellars  on  the  table,  or  to  dare  go  to  sleep  before 
removing  them.  This  strange  superstition  was  common  among  the 
Greeks  and  Romans/  Those  nations  never  failed  consecrating  their 
repasts  by  filling  salt-cellars,  near  to  the  vase  in  which  they  presented 
the  gods  with  the  first  portion  of  meat  and  fruit/ 

Certain  nations,  among  others  the  Numidians,  were  not  acquainted 
with  salt;'  and  in  the  greater  part  of  countries  where  it  abounded, 
cupidity  almost  invariably  subjected  it  to  a  heavy  tax,  which  rendered 
its  use  less  practicable. 

The  inhabitants  of  Troad  provided  themselves  for  a  long  time  with 
salt  from  Tragase  without  cost.    King  Lysimachus  one  day  thought  of 

R  2 


268  SEASONINGS. 

exacting  a  duty  for  every  measure  carried  away.  But,  wonderful  to 
relate,  hardly  was  the  royal  edict  published,  when  the  salt  springs  were 
found  to  be  so  nearly  dried  up,  that  they  hardly  furnished  wherewith  to 
season  a  small  stew.  Lysimachus  comprehended  the  meaning  of  this 
prodigy,  and  abolished  the  tax.     The  salt  re-appeared." 

At  Borne,  in  the  time  of  her  Kings,  every  one  was  free  to  sell  salt, 
and  ,its  price  became  excessively  high.  The  republican  government 
withdrew  this  right  from  private  individuals,  and  from  that  time  the 
common  people  easily  procured  all  the  salt  they  required,  and  which 
they  willingly  eat  with  bread.* 

Ancus  Martins  was  the  first  Roman  who  established  salt  works  near 
Ostia  towards  the  mouth  of  the  Tiber."  Afterwards,  others  were  formed, 
not  only  in  Rome,  but  in  the  provinces.  These  were  of  two  kinds,  public 
and  private.  The  first  belonged  to  the  republic,  and  formed  part  of  the 
emperor  s  domain ;  malefactors  were  condemned  to  labour  in  the  salt-works, 
and  it  was  generally  women  on  whom  this  punishment  was  inflicted.*^ 

Ancus  Martins  was  also  the  first  who  placed  a  duty  on  salt.  It  was 
abolished  after  the  expulsion  of  the  Kings,  but  was  afterwards  again 
established. 

Down  to  the  14th  century  salt  was  a  commodity  of  trade  open 
to  every  one  in  France.  Philip  the  Long  and  Philip  of  Valois 
were  the  first  to  impose  a  momentary  tax  on  it ;  but  after  the  fatal 
battle  of  Poictiers,  in  which  John  was  taken  prisoner,  Charles,  his  son^ 
in  order  to  pay  the  ransom  of  that  monarchy  had  recourse,  among  other 
extraordinary  means,  to  the  establishment  of  the  salt  tax.  The  idea 
was  found  to  be  good,  and  it  has  never  since  been  given  up." 

There  are  four  sorts  of  salt  which  are  employed  to  season  dishes^ 
obtained  either  from  the  evaporation  of  sea  water,  from  certain  lakes  or 
salt  marshes,  and  also  from  saliferous  sources  drawn  out  of  the  bosom 
of  the  earth  in  compact  masses.  Its  particular  savour  is  well  known ; 
it  is  soluble  in  water,  and  easily  becomes  damp.  In  the  scientific 
language,  this  substance  is  called  hydrochlorate  of  soda. 


BRINE 

This  was  water  in  which  bay  salt  had  been  dissolved.     At  Rome,  it 
was  served  at  table  to  be  mixed  with  the  meat  precisely  in  the  same 


SEASONINGS.  260 

manner  as  we  serve  salt  in  salt-ceUars.     The  Bomans  plunged  in  this 
muria  any  fish  or  meat  they  might  wish  to  preserve." 

Strong  muria  dura  was  water  so  completely  saturated  with  bay  salt, 
that  no  more  could  be  dissolved  in  it."     OUves  were  washed  in  it. 

The  brine  most  sought  after  was  that  of  Antibes,  of  Thurium,  and  of 
Dalmatia."  It  was  prepared  with  the  blood  and  other  juices  which, 
after  death,  escaped  firom  the  tunny  fish,"  mixed  with  garum,  which 
rendered  it  more  fluid  and  less  expensive. 

At  the  end  of  the  repast,  enigmas  were  often  proposed  to  the  guests. 
Some  delicious  dish  served  as  a  reward  to  those  who  were  fortunate 
enough  to  guess  them ;  the  others  were  compelled  to  pour  muria  into 
their  drink,  and  swallow  a  cup-full  without  taking  breath.*' 


DIGESTIVE  SALTS. 

The  Romans  were  enormous  eaters.  Apicius,  who  was  better 
aware  <5f  it  than  any  one,  imagined  providing  against  those  accidents  to 
which  his  countrymen  did  not  fear  to  expose  themselves  once  every  day, 
by  offering  to  them  a  preparation  which  our  habits  of  sobriety  would, 
doubtless,  render  useless  at  the  present  day ;  but  which  the  curious  will 
not  be  sorry  to  discover  in  these  sketches  of  antique  gastrophagy.  Take 
a  pound  of  common  salt,  which  torrefy  and  pulverize;  mix  it  with 
three  ounces  of  white  pepper,  two  ounces  of  ginger,  an  ounce  of 
lamoni,  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  thyme,  as  much  of  celery  seed,  three 
ounces  of  wild  marjoram,  an  ounce  and  a-half  of  rocket  seed,  three 
ounces  of  black  pepper,  an  ounce  and  a-half  of  holy  thistle,  two  ounces 
of  hyssop,  two  ounces  of  spikenard,  two  ounces  of  parsley,  and  two 
ounces  of  anise-seed." 

Take  a  small  quantity  of  these  salts  after  a  too  plentiful  dinner;  and 
the  stomach  will  immediately  defy  the  most  imminent  indigestion. 


GARUM. 

When  we  have  read  all  that  has  been  written  by  the  ancients  on  this 
famous  preparation,  we  become  convinced,  in  spite  of  the  obscurities  and 


270  SEASONINGS. 

continual  contradidions  of  commentators^  that  if  garum  is  no  longer 
manufactured  in  the  present  day«  it  is  not  on  account  of  the  impossi- 
bility we  find  in  discovering  the  recipe  of  the  Greeks  and  Latins,  but 
solely  because  this  rather  strange  brine  has  not  the  same  charm  for  us 
that  it  had  for  them.     Let  us,  however,  scan  the  authorities. 

The  Greeks  called  the  shrimp  garos,  the  Romans  garus :  it  may 
hence  be  supposed  that  garum  had  originally  for  basis  the  flesh  of 
shrimps,  if  Pliny  had  not  taken  the  trouble  to  inform  us  of  the  fact*^' 
It  was  afterwards  composed  of  other  fish,  but  it  always  retained  the 
name  which  recalled  its  origin.'^  In  like  manner  the  signification  of 
certain  words  is  now  applied  to  things  quite  different  from  the  original 
type :  chicory,  or  succory,  is  received  under  the  mask  of  coffee :  a  certain 
pottage  boldly  usurps  the  honours  due  exclusively  to  turtle  soup. 
Nothing  more  easy  than  to  multiply  these  examples  of  catachreses: 
there  are  few  figures  which  have  become  so  common. 

Well,  then,  they  macerated  the  intestines  of  fish  in  water,  saturated 
with  salt,  until  putrefaction  began  to  show  itself;  they  then  added 
parsley  and  vinegar." 

A  thick  garum  was  also  frequently  obtained,  by  allowing  the  entrails 
and  other  parts,  generally  thrown  away,  to  liquefy  in  salt." 

In  the  time  of  Pliny,  mackerel*'  was  preferred,  of  which  they 
employed  either  the  gills  and  intestines,  or  only  the  blood,  directly  the 
fish  left  the  water,**  and  while  yet  living.  They  thus  obtained  a  precious 
liquid,  and  which  the  care  necessary  for  its  production  rendered  so  dear, 
that  eight  pints  of  it  cost  no  less  than  from  fifteen  to  twenty  pounds.** 

This  expensive  garum  was  especially  esteemed  when  it  came  from 
Spain :  it  was  then  called  "  garum  of  the  allies" — garum  sociorum — 
because  it  was  received  from  a  nation  allied  with  the  Romans  ;**  or,  again, 
perhaps  in  allusion  to  the  "  band  of  gluttons,"  of  Rome,  a  sort  of  fi^ter^ 
nity  of  free-livers,  who  made  great  use  of  it.*' 

The  blood  and  entrails  of  the  tunny  fish,  mixed  with  salt  in  a  vase, 
produced  also  a  most  elaborate  garum.  A  hole  was  made  in  the  vessel  at 
the  expiration  of  two  months,  and  the  rich  seasoning  flowed  from  it.** 

This  brine  became  exquisite,  and  obtained  an  exorbitant  price  when 
made  from  the  liver  of  anchovies  macerated  in  vinegar,  pepper,  salt, 
parsley,  garlic,  white  wine,  and  sweet  herbs.**  But  Apicius  attained  at 
the  first  step  the  apogee  of  refinement  of  the  most  sensual  gluttony,  by 
inventing  garum  made  firom  the  liver  of  red  mullet'"     What  we  have 


SEASONINGS.  271 

already  said  elsewhere  with  regard  to  this  fish  will  enable  the  reader  to 
appreciate  the  value  of  this  new  preparation. 

Amateurs  who  were  more  economical  contented  themselves  with  very 
little  saxatile  fishes/*  of  which  only  the  intestines  were  taken,  or  which 
were  thrown  whole  into  a  vase  with  a  great  quantity  of  salt.  These  were 
exposed  to  the  sun,  and  the  mixture  long  and  often  stirred.  When  heat 
bad  caused  fermentation,  and  the  vessel  contained  only  a  kind  of  pulp, 
or  paste,  almost  liquid,  a  kind  of  willow  basket  was  introduced,  into 
which  the  garum  alone  could  penetrate.  The  thick  part — the  dregs 
which  remained  at  the  bottom  of  the  vase — was  termed  alec** 

The  following  method  was  also  frequently  adopted : — 

Mackerel,  or  small  fish,  were  placed  in  a  small  vase  witb  a  large 
quantity  of  salt ;  this  was  well  stirred,  and  the  mixture  was  then  left 
quiet  all  night.  The  next  day  it  was  transferred  into  an  earthen  pot, 
which  remained  uncovered  in  the  sun.  At  the  end  of  two  or  three 
months,  it  was  hermetically  closed,  after  having  added  a  quantity  of  old 
wine  equal  to  one-third  of  the  mixture." 

When  it  was  wished  to  obtain  garum  without  waiting  any  length  of 
time,  they  took  brine,  carefully  filtered,  and  so  saturated  with  salt  that 
an  egg  would  float  on  it ;  this  was  placed  with  the  fish  in  a  new  sauce- 
pan ;  wild  marjoram  was  added,  and  the  whole  boiled  over  a  gentle  fire, 
until  the  fish  was  entirely  dissolved.  Then  wine,  reduced  to  two-thirds 
by  boiling,  was  added.  It  was  left  to  get  cold  ;  the  liquid  was  several 
times  filtered,  till  it  became  quite  clear,  and  was  then  finally  placed  in 
an  uncovered  vase.** 

Although  fish  was  generally  used,  the  flesh  of  several  animals  was 
sometimes  employed  im  the  formation  of  garum.**  It  was,  however, 
submitted  to  the  same  preparations  as  those  already  mentioned. 

Such  was  this  wonderful  seasoning,  forming  the  chief  delight  of  the 
ancients,  whose  praises  poets  have  sung,  and  the  composition  of  which 
formerly  exercised  the  singularly  mad  intelligence  of  Maitre  Fran5ois 
Rabelais.  The  reader  will  doubtless  remark,  that  the  principal  elements 
of  garum  are  almost  invariably  the  same :  fish,  salt,  and  a  greater  or 
less  fermentation.  But  perhaps  some  one  may  exclaim  :  **  This  must  be 
detestable !"  No  doubt,  but  then  no  one  ever  thought  of  regaling  him- 
self with  this  liquid ;  it  was  never  taken  alone ;  it  was  but  reserved  as 
a  seasoning  for  a  host  of  dishes,  in  order  to  heighten  their  flavour. 

It  must  also  be  observed,  that  a  skilful  cook  always  took  care  to 


372  SEASONINGS. 

modify  the  gannn  before  he  sent  it  to  table,  by  the  help  of  various  in- 
gredients, such  as  pepper,  vinegar,  Falemian  wine,"  water,  and  oil,*' 
according  to  the  use  to  which  it  was  destined,  or  the  degree  of  strength 
it  was  expedient  it  should  possess.  Hence  that  variety  of  seasonings 
with  garum, — sweet,**  sharp,  mixed  with  water,  wiue,  vinegar,  and  many 
other  substances  which  changed  or  corrected  the  acid  flavour  of  the 
primitive  condiment,**  though  without  in  the  least  depriving  it  of  the 
qualities  which  fermentation  had  communicated  to  it. 

It  results  from  the  diflerent  citations  of  which  this  chapter  is  com- 
posed, that  recipes  for  the  making  of  garum  are  to  be  obtained  moi?e 
easily  than  people  seem  to  think  at  the  present  time.  Everyone  may 
not  be  of  the  same  opinion  with  regard  to  the  kind  of  fish  generally 
used  by  the  ancients  to  obtain  this  Uquid,  although  all  difficulties  would 
be  removed  by  admitting — which  certainly  is  nothing  but  right— that 
they  chose  at  one  time  mackerel  or  tunny  fish ;  at  others,  gudgeons  and 
small  sardines ;  sometimes  even  the  red  mullet,  in  spite  of  its  rarity  and 
price.  But  it  is  evident  that  garum  was  prepared  by  either  dissolving  and 
liquefying  these  fish  in  their  brine,  either  whole,  their  intestines,  or  their 
liver,  and  that,  to  efiect  this,  it  was  only  necessary  to  expose  to  the  sun  the 
vessel  containing  them  ;  or  that  they  simply  put  small  fish  into  a  dish, 
with  vinegar  and  parsley,  placed  it  on  a  charcoal  fire,  and  stirred  it  for 
some  time,  when  it  was  wanted  for  immediate  use. 

It  must  have  been  remarked  in  reading  this  work,  that  Apicius  very 
frequently  employs  garum;  he  places  it  in  every  sauce,  but  never 
makes  use  of  this  seasoning  unmixed,  never  does  he  serve  it  by  itself  as 
a  special  dish.  This  celebrated  gastronomist  has  bequeathed  us  the 
recipe  for  a  digestive  garum.     It  is  as  follows : — 

Mix  with  some  honey,  half  an  ounce  of  pepper,  three  scruples  of 
eschalots,  six  scruples  of  cardamum,  one  scruple  of  spikenard,  and 
six  scruples  of  mint;  add  vinegar  to  this  mixture,  and  then  pour  in 
some  garum.*' 

The  Hypotrimma,  or  stomachic  condiment,  of  the  same  master,  merits 
also  our  attention : — Mix  carefully  some  pepper,  benzoin,  mint,  pine-nuts, 
dried  raisins,  and  dates,  with  fresh  (not  salt)  cheese,  vinegar,  oil,  honey, 
and  wine,  reduced  by  boiling  to  one  half;  add  garum  to  this  mixture." 

The  Moretaria  appears  to  be  a  variety  of  the  Hypotrimma ;  it  is  a 
mixture  of  mint,  rue,  coriander,  fennel,  the  whole  fresh,  with  benzoin, 
pepper,  honey,  and  vinegar ;  to  this,  garum  is  added.** 


SEASONINGS.  273 

Whatever  may  be  the  opinion  the  reader  may  form  of  this  garum, 
of  which  mention  has  so  frequently  been  made,  and  which  has  been 
alternately  praised  and  despised  by  the  moderns,  it  is  certain  that  the 
most  fastidious  persons  were  madly  fond  of  it,  and  that  in  the  time  of 
Pliny,  it  was  so  much  esteemed,  that  its  price  equalled  that  of  the  most 
precious  perfumes. 

"  At  the  present  day  this  celebrated  seasoning  is  forgotten  in  Italy, 
but  in  Turkey  it  is  still  in  use.  The  innkeepers  of  Constantinople 
preserve  in  garum  the  cooked  fish  not  consumed  in  the  day." — Bosc. 


HONEY. 

What  is  sweeter  than  honey  ?"  what  is  more  pure,**  or  more  nourish- 
ing ?**  It  is  the  milk  of  the  aged,  it  prolongs  their  existence,**  and 
when  they  descend  into  the  tomb,  it  still  serves  to  embalm  them.*'^ 

Pagan  antiquity  ascribed  the  honour  of  the  discovery  of  this  useful 
substance  to  the  Athenian  Aristasus,  who  taught  mankind  to  feed  on  it. 
This  valuable  service  procured  him  a  patent  of  nobility.  He  was  made 
a  descendant  of  Bacchus  or  Apollo.** 

It  is  not  necessary  to  say  that  honey  was  known  in  the  east  long 
before  the  rise  of  Athens;  it  is  already  mentioned  in  the  first  book  of 
the  holy  writings.** 

It  is  said  that  Spain  owed  its  knowledge  of  this  delicious  aliment  to 
Gorgor,  King  of  the  Curetes,  who  was  polite  enough  to  take  some  on 
the  occasion  of  a  journey  which  he  made  into  that  country.**  The 
Peninsula  could  afterwards  furnish  this  delicacy  for  the  tables  of  Rome 
and  Italy. 

The  Greeks  esteemed  honey  most  highly;**  they  employed  it  in 
pastry,  and  in  ragouts ;"  their  philosopher,  Pythagoras,  eat  nothing 
else  with  his  bread,  and,  as  he  lived  to  be  ninety  years  old,  he  recom- 
mended his  disciples  to  follow  the  same  regvne^^  They  profited  by 
ths  sage's  counsel,  and  found  themselves  all  the  better  for  it.** 

A  benevolent  goddess  protected  bees,  hives,  and  the  honeycomb. 
She  was  called  Mellona,  and  a  grateful  piety  ofiered  her  honey  every 
new-year's  day.** 

Theophrastus  distinguished  three  kinds  of  honey :  that  which  the 
bees  extract  from  flowers,  that  which  comes  from  the  air,  and  lastly,  the 


274  SftA£UIK»GS. 

honey  from  reeds.**    We  clearly  perceive  that  he  means  honey,  manna, 
and  sugar. 

Virgil  thought  that  a  gentle  dew  fisdls  on  the  flowers,  and  became 
immediately  the  prey  of  bees,  which  deposited  k  in  their  cells.*'  Pliny 
has  adopted  the  same  graceful  error,**  and  even  Galen  himself  partakes 
of  it*' 

The  ancients  caused  honey  to  be  served  at  the  beginning  of  a  re- 
past ;'*  it  was  used  in  lieu  of  sugar  in  the  preparation  of  preserves  and 
some  kinds  of  beverages,  which  will  hereafter  claim  our  attention. 
They  preferred  that  of  Attica,*'  and  insisted  on  its  being  thick,  clear, 
granulated,  transparent,  fresh,  and  aromatic,  with  a  somewhat  sharp 
flavour.**    The  faculty  attributed  to  it  great  virtues.** 

Honey  served  as  a  basis  to  the  wonderfid  seasoning  of  Apicius, 
which  we  present  to  the  studious  investigation  of  modem  gastronomy : — 
Put  fifteen  pounds  of  honey  into  a  brass  vessel,  containing  two  pints  of 
wine.  Warm  at  a  very  gentle  fire,  stir,  and  when  it  rises,  pour  over 
more  wine.  Let  the  mixture  rise  three  times,  then  take  it  from  the  fire, 
and  skim  it  the  next  day.  Then  add  four  ounces  of  ground  pepper, 
three  scruples  of  gum,  a  drachm  of  spikenard,  a  drachm  of  safiiron,  five 
drachms  of  dried  dates,  after  softening  them  in  wine ;  pour  on  the  whole 
eighteen  pints  of  light  wine.*^ 

The  Oxyforon  was  another  seasoning  much  in  vogue  two  thousand 
years  ago,  and  in  which  honey  was  the  principal  ingredient  It  was 
composed  by  mixing  two  ounces  of  cummin  seed,  one  ounce  of  ginger, 
one  ounce  of  green  rue,  and  six  scruples  of  nitre,  with  one  ounce  of 
pepper,  and  twelve  scruples  of  fine  dates ;  nine  ounces  of  honey  were 
then  poured  over  the  whole.** 

Sometimes  they  contented  themselves  with  macerating  cummin  seed 
in  vinegar,  which  they  left  to  dry,  and  then  pounded  it ;  that  done,  it 
was  put  into  honey.** 

''  The  honey  most  esteemed  is  the  white,  granulated,  and  of  an  aro- 
matic flavour.  The  honey  from  the  French  provinces  of  Narbonne,  the 
Gatinais,  or  Britanny,  is  the  most  esteemed.  Honey  is  next  of  kin  to 
sugar,  having  the  same  properties.  It  is  frequently  used  in  domestic 
economy^  and  in  medicine  as  a  laxative.  It  enters  into  a  number  of 
remedies,  either  as  a  corrective,  or  an  excipient" — "  Dictio.  EncycL** 


SEASONINGS.  275 


SUGAR. 

Theophrastus^  the  first  among  the  ancients  who  speaks  of  sugar, 
classes  it  among  the  number  of  honeys/'  Sioscorides  also  calls  it 
**  honey  of  reeds ;"  he  adds  that  these  reeds  grow  in  India,  or  in  Arabia 
Pelix,  and  that  the  agreeable  substance  they  contain  has  some  analogy 
with  salt.'*  Pliny  also  gives  it  the  same  name.  It  is,  according  to  this 
naturalist,  a  kind  of  honey,  with  which  certain  reeds  are  filled,  and  used 
only  in  medicine." 

This  was  also  the  opinion  of  many  ancient  authors;'®  one  of  whom, 
Paul  £ginetta,  calls  sugar — Indian  salt.'^ 

The  sugar  cane  appears  to  be  originally  a  native  of  the  East  Indies. 
From  the  most  remote  ages  the  Chinese  have  understood  the  art  of 
cultivating  it.  The  histories  of  the  Egyptians,  Phoenicians,  and  Jews, 
make  no  mention  of  it  The  Greek  physicians  are  the  first  who  speak 
of  it. 

It  was  not  till  the  year  1471  that  a  Venetian  discovered  the  method 
of  purifying  brown  sugar  and  making  loaf  sugar.  He  gained  an  immense 
fortune  by  this  discovery." 

Sugar  cane,  well  purified,  and  disburthened  of  all  foreign  matter,  is 
white^  solid,  inodorous,  soluble  in  water^  of  a  soft  and  agreeable  savour. 
Its  specific  gravity  is  1  .(i065 ;  it  is  used  as  a  seasoning  in  a  multitude  of 
dishes,  in  preparing  syrups,  preserving  of  fruits,  &c.,  &c. 


CINNAMON. 

In  the  time  of  Theophrastus,  it  was  said  that  cinnamon  grew  in  a 
dark  and  silent  valley,  guarded  night  and  day  by  fearful  serpents.  Ani- 
mated by  the  hope  of  gain,  some  individuals,  careless  of  their  existence, 
risked  their  lives  by  gathering  some  of  this  precious  bark.  When  they 
had  the  good  luck  to  avoid  the  vigilant  reptiles,  they  consecrated  to  the 
sun  part  of  their  booty,  which  the  radiant  orb  immediately  consumed  to 
prove  his  acceptance  of  tlie  offering." 


276  SEASONINGS. 

Others,  thinking  this  little  tale  on  the  sabject  of  cinnamon  rather  too 
dramatic,  pretended  that  the  shrub  furnishing  it  was  found  only  on  high 
mountains,  to  which  man  was  forbidden  all  access.  But  fortunately 
certain  birds — the  phoenix,  among  others — great  amateurs  of  aromatics, 
make  their  nests  of  its  small  branches ;  these  nests  are  taken,  and  in  this 
manner,  whether  the  year  be  good  or  bad,  a  sufficient  stock  of  cinnamon 
is  obtained  without  much  trouble/*  Pliny  recognises  two  kinds  of  it — 
one  white,  the  other  black,  both  of  which  were  brought  to  Home  from 
Ethiopia,  in  the  reign  of  Vespasian." 

Eighty  years  after  (a.d.  164),  Gralen  informs  us  that  cinnamon  was 
still  very  scarce  in  Italy ;  that  the  Emperors  alone  possessed  any ;  and 
that  they  even  preserved  it  among  the  curiosities  they  made  it  their 
pleasure  to  collect  and  keep  in  their  palaces/' 

The  same  writer  regards  this  so  precious  and  uncommon  cinnamon 
as  an  excellent  cordial  and  a  good  digestive/' 

We  may  add  that  it  was  only  well  known  in  Europe  after  the  fre- 
quent voyages  of  the  Portuguese  to  India/* 

However,  in  1168,  an  abbot  of  St.  Gilles,  in  Languedoc,  having  a 
favour  to  ask  of  Louis-le-Jeuue,  thought  there  was  no  better  means  of 
persuading  him  to  grant  it  than  to  send  him  a  small  stock  of  cinnamon/' 

Our  forefathers  (in  the  middle  ages)  had  their  tables  furnished  with 
cinnamon  sauce;  nutmeg,  mustard,  aud  garlic  sauces;  cold  sauces; 
parsley  and  vinegar  sauces,  hot  sauces,  hell  sauces,  burgher  sauces; 
cherry,  plum,  mulberry,  grape,  gorse,  rose,  and  flower  sauces.  They 
were  served  with  roast  meat. 

Cinnamon  is  daily  employed  in  medicine,  in  diarrhoea,  several  fevers, 
&c.,  &c.,  and  in  pharmacy.  That  from  China  is  much  thicker  than  the 
others,  its  colour  darker,  and  its  odour  more  powerful;  essential  'oil 
is  drawn  from  it,  and  preserved  in  flagons,  sealed  with  the  arms  of 
government,  and  sold  at  a  very  high  price* 


CLOVES. 

Cloves  were  very  little  known   to  the   ancients.      Theophrastus, 
Dioscorides,  and  Galen  do  not  speak  of  them. 

Pliny  says  that  some  cloves  were  brought  to  Bome,  very  similar  to 


SEASONINGS.  277 

grains  of  pepper  but  a  little  looger ;  that  they  were  only  to  be  found 
in  India,  in  a  wood  consecrated  to  the  gods ;  and  that  they  served  in 
the  fabrication  of  perfumes.**^ 

The  conquest  of  India  by  the  Portuguese  rendered  them  common 
throughout  Europe. 

Cloves  contain  a  considerable  quantity  of  essential  aromatic  oil, 
thick,  brown,  and  very  heavy,  to  which  it  owes  its  aromatic  properties 
and  sharp  burning  savour.  Cloves  are  employed  as  a  seasoning  or 
as  medicine. 


PEPPER. 

The  two  great  cities  of  antiquity  knew  how  to  appreciate  pepper, 
and  employed  it  largely  in  their  culinary  labours.  They  distinguished 
two  kinds  :  one  round,  the  other  long  and  thin.*^ 

Dioscorides  and  Pliny  describe  the  shrub,  on  which  are  to  be  seen 
pods  filled  with  seeds  of  pepper,  resembling  millet,  according  to  the 
first  of  these  writers,  and  like  small  beans,  according  to  the  other." 

Our  readers  no  doubt  remember  the  importance  which  Apicius 
ascribes  to  pepper,  in  Xhe  learned  recipes  of  that  skilful  Archimagiru8» 


VERJUICE. 

Verjuice,  the  use  of  which  is  very  ancient,  was  used  more  in  phar- 
maceutical preparations  than  in  the  seasoning  of  food.''  Qalen  attributes 
to  it  refreshing  qualities,  and  advises  it  in  certain  cases.'* 

Verjuice  is  a  kind  of  grape,  very  acid,  and  which  never  gets  perfectly 
ripe.  The  sue  of  verjuice  is  used  in  medicine  and  culinary  preparation 
as  an  astringent.  The  juice  is  not  proper,  to  make  wine^  but  a  very 
agreeable  syrup  is  obtained  from  it. 


278  SEAS0ilDf6& 


VINEGAR. 

The  greater  part  of  ancient  nations  were  acquainted  with  the  use  of 
vinegar.  Reapers  in  the  east  soaked  their  hread  in  it,  to  freshen  it.'^ 
The  Greeks  esteemed  that  of  Cnide,  of  Sphette,  of  Cleone,  and  above 
all  the  vinegar  of  Egypt,"  which  was  reputed  to  be  the  best  among 
the  Romans,  who  tempered  its  acrimony  by  mixing  with  it  some  sweet 
substance." 

These  masters  of  the  world  did  not  fancy  they  possessed  all  the 
comforts  of  life  when  they  wanted  vinegar ;  therefore  they  always  had 
a  large  provision  of  it  in  their  cellars,  as  all  their  seasonings  proved." 

This  passion  (for  it  certainly  amounted  to  a  passion)  is  easily  ex- 
plained by  the  admirable  qualities  they  attributed  to  the  pungent  liquid* 
It  was  believed  to  be  astringent,  digestive,  antibilious,  refreshing,  and 
an  antiscorbutic.*'  Mixed  with  water,  it  was  the  drink  of  the  soldiers," 
who,  thanks  to  this  beverage,  braved  the  intemperance  of  the  seasons 
and  the  different  climates  of  Europe,  Africa,  and  Asia. 

The  Greeks  and  Romans  esteemed  highly  their  pickles :  these  con- 
sisted of  flowers,  herbs,  roots,  and  vegetables,  preserved  in  vinegar,  and 
which  kept  a  long  time  in  cylindrical  vases  with  wide  mouths.'*  They  were 
prepared  with  the  greatest  care  ;  and  these  plants  were  often  macerated 
in  oil,  brine,  and  vinegar,  with  which  they  were  impregnated  drop  by 
drop."  Meat,  also,  cut  in  very  small  pieces,  was  treated  in  the  same 
manner. 

Vinegar  of  an  exorbitant  price  was  obtained  from  some  precious 
wines,  and  that  price  was  again  increased  by  the  proverbiaJ  cupidity  of 
some  butlers  in  great  houses.  We  doubt  much,  however,  whether  any 
of  those  worthy  personages  ever  made  such  a  bill  as  a  certain  French 
seigneur  dared  to  do  under  the  reign  of  Louis  XIII.  It  is  said  that 
the  Due  de  la  Meilleraye,  grand  master  of  the  artillery  of  France, 
presented  to  the  minister  a  bill  in  which  figured  an  article  of  1,300,000 
francs  (£52,000),  for  vinegar  to  cool  the  cannons!  The  sum  appeared 
rather  large,  but  La  Meilleraye  was  a  near  relation  of  Richelieu,  and  the 
article  passed  without  the  least  contestation. 


9S 


SEASONINGS.  271) 


TRUFFLE, 

A  truffled  turkey  was  to  be  eaten  at  a  dinner  where  Buflbn  was 
invited.  A  few  minutes  before  setting  down  to  table,  on  elderly  lady 
inquired  of  the  celebrated  naturalist  where  the  truffle  grew.  '*  At  your 
feet,  madame/'  The  lady  did  not  understand  ;  bat  it  was  thus  explained 
to  her :  **  G'est  au  pied  des  charmes"  (yoke  elm  tree).  The  compliment  ' 
appeared  to  her  most  flattering.  Towards  the  end  of  the  dinner,  some 
one  asked  the  same  question  of  the  illustrious  writer,  who,  forgetting 
that  the  lady  was  beside  him,  innocently  replied:  ''They  grow  auw 
fieds  des  vieux  charmes  '*  (old  yoke  elm  trees).  The  lady  overheard 
him,  and  no  longer  thought  anything  of  his  amiability. 

Nevertheless  Bufibn  was  right.  It  was  around  the  yoke  elm  trees  of 
Lampsachus,  Acarnidea,  Alopecomesia,  and  Elis,  that  those  famous 
truffles  were  discovered,  whose  reputation  was  spread  in  all  parts  and 
which  Italy  envied  Greece.** 

The  truffle!  beloved  treasure  that  the  earth  conceals  within  her 
bosom — as  she  does  the  precious  metals,  which  she  seems  to  have 
yielded  grudgingly  to  the  patient  researches  of  the  gastronomist;  the 
magirio  records  do  not  tell  us  at  what  memorable  epoch  this  exquisite 
tubercle  astonished,  for  the  first  time,  the  palate  of  man;  but  a 
doubtful  tradition  maintains  that  a  vile  animal  (a  pig),  guided  by  his 
marvellous  gluttony,  found  out  the  existence  of  this  pearl  of  banquets. 

Pliny  was  very  much  inclined  to  range  the  truffles  amidst  astonishing 
prodigies.  He  fancied  that  he  saw  it  at  its  birth  increase  without  roots, 
without  the  slightest  fibre,  without  the  least  capillary  vessel  likely  to 
transmit  to  it  nutritious  juices;**  therefore  he  believed  that,  sown  by 
thunder-bolts  in  the  autumnal  storms,**  this  daughter  of  thunder  grew 
like  minerals  by  juxta-'position,  and  relates  on  this  subject  the  history 
of  Lartius  Licinius,  governor  of  Spain,  who,  while  biting  a  truffle  with 
avidity,  broke  one  of  his  teeth  against  a  Boman  denarius  which  chance 
alone  had  inclosed  within  it.*' 

The  Greeks  thought  a  great  deal  of  a  delicious  species  of  truffles, 
smooth  outside,  red  within,  which  were  found  just  under  the  surface  of 
the  ground,  and  did  not  show  the  slightest  appearance  of  vegetation.' 


0t 


n 


280  SEASONINGS. 

Another  kind  was  also  much  sought  after  by  amateurs,  probably  on 
account  of  their  scarcity.  They  were  originally  from  Africa,  and  called 
cyrenaic,  white  outside,  of  an  excellent  perfume,  and  exquisite  flavour." 

The  Athenians,  enlightened  appreciators  of  all  sorts  of  merits, 
accepted  with  gratitude  a  ragoiit  with  truffles,  invented  by  Cherips. 
That  culinary  genius  did  not  long  enjoy  his  glory ;  a  premature  death 
carried  him  off  from  his  stoves,  his  honours,  and  his  fortune ;  but  the 
Greeks  did  not  bury  their  gratitude  in  his  tomb;  his  sons  became 
citizens  of  Athens,  and  the  name  of  their  father,  more  fortunate  than 
that  of  Christopher  Columbus,  clung  for  ever  to  his  brilliant  discovery."* 

The  doctors  of  other  days  did  not  exactly  agree  upon  the  quality  either 
good  or  bad  of  truffles.  Philoxenes,  whose  opinion  met  with  many 
partisans,  would  have  it  that  a  great  quantity  should  be  eaten  cooked 
under  the  ashes,  and  deliciously  impregnated  with  a  succulent  sauce.**' 
It  was,  however,  recommended  to  choose  them  with  the  most  particular 
attention,  because  some  had  the  reputation  of  being  as  poisonous  as 
mushrooms."" 

The  Romans  were  as  fond  of  truffles  as  the  Grreeks,  and  that  is  not 
saying  little."'  Apicius  gives  a  method  of  preparing  them  which  is  as 
follows : — 

Afi;er  they  are  boiled  in  water,  put  a  little  stick  through  them,  and 
then  place  them  for  an  instant  before  the  fire ;  season  them  afterwards 
with  oil,  a  little  meat  gravy,  some  skirrets,  wine,  pepper,  and  honey,  in 
proper  proportions.  When  the  sauce  is  boiling,  make  a  thickening,  and 
serve."* 

The  illustrious  epicurean  prepared  them  also  with  pepper,  ben- 
zoin, coriander  and  rue,  to  which  he  added  a  little  honey,  oil,  and 

105 

gravy. 

The  estimable  Platina  insists  that,  in  the  first  place,  truffles  should 
be  washed  in  wine,  and  afterwards  cooked  under  the  ashes ;  and  that 
they  be  served  hot,  and  sprinkled  over  with  salt  and  pepper."' 

This  is  the  composition  of  a  syrup  of  truffles,  taken  from  the  old 
Arabian  medicine.  We  believe  it  to  be  very  little  known,  and  should 
not  be  surprised  if  it  were,  some  day,  to  obtain  the  renown  it  seems  to 
deserve.  It  was  composed  of  truffles,  balm,  and  holy  thistle,  boiled  in 
water  with  sugar ;  and  to  each  pound  of  the  decoction  was  added  one 
scruple  of  water  distilled  from  honey,  and  half  an  ounce  of  some  spirit — 
say,  for  example,  spirits  of  wine-— to  each  pound  of  liquor.    The  whole 


SEASONINGS.  281 

was  aromatised  with  musk  and  a  little  rose-water.  Two  ounces  of  this 
syrup  were  administered  hot/"  in  cases  of  weakness.  • 

Salmasius,  who  knew  much  of  the  Greek  tongue,  and  very  litde  of 
cookery,  avers  that  the  ancients  knew  two  different  kinds  of  truffles. 
One  species  was  similar  to  ours,  and  the  other  a  variety  from  Africa, 
already  mentioned,  white  outside  and  the  size  of  a  quince."*  Leo  the 
Afirican,  says  that  the  Arabs  cook  these  truffles  in  milk,  and  that  they 
think  them  exquisite.  Thereupon  Salmasius  exclaims  against  the  insi- 
pidity of  this  dish,  or  the  ignorance  of  Leo  the  African ;  and  immediately 
points  out,  with  an  air  of  tiiumph,  the  celebrated  Avicenna,  who  informs 
us  that,  after  the  truffles  were  peeled  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  they  were 
cooked  in  water  and  salt,  and  then  dished  up  with  oil,  benzoin,  and 
spices.  Salmasius  will  have  it  that  Avicenna's  truffles  had  no  other 
flavour  than  that  given  by  the  sauce,  and  he  has  no  forgiveness  for  those 
poor  Arabs  who  dared  to  dress  them  otherwise. 

If  this  clever  Hellenist  had  studied  this  savoury  tubercle  with  as 
much  care  as  he  bestowed  on  the  writers  of  the  history  of  Augustus,  he 
would  have  learned  that  the  peculiar  perfume  which  distinguishes  it 
retains,  in  the  midst  of  seasoning  the  most  laboriously  prepared,  the  same 
power  it  possesses  when  eaten  by  itself,  and  without  any  dressing. 

Apicius  had  less  of  literature  than  Salmasius,  but  he  was  most 
assuredly  gifted  in  a  very  superior  degree  with  that  mens  divinior  which 
makes  great  cooks  and  illustrious  poets.  This  assimilation  has  nothing 
surprising  in  it,  if  we  only  remember  that  genius  is  nothing  else  than 
the  faculty  of  producing ;  and  who  ever  bequeathed  to  posterity  produc- 
tions more  exquisite  than  those  of  Archestrates  and  Apicius  ? 

Let  us  heav  from  this  latter  how  to  preserve  truffles.  You  must  be 
carefril  not  to  put  them  in  contact  with  water ;  that  is  to  say,  that  they 
ought  to  be  kept  very  dry.  They  are  placed  separately  in  vessels,  and 
covered  with  iron  filings,  or  saw-dust.  Close  each  vessel  hermetically 
with  plaster,  and  keep  them  in  a  dark  and  cool  place."' 

The  truffle  is  a  very  remarkable  vegetable,  which,  without  stems,  roots, 
or  fibres,  grows  of  itself,  isolated  in  the  bosom  of  the  earth,  absorbing 
the  nutritive  juice.  Its  form  is  round,  more  or  less  regular ;  its  surface 
is  smooth  or  tuberculous ;  the  colour  dark-brown  outside,  brown,  grey, 
or  white  within.  Its  tissue  is  formed  of  articulated  filaments,  between 
which  are  spheric  vesicles,  and  in  the  interior  are  placed  reproductive 
bodies,  small  brown  spheres,  called  truffinelks.     Truffles  vegetate  to 

s 


282  SEASONINGS. 

the  depth  of  five  or  six  inches  in  the  high  sandy  soils  of  the  south-west 
of  France,  of  Piedmont,  &o.,  &o.  Their  mode  of  vegetation  and  repro- 
duction is  not  known.  Dogs  are  trained  to  find  them,  aa  well  as  pigs, 
and  hoars  also,  who  are  very  fond  of  them.  They  are  eaten  cooked  under 
the  ashes,  or  in  wine  and  water.  They  are  preserved,  when  prepared  in 
oil,  which  is  soon  impregnated*  with  their  odour. 

Poultry  is  stufied  with  them,  also  geese's  livers,  pies,  and  cooked 
pork,  hesides  numerous  ragouts.  They  possess,  it  is  said,  exciting 
virtues. 


MUSHROOMS. 

Agrippina,  desirous  of  securing  the  crown  to  her  worthy  son,  Nero, 
went  to  a  celebrated  female  poisoner,  and  procured  a  venomous  prepa- 
ration which  defied  the  most  powerful  antidotes.*"  The  Princess  slipped 
this  terrible  poison  in  a  very  fine  morel  (a  species  of  mushroom),  which 
Claudius  eat  at  his  supper.  The  unfortunate  Emperor  died  according 
to  the  desire  of  his  amiable  consort,  who  was,  of  course,  inconsolable 
for  a  long  time,  and  placed  among  the  gods  the  husband  she  had  mur- 
dered.*" Nero  ascended  the  throne,  and  every  time  that  mushrooms 
were  served  at  his  table,  true  to  the  memory  of  his  father-in-law,  'he 
facetiously  called  this  preparation  the  "  dish  of  the  gods.""* 

To  the  poisonous  effects  of  this  vegetable  have  been  attributed,  also, 
the  death  of  the  Emperor  Tiberius,  that  of  Pope  Clement  VII.,  King 
Charles  VI.  of  France,  and  many  other  important  personages,  who  either 
knew  very  little  of  good  cooks,  or  of  niorels.  Notwithstanding  these 
tragical  events,  mushrooms  always  retained  a  proud  position,  among  the 
ancients,  above  the  most  inoffensive  culinary  plants ;  and  their  rather 
doubtful  reputation  has  not  prevented  them  from  maintaining  their 
ground  down  to  our  time,  for  we  find  that  they  now  claim  the  same  rank 
which  they  formerly  occupied  in  the  gastronomic  reunions  of  Athens 
and  Rome :  a  sad  image  of  those  fortunate  criminals,  whom  society 
dreads,  and  yet  often  loads  with  its  favours. 

This  "voluptuous  poison,"  as  Seneca,  the  philosopher,"*  calls  it, 
which  compels  us  to  eat  of  it  again,  even  when  not  hungry,"*  was  much 
relished  by  the  wealthy  inhabitants  of  Some  and  Italy.  These  free-livers, 


SEASONINGS.  283 

careless  of  the  morrow,  preferred  the  field  mushroom/"  which  they  de- 
voured with  delight,  having  previously  covered  it  over  with  a  pungent 
sauce^  which  they  afterwards  neutralized  with  various  iced  beverages.''* 
It  is  true  th^t  this  dish,  worthy  of  the  gods,  often  inflicted  a  severe  pe- 
nalty on  those  who  yielded  to  its  irresistible  seduction  ;  but  what  mortal 
could  think  of  the  anguish  of  an  uncertain  poisoning,  when  he  had  the 
good  luck  to  meet  with  some  boleti,  or  mushrooms,  of  the  rarest  descrip- 
tion, which  the  price  of  a  beautiful  toga  would  hardly  have  purchased,"' 
and  which  promised  some  mouthfuls  of  ineffable,  although  ephemeral 
enjoyment?  Besides,  does  not  pleasure  possess  more  piquant  charms 
when  danger  is  attached  to  it  ?  The  greater  part  of  mushrooms  are  very 
dangerous,  say  the  ancients  ;"*  but  blind  destiny,  perhaps,  reserves  for 
ps  certain  kinds  which  are  not  so.  Be-assured  by  this  judicious  reflection, 
they  gave  orders  to  their  cooks  to  stew  some,"'  and  season  them  with  vi- 
negar, oxymel,  and  honey."* 

However,  reasonable  people— and  there  were  still  some  to  be  found 
«— abstained  entirely  from  this  vegetable,  or  procured  it  by  the  method 
which  Nicander  recommends ;  that  is  to  say,  they  frequently  watered  the 
trunk  of  a  fig  tree  after  manure  had  been  placed  around  it.  That  phi- 
losopher assures  us  that  by  these  means  we  may  grow  mushrooms  per- 
fectly wholesome."" 

Those  of  our  readers  who  are  in  possession  of  fig  trees  will  be  able 
to  give  their  opinion  on  the  merit  of  Nicander's  method. 

To  obtain  the  seeds  of  most  mushrooms;  it  only  requires  to  ex- 
pose them,  when  fresh,  upon  glass ;  the  superficies  of  the  glass  is  soon 
covered  with  it.  It  is  also  obtained  by  shaking  in  the  water  the  mush- 
rooms which  are  sufficiently  developed.  This  water,  thus  impregnated, 
is  used  to  water  the  beds,  which  become  thereby  more  productive. 

The  natural  supply  of  mushrooms  firom  the  fields  not  being  thought 
sufficient,  the  art  of  raising  them  on  beds  during  the  whole  year  was 
therefore  inclispensable«  and  required  a  mixture  of  crottin  de  c/ieval, 
rotten  dung,  and  mould,  which  is  deposited  in  layers  of  one  foot  and  a- 
half  in  thickness  and  width  Seeds  of  mushrooms  are  sown  on  these 
l^eds — that  is  to  say,  some  of  the  mould  of  a  former  bog  impregnated 
with  it.  It  is  then  covered  over  with  all  the  dung  not  consumed,  and 
then  copiously  watered. 

"  At  the  end  of  a  very  few  days,  the  beds  begin  to  produce  mush- 
rooms, and  keep  on  producing  until  the  winter." — Bosc. 

s  2 


XXIV. 


PASTRY. 


The  art  of  the  pastry-cook  consists  in  preparing  certain  delicate  and 
nice  pastes  in  all  sorts  of  shapes,  in  seasoning  them  ^ith  discretion,  and 
in  suflScient  quantity,  with  meat,  butter,  sugar,  preserves,  &c.*  It  is  a 
most  important  branch  of  the  culinary  science ;  unceasingly  occupied 
with  flattering  the  sight  as  much  as  the  taste,  it  raises  graceful  monu- 
ments, delicious  fortresses,  seductive  ramparts,  which  as  soon  as  they  are 
on  all  sides  attacked,  totter,  crumble,  and  no  longer  present  anything 
but  glorious  and  ephemeral  ruins,  like  every  other  work  of  man — all 
pass  away  whether  they  be  temples,  columns,  pyramids,  or  pies. 

This  charming  art  was  known  to  ancient  nations  as  soon  as  their  in- 
tellectual development  had  enabled  them  to  understand  a  certain  gastro- 
nomic truth,  long  since  become  a  trivial  axiom,  and  of  which  we  dare 
scarcely  remind  the  reader :  **  On  ne  mange  pour  vivre  que  lorsquon 
ne  salt  pas  vivre  pour  manger. ^^  (People  only  eat  to  live  when  they  do 
not  understand  how  to  hve  to  eat.) 

The  oriental  nations  were  acquainted  with  the  art  of  making  pastry 
at  a  very  early  period.  The  Egyptians  served  many  different  sorts  of 
cakes  at  their  tables;'  the  Jews  knew  of  at  least  three  kincis — one  sort 
kneaded  with  oil,  another  fried  in  oil,  and  the  last  was  merely  rubbed 
over  with  oil.* 

The  enlightened  gluttony  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans  inspired  them 
with  a  host  of  combinations  more  or  less  ingenious,  and  destined  to  re- 
vive a  failing  appetite,  or  one  already  greatly  compromised  by  vigorous 
onslaughts. 

Some  of  these  pastries  would  appear  very  nice  to  us  in  the  present 


PASTRY.  285 

day;  others  we  should  think  but. little  worfliy  of  the  epicures  of  Eome 
and  Athens.  However,  let  us  not  be  in  too  great  a  hurry  to  condemn 
these  great  masters.  Doubtless  they  had  excellent  reasons  to  like  that 
which  modern  taste  may  despise  and  dislike.  In  return,  they  might 
have  thought  some  of  our  most  fashionable  dishes  detestable ;  perhaps 
Apicius  might  have  made  a  strange  grimace  at  the  sight  of  a  dish  of 
sour-crout,  an  olla-podrida,  or  an  immense  plum-pudding. 

Oublies,  a  light  dainty  for  those  who  have  weak  stomachs,  were 
thin  sheets  of  paste  composed  of  flour  and  honey,  which  rolled  into  a 
spiral  form  as  soon  as  they  approached  the  oven.  They  were  eaten 
soaked  in  cooked  wine.*  Persons  of  taste  preferred  oublies  to  fritters — 
a  bold  mixture  of  flour  kneaded  with  wine,  seasoned  with  pepper,  and 
then  worked  up  with  milk,  and,  finally,  with  a  little  fat  or  oil.* 

Some  cooks  employed  the  finest  flour  only,  mixed  with  oil,  and 
served  this  paste  after  having  cooked  it  in  a  dish."  Others  worked 
sesame  flour  a  long  time  with  honey  and  oil,  and  fried  it.'  These 
various  kinds  of  fritters  were,  doubtless,  much  sought  after  by  the 
populace,  for  Cicero  speaks  of  them  with  profound  disdain.' 

The  Jews,  less  dainty  than  the  eloquent  orator,  oflered  some  of  this 
pastie  in  sacrifice  The  recipe  for  Ob  composition  is  given  in  Leviticus ; 
it  was  made  of  the  finest  flour,  moistened  with  oil,  and  cooked  in 
the  frying-pan.' 

Women  and  children — those  two  fragile  roots  of  society — were  always 
fond  of  sweet  and  delicate  cakes.  The  pastry-cooks  of  Attica  prepared 
for  them  some  very  excellent  kinds ;  sometimes  it  was  merely  a  sweet 
mixture  of  honey  and  milk ;"  others  were  made  of  honey,  sesame  flour, 
and  cheese  or  oil."  Delicious  fruit  was  frequently  covered  with  a  light 
and  perfumed  paste."  These  Athenian  dumpUngs  met  with  a  great 
iBuccess. 

Bomcmade  the  conquest  of  these  precious  recipes,"  and  vanquished 
Greece,  conquered  by  her,  had  still  the  glory  of  dictating  laws  to  her 
haughty  enemy :  she  imposed  her  cookery. 

Gingerbread  was  not  unknown  to  the  ancients.  Bhodes  owed  its 
reputation  to  it.  It  was  sweetened  with  honey,  and  that  island  furnished 
it  to  the  whole  of  Europe.  The  Greeks  called  this  delicacy  Melilates, 
and  eat  it  with  pleasure  at  the  close  of  their  repasts." 

Let  us  not  forget,  in  this  rapid  survey  of  ancient  sweets,  that  learned 
and  exquisite  mixture  now  designated  under  the  name  of  Nougat^  which. 


286  PASTRY. 

among  the  Greeks  was  composed  of  dried  currants  and  almonds,  and 
which  has  lost  none  of  its  attractions,  nothing  of  its  oelebiity,  after  so 
many  centuries." 

The  Mustaceum  did  not  deserve  to  occupy  so^high  a  standing ;  and 
yet  this  rustic  cake,  composed  of  sweet  wine  and  flour,  a  symbol  of 
abundance  and  happiness,  never  failed  to  be  presented  to  the  guests  at  a 
wedding  repast,  and  the  newly-married  pair  sent  a  piece  of  it  to  each  of 
their  absent  parents  or  friends,  who,  in  return,  addressed  them  congra- 
tulations, and  wishes  for  their  happiness.^'  The  mustaceum  was  the 
wedding-cake  of  the  Bomans. 

Modem  civilization  has  also  rejected  with  equal  disdain  the  Saviilutn 
pie,  always  eaten  with  pleasure  by  the  voluptuous  inhabitants  of  Rome 
when  they  went  to  their  villas  in  order  to  rest  from  their  prodigious 
excesses,  and  from  the  fatigues  of  intemperance.  This  nourishing  and 
agreeable  dish  required  but  little  art  in  its  composition.  Half-a-pound 
of  flour  and  two  pounds  and  a-half  of  cheese  were  well  mixed  together; 
three  ounces  of  honey  and  one  egg  were  then  added.  When  the  whole 
had  been  well  beaten,  it  was  placed  in  an  earthen  vessel  rubbed  over 
with  oil,  and  which  was  covered  with  a  tart  dish  cover.  It  was  carefully 
watched  to  see  that  the  process  of  cooking  was  going  on  ;  afterwards  it 
was  taken  from  the  dish,  the  pie  was  smeared  with  honey,  and,  for  an 
instant,  replaced  under  the  tart-dish  cover,  after  having  dredged  the  top 
with  pounded  poppy  seed.  It  was  always  served  in  the  dish  in  which  it 
had  been  cooked,  and  was  eaten  with  spoons.*' 

We  .have  already  mentioned  the  Artocreas,  a  kind  of  hashed  meat 
mixed  with  bread,  which  Borne  borrowed  from  Greece,  together  with  its 
original  name.  This  pie,  welcomed  by  modern  gastrophagy,  has  reached 
our  days  with  merely  some  slight  modifications,  and  deprived  of  its 
sonorous  Hellenic  appellation."  Formerly  the  Eoman  Emperors,  for 
the  greater  part,  ruled  badly ;  but,  in  return,  they  eat  well.  In  that 
gastronomic  era — gone,  never  to  return — Csesar's  supper  engaged  the 
attention  of  the  court,  the  city,  nay,  the  whole  empire.  The  conquered 
universe  furnished  the  details  for  a  banquet,  and  a  royal  hand  sometimes 
deigned  to  write  the  ordinance.  Now  and  then,  even  the  monarch, 
wrapped  in  profound  culinary  meditations,  long  reflected,  dictated  to  hifl 
Archimagirus  a  new  dish,  on  which  complaisant  senators  the  ne^t  day 
bestowed  enthusiastic  praises  and  a  sincere  admiration.  Thus  the 
Emperor  Verus,  inventor  of  a  pie,  barely  escaped  an  apotheosis  of  which 


PASTRY.  287 

his  genius  was  deemed  worthy*  It  is  trae  that,  without  any  exaggerated 
flattery,  this  pie  wm  ^zoellenty  and  that  never  was  there  imagined  a 
more  happy  mixture,  a  more  ingenious  combination,  of  meats,  or  a  more 
refined  flavour.  If  any  one  be  curious  enough  to  wish  to  test  this  im- 
perial dish,  let  him  prepare  a  succulent  amalgamation  of  sow's  flank 
(sumen),  pheasant,  peacock,  iced  ham,  and  wild  boar's  flesh ;  let  him 
inclose  this  mixture  within  the  thick  casing  of  a  laboriously  worked 
crust,  and  he  may  attack  this  kingly  dish  when  a  gentle  and  slow 
cooking  causes  it  to  emit  burning  yet  sweet  emanations.^' 

Here  is  a  more  modest  recipe  for  a  cake ;  but  then  it  does  not  claim 
the  paternity  of  an  emperor.  However,  Gato  brought  it  much  into 
&shion,  for  the  wise  Gato  often  busied  himself  in  the  science  of  cookery, 
for  which  reason  he  is  greatly  worthy  of  esteem.  Well,  we  recommedd 
to  the  reader  the  Libum  of  that  philosopher,  who  indicates  the  manner  of 
preparing  it : — 

"  Crush,"  he  says,  "  two  pounds  of  cheese ;  mix  with  it  a  pound  of 
rye  flour,  or,  in  order  to  render  it  lighter,  throw  in  merely  half  a  pound 
of  wheat  flour  and  an  egg.  Stir,  mix,  and  work  this  paste ;  form  of  it  a 
cake  which  you  will  place  on  leaves,  and  cook  in  a  tart  dish  on  the  hot 
hearth."  This  libum  was  much  esteemed  about  twenty  centuries  ago ;  in 
honour  of  Gato  may  it  again  be  brought  to  light,  if  not  completely  un- 
worthy of  our  attention.^**  Gould  we  not  also  rehabilitate  the  reputation 
of  the  most  celebrated  of  ancient  pies,  the  Placenta,  which  so  delighted 
mankind,  and  by  which  the  gods  even  allowed  their  fiiry  to  be  appeased  ?** 
Benowned  writers  have  granted  it  the  authority  of  their  praise ;"  and  the 
illustrious  geoponist,  already  cited,  describes  with  lengthened  complaisance 
the  manner  of  preparing  this  important  dish : — 

"  Place,  on  one  side,  two  pounds  of  rye  flour,  which  will  serve  to  form 
the  foundation,  on  which  must  be  placed  biscuits,  formed  of  crisp  paste ; 
on  the  other,  put  four  pounds  of  wheat,  and  two  pounds  of  alica  (grains 
of  fine  wheat,  stripped  of  their  husks  and  crushed ;  to  which  was  added, 
in  order  to  whiten  them,  a  peculiar  kind  of  chalk  found  between  Naples 
and  Pouzzoli'^).  This  latter  must  be  left  to  infuse  in  water,  and,  when 
well  soaked,  it  must  be  thrown  into  a  kneading  trough,  and  well  worked 
with  the  hand.  You  then  mix  with  it  the  four  pounds  of  wheat  flour,  in 
order  to  make  the  whole  into  biscuits,  or  dry  marchpans.  This  paste 
must  be  worked  in  a  basket,  and,  as  it  dries,  each  separate  marchpan 
must  be  shaped.     When  they  have  acquired  a  convenient  jTorm,  rub 


288  PASTRY. 

tbem  on  all  sides  with  a  piece  of  staff  soaked  in  oil,  and  the  same  must 
be  done  to  the  foundation  of  the  placenta  before  placing  the  marchpans 
on  it  During  -these  preparations,  make  the  hearth  very  hot,  as  well  as 
the  cover  of  the  tart  dish  intended  to  cook  it.  Then  spread  the  two 
pounds  of  rye  flour  you  have  in  reserve  over  fourteen  pounds  of  cheese 
of  sheep's  milk.  Make  of  this  a  light  paste  for  the  foundation  already 
mentioned.  This  cheese  ought  to  be  very  fresh,  and  previously  soaked 
in  three  waters.  It  is  allowed  to  drain  slowly  between  the  hands,  and 
when  it.  has  been  left  to  dry,  it  is  kneaded.  Take  a  flour  sieve,  and  pass 
the  cheese  through  it  before  mixing  it  with  the  rye.  Then  add  four 
pounds  and  a  half  of  good  honey ;  mix  well ;  place  the  foundation,  furnished 
with  its  band,  on  a  board  a  foot  square,  covered  with  bay  leaves  rubbed 
with  oil,  and  form  the  placenta.  Begin  by  covering  the  whole  of  the 
base  with  a  layer  of  marchpans,  which  you  place  one  after  the  other,  and 
cover  slightly  with  cheese  mixed  with  honey.  Finally,  you  arrange  the 
marchpans  on  the  foundation,  and  prepare  the  hearth  to  a  moderate 
degree  of  heat;  place  the  placenta  on  it;  cover  it  with  the  tart  dish 
cover  already  heated,  and  spread  live  charcoal  underneath  and  all 
around.  The  cooking  must  be  done  very  slowly,  and  as  soon  as  the  pie 
is  taken  from  the  hearth,  it  must  be  rubbed  with  honey."  "* 

The  great  desire  we  had  to  inform  the  reader  of  some  of  the  methods 
of  making  ancient  pastry  will,  perhaps,  induce  him  to  receive  with  in- 
dulgence the  rather  diffuse  recipe  of  the  worthy  Cato.  The  following  is 
much  more  concise ;  it  relates  to  the  relishing  Ghbi,  little  globes,  or 
balls,  eaten  at  dessert : 

Mix  cheese  and  alica,  and  of  this  mixture  make  the  globi,  which 
cook  one  after  the  other,  or  two  at  a  time,  in  boiUng  oil.  Stir 
them  constantly  with  a  spoon ;  take  them  out ;  rub  them  over  with 
honey,  and  serve,  having  previously  dredged  over  them  a  litde  poppy- 
seed." 

Everyone  will  confess  that  all  these  cakes  are  inferior  to  the  simple 
and  elegant  pastry  with  which  the  inhabitants  of  Picenum  (marshes  of 
Ancona)  regaled  themselves.  They  placed  some  alica  to  soak  in  water, 
and  left  it  there  for  the  space  of  nine  days ;  the  tenth  day  they  kneaded 
It,  and  formed  it  into  round,  flat  cakes,  which  they  cooked  in  the  oven  in 
earthen  baking- dishes  easily  broken*  When  these  kind  of  biscuits  were 
to  be  eaten,  they  were  first  softened  in  milk  and  honey.'* 

Apicius  also  made  globi  of  great  delicacy  witli  the  crumb  of  fine 


PASTRY.  289 

bread,  shaped  into  balls,  which  were  left  to  soak  in  milk^  and  which, 
On  their  being  withdrawn  from  the  boiling  oil,  he  hghtly  covered  with 
honey." 

We  conclude  with  three  recipes  by  this  amateur  cook,  in  the  hope 
that  they  may  appear  worthy  of  his  genius : — 

**  Mix  pine  nuts,  pepper,  honey,  rue,  and  cooked  wine ;  cover  with 
eggs  well  beaten ;  submit  this  mixture  to  a  slow  fire,  and  serve,  after 
having  smeared  it  with  honey."  " 

''  Cook  the  finest  fiour  in  some  milk,  of  which  make  a  tolerablv  stiff 
paste ;  spread  it  on  a  dish  ;  cut  it  in  pieces,  which,  when  you  have  fried 
in  very  fine  oil,  cover  with  pepper  and  honey."  *' 

•*  Make  a  compact  mixture  of  milk,  honey,  and  eggs ;  let  it  cook  very 
slowly,  and  serve,  after  having  sprinkled  over  it  a  little  pepper." '• 

These  details  will,  we  hope,  give  a  sufficient  idea  of  ancient  pastry* 
We  must  remember  that  these  recipes  form,  as  it  were,  the  starting 
point.  The  oil  fritter  of  the  Hebrews  and  the  meringues  of  our  period 
are  wide  apart :  more  than  thirty-three  centuries  separate  the  two  ;  two 
thousand  years  have  elapsed  since  Cato  wrote  the  recipe  for  his  some- 
what heavy  tart.  The  author  of  the  "  Culinary  Art,"  Apicius  himself,  is 
very  old.  The  private  life  of  the  ancient  people  appears  to  be  worthy 
of  serious  study  ;  but  we  too  often  only  bestow  on  it  our  disdain.  The 
author  of  this  work  has  observed  their  customs  in  the  kitchen  and  in 
the  dining-room — the  only  places  to  which  he  had  access — and  he  has 
taken  the  liberty  of  writing  the  result  of  his  investigations.  Sometimes 
he  admires,  but  never  does  he  despise,  a  civilisation  different  to  our  own, 
but  which  was  not  without  its  good  side.  He  conjures  the  reader  to 
believe  him  when  he  says,  that  whatever  eccentricities  the  gastronomy 
of  ancient  nations  may  present  to  us,  those  people  (he  has,  perhaps, 
acquired  the  right  to  venture  such  an  assertion)  doubtless  eat  in 
a  very  different  manner  from  ourselves ;  but  they  certainly  knew  how 
to  eat. 

The  pastry  just  mentioned  is  certainly  not  altogether  irreproachable — 
that  is  clear ;  but  many  kinds  reveal  that  exquisite  sentiment  of  the 
good  which  is  nothing  else  than  taste — whether  it  relate  to  art,  literature 
or  cooking— and  the  entire  development  of  which  seems  to  have  been 
the  appurtenance  of  a  small  number  of  privileged  centuries.  Great 
epochs — such  as  those  of  Pericles,  Augustus,  Leo  XII.,  Louis  XIV.,  and 
Queen  Anne — have  seen  roses  and  myrtles  flourish  by  the  side  of  the 


290  PASTRY. 

laurels  with  which  the  muses  are  crowned.  Charles  XII.  was  fond  of 
tartlets ;  Frederic  II.  gave  himself  fits  of  indigestion  by  eating  Savoy 
cakes;  and  the  Mar^chal  de  Saxe  rested -from  the  fatigues  of  glory 
before  a  plate  of  macaroons. 

We  have  renounced  the  kind  of  pastry  with  which  our  ancestors 
used  to  regale  themselvee  in  the  14tfa  eentnry.  Their  slag  piei^*  ace 
no  longer  in  vogue ;  neither  have  we  any  taste  for  their  great  pies  which 
contained  a  lamb  or  a  stuffed  kid,  surrounded  with  goslings  by  dozens 
and  scores." 

Their  tarts  have  fallen  into  the  same  oblivion.  Who  thinks  now  of 
their  Janus,  or  double-&ced,  tarts,  herb  tarts,  rose-leaf  tarts,  oat  tarts,  or 
chesnut  tarts?** 

The  first  statutes  given  to  the  pastry  cooks  by  St.  Louis  (May,  1270), 
sanctioned  their  custom  of  working  on  all  festival  days  without  excep- 
tion. Now,  the  motive  for  such  a  toleration  was  probably  this:  the 
pagans  had  their  festivals,  which  they  passed  in  banqueting;  the 
Romans  called  them  dies  epulata.**  The  early  Christians,  although 
they  gave  up  the  worship  of  false>  gods,  preserved  certain  customs  in 
which  they  had  been  brought  up,  among  which  was  that  of  public  and 
private  banquets  on  festival  days.*^  We  still  see  some  remains  of  these 
customs  in  the  village  rejoicings  on  the  Continent,  on  the  day  of  their 
patron  saint.  The  Fathers  of  the  Church  and  the  Councils  raised  their 
voices  against  this  abuse ;  *'  but  they  were  obliged  to  tolerate  it,  and  the 
pastry-cooks,  who  were  very  busy  on  those  occasions,  profited  by  the 
indulgence.  It  is  as  well  to  remark  that  they  were,  at  one  and  the  same 
time,  publicans,  roasters  (that  is  they  would  roast  anything  for  anybody), 
and  cooks. 

Under  the  ministry  of  the  Chancelier  de  I'Hopital,  little  pies,  or 
patties,  were  hawked  through  all  the  streets  of  Paris,  and  there  was  an 
enormous  consumption  of  them.  The  severe  minister  considered  them 
a  luxury,  which  it  was  incumbent  upon  him  to  suppress ;  so  he  pro- 
hibited, not  their  sale,  but  the  crying  of  them,  as  a  temptation  to 
gluttony. 

There  is  a  kind  of  cake  much  in  vogue  in  England,  on  Good  Friday, 
designated  hot-cross-bun,  because  it  is  always  marked  with  a  cross. 
The  reader  will,  perhaps,  take  some  interest  in  the  observations  of 
Bryant  on  the  subject  of  this  pastry  : — 

'*  The  offerings,"  says  he,  "  which  people  in  ancient  times  used  to 


PASTRY.  291 

• 

present  to  the  gocb  mm  generally  prariias^  at  the  entrance  of  the 
temple ;  especially  every  species  of  consecrated  braad.  which  was  de- 
nominated accordingly.  One  species  of  sacred  bread  ^hich  used  to  be 
offered  to  the  gods  was  of  great  antiquity,  and  called  Boun"  It  was  a 
kind  of  cake,  with  a  representation  of  two  horns.  Julius  Pollux  men- 
tions it  after  the  same  manner — a  sort  of  cake  with  horns.  Diogenes 
Laertius,  speaking  of  the  same  offering  being  made  by  Empedocles, 
describes  the  chief  ingredients  of  which  it  was  composed : — *'  He  offered 
one  of  the  sacred  liba,  called  a  bonae  {bons)^  which  was  made  of  fine 
flour  and  honey."''  England  seems,  then^  to  have  retained  the  name 
and  the  form  of  the  ancient  bons,  though  the  people  do  not  recognise 
iu  the  bun  anything  sacred  or  holy. 

Titus  livy  said,  in  speaking  of  Eome,  "  The  greatest  things  have 
small  beginnings."  This  applies  equally  to  pastry,  which  appears  so 
unworthy  of  attention  at  the  commencement  of  the  middle  ages  that 
nothing  seems  to  announce  its  high  destiny.  At  first,  in  the  southern 
provinces,  people  simply  mixed  flour,  oil,  and  honey.  The  Roman 
school  was  still  in  force.  The  inhabitants  of  the  norih  had  a  mind  to 
innovate ;  they  employed  eggs,  butter,  and  salt.  Then  came  the  idea  of 
inclosing  within  this  paste  cooked  meat,  seasoned  with  bacon  and  spices; 
and,  from  progress  to  progress,  they  at  last  inclosed  cream,  fruit,  and 
marmalades." 

We  find  pastry  mentioned  for  the  first  time  in  a  charter  of  Louis- 
le-D6bonnaire  (802).  It  is  there'  said  that  a  certain  farm  of  the 
Abbey  of  St.  Denis  is  to  furnish,  at  certain  festivals,  sixteen  measures 
of  honey,  eleven  hundred  oxen,  and  five  hogsheads  of  floiu*  to  make 
pastry.*' 

A  charter  of  the  church  of  Paris,  1 202,  mentions  simnels  or  wigs,  under 
the  name  of  "panes  leves  qui  dicuntur  echaudati."  Joinville  speaks,  in 
"  The  life  of  St.  Louis,"  of  cheese  flitters  cooked  in  the  sun,  which  the 
Saracens  presented  to  that  king  and  his  knights  when  they  restored  them 
to  liberty.  And,  finally,  so  early  as  the  13th  century,  the  Jlana 
of  Chartres,  the  patties  of  Paris,  and  the  tarts  of  Dourlans,  were  in 
great  renown;  and  a  charter  of  1301  informs  us  that,  at  that  epoch, 
several  lords  imposed  on  their  vassals  a  tribute  of  fugues,  or  puff- 
pastry." 

The  cook  of  Charles  V.  says,  that  the  word  tourte  signified  a  house- 
hold loaf  of  a  round  form ;  that  this  name  was  afterwards  given  to 


292  PASTRY. 

delicate  pastry;  and  that,  by  corruption,  it  was  called  tart  in  certain 
provinces/* 

TaiUevant  speaks  of  cream,  almonds,  and  rose-water,  as  the  accompa- 
niments of  Darioles,  a  kind  of  custard ;  and  of  Talmouses,  a  sort  of 
cheese-cake,  made  of  cheese,  eggs,  and  butter,  coloured  with  the  yolks 
of  eggs." 

Platina  cites  tarts  made  with  radishes,  quinces,  gourds,  elder-berry 
flowers,  rice,  oatmeal,  millet,  chesnuts,  cherries,  dates,  May-herbs,  roses, 
and,  lastly,  the  white,  or  cream  tart." 


0' 


XXV. 


WATER 


Thales,  who  borrowed  from  Egypt  the  elements  of  philosophy,  which 
he  afterwards  spread  in  Greece,  taught  that  water  is  the  vivifying  prin- 
ciple of  all  things ;  that  nature  is  thereby  made  fruitful ;  that  without  it 
the  earth,  arid  and  laid  waste,  would  be  a  frightful  desert,  where  every 
effort  of  man  to  support  his  existence  must  fail.^ 

These  ideas,  for  a  long  time  adopted  by  Pagan  theology,  peopled 
fountains,  rivers,  and  seas,  with  divinities,  and  often  confounded  in  the 
same  worship  those  gods,  sons  of  gratitude,  with  the  limpid  waters 
consecrated  to  them. 

The  Persians  carried  their  veneration  for  this  element  so  far,  that 
they  dared  not  wash  their  hands,  and  would  have  preferred  being 
consumed  to  the  very  bone  rather  than  dip  themselves  in  a  river.' 

The  Cappadocians  were  proud  of  treading  in  the  same  path.' 

The  Egyptians  offered  prayers  and  homage  to  water.*  The  Nile,  in 
particular,  received  their  adorations  under  the  name  of  Ypeus^  or  SirU^ 
and  they  offered  to  it — as  a  sacrifice — barley,  wheat,  sugar,  and  fruiL* 

The  Scythians  honoured  the  Danube  on  account  of  its  vast  extent; 
the  Thessalians  prostrated  themselves  before  the  majestic  shores  of  the 
Feneus ;  the  ancient  combat  of  Achelous  with  Hercules  made  it  sacred 
to  the  ^tolians;  by  a  special  law,  the  Lacedsmonians  were  compelled 
to  implore  the  Eurotas ;  and  a  religious  precept  forced  the  Athenians  to 
incense  in  honour  of  the  Ilissus.' 

The  Greeks  and  Romans  did  not  fail  to  follow  such  good  examples. 
The  fountains  and  rivers  had  their  altars.  The  Bhine  was  called  a  god ; 
and  when  j£neas  arrived  in  Italy,  he  prayed  it  might  be  favourable 
to  him.' 


294  WATER. 

However  strange  such  superstition  may  appear,  it  is,  nevertheless, 
conceivable  that  Paganism,  struck  with  wonder  at  the  flux  and  reflux  of 
the  sea,  and  at  the  phenomena  presented  by  several  celebrated  springs, 
and  seduced  by  the  charming  Actions  of  doubtful  poesy,  should  have 
deified  an  element  both  beneficial  and  terrible,  since  it  could  not  cry 
out  with  the  prophet  king :  "  The  Lord  on  high  is  mightier  than  the 
noise  of  many  waters,  yea  than  the  mighty  waves  of  the  sea."  * 

Thence  came  the  innumerable  number  of  tutelary  gods  to  which  the 
Ocean  alone  gave  an  asylum.  By  Thetis  it  became  the  father  of  the 
seventy- two  Oceanides,  and  the  fifty  Nereides  called  it  their  grandfather. 
Hesiod  numbered  three  thousand  nymphs,  and  he  probably  forgot  a  few 
of  them*  We  say  nothing  of  the  Naiades,  the  Napeeae,  the  Limnades, 
and  so  many  others  whom  fable  was  pleased  to  recognise,  and  whom  it 
described  as  joyfully  disporting  in  the  water. 

Greece  exhausted  the  treasures  of  its  poetical  imagination  to  embel- 
lish her  fountains,  beloved  retreats  of  the  timid  Naiades.  Several  were 
remarkable  for  the  beauty  of  their  architecture  and  the  extreme  delicacy 
of  their  execution. 

Megara,  ih  Achaia,  possessed  one  celebrated  for  its  magnificence. 
That  of  Pirene,  at  Corinth,  was  surrounded  with  white  marble,  in 
which  were  placed  grottoes  which  unceasingly  supplied  a  vast  and 
superb  basin.  Another  fountain  of  Corinth,  named  Lema,  offered  to 
loungers  an  elegant  portico,  under  which  some  very  commodious  seats 
allowed  them  to  enjoy,  during  summer,  the  fireshness  which  the  water 
conmiunicated  to  the  atmosphere. 

In  the  sacred  wood  of  ^sculapius,  at  Epidaurus,  a  splendid  fountain 
was  seen  whose  marvellous  beauty  attracted  all  eyes.*  Lastly,  those  of 
Messina,  known  under  the  names  of  Arsinoe  and  of  Clepsydra,  yielded 
nothing  in  richness  of  material  and  finish  of  details  to  the  most 
renowned  monuments  of  Greece. 

The  Athenians  named  four  ofiScers  to  keep  watch  and  ward  over  the 
water."  The  other  Greek  towns  followed  the  example.  These  officers 
had  to  keep  the  fountains  in  order  and  clean  the  reservoirs,'*  so  that  the 
water  might  be  preserved  pure  and  limpid. 

The  Romans  at  first  contented  themselves  with  water  from  the 
Tiber.  King  Ancus  Martins"  was  the  first"  to  build  aqueducts,  destined 
to  convey  the  water  of  the  fountain  of  Piconia  from  Tibur  to  Eome,  a 
distance  of  about  thirty- three  thousand  paceis.     Some  have  honoured 


I 


». 


WATER.  296 

the  censor,  Appias  Claudius,  for  this  magnificent  undertaking,'^  to 
whom  is  certainly  due  the  celebrated  Appian  Way.'*  These  gigantic 
works  greatly  multiplied  in  time.  Under  the  reign  of  Nero,  Borne  had 
nine  principal  aqueducts'"  constructed,  the  pipes  of  which  were  of  bricks, 
baked  tiles,  stone,  lead,  or  wood.'' 

According  to  the  calculation  of  Vigenerus,"  500,000  hogsheads  of 
water  were  conveyed  into  Bome  every  twenty-four  hours,  by  10,350 
small  channels,  the  internal  circumference  of  which  was  one  inch. 
The  water  was  received  in  large  closed  basins,  above  which  were  raised 
splendid  monuments.  These  basins — or  chdteaux  d*eau — castella 
Aquarum — supplied  other  subterraneous  conduits  connected  with  the 
various  quarters  of  the  town,'*  which  conveyed  water  to  small  reservoirs — 
fontes — furnished  with  taps,  for  the  exclusive  use  of  certain  streets.*' 
The  water  which  was  not  drinkable  ran  out  by  means  of  large  pipes 
into  extensive  inclosures,  where  it  served  to  water  cattle.  At  these 
places  the  people  washed  their  linen,  and  here,  too,  they  had  a  ready 
resource  in  case  of  fire." 

Augustus  created  water  commissaries,  who  took  care  that  all  water 
coming  into  Bome  by  the  aqueducts  was  fairly  distributed  in  every 
public  place,  and  to  those  of  the  inhabitants  who  had  obtained  the 
privilege  of  having  it  enter  their  houses.** 

But  the  "  ingenious  thirst  '*  *'  of  the  conquerors  of  the  world  could 
not  cootent  itself  with  a  delicious  water  which  nature  furnished  free  of 
expense.  Was  it  not  too  much  for  human  endurance,  that  not  only  the 
air  and  the  sun  could  not  be  ofiered  to  the  highest  bidder,*^  but  that 
the  same  spring  was  to  quench  the  thirst  of  obscure  plebeians  on  equal 
terms  with  the  rich  patrician  ? 

Intemperance  and  luxury  very  soon  contrived  to  find  excellent  means 
of  remedying  a  state  of  things  so  intolerable.  The  custom  of  preserving 
snow  in  cellars,  to  obtain  cool  beverages,  is  very  old.  Aristotle  pointed 
out  the  method  of  boiling  water,  and  putting  the  vessel  afterwards  in 
snow,  in  order  to  obtain  ice.  Bome  had  recourse  to  this  expedient, 
which  was  afterwards  replaced  with  advantage,  under  Nero,  by  con- 
structing ice  houses  for  the  use  of  opulent  epicureans.** 

This  even  was  not  enough  for  voluptuous  Bomans,  slaves  to  their 
strange  caprices ;  their  beverages  did  not  appear  to  them  as  yet  suffi- 
ciently cool,**  and  the  summit  of  the  Alps  was  put  under  contribution 
to  furnish  ice  for  the  fashionable  tables  of  the  imperial  city.*' 


296  WATER. 

The  Romans  were  also  frequently  supplied  with  snow  water/' 
clarified  by  being  passed  through  the  colum  nivariunif  or  snow  cul- 
lender," a  charming  little  utensil  of  silyer,  pierced  with  a  great  number 
of  holes,  through  which  the  iced  beverage  passed  into  a  recipient 
beneath.  This  drink  was  sometimes  mortal,  but  always  exquisite." 
From  this  vessel,  it  was  poured  into  an  ampula,  or  a  sort  of  crystal 
bottle  of  rotund  form,  which  was  often  enormously  dear  on  account  of 
the  elaborate  chasing  with  which  it  was  embellished.'^  This  water 
bottle,  with  its  long  and  narrow  neck,  was  the  principal  ornament  of 
the  sideboards  and  tables,  when  it  bore  the  name  of  some  skilful  artist 
from  Campania  or  the  Island  of  Samos."* 

Iced  beverage  lost  all  its  charm  at  the  end  of  the  fine  season,  and  hot 
water  took  its  place  during  winter."  The  same  custom  existed  in 
Greece  in  the  best  classes  of  society."  At  Home,  it  was  much  more 
general,  for  there  were  a  great  number  of  taverns,  where  the  middle 
classes  and  citizens  of  the  lowest  order  gorged  themselves  copiously 
with  pork  and  warm  water.  The  Emperor  Claudius  caused  them  to  be 
closed,  and  severely  punished  the  proprietors  of  those  houses  who 
opposed  his  ordinance." 

At  the  commencement  of  the  repast,  a  copper  vessel  was  placed  on 
the  table  purposely  to  boil  water.  It  was  much  hke  a  French  bouilioire 
(which  nearly  resembles  a  tankard),  and  contained  a  cylinder  of  about 
four  inches  in  diameter,  covered  with  a  moving  lid,  and  pierced  with 
holes  for  the  ashes  to  pass  through.  They  fell  into  the  lower  part  of 
the  cylinder.  The  space  around  was  filled  with  water  by  means  of  a 
small  funnel  soldered  to  the  boiler.  The  taps  of  these  vases  were  always 
slightly  above  the  bottom,  so  that  the  sediment  of  the  water  should 
not  pass  into  the  cups." 

Ancient  medicine  attributed  to  water  a  singular  curative  virtue, 
which  it  has  also  been  supposed  to  possess  in  our  days.  This  system, 
so  much  talked  about  now  by  some  persons,  is,  therefore,  not  new. 
Hippocrates  carefully  distinguished  the  difference  between  good  and  bad 
water."  The  best,  according  to  him,  ought  to  be  clear,  light,  inodorous, 
without  any  flavour,  and  drawn  from  springs  exposed  to  the  east."  He 
interdicts  all  those  which  proceed  from  melted  snow." 

Asclepiades  made  his  patients  drink  plentifully  of  water,  and  fre- 
quently ordered  them  cold  baths.*^ 

♦  See  Plate  No.  XXVII.,  No.  4.,  a  plain  bottle,  wilh  a  long  neck. 


WATER.  297 

The  physician,  Musa,  prescribed  to  Augustus  the  same  regimen,  and 
the  Emperor  found  himself  much  benefited  by  it.** 

Under  the  reign  of  Nero,  Charmis  acquired  a  great  vogue  by  ex- 
tolling cold  baths,*'  even  in  the  depth  of  winter.  This  dexterous  native 
of  Marseilles  knew  so  well  how  to  persuade  people,  that  he  could 
hardly  attend  to  his  immense  connection ;  and  as  he  sometimes  required 
as  much  as  £800  from  his  patients,*^  he  soon  became  as  celebrated 
for  his  riches  as  for  bis  pretended  medical  genius.  Who  will  say,  after 
this,  that  the  water-cure  system  is  good  for  nothing  ? 

''In  Egypt,  rich  people  have  the  water  brought  to  them  from  the 
Nile  in  leather  pouches.  Large  and  porous  earthen  pots  of  an  oval 
shape,  kept  up  by  supporters,  are  filled  with  it.  The  water  at  the  end 
of  a  few  hours  has  deposited  the  slime  it  contained.  It  is  afterwards 
distributed  in  s^iall  vases  of  terra  cotta,  called  bardaksy  of  the  size 
of  our  water-jugs.  These  vases  are  taken  in  the  most  showy  part  of  the 
habitation.  In  a  short  time  the  clay  of  the  bardaks  is  impregnated ; 
their  surface  is  covered  with  water,  which,  after  borrowing  from  the 
liquid  within  the  caloric  it  requires  for  evaporation,  reduces  this  to  a 
temperature  of  six  or  seven  degrees  under  that  which  it  had  before." — 
Parmentier. 

More  than  five  centuries  ago  the  Sieur  de  Joinville  described  the  same 
process.  "  The  water  of  the  Nile,",  he  said,  "  is  of  such  a  nature,  that 
when  we  hung  it  in  white  earthen  pots,  made  in  the  country,  to  the 
rigging  of  our  ships,  the  water  became  in  the  heat  of  the  day  as  cold 
as  spring- water."** 

Sea-water  is  not  potable,  but  it  has  long  since  been  remarked  that 
the  vapours  which  rise  from  the  sea  are  soft,  and  it  was  thence  con- 
cluded that,  by  collecting  and  condensing  them,  it  would  be  possible  to 
I    -  obtain  a  potable  liquid  fit  for  domestic  purposes.     This  phenomenon 

was  known  in  the  time  of  Pliny,  who  informs  us  that,  '*  fleece  spread 
about  the  ship,  after  having  received  the  exhalations  from  the  sea,  be- 
comes damp,  and  that  fresh  water  may  be  extracted  from  it."*' 

About  the  middle  of  the  last  century  means  were  found  to  remove 


DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XVII. 

No.  1.  Pail,  of  bronze,  with  movable  handle,  corered  with  hieniglyphics,  to  cany  water  from 
the  Nile  for  the  Feast  of  Isis. 

No.  3.  Pail,  with  two  handles,  same  metal,  placed  on  a  small  tripod  to  stand  apon,  owing  to  the 
convexity  of  the  bottom. — St.  Non,  "  HerctUaneum," 


298  WATER. 

the  saline  substances  from  sea-water.  Boyle,  ILeAmtz,  the  Count  of 
Marsigli — all  had  made  a  greatnumber  of  fruitless  experiments.  Mr.  Pois- 
sonnier  invented  a  very  simple  distillating  machine,  with  which,  and  an 
absorbing  powder,  he  succeeded  in  depriving  sea- water  of  its  insuffer- 
able bitterness,  and  rendering  it  perfectly  salubrious.  About  1784,  a 
successfiil  experiment  was  made  at  York  with  a  machine  which  produced 
the  same  result 

Some  travellers  have  related,  that,  at  the  Iron  Island,  the  only  soft 
water  was  that  which  was  collected  from  a  large  tree,  in  the  centre  of 
the  island,  and  which  was  incessantly  covered  with  clouds.  The  water 
ran  continually  from  the  leaves,  and  fell  into  two  large  cisterns,  con- 
stnicted  at  the  foot  of  the  tree,  which,  according  to  Jackson,  furnished 
enough  for  8,000  souls,  and  100,000  cattle.  "  Let  us  see,"  says  Bory 
de  Saint-Vincent,  "  what  amount  of  credit  is  due  to  the  mavellous  tree 
of  the  Iron  Island.*'  Abreu  Galindo,  in  his  manuscript  treatise  on  the 
Canary  Islands,  preserved  in  the  archives  of  the  country,  says  that  he 
wished  to  see  with  his  own  eyes  what  the  tree  was.  He  embarked^ 
arrived,  took  a  guide  to  conduct  him  to  a  place  called  Tigulahe,  which 
is  separated  from  the  sea  by  a  valley,  and  there,  at  the  extreme  boundary, 
under  a  large  cliff,  was  the  holy  tree,  which  in  the  country  is  called 
Garoe.  Its  trunk  is  twelve  spans  in  circumference,  four  feet  in  diame- 
ter, and  nearly  forty  feet  in  height.  The  branches  are  wide  apart  and 
tufted :  its  fruit  resembles  an  acom«  and  the  kernel  is.  in  colour  and 
taste,  like  the  little  aromatic  almonds  which  pine  nuts  contain.  It 
never  loses  its  leaves,  that  is  to  say,  the  old  ones  do  not  fall  until  the 
,young  ones  are  formed.  On  the  north  side,  are  two  large  stone  pillars, 
of  twenty  square  feet,  hollowed  out  to  a  depth  of  twenty  spans.  These 
pillars  are  so  placed  that  the  water  falls  into  one,  and  is  preserved  in 
the  other.  Vapours  and  mists  rise  almost  every  day  from  the  sea,  par* 
ticularly  in  the  morning,  and  at  no  great  distance  in  the  offing ;  these 
vapours  are  carried  by  the  east  wind  against  the  cliffs,  which  block  their 
passage,  so  that  they  cover  the  tree,  become  condensed  on  its  smooth 
leaves,  and  run  off  drop  by  drop.  The  more  the  east  wind  reigns,  the 
more  abundant  is  the  supply  of  water.  It  is  distributed  by  a  man  who 
guards  the  tree.    A  whirlwind  tore  up  the  Garoe  in  1625. 


46 


XXVI. 


BEVERAGES, 


OF  WHICH  WATER  IS  THE  FOUNDATION. 

Water  is  certainly  the  most  ancient  beverage,  the  most  simple,  natural, 
and  the  most  common,  which  nature  has  given  to  mankind.  But  it  is 
necessary  to  be  really  thirsty  in  order  to  drink  water,  and  as  soon  as 
this  craving  is  satisfied  it  becomes  insipid  and  nauseous.  What  is  then 
to  be  done  ?  Cyrus  would  have  said :  "  Drink  no  more ;"  so  would  a 
teetotaler  of  the  present  day.  In  the  first  ages  of  the  world,  the  human 
race,  bound  by  no  oath  of  temperance,  succeeded,  by  sheer  application 
of  their  ingenuity,  in  finding  something  better,  or  perhaps  worse,  ac- 
cording to  the  ideas  of  certain  moralists,  whose  wise  teaching,  however, 
commands  respect.  Certain  it  is  that  water,  continuing  to  be  regarded 
with  peculiar  favour,  was  called  to  play  a  principal  part  in  various  com- 
binations by  which  it  lost  its  insipidity  and  inoffensive  properties,  and 
acquired  the  wonderful  power  of  provoking  a  sort  of  madness,  known 
by  the  name  of  drunkenness. 

Those  beverages  which  man  imbibes  when  he  is  no  longer  thirsty, 
which  cloud  his  weak  mind,  and  render  him  ill  when  in  good  health, 
are  called  fermented  hquors. 

Beer  is  one  of  the  most  ancient.  If  we  are  to  believe  Diodorus  of 
Sicily,  Bacchus  himself  invented  it.^  However,  it  is  certain  that  the 
absolute  injunction  not  to  drink  wine,  caused  the  inhabitants  of  Egypt 
to  have  recourse  to  a  factitious  beverage  obtained  from  barley,'  often 
mentioned  in  history  under  the  name  of  zythum  and  curmi*  and  whose 
invention  has  been  often  attributed  to  Osiris — ^which  means,  that  its 
precise  origin  is  entirely  unknown. 

T  2 


800  BEVERAGES. 

It  was  a  kind  of  beer  composed  of  barley,  and  capable  of  being  pre- 
served for  a  long  time  without  decomposing  ;*  for  instead  of  bops,  ut- 
terly unknown  in  that  country,  a  bitter  infusion  of  lupins  was  added/ 

The  Egyptians  also  used  Assyrian  corn  in  its  composition,  and  pro- 
bably other  aromatic  plants,  in  which  each  one  followed  his  peculiar 
taste.  The  method  of  brewing  varied  much  among  them ;'  but  the  one 
here  mentioned  was  that  most  generally  in  use  to  procure  zythum 
in  Lower  Egypt,  where  it  was  converted,  like  our  beer,  into  vinegar, 
which  the  Greek  merchants  of  Alexandria  exported  to  the  European 
ports.' 

The  Egyptians  long  drank  nothing  but  this  fermented  liquor,  because 
the  followers  of  Osiris  believed  that  when  Jupiter  crushed  the  Titans 
with  thunderbolts,  their  blood,  mixing  with  the  earth,  produced  the  vine. 
They  invented  the  zythum  as  a  substitute  for  wine.* 

It  is  not  probable  that  the  Greeks,  whose  wines  were  so  renowned  in 
antiquity,  thought  much  of  beer.  Nevertheless,  Aristotle*  mentions 
drunkenness  being  caused  by  drinking  a  beverage  drawn  from  barley, 
^schylus'*  and  Sophocles^^  mention  a  liquor  procured  from  the  same 
cereal. 

The  use  of  beer  spread  rapidly  in  Gaul,  where  wine  was  but  little 
known  before  the  time  of  Probus.  The  Emperor  Julian,  governor  of 
this  country,  acquaints  us  of  this  fact  in  an  epigram." 

The  Spaniards,  and  the  aborigines  of  Britany  and  Germany,  also 
delightfully  intoxicated  themselves  with  an  "  infusion  of  barley,"  called 
by  the  first  of  these  nations,  coBliaf  ceria^  cerevisia^^*  and  curmi  by  the 
two  latter.  These  various  denominations  signify  literally,  strong  water ^^^ 
and  this  fermented  drink  was  common  to  the  nations  just  indicated." 
All  the  people  of  Western  Europe  drank  a  strong  liquor  made  with 
grain  and  water.  The  manner  of  preparing  it  was  not  the  same  in 
Spain,  in  Gaul,  and  elsewhere ;  but  everywhere  it  possessed  the  same 
dangerous  properties. 

"Man,"  says  Pliny,  "is  so  skilful  in  flattering  his  vices,  that  he 
has  even  found  means  to  render  water  poisonous  and  intoxicating.*' " 

The  Danes  and  Saxons  gave  themselves  up  to  an  enormous  con- 
sumption of  zythum  and  curmi,  kinds  of  ale  and  beer,  varying  in  no 
other  respect  than  in  the  manner  of  preparing  them."  The  warlike 
piety  of  their  ingenuous  and  coarse-minded  heroes,  desired  no  greater 
recompense,  after  a  life  of  fatigue  and  rough  combats,  than  to  sing  the 


BEYEBAGES.  801 


praises  of  Odin  amidst  eternal  banquets,  where  these  exhilirating  beve- 
rages might  unceasingly  maintain  the  joy  and  bravery  of  the  warriors." 

The  ancient  Britons  had  many  vines,  but  they  esteemed  them  only 
as  ornaments  to  their  gardens ;  and  they  preferred,  says  CsBsar,  the  wine 
of  grain  to  that  of  grapes."  It  is  historically  demonstrated  that  the 
English,  at  a  very  early  epoch,  applied  themselves  to  the  making  of  beer. 

It  is  mentioned  in  the  laws  of  Ina,  Chief,  or  King,  of  Wessex ;  and 
this  liquor  held  a  distinguished  rank  among  those  that  appeared  at  a 
royal  feast  in  the  reign  of  Edward  the  Confessor.'* 

Under  the  Normans,  ale  acquired  a  reputation  it  has  ever  since 
maintained.  Two  gallons  cost  only  one  penny  in  the  cities ;  in  the 
country,  four  gallons  might  be  obtained  at  the  same  price.  Happy  age ! 
happy  ale  drinkers !  At  that  period — the  golden  age  for  the  apostles  of 
the  Britannic  Bacchus — the  brewers  rendered  no  account  of  the  prepa- 
ration of  this  beloved  beverage.  The  English  nation  did  not  yet  pur- 
chase the  right  of  intoxicating  themselves:  it  was  not  till  the  year  1643 
that  this  authorization  was  to  be  bought.'^ 

The  use  of  hops  would  appear  to  be  of  German  invention.  They 
were  employed  in  the  Low  Countries  at  the  beginning  of  the  14th  cen- 
tury ;  but  it  was  not  till  the  1 6th  that  they  were  appreciated  in  England." 

Can  it  be  true  that  beer  or  ale  possessed,  in  certain  cases,  strange 
curative  properties  ?  We  find  the  following  fact  in  a  statistical  account 
of  Scotland." 

A  poor  coal  miner  of  the  county  of  Clackmannan,  named  William 
Hunter,  had  been  long  suffering  with  i^cute  rheumatism,  or  obstinate 
gout,  which  deprived  him  of  the  use  of  his  limbs.  The  eve  of  the  first 
Monday  of  the  year  1758,  some  of  his  neighbours  came  to  pass  the 
evening  with  him.  Ale  was  drunk,  and  they  got  merry.  The  jolly  fel- 
low never  failed  to  empty  his  glass  at  each  round.  Scotch  ale  is  a  se- 
ductive drink,  and  as  perfidious  as  pleasure:  it  bewilders  the  senses,  and 
finally  masters  the  reason.  WiUiam  Hunter  lost  his,  completely ;  but 
his  legs  were  restored,  and  he  was  able  to  make  marvellous  use  of  them 
for  more  than  twenty  years.  After  that  happy  evening,  never  did  his 
old  enemy,  the  gout,  dare  approach  him ;  and  the  worthy  coal  miner 
took  care  to  keep  it  at  a  distance,  by  reiterating  the  remedy  which  had 
proved  so  beneficial.  Nobody  could  blame  him.  Ale  had  become  so  dear 
to  him !  Gratitude  and  prudence  combined  to  make  it  a  duty  to  remain 
unalterably  attache(f,  and  he  was  faithful  to  it  till  he  breathed  his  last. 


802  BEVBEAGES. 

Antecedent  to  the  use  of  hops  beer  was  made  in  England  as  follows : 
"  To  make  a  Hogshead  of  Strong  Ale, — It  was  necessary,  first  of 
all,  to  make  the  grouty  which  was  thus  done : — Nine  gallons  of  water 
was  to  be  well  boiled,  and  put  into  a  brewing-vessel ;  when  it  was  a 
little  cool  there  was  put  therein  three  pecks  of  malt,  which  was  left 
standing  for  an  hour  and  a-half,  and  then  it  ought  to  be  drawn  off  into  a 
cooler.  When  it  was  near  cold,  it  was  put  into  a  vessel  provided  for 
that  purpose,  perfectly  clean,  and  having  a  cover  to  stop  it  down  close. 
Being  therein,  it  was  closely  covered  down,  that  it  might  there  stand  to 
sharpen ;  if  the  weather  should  be  cold  it  might  reqmre  about  eighteen 
hours,  but  if  it  was  hot  not  quite  so  long.  When  it  was  ripe  enough, 
upon  the  sudden  opening  of  the  vessel,  the  strength  of  the  fume  arising 
from  the  liquour  would  near,  if  not  entirely,  extinguish  a  lighted  candle, 
which  ought  to  be  provided  short  on  purpose,  and  holden  over  for  the 
proof  thereof.  When  the  brewer  was  satisfied  that  the  grout  was 
properly  ripened,  he  poured  it  forth  into  the  copper,  and  boiled  it 
moderately  upon  a  slow  fire  for  about  an  hour,  constantly  stirring  it  all 
the  while,  and  to  know  when  it  was  boiled  enough  he  provided  a  small 
ashen  stick,  which,  being  alighted  at  the  fire,  he  thrust  suddenly  into  the 
boiling  liquor,  drawing  it  forth  as  quick  as  possible,  when,  if  the  fire  on 
the  stick  remained  still  unextinguished,  it  was  well  boiled,  but  not  if  it 
were  otherwise.  This  being  done,  the  liquor  was  put  into  a  vessel  of 
twenty  gallons,  or  thereabouts,  and  yeast  put  to  it,  that  it  might  work, 
which  when  it  had  sufficiently  done,  it  was  ready  for  the  wort  to  be  put 
to  it.  The  wort  might  be  brewed  of  what  strength  the  brewer  should 
please,  so  that  it  did  not  exceed  sixty  gallons  to  the  above  proportion  of 
grout.  The  grout  being  now  properly  ripe,  and  having  worked  enough, 
a  quantity  of  the  wort,  sufficient  to  fill  up  the  twenty-gallon  vessel  into 
which  the  grout  is  put,  must  be  poured  upon  it,  and  then  the  whole  drawn 
off  into  the  yeeling  fatt^  and  there,  being  mixed  with  the  remainder  of 
the  wort,  is  left  to  work  together,  which  when  it  hath  sufficiently  done, 
it  must  be  strained  off  into  the  hogshead,  through  a  hair  sieve  made 
for  that  purpose,  where  it  must  also  work  like  other  beer  or  ale.*"* 

In  the  ninth  year  of  Edward  II.,  things  being  very  scarce,  a  gallon 
of  ale  was  sold  for  twopence,  of  the  better  sort  for  threepence,  and  of 
the  best  for  fourpence ;  but  the  Londoners  ordained  that,  in  the  City,  a 
gallon  of  the  bettermost  sort  of  ale  should  be  sold  for  three- halfpence, 
and  of  the  small  ale  for  one  penny  only." 


BBYERAOES.  803 

Holinshed  says**  that  every  kind  of  wine  could  be  procured  in 
England.  "  Nevertheless,"  he  adds,  "  ale  and  beere  beare  the  greatest 
brunt  in  drincking,  which  are  of  so  many  sortes  and  ages  as  it  please th 
the  brewer  to  make  them.  The  beere  that  is  used  at  noblemen's  tables 
is  commonly  of  a  yeare  olde  (or,  peradventure,  of  twoo  yeares  tunning, 
or  more,  but  this  is  not  general) ;  it  is  also  brued  in  Marche,  and  is 
therefore  called  Marche  beere  ;  but  for  the  household  it  is  usually  not 
under  a  mouthe's  age,  cache  one  coveting  to  have  the  same  stale  as  he 
might,  so  that  was  not  soure,  and  the  breade  new  as  possible,  so  that  be 
not  bote." 

Formerly,  they  drank  beer  in  some  parts  of  France — in  others, 
wine.  Perhaps  it  is  the  same  now.  This  difference  of  taste  gave  rise 
to  a  rather  jocose  dispute  between  a  grey  friar  and  a  white  friar.  One, 
who  was  a  Fleming,  was  for  beer ;  the  other,  who  was  from  Bordeaux, 
was  for  wine.  The  Fleming  cited  passages  without  number  from 
antiquity  in  proof  of  the  excellence  of  beer,  known  by  the  ancients 
under  the  name  of  zithum,  or  curmu  The  one  from  Bordeaux  was  not 
so  learned,  but  he  was  a  native  of  Bordeaux,  and  with  one  word  he 
terminated  the  dispute.  "Brother,"  said  he  to  his  adversary,  "I 
maintain  that  there  is  as  much  difference  between  wine  and  beer  as 
there  is  between  St.  Francis  and  St.  Dominick."  The  whole  community 
were  for  the  Bordeaux  monk,  and  the  Fleming  was  reduced  to  silence.'' 

Braket  was  formerly  the  cherished  drink  of  the  lower  classes  in 
England.  Arnold  describes  the  preparation  of  it,  in  his  "  Chronicles  of 
London :" 

"  Take  a  pot  of  good  ale  and  put  thereto  a  porcyon  of  honey  and 
pepper,  in  this  manner: — When  thou  hast  good  ale,  lete  it  stonde 
(stand)  in  a  pott  two  dayes,  and  then  drawe  out  a  quart,  or  a  pottell,  of 
that  ale,  and  putt  to  the  honey,  and  set  it  over  the  fyre  and  let  it  sethe 
well,  and  take  it  of  the  fyre  and  scume  it  clene ;  and  then  sat  it  over, 
the  fyre  and  scume  it  agayne,  and  then  let  it  keele  a  whyle,  and  put 
thereto  the  pepper,  and  then  set  hym  on  the  fyre  and  let  him  boyle  well 
togyder,  with  esy  fyre,  but  clere.  Take  four  gallons  of  good  ale,  a  pynte 
of  fyn  tryed  bony,  and  about  a  sauceriul  of  powder  of  peper." 

Beer  was  hot  unknown  in  Italy,  but  the  Bomans  never  granted  it  their 
serious  attention.'*  We  will  give  a  brief  sketch  of  those  beverages  which, 
among  them  and  the  Greeks,  replaced  wine  with  greater  or  less  advantage. 
Convalescents,  sober  persons  who  resisted  the  sweet  seductions  of 


304  BEVERAGES. 

Falemian  and  Chios  wines,  drank  a  kind  of  barley-^water  ptisana^  a 
sorry  liquid,  of  which  the  following  is  the  recipe  for  the  use  of  the 
abstemious  of  the  present  day.  They  placed  barley  in  water,  and  left  it 
there  until  it  swelled ;  it  was  then  dried  in  the  sun,  then  beaten  to 
deprive  it  of  its  husk,  and  ground.  Then,  when  it  had  been  boiled  in 
water  for  a  long  time,  it  was  again  exposed  to  the  sun.  When  they 
wished  to  drink  barley-water,  a  small  quantity  of  this  flour  was  boiled, 
the  water  was  strained  off,  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  were  added."' 
The  disciples  of  Comus  have  always  shuddered  at  this  beverage,  when 
only  mentioned. 

The  oxycratua  was  not  much  better.  It  was  a  mixture  of  water  and 
vinegar,  with  which  the  lower  orders  contented  themselves  when. they 
could  obtain  nothing  more  exhilarating  to  drink  \^^  and  with  which  the 
soldiers,  especially  in  the  camp,  were  compelled  to  quench  their  thirst.'^ 

Some  passages  from  Pliny,  and  also  from  other  authors,  prove  that 
the  ancients  were  acquainted  with  cider."  It  is,  however,  asserted  that 
the  use  of  this  beverage  goes  no  farther  back  than  three  or  four  cen- 
turiesy  either  in  England  or  France;"  but  this  cannot  be  a  fact  with 
regai*d  to  the  last-named  country,  since  the  capitulars  of  Charlemagne 
place  among  the  number  of  ordinary  trades  that  of  sicerator,  or  *'  cider 
maker."  This  ''wine  of  apples,'"*  it  is  said,  was  very  common  among 
the  Hebrews.  That  is  possible,  but  it  would,  nevertheless,  be  difficult 
to  prove  it  from  the  holy  writings,  since  the  word  schecar,  which  has 
been  translated  by  sicera,  and  which,  again,  has  been  rendered  into  cider, 
signifies  all  kinds  of  intoxicating  beverage,  whether  made  from  grain, 
honey,  or  fruit." 

Gaul,  covered  with  forests,  and  swarming  with  bees,  possessed  an 
immense  quantity  of  wild  honey,  of  which,  by  the  aid  of  fermentation  in 
water,  the  inhabitants  composed  a  strong  and  intoxicating  drink,  called 
hydromeU  This  beverage,  highly  esteemed  both  in  Home  and  Greece, 
was  prepared  in  the  following  manner :  rain  water  was  kept  some  time, 
and  then  boiled  until  reduced  to  one-third,  to  which  honey  was  added.* 
This  mixture  was  exposed  to  the  sun  for  the  space  of  forty  days ;  it  was 
then  placed  in  a  vessel,  and  by  these  means  they  obtained,  in  time,  a 
vinous  hydromel  very  similar  to  our  Madeira  wine.**  To  make  oxymel^ 
still  more  heady,  ten  pounds  of  honey  were  mixed  with  two  pints  and  a 
half  of  old   vinegar,   and   one  pound  of  sea-salt;    the  whole  boiled 

*  A  pound  of  hunej  to  three  ponnds  of  water. 


BEVERAGES.  305 

only  an  instant  in  five  pints  of  water.    This  liquor  was  left  to  get 
very  old." 

Juice  of  quinces  and  honey,  boiled  in  water,  produced  hydromelon,  a 
delicious  drink,  which  our  century  might  envy  the  delicate  drinkers  of 
Athens  and  Borne,"  especially  when  roses  had  been  added  to  this  nectar, 
which  changed  it  into  hydrorosatum*^ 

The  apomeli  was  nothing  more  than  water  in  which  honeycomb  had 
been  boiled.**  Omphacomeli,  an  ingenious  mixture  of  honey  and  ver- 
juice, quenched  thirst  during  the  summer,  and  produced  that  agreeable 
gaiety  which  is  to  drunkenness  what  dos^iness  is  to  sleep.*' 

A  mixture  of  honey  and  juice  of  myrtle  seed,  of  course  diluted  with 
water,  composed  myrtites,  the  aromatic  flavour  of  which  flattered  the 
palate,  and  rendered  the  breath  more  sweet  *'  Sometimes  pomegranates 
were  substituted  for  the  myrtle,  and  it  was  then  called  rhoites,  and  pos- 
sessed an  agreeable  and  pungent  flavour.** 

Wine  made  of  dates  enjoyed  a  general  esteem  in  the  east.  The 
Bomans,  who  knew  also  how  to  appreciate  it,  prepared  it  by  throwing 
into  water  some  common,  though  very  ripe,  dates ;  and  when  they  had 
well  soaked,  they  were  put  under  a  press.**  The  same  means  were 
employed  to  procure  fig  wine ;  but  often  the  sediment  of  grapes  was 
used  instead  of  water,  to  prevent  its  being  too  sweet.** 

"Artificial  wines'*  were  also  procured  by  the  aid  of  several  other 
kinds  of  fruits,  such  aa  sorbs,  medlars,  and  mulberries.*'  Fermentation 
dispelled  the  sweet  and  insipid  flavour  which  generally  distinguishes 
these  fruits ;  and,  at  the  commencement  of  a  repast,  the  guests  swallowed 
with  delight  large  cups  of  these  beverages.*' 

It  was  also  the  custom  to  serve  very  cold  water,  in  which,  certain 
plants  had  been  infused,  and  which  was  freshened  by  being  surrounded 
with  snow  after  it  had  been  boiled  for  some  time.  The  invention  of  this 
iced  water  is  attributed  to  the  Emperor  Nero,  who  made  great  use  of  it; 
and  who  appears  to  have  bitterly  regretted  it  when,  dethroned  and  flying 
from  his  assassins,  he  was  constr^ned  through  excessive  thirst  to  drink 
muddy  water  from  a  ditch.  The  unfortunate  Ceesar  then,  for  the  first 
time,  thought  of  the  strange  vicissitudes  of  fortune,  and  casting  a  sor- 
rowful glance  at  the  disgusting  fluid  he  held  in  his  hand,  "  Alas !"  he 
exclaimed)  with  a  sigh,  "is  this  the  iced  water  that  Nero  drank  ?' 


I'MB 


»O0  BEVERAGES. 


TEA. 

This  plant  is  a  native  of  China,  and  it  is  only  in  the  Celestial  Empire 
that  tea  is  cultivated  to  any  great  extent.  Why,  then,  is  it  neglected  on 
all  other  points  of  the  globe  situated  in  the  same  latitude  ?  Doubtless, 
because  the  soil  of  China  is  superior  for  its  culture  to  that  of  any  other 
country. 

The  shrub  that  produces  tea  is  cultivated  between  the  twenty-third 
and  thirty- third  degrees  of  latitude ;  it  thrives  on  the  mountainous  parts, 
on  the  slope  of  the  hills,  and  that  which  grows  on  high  ground  is  far 
superior  to  that  gathered  in  the  valleys.  It  is  the  same  with  this  plant 
as  with  the  vine  in  France  and  in  Europe ;  it  grows  on  flat  land,  and 
succeeds  wonderfully  on  plains  exposed  to  the  sun's  rays. 

The  Chinese  export  teas  of  the  first  quality  in  much  greater  propor- 
tion than  those  of  an  inferior  kind.  In  England  there  is  a  larger 
consumption  than  in  any  other  country  in  the  world. 

In  China,  the  tea  that  forms  the  habitual  beverage  of  the  people  is 
a  very  inferior  species  of  the  Boo  tea. 

The  provinces  of  Kiang-Nang,  Kiang-Si,  and  Che-Kiang,  furnish 
green  tea  to  Bussia,  the  United  States,  Calcutta,  and  various  European 
countries;  the  province  of  Fo-Kien  furnishes  black  tea  to  England,  with 
the  exception  of  a  third  of  the  boo  tea,  or  bohee,  which  is  exported  from 
a  district  called  Wo- Ping,  lying  to  the  north-west  of  the  province  of 
Canton. 

It  is  in  Fo-Eien  that  the  cultivation  of  this  precious  shrub  is  held  in 
the  highest  estimation.  In  this  province  it  is  deprived  of  a  large 
number  of  its  buds  at  the  beginning  of  the  spring.  Of  these  are  made 
the  tea  Pe-ko,  the  most  renowned  of  all  kinds.  Congo  tea  serves  to 
perfume  part  of  these  buds,  and  to  impart  to  them  a  more  agreeable 
flavour. 

A  first  gathering  of  full-grown  leaves  takes  place  at  the  commence- 
ment of  May,  a  second  towards  the  middle  of  June,  and  a  third  and  last 
at  the  end  of  the  summer.  This  produces  a  tea  inferior  to  the  pre* 
ceding  kinds  in  point  of  quality  aQd  perfume. 

The  inhabitants  of  Fo-Kien  cultivate  tea  in  inclosures ;  and  at  the 


BBVBBAGBS.  30r 

time  of  harvest  sell  the  leaves  to  a  class  of  persons  who  undertake  their 
preparation,  which  consists  in  drying  the  leaves  in  houses,  first  by  the 
simple  contact  with  the  air,  afterwards  in  heated  warehouses.  When  the 
preparation  is  terminated,  the  merchants  come  and  make  choice  of  the 
best  qualities ;  then  the  desiccation  of  the  tea  is  finished,  and  it  is 
forwarded  in  packets,  each  bearing  its  proper  designation* 

As  soon  as  the  leaves  have  been  gathered  and  selected,  they  are 
plunged  in  boiling  water,  where  they  remain  about  thirty  seconds ;  they 
are  then  quickly  withdrawn,  strained,  and  thrown  on  iron  plates,  large 
and  flat,  placed  above  a  furnace:  the  workmen's  hands  can  hardly 
endure  the  heat  of  these  plates.  They  continually  stir  the  leaves  tiU 
they  are  sufficiently  heated,  after  which  they  take  them  oiBT,  and  spread 
them  on  large  tables  covered  with  mats.  Other  workmen  then  busy 
themselves  with  rolling  them  with  the  palm  of  the  hand,  while  others 
cool  them  as  quickly  as  possible  by  agitating  the  air  with  large  fitns. 
This  operation  must  be  continued  until  the  leaves  have  completely 
cooled  under  the  hand  of  the  person  who  rolls  them,  for  it  is  by  being 
quickly  cooled  that  the  leaves  remain  longer  curled.  Thanks  to  the 
operation  of  rolling  them,  which  is  repeated  two  or  three  times,  the 
leaves  are  deprived  of  their  hiunidity,  and  the  unwholesome  bitter  juice 
they  contain.  For  teas  of  the  first  quality,  each  leaf  must  be  rolled 
separately ;  but  for  more  common  kinds,  several  may  be  rolled  at  once. 
Tea,  thus  prepared,  is  dried,  and  put  into  boxes  or  cases  free  from 
moisture.  The  Chinese  then  aromatise  it  with  various  odoriferous 
plants,  such  as  the  flowers  of  the  olea  fragrans^  and  those  of  the  camellia 
%esanffua,  shrubs  of  the  same  family  as  tea;  or  those  of  the  scented  tea* 
roses  and  orange-flowers. 

This  tea  is  destined  for  mandarins  of  the  higher  class,  for  the  Calaoa 
or  ministers,  and  even  for  the  celestial  sovereign  of  the  Centre  of  the 
.  Earth — or,  in  more  simple  words,  the  Emperor. 

There  are,  in  reality,  but  two  kinds  of  tea,  black  tea  and  green  tea ; 
each  kind  is  again  subdivided  into  many  varieties.  The  best  black  tea 
is  the  scented  Liang-sing,  worth  in  China  about  10«.  the  pound. 

The  first  of  all  green  teas,  destined  for  the  great,  and  bearing  an 
exquisite  perfume,  is  that  called  Koo-lang-fyn-i.  M.  de  Bienzi  assures 
us  that  he  has  seen  it  sold  in  Canton  for  82s.  a  pound. 

New  tea  is  considered  by  the  Chinese  as  a  powerful  narcotic,  therefore 
it  is  never  sold  until  a  year  after  the  gathering 


308  BEVERAGES. 

The  Europeans  and  Americans,  who  trade  with  tea  in  Canton,  have 
recourse  for  their  transactions  with  the  Chinese  to  native  tasters,  or 
others,  who  know  how  to  distinguish  the  different  qualities  at  the  sight 
of  the  colour  produced  by  the  infusion. 

It  is  generally  believed  in  Europe  that  tea  exported  thence  has 
already  served  as  a  beverage  to  the  Chinese.  It  is  a  mistake,  propagated 
by  persons  who,  having  seen  the  tea  put  in  water,  have  doubtless  not 
well  understood  the  reason  of  this  operation.  We  must,  however,  admit 
that  the  merchants  sometimes  mix  tea  already  used  with  tea  of  good 
quality ;  a  fraud  only  to  be  discovered  by  the  weakness  of  the  infusion. 

Tea  seems  likely  to  spread  over  the  world.  Our  books,  wines, 
brandy,  cutlery,  and  jewellery,  go  round  the  globe,  and  are  sought 
after  by  the  civilized  nations  as  well  as  the  wild  tribes.  On  the 
other  hand,  we  receive  our  food,  together  with  spices,  from  Malaisia ;  we 
sweeten  them  with  sugar  from  the  Antilles  or  Siam ;  we  enjoy  the  flavour 
and  perfume  of  coffee  from  Arabia  and  the  Island  of  Bourbon ;  we 
intoxicate  ourselves  with  tobacco  from  Manilla,  Virginia,  of  Havannah, 
and  Latakia;  and  we  imbibe  with  luxurious  pleasure  the  tea  of  those 
Chinese  we  are  continually  laughing  at,  but  of  whom  we  have  borrowed 
so  many  useful  things.  We  must,  however,  acknowledge  that  France  is 
the  country  the  least  advanced  in  this  respect,  and  the  use  of  this  bene- 
ficent drink  is  far  from  being  as  common  as  it  ought  to  be.  We  do  not 
fear  to  say  that  when  once  acquainted  with  the  method  of  preparing  it 
better  than  is  generally  done,  this  inferiority  in  the  consumption  will 
disappear.  Some  witty  delineator  of  manners  and  customs  has  pour- 
trayed  upon  the  joyous  scene  of  a  comic  theatre  of  Paris,  that  famous 
tea  party  of  Mother  Gibou  and  Madame  Pocket,  one  of  those  ridiculous 
Parisian  and  really  home-scenes,  much  more  common  than  is  generally 
supposed,  and  although  the  picture  is  over-charged,  it  is  nevertheless  true. 
It  is  not  necessary  here  to  give  our  private  recipe  to  prepare  an 
infusion  in  which  that  excellent  lady,  Madame  Pockety  thought  herself 
so  perfect ;  suffice  to  say,  that  to  make  it  agreeable  to  her  guests  she 
added  salt,  pepper,  some  cinnamon,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  a  tiny  drop 
of  vinegar.  We  would  beg  the  reader  not  to  fail  in  attending  these 
charming  and  daily  meetings,  at  which  each  housewife  presides,  and 
we  would  say  to  strangers,  let  us  seriously  study  an  English  tea. 

*'  The  use  of  tea  in  China  dates  from  the  greatest  antiquity.     The 
Japanese  attribute  to  it  a  miraculous  origin.     They  say  that  Darma,  a 


BEVERAGES.  309 

very  pious  prince^  and  son  of  an  Indian  king,  landed  in  China  in  the 
year  510  of  the  Christian  era,  and  wishing  to  edify  mankind  by  his 
example,  imposed  upon  himself  privations  of  all  kinds.  It  happened, 
however,  that  after  several  years  of  great  fatigue,  in  spite  of  his  care  he 
fell  asleep;  and  believing  he  had  violated  his  oath,  and  in  order  to 
fulfil  it  faithfully  for  the  future,  he  cut  off  his  eyelids  and  threw  them 
on  the  ground.  The  next  day,  returning  towards  the  same  spot,  he 
found  them  changed  into  a  little  shrub,  hitherto  unknown  to  the  earth. 
He  eat  some  of  the  leaves,  which  made  him  merry  and  restored  his 
foritner  strength.  Having  recommended  the  same  food  to  his  disciples, 
the  reputation  of  tea  soon  spread,  and  has  continued  in  use  since 
that  time." — ^Desfontaines.  See,  also,  Kcempfer,  in  his  "  Amenites 
Exotiques." 

We  are  ignorant  of  the  period  and  motives  which  persuaded  the 
Chinese  to  use  tea  in  infusion.  Perhaps  it  was  to  render  water  more 
agreeable,  which  is  said  to  be  brackish  and  of  a  bad  taste  in  many  parts 
of  China.  In  1641,  Tulpius,  a  Dutch  physician,  was  the  first  to  mention 
this  plant,  in  a  dissertation  he  published.  In  1657,  Joncquet,  a  French 
physician,  called  it  the  divine  plant,  and  compared  it  to  ambrosia.  In 
1679,  Cornelius  Bentekoe,  a  Dutch  physician,  published  a  treatise,  in 
which  he  declared  himself  a  partisan  of  tea,  and  asserted  that  this 
beverage  in  no  way  could  injure  the  stomach,  even  if  drank  to  the  extent 
oitwo  hundred  cups  a  day.  Many  of  his  coimtrymen  went  even  beyond 
this :  they  made  of  it  a  universal  panacea.   . 

As  at  first  the  leaves  of  the  tea  plant  were  rare  and  but  little  known, 
many  persons  thought  they  had  discovered  in  Europe  what  others 
fetched  firom  such  a  distance.  Thus  Simon  Fauli  introduced  the  royal 
pimento  (myria  gale  of  Linn.),  as  the  real  tea  of  China.  Others  thought 
to  have  found  the  marvellous  virtues  of  tea  in  plants  growing  in  our 
own  country,  such  as  maijoram,  veronica,  myrtle,  sage,  agrimony,  &c« ; 
but  it  happily  ended  in  granting  the  preference  to  the  real  tea  of  China 
and  Japan. 


310  BEVfiBAGES. 


COFFEE. 

In  the  trade  five  principal  kinds  of  coffee  are  enumerated — or  rather* 
five  sorts — according  to  the  different  countries  from  whence  they  come, 
although  all  derived  from  the  same  kind  of  coffee  tree,  Coffea  Arahicak 
These  five  kinds  are  as  follows : — 

1st.  Mocha  coffee,  thus  called  fi*om  the  country  whence  this  kind  of 
coffee  originates,  a  plant  now  so  commonly  spread  over  every  American 
colony.  The  grain  of  this  coffee  is  generally  round  and  small.  From 
Mocha  coffee  is  derived  the  most  sweet  and  agreeable  beverage ;  it  is  also 
the  most  esteemed,  the  dearest,  and  holds  the  first  rank  in  the  trade. 

2nd.  The  Bourbon  coffee,  cultivated  in  the  Island  of  Bourbon;  fot 
some  time  it  occupied  the  second  place  in  quality,  but  the  gourmeU 
prefer  to  it  coffee  from  Martinique  or  Guadaloupe. 

drd.  There  are  several  kinds  of  Martinique  or  Guadaloupe,  dis- 
tinguished by  the  various  preparations. 

4th.  The  Cayenne  coffee.  This  kind  is  less  known  on  account  of 
the  small  quantity  cultivated  there,  and  introduced  in  trade.  This 
kind  is  superior  to  the  Martinique  coffee. 

5th.  The  St.  Domingo  coffee,  in  which  is  comprised  that  from  Porto 
Bico,  and  other  leeward  islands,  is  considered  inferior  to  the  fout 
other  kinds. 

Let  us  mention  a  few  of  the  methods  by  which  coffee  in  infusion 
is  obtained. 

It  is  not  exactly  known  who  introduced  the  custom  of  taking  coffee. 
Some  attribute  its  use  to  the  prior  of  a  convent,  who  becoming  ac** 
quainted  with  the  properties  of  this  plant  by  the  effect  it  produced  on 
the  goats  which  fed  upon  it,  tried  its  influence  on  his  monks,  in  order 
to  keep  them  awake  during  the  performance  of  divine  service.  Ac- 
cording to  others,  the  discovery  is  due  to  a  mufti,  who,  wishing  to 
surpass  in  devotion  the  most  religious  dervishes,  made  use  of  coffee  so 
as  to  banish  sleep,  and  thus  be  enabled  to  pray  longer  without  inter* 
ruption.  Whatever  may  be  the  origin  of  the  use  of  coffee,  it  has  become 
so  general  up  to  the  present  day  that  it  may  almost  be  classed  among 
the  articles  of  the  greatest  necessity.     This  extensive  use  has  stimu- 


BEVERAGES.  311 

lated  the  htdostry  of  inventors  to  seek  means  of  rendering  it  most 
pleasunt  to  drink,  as  also  its  great  consumption  and  high  price  have 
awaked  both  economy  and  fraud,  in  order  to  find  a  substitute  for  this 
agreeable  beverage. 

It  would  be  useless  here  to  describe  the  different  methods  of  making 
co£fe6;  it  will  be  sufScient  to  mention  that  all  those  which  tend  to 
prepare  it  without  boiling  the  water  in  which  the  pulverised  coffee  is 
placed,  are  almost  equally  good. 

In  order  to  supplant  coffee,  which  in  Europe  was  found  veiy  expensive, 
many  different  means  have  been  tried.  About  fifty  years  since  the 
Swiss  porter  of  a  nobleman  in  Paris  thought  of  roasting  acorns,  which 
he  mixed  with  roast  coffee,  ground ;  he  sold  it  cheaper  than  any  one ; 
all  bought  it,  and  the  Swiss  made  his  fortune. 

The  trick,  however,  being  discovered,  all  sought  means  of  gratifying 
their  taste  without  emptying  their  purses ;  barley  and  rye  began  to  be 
mixed  with  coffee. 

In  the  mountains  of  Virginia,  in  America,  the  inhabitants  make  a 
coffee  simply  of  roasted  rye;  they  by  these  means  obtain  a  beverage  in 
no  way  resembling  coffee,  but  it  goes  by  that  name,  and  at  least  the 
imagination  is  satisfied. 

In  Belgium,  in  the  province  of  Liege,  coffee  is  mixed  with  wild 
chicory  root.  This  method,  generally  known,  is  at  the  present  time 
practised  throughout  the  whole  of  Europe ;  and  wild  chicory  root  then 
opened  for  Liege  a  new  branch  of  commerce.  Lastly,  in  Flanders  some 
of  die  inhabitants  cultivate  the  lupin,  which  they  complacently  call 
coffee,  and  whose  seed,  roasted,  they  drink  instead  of  real  coffee. 

''The  infusion  of  coffee  is  thought  to  be  beneficial  to  stout  and 
phlegmatic  persons,  and  for  pains  in  the  head ;  but  it  appears  that  its 
admixture  with  cream  or  milk  prevents  these  good  effects^  on  account  of 
the  relaxation  it  thus  causes  to  the  stomach.  On  the  contrary,  it  gives 
strength  when  taken  pure.  It  is  doubtless  for  this  reason  that  the  in- 
habitants of  the  colonies  take  it  three  and  four  times  a  day — that  is,  at 
four  o'clock  in  the  morning,  a  very  strong  infusion,  sometimes  without 
sugar ;  at  breakfast,  with  milk ;  after  dinner,  pure ;  and  often  in  the 
afternoon,  for  the  fourth  time." — Bbauvais. 

We  are  unacquainted  with  the  period  of  the  introduction  of  coffee 
into  Europe.  Rauwolf  is  the  first  who  speaks  of  coffee,  in  1583.  Pros- 
pero  Alpini  then  came,  and  described  the  coffee  tree  in  Egypt  by  the 


312  BEYER  AGES. 

name  of  bon,  bun,  or  boun:  his  work  appeared  in  159 J.  In  1614, 
Bacon  mentioned  this  oriental  beverage^  and  Meissner  published  a  treatise 
on  it  in  1621. 

It  was  not,  however,  until  towards  the  year  1645,  that  it  began  to 
be  drunk  in  Italy.  The  first  cafes  were  opened  in  London  in  1652, 
and  in  Paris  in  1669,  a  time  at  which  a  pound  of  cofiee  was  worth 
forty  crowns.     It  was  principally  Soliman  Aga,   the  ambassador  from 

Turkey,  who  caused  coffee  to  become  fashionable  in  Paris. 

♦ 

It  penetrated  into  Sweden  in  the  year  J  6  74,  where  it  was  thought  of 
use  in  scorbutic  diseases.  The  first  person  who  made  trial  of  coffee 
with  milk  was  Nieuhoff,  the  Dutch  ambassador  in  China,  in  imitation 
of  tea  with  milk. 

"The  physical  effects  of  coffee  are  well  known:  it  accelerates  the  cir- 
culation of  the  blood,  but  sometimes  causes  palpitation  of  the  heart  and 
giddiness ;  it  has  even  been  thought  to  occasion  apoplexy  and  paralysis. 
Nevertheless,  celebrated  writers — such  as  Fontenelle  and  Voltaire — made 
constant  use  of  it,  almost  to  an  abuse.  They  were  told,  it  is  a  slow 
poison ;  it  was  indeed  slow  for  these  learned  men,  who  died,  the  one 
at  a  hundred,  the  other  eighty-four  years  of  age.  However,  at  the  pre- 
sent time  coffee  is  a  beverage  whose  power  over  our  intellectual  or  moral 
habits  has,  perhaps,  never  been  calculated  as  it  deserves,  since  it  has 
become  general,  and  almost  suppressed  the  drunkenness  which  disgraced 
our  ancestors  at  the  end  of  their  grand  repasts." — ^Virey. 

The  subject  we  have  just  slightly  touched  upon  recalls  to  our  recol- 
lection a  whim  of  the  charming  Sevign^:  *'  Le  cafi  et  Racine  pas* 
seronty^  said  this  amiable  lady,  nearly  two  hundred  years  ago.  The 
beautiful  marchioness  was  mistaken  :  both  coffee  and  Bacine  have  re- 
mained, and  do  not  appear  Hkely  soon  to  bid  us  adieu. 


CHOCOLATE. 

Every  one  is  aware  that  chocolate  is  an  aliment  obtained  from  the 
cocoa-nut,  roasted  and  reduced  to  paste,  with  sugar  and  aromatics. 
But  first,  the  choice  of  cocoa  nuts  is  not  indifferent. 
Those  from  Soconusco,  from  Caracas,  and  Maracaibo,  are  the  best 


» 


« 


BEVERAGES.  313 

and  sweetest ;  it  is,  however,  weU  to  mix  with  them  other  kinds,  to 
correct  their  insipidity  by  a  certain  sharpness  far  from  being  unpleasant ; 
thus,  to  four  parts  of  Caracas  cocoa,  earthed — that  is,  rendered  mild  by  a 
sojourn  of  some  weeks  under  the  moist  earth — a  part  of  cocoa  from  the 
Antilles,  or  Maragnon  and  Parai  is  added ;  this  kind  contains  more  of 
sharp  and  bitter  matter.  These  cocoas  are  slightly  torrefied  in  an  iron 
pan.  The  Spaniards  burn  their  cocoa  much  less  than  the  Italians. 
Being  left  to  grow  cold,  this  cocoa  is  shghtly  crushed,  to  separate  the 
envelopes  or  shells,  which  are  thrown  away.  However,  in  England, 
Switzerland,  and  Germany,  these  shells  serve  to  make,  with  boiling 
water,  a  warm  infusion,  mixed  with  milk  and  drank  in  lieu  of  real 
chocolate.  The  envelopes  of  torrefied  cofiee  are  employed  in  a  similar 
manner  in  the  east  for  the  "  Sultana  cofiee."  The  mixtures  of  torrefied 
cocoa  are  reduced  into  a  fat  paste  of  a  brown  colour,  either  between 
stones,  or  by  means  of  an  iron  roller  upon  a  porphyry  rock,  warmed 
underneath  by  live  coals;  this  paste,  regularly  ground,  is  at  last  incor- 
porated with  sugar,  equal  to  its  weight,  then  it  is  mixed  together  as 
perfectly  as  possible.  In  this  chocolat  de  sanU  a  small  quantity  of 
very  fine  cinnamon  powder  is  admitted,  which  makes  it  more  palatable, 
and  neutralizes  the  action  of  the  fat  and  heavy  substance,  or  vegetable 
butter,  contained  in  the  cocoa. 

''The  term  chocolate  belongs,  it  is  said,  to  the  language  of  the  Mex- 
icans, and  is  derived  from  the  two  words  choco,  sound  or  noise,  and 
atle,  water,  because  it  is  beaten  in  boiling  water  to  make  it  froth,  ac- 
cording to  the  custom  of  this  people.  Before  their  conquest  by  the 
Spaniards,  it  formed  the  principal  aliment  of  the  Mexicans.  They  held 
the  cocoa  tree  in  such  estimation,  that  its  kernel  served  as  current  coin, 
and  this  custom  even  now  remains." — Humboldt. 

The  ^Mexican  chocolate,  besides  the  pimento,  contained  the  chile, 
or  Indian  wheat-flour,  with  honey,  or  sweet  juice  of  the  agava.  To 
this  was  added  annotto,  an  astringent  tinctorial  juice,  of  a  rosy  hue, 
obtained  from  the  seeds  of  the  Bixa  Orleana,  The  chieftains,  or  lords 
and  warriors  only,  enjoyed  the  right  of  feeding  on  chocolate,  as  the 
most  restoring  aliment,  and  the  most  capable,  in  their  opinion,  of  re- 
pairing worn-out  strength  and  producing  vigour.  The  addition  of  the 
perfume  of  vanUla,  again,  augments  this  quality,  according  to  the 
testimony  of  physicians  and  travellers.  Dias  of  Castilho  relates  that 
Montezuma  drank  vanilla  chocolate,  and  the  Mar^chal  de  Bellisle  says, 

u 


314  BEVERAGES. 

in  his  "  Testament  Politique,''  that  the  regent,  Louis  Philippe  d'Orl^ans 
regaled  himself  every  morning  with  chocolate  at  his  petit  lever. 

The  ladies  of  Chiapa,  in  Mexico,  are  so  fond  of  these  perftimed 
chocolates  that  they  even  have  them  carried  to  eat  in  church.  The 
Spanish  Creole  nuns  have  also  brought  to  great  perfection  the  art  of 
preparing  fine  chocolate,  perfumed  with  amber. 

The  use  of  chocolate  was  soon  brought  from  Mexico,  after  its  con- 
quest by  Fernando  Cortes,  into  Spain,  and  this  food  has  there  become 
quite  habitual.  First,  it  easily  deceives  hunger  by  reason  of  its  oily 
qualities  and  slow  digestion;  then  it  is  softening  and  cooling,  which 
renders  it  particularly  desirable  in  warm  climates,  especially  such  as  the 
Iberian  peninsula.  Thus  the  Spaniards  but  slightly  roast  their  cocoa- 
nuts  ;  they  prefer  preserving  but  a  very  slight  bitterness,  and  mixing 
with  it  more  aromatics.  Besides,  chocolate,  so  useful  to  dry  and  nervous 
temperaments,  is  an  agreeable  analeptic,  recommended  against  hypo- 
chondria and  melancholy,  two  affections  so  common  to  the  Spaniards. 
The  beggars,  even,  could  not  live  without  it,  and  they  accost  each  other 
in  the  morning  with  inquiring  if  their  lordships  have  taken  their  chocolate. 

This  aliment  is  favourable  to  idleness,  augments  the  calm  of  die 
body  and  mind,  and  plunges  one  in  a  sweet  quietude  of  far  niente  at  a 
small  expense. 

From  Spain  the  fashion  of  taking  chocolate  was  introduced  into 
Italy,  especially  by  the  Florentine,  Antonio  Carletti.  The  Italians  extract 
from  cocoa  more  exalted  qualities  by  torrefication :  they  bum  it  till  it 
becomes  bitter.  The  grave  question  arose  among  them,  whether  cho- 
colate taken  in  the  morning  by  the  monks  broke  the  fast  principally  in 
Lent  The  Cardinal  firancaccio,  and  other  learned  casuists,  battled  long 
in  order  to  prove  that  chocolate,  being  evidently  a  beverage  made  of 
water,  could  not  be  in  the  least  considered  as  an  aliment,  nor  break  the 
fast.  We  see,  indeed,  in  the  correspondence  of  the  Princess  des 
Ursins — all  powerful  at  the  court  of  Philip  V.  of  Spain — ^and  Madame 
de  Maintenon,  that  the  consciences  of  pious  persons  had  been  placed  in 
full  tranquillity  by  this  decision,  and  that  any  one  might  fast  during  the 
whole  Lent  as  perfectly  by  drinking  chocolate  as  if  lie  had  only  par- 
taken of  a  glass  of  cold  water. 

'*  Chocolate  became  pretty  common  in  France  from  the  time  of  Anne 
of  Austria,  mother  of  Louis  XIV. ;  however,  it  does  not  appear  to  have 
ever  excited  the  same  enthusiasm  as  cofiee ;  it  is  not  favourable  to  good 


BEVERAGES.  315 

cheer,  nor  is  it  exhilarating.      To  this  may  be  traced,  perhaps,  the  in* 
difference  of  the  English  for  this  beverage." — ^Virey. 

In  trade,  as  we  have  said,  are  distinguished  a  great  variety  of  cocoas, 
and  they  are  called  by  the  name  of  the  country  whence  they  come. 
Thus  we  have  the  Caracas  cocoa,  the  Surinam  cocoa,  &c.  That  which 
comes  from  the  French  possessions  is  called  also  *'  cocoa  of  the  isles." 
The  Caracas  is  the  most  esteemed  of  all :  it  is  more  oily  than  the  other 
kinds,  and  has  no  sharpness  of  flavour.  It  is  known  by  being  larger, 
rough,  of  an  ovoid,  oblong  shape,  not  flattened,  covered  with  a  greyish 
dust,  and  by  the  kernel  being  easily  divided  into  several  irregular  frag- 
ments. "  The  name  of  cacao,  of  which  in  French  has  been  made  the 
word  eacaoyeTy  is  that  given  by  the  inhabitants  of  Guiana  to  this  grain. 
As  to  the  scientific  name,  theobroma,  LinnsBus  formed  it  from  two  Greek 
words,  signifying  'food  of  the  gods.'" — Demezil. 


u  Z 


XXVII. 


DRINKING   CUPS. 


If  men  were  wiser,  the  1 9th  century  would  probably  not  have  seen  a 
beneficent  apostle  preaching  temperance  everywhere,  and  making  his 
name  cherished  and  celebrated  by  a  series  of  successes  which  could 
hardly  have  been  expected;  numerous  societies  of  Hydropotes,  or 
"  teetotallers/'  would  not  alarm,  in  our  days,  those  joyful  disciples  of 
Bacchus's  temple,  hydrophobes  by  profession,  by  taste,  and  interest, 
who  sincerely  bewail  the  desertion  of  newly  made  abstemious  members ; 
and  no  person  would  promise,  by  a  solenm  and  formidable  pledge,  to 
forego  the  drinking  of  anything  but  water !  The  abuse  must  have  been 
very  great,  since  it  was  necessary  to  have  recourse  to  such  a  remedy. 

It  is  true  that  the  evil  had  taken  deep  root,  and  that  the  most 
ancient  people,  the  gods,  and  the  heroes,  have  left  us  examples  of  this 
dangerous  seduction.  The  Scythians,  the  Celts,  Iberians,  and  Thra- 
cians,^  were  confirmed  drunkards.  The  wise  Nestor  himself,  who  was 
so  good  a  match  for  Agamemnon,  often  felt  some  difficulty  in  finding 
his  tent'  AlexcLader  the  Great  slept  sometimes  Iwo  days  and  two 
nights,  after  having  paid  too  much  devotion  to  the  god  of  good  cheer;' 
and  Philip,  his  father,  very  firequently  left  the  table  with  a  very  heavy 
head  and  staggering  legs.^ 

It  is  reported  that  Dionysius  the  Younger,  tyrant  of  Sicily,  lost  his 
sight  through  drinking  too  much,  which  will  not  be  wondered  at,  if 


DESCBIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XVIII. 

No.  1.    Drinldng'eap,  of  terra  ootta,  in  the  form  of  a  piga  head,  found  at  Herculaneom. — 
Hamilton,  I.,  IIo. 

No.  3.    Alao  that  of  a  dog's  head. — CatluSi  I.,  Flan  Z6, 


DRINKING  CUPS,  3ir 

what  is  supposed,  be  tnie,  that  this  miserable  man  was  drunk  every  day, 
without  faiU  for  three  months  together  !*  Shall  we  mention  Tiberius — 
surnamed  by  the  army,  Biberius  (Tippler) — who,  after  he  became  Em- 
peror, passed  the  days  and  nights  drinking  with  Flaccus  and  Fiso,  at 
the  very  time  they  were  working  at  the  reformation  of  the  Bomans  ?* 

This  pagan  Solomon,  having  to  choose  from  among  several  very 
distinguished  candidates  [who  offered  themselves  for  the  qusestorship, 
preferred  the  least  known,  because  he  had  drunk  a  whole  pitcher  of 
wine,  which  the  prince  himself  had  condescended  to  fill/  * 

Intoxication,  with  the  Greeks,  was  noted  as  belonging  to  low  com- 
pany, if  we  are  to  judge  by  certain  personages  whom  ^schylus  and 
Sophocles  did  not  fear  to  bring  on  the  stage,  and  who  struck  each  other 
with  vases — a  thing  which  the  modem  theatre  has  judiciously  banished.' 
Homer  is  more  reserved ;  for  Achilles,  after  copious  libations,  only 
threw  a  neat's  foot  at  Ulysses'  head,'  which  probably  was  not  of  much 
consequence. 

The  fact  is,  that  the  ancients  did  not  at  all  profess  the  same  prin- 
ciples that  we  do  respecting  intemperance.  Hippocrates  himself,  advised 
men  to  seek  mirth  now  and  then  in  wine  '^^  Seneca  recommends  us  to 
drown  cares  and  fatigue  in  it ;"  and  Museeus  decorates  with  crowns  of 
flowers  the  foreheads  of  the  sages  who,  sitting  by  the  side  of  Plato  at 
all  new  banquets,  should  find  in  continual  drunkenness  the  sweetest 
reward  for  their  virtues."  A  singular  bliss,  which  only  reason  in  de- 
lirium could  have  imagined. 

We  have  spoken  of  the  delicious  beverage  which  was  so  costly  a 
seduction  to  choice  epicureans,  who  took  merit  to  themselves  for  not 
resisting  it ;  for  this  reason,  it  was  necessary  to  invent  vessels  worthy  of 
containing  it ;  and  art,  encouraged  by  luxury,  produced  those  magnifi*' 
cent  vases  of  which  ostentatious  antiquity  has  only  left  us  a  faint  idea. 

The  cups  of  the  Homeric  times  were  all  of  equal  capacity ;  one  of 
them  was  offered  to  each  guest,  but  several  were  offered  to  persons  of 
high  distinction." 

The  Gfxeeks  thought  much  of  their  cups ;  for  them  they  were  sacred 
relics  from  father  to  son,  and  were  only  used  on  certain  solemnities. 
Thus  (Edipus  delivers  the  most  frightful  imprecation  against  his  son 
Polynices,  who  had  presented,  at  a  common  repast,  the  cup  of  his  an- 
cestors." That  of  Nestor  was  so  large  that  a  young  man  could  hardly 
carry  it;  as  to  him,  he  lifted  it  up  without  the  slightest  difficulty." 


818  DRINKING  CUPS. 

The  AtheniaDS  drank  from  cups  in  the  shape  of  horns."  Wax  vases 
were  sufficient  for  the  Spaniards."  The  Gaul  who  had  thrown  down  an 
Urus  (wild  ox)  took  its  horns,  decorated  them  with  silver  and  gold 
rings,  and  made  his  guests  drink  out  of  them."  Often  the  skull  of  an 
enemy,  killed  in  single  combat,  was  transformed  into  a  cup  of  honour, 
and  reminded  a  Gallic  family  of  the  memorable  action  of  a  valiant 
ancestor." 

The  first  cups  of  the  Romans  were  made  of  horns,  or  of  the  earthen- 
ware of  Samos.**  Those  conquerors  of  the  world  had  not  yet  enervated 
their  manly  courage  with  the  luxurious  spoils  of  conquered  nations. 
Afterwards,  some  very  simple  ones  were  made  of  beech-wood  '*  or 
elder ;"  these  possessed  a  marvellous  property  which  they  ought  to  have 
always  preserved — the  wine  only  escaped  from  them,  and  they  retained 
'ftie  water  which  had  been  mixed  with  it." 

But  Rome,  already  tired  of  its  austere  simplicity,  and  its  disdain  for 
the  Greek  cups  of  glass  and  crystal,  soon  began  to  desire  something 
finer.  Those  magnificent  chalices,  master-pieces  of  patience  and  skill, 
in  which  gold  and  silver  were  amalgamated  with  a  more  brittle  material,'^ 
were  soon  in  much  request,  and  appeared  worthy  of  their  renown. 

But  it  is  to  be  observed,  that  the  crystal  of  which  the  most  precious 
cups  were  made,  had  not  the  slightest  similarity  to  that  which  we  make 
use  of  now,  and  which  the  least  shock  will  break ;  it  was  flexible  and 
malleable  ;'*  it  might  be  thrown  on  the  pavement  with  impunity,  and 
remained  unhurt." 

Here  is,  on  this  subject,  a  curious  anecdote,  which  has  been  left  to 
us  by  Petronius : — 

A  certain  skilful  workman  used  to  make  crystal  vases  as  strong  as 
vases  of  gold  and  silver.  He  produced  an  incomparable  masterpiece ; 
it  was  a  chalice  of  astonishing  beauty,  which  he  thought  worthy  of 
Geesar  only,  and  which  he  felt  a  pride  in  ofiering  to  him.  Tiberius 
highly  praised  the  skill  and  the  rich  present  of  the  artist  This  man, 
wishing  to  increase  still  more  the  admiration  of  the  prince,  and  secure 
his  favours  to  a  greater  degree,  begged  of  him  to  give  back  the  vase. 
He  then  threw  it  with  all  his  might  on  the  marble  pavement  of  the 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XIX. 

Nos.  1.  and  2.    Drinking  horns;  these  give  us  an  idea  how  the  andenl  Gredu  and  KoiBans 
made  use  of  the  horns :  taken  from  two  paintings  at  Herculaneom. 

No.  8.    A  ham,  with  a  chimerical  head,  in  Grecian  tezra  oolta.-^"£rerc«/an.  Bronzi,"  II.,  2,  8. 


\^J^  '^  "-^  "^  "^ 


J .  TiiZcuit.  d4.l 


.  /'.  •fU:Jc^^^a.X;*.j     ..r .  -, , 


r 


DRINKING  CUPS.  819 

apartment :  the  hardest  metal  could  never  have  resisted  this  terrible 
shock.  CfiBsar  appeared  moved,  and  was  silent.  The  artist,  with  a 
triumphant  smile,  picked  up  the  vase,  which  had  only  a  slight  dent, 
and  which,  by  striking  it  with  the  hammer,  was  soon  brought  to  its 
original  state.  This  being  done>  no  doubt  remained  on  his  mind  that 
he  had  conquered  the  good  graces  of  the  Emperor,  and  the  esteem  of  an 
astonished  court.  Tiberius  asked  him  if  he  was  the  only  one  who  knew 
how  to  work  crystal  in  so  remarkable  a  manner  ?  The  workman  imme- 
diately answered  that  np  one  possessed  his  secret  "  Very  well,"  said 
Caesar,  "  let  his  b«ad  be  struck  off  without  loss  of  time ;  for  if  this 
strange  invention  were  ktown,  gold  and  silver  would  very  soon  have 
not  the  least  value/'"  Thus  did  the  Emperor  Tiberius  encourage 
artists  and  the  arts.  . 

There  were,  be^di^>  cups  made  of  the  most  pure  crystal,  *'  the 
brittleness  of  which  seems  to  have  added  to  their  price,""  and  which 
were  paid  for  dearer  than  gold  and  precious  stones  ;*'  but .  much  less, 
however,  than  those  famous  Murrhine  vases,  which  have  so  long  exer- 
cised the  useless  SEigacity  of  ancient  commentators. 

Among  the  rich  spoils  that  Pompey,  conqueror  of  Mithridates  and 
master  of  a  part  of  Asia,  ostentatiously  displayed  in  his  trimnph,'"  the 
Romans,  for  the  first  time,  admired  vases  and  cups,  the  material  and 
workmanship  of  which  surpassed  all  that  the  imagination  could  fancy  the 
most  graceful  and  delic^te.*^  They  were  much  in  request ;  the  price 
was  exorbitant,  and  thenceforth  they  were  indispensable.  One  of  the 
ancient  consuls  thought  himself  too  happy  to,  give  only  a  little  more 
than  £6,000  for  one  of  Uiose  Murrhines.  Such  was  the  name  given  to 
this  brittle  and  rare  novelty.    Petronius  paid  for  a  large  basin  £28,800 ; 


DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XX. 

This  vase,  mode  of  one  single  piece  of  crystal,  is  in  its  original  size;  the  delicacy  of  the  work  gives 
a  great  value  to  it  The  body  of  the  vase,  and  all  other  parts  in  relief,  are  of  glass.  It  was  discovered 
in  17U5,  and  is  preserved  in  the  cabinet  of  the  Marquis  of  Trivulsi,  at  Milan.  The  fillet  round  the 
body,  and  those  forming  the  oniinary  motto  of  the  feasts—"  BIBE  VIVAS  MULTIS  ANNIS"— 
are  isolated  firom  the  body  of  the  cnp  about  one  quarter  of  an  inch,  and  are  attached  to  it  by  threads 
or  fillets  of  glass,  very  fine.  They  are  not  soldered  to  the  cup,  but  the  whole  of  the  labour  is  worked 
on  a  turning  lathe,  being  seen  more  or  less  angular  as  the  instrument  may  have  been  led  to  penetrate 
in  the  most  difficult  parts.  The  inscription  is  green ;  the  fillet  is  blue :  these  two  colours  are  very 
bright  The  cup  is  an  opaque  or  changing  colour,  without  being  able  to  distinguish  whether  that  hue 
was  intended  to  be  so,  as  it  happens  to  glass  which  has  remained  a  long  while  buried,  exposed  to  the 
vapours  of  a  dunghill,  or  a  sewer,  Sec,  d(c.  A  second  antique  vase  is  known  to  exist,  whose  work- 
manship is  similar. — **  Histoire  de  VArt"  Liv.  I.,  Chap.  I.,  page  46. — Paris  :   Janson. 


8iJ0  DRINKING  CUPS. 

and  Nero  spent  the  like  sum  for  a  vase  with  two  handles,  which  he 
forgot  two  days  aftenvards." 

The  Murrhine  cups  appeared  on  the  table  with  the  wine  of  the 
"  hundred  leaves,"  and  the  Falemian  was  poured  into  them,  so  as  to 
preserve  all  the  generous  delicacy  of  its  odour.** 

The  Murrhines  were  much  sought  after,  on  account  of  their  form 
and  brilliant  transparency :  they  were  made  of  mother  of  pearl,  according 
to  Belon,  but  others  say  of  agate.  Their  dimensions,  however,  would 
incline  one  to  doubt  it.  ScaUger,**  Cardan,'*  and  Madame  Dacier,** 
thought  that  the  ancients  gave  unheard-of  prices  foi>««imple  porcelain 
vases,  which  were  precious  on  account  of  their  rarity.  This  opinion, 
which  several  modem /a'^ra//*^  have  adopted,  rests  plausibly  enough, 
it  appears,  on  one  verse  of  Propertius,  in  which  this  poet  speaks  of 
"  Murrhine  cups,  baked  in  the  furnace  of  the  Parthians.""  It  has  been 
said  that,  perhaps  the  Parthians  learnt  from  the  Chinese  how  to  make 
porcelain ;  but  this  supposition,  entirely  void  of  proof,  has  been  con- 
tradicted in  a  most  peremptory  manner  by  the  author  of  a  very  curious 
book,  who  demonstrates  irrefragably  that  the  Murrhines  were  not  of 
porcelain,  but  of  stones  of  the  species  of  onyx.**  The  following  fact 
will  leave  but  very  little  doubt  on  that  subject : — 

In  1791,  the  Constituent  National  Assembly,  appointed  a  commission 
to  make  an  inventory  and  valuation  of  all  objects  in  the  Garde-Meuble 
of  the  crown.  They  found,  among  other  very  beautiful  sardonyx,  two 
very  antique  vases :  t^ne  made  in  the  form  of  an  ewer,  ten  inches  in 
height  and  four  inches  in  diameter,  having  its  handle  cut  out  of  the 
same  piece,  and  the  second,  hollowed  out  as  a  bowl,  ten  inches  in 
diameter,  which  were  recognised  as  real  Murrhines — beautiful  white  and 
blue  veins  and  other  shades,  circulated  about  the  bowl  without  inter- 
fering with  its  semi-transparency ;  the  bottom  was  of  the  same  colour 
as  the  ewer.  The  jewellers  estimated  these  vases  at  £6,000  each, 
although  there  was  nothing  engraved  in  the  hollow  nor  in  relief,  but 
merely  on  consideration  of  the  beauty  of  the  material,  the  fineness  of 
the  polish,  and  the  difficulty  that  must  have  attended  the  hollowing  out 
of  the  ewer." 

These  valuations  would  appear  exaggerated,  if  it  were  not  known  that 
the  antique  vase  of  theDuke  of  Brunswick,  which  formerly  belonged  to 
the  Dukes  of  Mantua,  in  1 63 ) ,  and  made  of  sardonyx,  in  the  cruet  shape, 
was  valued  at  150,000  German  crowns — or  dollars  of  is.  Sd.   The  relief 


DRINKING  CUPS.  321 

engravrng  represented  the  mysteries  of  Ceres  and  Bfwchus;  but  it  had 
no  primitive  handle,  and  the  diameter  was  only  two  inches  and  a-half." 

By  the  side  of  these  inestimable  Murrhines  were  standing  very  graceful 
chalices  of  amber,  the  prodigious  workmanship  of  which  absolutely 
gave  to  them  a  most  arbitrary  value,"  but  which  Eoman  prodigality 
never  found  too  high. 

Silver  cups  engraved  were  also  nearly  as  much  esteemed,  when  they 
came  from  the  hands  of  some  well-known  workman — such  as  Myos, 
Mentor,  or  Myron.*'  They  were  even  preferred  to  gold  cups,**  unless 
these  latter  were  enriched  with  precious  stones.** 

All  these  vases  presented  still  greater  varieties  in  their  forms  than 
in  the  materials  employed.  There  were  very  large  ones,  some  narrow, 
some  oblong;  many  ornamented  with  two  handles,  others  had  only 
one.*'  Some  were  much  like  a  tympanon — or  zoph,  a  musical  instru- 
ment of  the  ancient  Hebrews — a  small  boat  or  ewer.*'  In  one  word,  the 
Greek  or  Roman  artist  never  listened  to  anything  but  his  own  fancy, 
and  was  then  far  from  supposing  that  he  was  preparing  very  long  and 
wakeful  hours  of  study  to  many  antiquarians,  zealous  to  explain  seriously 
the  strange  wanderings  of  a  fantastical  imagination* 


DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XXL 

MuBRHiNB  Vasb.— This  vase  is  the  most  predoos  of  all  those  'which  hare  come' down  to  us.  It  is 
drawn  here  half  the  original  size,  and  belongs  to  Prince  de  Biscari,  in  Sicily,  which  baa  been  described 
by  him  in  the  dissertation  entitled,  **De  Vati  Murrini  R^tgiotuunenti.'*  Three  pieces  of  opal  in  the  first 
place  form  the  cop;  the  second,  the  stem ;  and  the  last,  the  base  of  the  hou  If  this  vase  is  an  antique, 
OS  it  is  said  by  the  Prince  de  Biscari ;  if  true  that  several  pieces  of  opal  have  often  been  found  as  large 
and  as  fine  (which  appears  doubtful,  in  the  actual  state  of  mineialogic  knowledge),  the  question  upon 
the  Mnrrhine  vases  would  be  decided.  They  would  have  been  of  opal,  and  not  porcelain ;  neither  of 
sardonyx — Pierre  de  lard — as  many  have  believed,  nor  of  eacholong  (a  species  of  chalcedony,  opaque, 
and  of  a  yellowish  white),  as  I  have  described  it 


XXVIII. 


WINE. 


Bacchus,  son  of  Ammon,  was  borp  in  Egypt,  and  was  the  first  who 
taught  his  countrymen  the  art  of  cultivating  the  vine,  and  of  making  wine. 
He  is  the  same  as  Osiris,  the  famous  conqueror  of  India.'  Should  this 
assertion  be  contradicted,  we  shall  only  entreat  any  and  every  disputant 
to  make  his  own  choice  of  the  god  of  vineyards,  fi'om  among  the  five 
heroes  bearing  the  name  of  Bacchus,  as  we  are  too  impartial  to  prefer 
any  one  in  particular.* 

GKnopion,  worthy  son  of  one  of  these  heroes,  enriched  the  inhabit- 
ants of  Chios  with  the  first  rosy  wine  that  ever  yet  obscured  their 
reason.'  Greece,  Italy,  and  Sicily  owed  this  wonderful  liquor  to  the 
Egyptians.  The  Gauls  received  this  sweet  present  from  a  Tuscan,  who 
had  been  banished  from  Clusium,  his  country  ;*  and  the  cultivation  of 
the  grape  spread  rapidly  till  the  reign  of  the  sanguinary  Domitian, 
who  completed  the  catalogue  of  his  crimes  by  tearing  up  the  vines.* 
The  Emperor  Probus  restored  them  to  the  disconsolate  Gauls.*  That 
prince  was  certainly  worthy  of  his  name  ! 

Modern  science,  agreeing  with  holy  writ,^  looks  upon  the  east  as  the 
common  cradle  of  the  vine  and  the  human  race. 

Palestine  was  renowned  for  its  vines.  Pliny  speaks  in  praise  of 
them.*  The  vineyards  constituted  a  part  of  the  riches  of  the  country, 
and  they  were  preserved  with  the  greatest  care ;  so  much  so  that  Moses, 
with  an  especial  view  to  vines,  forbade  the  sowing  of  difierent  seeds  in 
the  same  field,  on  pain  of  confiscation :'  and  it  was  done  to  encourage 
their  cultivation,  that  that  wise  legislator  exempted  every  person  who 
had  planted  one  from  military  service,  and  from  all  public  duties,  until 
the  first  vintage." 


WINE.  823 

The  growths  of  Lebanon,"  of  Helbon,"  and  of  Sorec,"  enjoyed  an 
extraordinary  reputation,  and  the  delicious  wine  they  produced  was 
capable  of  inspiring  the  lyric  David  with  that  celebrated  praise  "  by  which 
intemperance  has  often  dared  to  authorize  reprehensible  excesses. 

However,  the  Hebrews,  a  sober  people,  like  all  eastern  nations, 
rarely  made  use  of  pure  wine ;  they  generally  mixed  it  with  a  quantity 
of  water,  and  only  drank  a  little  at  some  ceremonial  feasts,  and  at  the 
end  of  their  repasts."  They  sometimes  mixed  with  it  perfumes  and 
odoriferous  drugs." 

Some  nations  seem  to  have  had  a  great  horror  of  wine.  The  Per- 
sians drank  nothing  but  water  ;^'  and  the  inhabitants  of  Fontus,  the 
Scythians,  and  the  Cappadocians,  partook  of  this  strange  taste/'  The  Ar- 
cadiansy  who  lived  on  chesnuts  and  acorns,  were  not  worthy  of  the 
flavours  of  Bacchus ;  neither  were  the  troglodytes,  the  ichthyophagists, 
and  other  swarms  of  hydropotes  who  were  as  yet  too  little  civilized  to 
ask  of  drunkenness  its  illusions  and  its  enchantments.^' 

The  Egyptians  would  have  thought  it  a  profanation  of  their  temples 
to  carry  in  a  flagon  of  the  rosy  liquid ;  but  Psammetichus  came  (670 
B.C.),  and  that  wise  prince  made  them  understand  that  a  pot  of  beer 
is  not  worth  a  cup  of  good  wine.'* 

The  Romans  asserted  that  their  old  king,  Janus,  planted  the  first 
vine  in  Italy,"  and  that,  later,  Numa  taught  them  how  to  trim  it." 
That  noble  people  knew  how  to  appreciate  such  blessings,  and  in  order 
to  demonstrate  that  wisdom  is  always  to  be  found  in  wine,  they  never 
failed  to  place  on  their  altars  the  statue  of  Minerva  beside  that  of 
Bacchus." 

The  inflexible  muse  of  history  has  preserved  to  us  the  name  of  the 
individual  who  doomed  himself  to  a  sorry  sort  of  immortality  by  invent- 
ing the  custom  of  mixing  water  with  wine ;  it  was  Cranaiis,  King  of 
Athens,  1532  B.C.'*  The  gods,  doubtless  to  punish  him,  caused  a 
great  part  of  Greece  to  be  inundated,  and  it  was  not  long  before  he  was 
dethroned."  Pliny  accuses  the  obscure  Staphil,  son  of  Sithen,"  of  this 
depravation  of  taste,  which  gained  upon  imitators  to  such  an  extent 
that,  in  the  time  of  Diodorusof  Sicily  (45  B.C.),  the  guests  still  mixed 
water  with  their  wine  at  the  end  of  the  repast.'^  It  is  true  that  they 
were  then  all  intoxicated. 

Lycurgus  was,  no  doubt,  ignorant  of  this  practice,  when  he  had  the 
barbarity  to  destroy  the  vines  of  the  Lacedemonians,  under  pretext  of 


324  WINE. 

putting  an  end  to  the  disorders  caused  by  intemperance.  It  would 
have  been  preferable,  says  Plutarch,  to  have  united  the  nymphs  with 
Bacchus.'*  The  ingenious  philosopher  insists  on  the  mixture  being 
made  by  a  fourth,  a  fifth,  or  an  octave,  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
chords  in  music,  which  charm  our  ears.  The  fifth  was  obtained  by 
pouring  three  measures  of  water  on  two  of  wine ;  one  part  water  and  two 
parts  wine  made  the  octave ;  a  quarter  of  wine  and  three  quarters  of 
water  produced  the  fourth,*'  a  most  inharmonious  chord,  struck  only  by 
inexperienced  and  unskilful  hands. 

Hippocrates,  great  physician  as  he  was,  had  already  somewhere 
advised"  this  deplorable  dereliction  from  all  wise  doctrines,  so  true  is 
it,  that  science  sometimes  goes  astray ;  but,  happily  for  his  glory,  that 
learned  man,  further  on,'*  recommends  us  to  drink  pure  wine,  and  to 
drink  enough  for  joy  to  dissipate  our  griefs,  and  rock  us  in  the  sweet 
errors  of  hope. 

The  god  of  grapes  had  everywhere  fervent  admirers,  except,  perhaps, 
among  the  Scythians.  These  schismatics  refused  to  worship  a  divinity 
who  caused  the  faithful  to  become  intoxicated."  In  other  places  they 
sacrificed  to  him  a  tiger,  in  order  to  show  the  power  of  his  empire ;"  and 
zealous  disciples,  with  their  heads  crowned  with  branches  of  the  vine, 
holding  in  one  hand  a  crater  and  in  the  other  a  torch,  ran  with  dis- 
hevelled hair  about  the  streets,  shouting  to  the  son  of  Jupiter,  the 
terrible  Evius,'*  in  the  silence  of  the  night." 

The  Bomans  addressed  to  him  special  prayers  twice  a  year,  on  the 
occasion  of  the  wine  festivals,"  which  took  place  in  the  months  of  May 
and  September.  In  the  first,  they  tasted  the  wine ;''  and,  during  the 
second,  they  implored  the  god  to  grant  Italy  fine  weather  and  abundant 
vintages." 

The  god  could  not  reasonably  refuse  this  request,  for  the  vine- dressers 
spared  neither  labour  nor  fatigue  to  procure  an  abundant  harvest. 
They  were  constantly  seen  disincumbering  the  plant  of  a  too  luxurious 
foliage,  thereby  exposing  the  grapes  to  the  sun's  rays,  which  bring 
them  to  maturity,  and  breaking  with  indefatigable  perseverance  the  « 
least  clods  of  earth  which,  accumulating  around  the  tendrils,  appeared 
to  fatigue  them  by  their  weight."  And  woe  to  the  thief  whom  they 
detected  by  night  stealing  any  of  these  carefully  reared  grapes;  his 
crime  was  punished  with  death,  unless  the  inexperience  of  youth 
pleaded  in  his  favour.    In  that  case  a  severe  flagellation  impressed  on 


WINE.  826 

him  permanently  the  romemtbrance  of  his  fftult  and  of  the  rights  of 
property/' 

The  impericd  jurisprudence  afterwards  softened  the  Draconian  rigour 
of  this  law  of  the  Decemviri." 

The  ancients,  like  ourselves,  were  fond  of  seeing  fresh  grapes,  appear 
on  their  tables  at  all  periods  of  the  year.  They  preserved  them  by 
covering  them  with  barley  flour/'  or  by  placing  fine  bunches  in  rain 
water,  diminished  to  a  third  by  boiUng.  The ;  vase  was  hermetically 
sealed  with  pitch  and  plaster,  and  then  placed  in  a  spot  where  the  sun's 
rays  could  not  enter.   This  water  was  an  excellent  beverage  for  the  sick.^' 

The  method  of  making  wine  was  precisely  the  same  both  in  Greece 
and  Italy. 

The  vine  gatherers  careftilly  rejected  the  green  grapes/*  and  piled 
the  others  in  deep  baskets,"  the  contents  of  which  were  instantly  emptied 
into  large  vats.  There  men,  hardly  clothed  in  the  lightest  garments, 
trampled  them  under  their  feet,*'  whilst  joyous  songs  and  sounds  of 
flutes  hastened  their  movements,  and  animated  them  to  work  faster.*' 

Wine  obtained  in  this  manner  was  much  esteemed,  and  kept  very 
well.**  The  wort  which,  escaped  from  the  vat  as  soon  as  they  had  thrown 
in  the  grapes,  and  which  came  from  the  pressure  occasioned  by  their 
laying  one  on  the  other,  enjoyed  the  preference.  This  first  liquor  was 
transformed  into  an  exquisite  wine.*' 

The  grapes,  crushed  by  the  feet,  were  fdaced.under  the  press,^*  and 
an  opening  made  in  the  lower  part  of  .thQ  vat  allowed  the  wort  to  flow 
into  earthen  jars,  whence  it  was  subsequently  poured  into  the  barrels." 

The  press  was  always  raised  at  a  little  distance  from  the.  cellar  and 
kitchen."  Its  mech^ism  was  very,  simple.  The  antiquitiea  of  Her- 
culaneum  will  furnish  us  with  an  example.  Two  trees  were  firmly  fixed 
in  the  ground,  at  a  few  feet  distance  one  from  the  other,  and  a  strong 
horizontal  beam  rested  on  their  summit.     Other  pieces  of  wood,  similar 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No,  XXIL 

No.  1.    YTmt-^en^t  explained  in  the  text 

No.  3.  A  large  vase,  in  which  a  man  is  sitting,  sappoaed  to  be  Diogenes.  This  amphora  is  broken, 
and  the  pieces  are  joined  by  ties  of  lead,  cut  dor^kailed.  It  is  a  bass-relief,  from  the  Villa  Albanl, 
published  by  Winkelman. 

No.  8.  Represents  a  beast  of  borlhen,  with  a  pack  saddle,  loaded  with  two  amphora.  This  piece  of 
terra  cotta,  drawn  the  size  of  the  original,  is  taken  from  the  collection  of  dtildren's  playthings  of  Prince 
de  Biscari.  The  difficulty  of  carriage  was  so  great  in  mountainous  countries,  that  the  inhabitants  of  the 
Alps  substituted  for  vessel^f  terra  ootu,  casks,  or  wooden  tubs,  put  together  with  wooden  oirdes,  amilar 
to  our  own.  (See  Rate  I^J  Na  4.,  Chariot  with  four  wheels,  loaded  with  a  cask.) 


826  WINB. 

to  the  top  piece,  were  placed  underneath.  The  grapes  occupied  the 
space  between  the  vat  and  the  lower  plank.  Between  each  of  the  cross 
planks  wedges  were  introduced,  and  two  persons  kept  striking  them 
with  hammers,  one  on  each  side  ;  it  is  thus  the  pressure  was  effected." 
Wine  from  the  press,  inferior  to  those  just  mentioned,  served  for  the 
ordinary  consumption  of  the  family,  and  for  the  servants.**  It  was  not 
racked,  but  simply  taken  from  the  barrel  as  it  was  wanted.** 

The  lees  were  taken  from  the  press  when  it  yielded  no  more  liquor ; 
a  certain  quantity  of  water  was  poured  over  them,  and  the  whole  sub- 
jected to  a  second  pressure.  The  weak  kind  of  wine  obtained  by  this 
new  operation  must  have  somewhat  resembled  that  acrid  stuff  called 
piquette,  in  France ;  it  was  the  beverage  of  the  people,  and  especially  of 
the  country  people  during  the-  winter/* 

A  part  of  the  wort — that  which  was  required  for  immediate  use — 
was  put  aside,  and  clarified  with  vinegar.*'  A  portion  of  that  obtained 
from  the  crushed  grapes  was  put  to  boil  on  furnaces,  supported  on  three 
legs,  at  a  little  distance  from  the  press,  in  coppers,  the  contents  of  which 
were  continually  stirred.**  This  liquor,  reduced  by  a  third,  was  called 
carenum;^^  when  the  half  only  remained,  it  was  called  defrulum;^* 
and,  lastly,  when  the  ebullition  left  only  a  third  part  remaining,  this 
substance,  very  similar  to  honey,  took  the  name  of  sapa,^^  It  was 
mixed  with  flour,  to  fatten  the  snails  reared  by  skilful  speculators,  who 
reserved  them  for  the  Boman  sybarites.*' 

This  wort,  thus  prepared  by  night,  when  the  moon  did  not  shine,** 
and  carefully  skimmed,**  served  to  preserve  wines,  to  give  more  body  to 
those  which  were  thought  too  weak,  and  became  the  base  of  several 
beverages  .sought  in  preference  by  Boman  ladies,  at  that  period  of  life 
when  maturity  of  years  made  alliance  with  sensuality.** 

Those  who  wished  to  preserve  sweet  wine  during  a  whole  year,  filled 
with  the  second  wort — that  is  to  say,  that  which  was  produced  by  the 
pression  of  the  feet — some  amphorae  covered  with  pitch  inside  and  out. 
They  were  then  hermetically  sealed,  and  buried  in  the  sand,  or  plunged 
in  cold  water,  where  they  remained  at  least  two  months.** 

There  still  was  left  a  large  quantity  of  wort  as  it  came  from  the 
grapes.  This  was  taken  into  the  cellar,*'  which  was  always  situated  a 
little  below  the  level  of  the  ground ;  or  to  the  ground  floor,  where  no 
kind  of  smell  was  allowed  to  penetrate,  or  any  emanation  capable  of 
spoiling  the  bouquet  of  the  wine  it  contained.** 


WINE.  327 

At  Herculaneum  a  spacious  cellar  has  been  discovered,  round  which 
hogsheads  were  ranged,  and  built  into  the  wall/'  Another 'cellar,  at 
Pompeii,  remarkable  for  itd  small  size,  is  divided  into  two- compart- 
ments, both  containing  barrels,  and  divided  one  from  the  other  by  an 
horizontal  wall.'"  :  • 

Large  earthen  vessels  were  found  there,  with  and  without  handles, 
very  carefully  executed,  and  smeared  with  pitch/'     We  know  that  the 
cynic,  Diogenes;  dwelt  in  one  of  these  vases ;    and  that  the  king,  Alex- 
ander, found  him  crouching  in  his  strange  kind  of  carapace/'    The  an 
cients  had  butts  also,  but  they  used  them  only  in  cold  countries/' 

The  Dolia — for  so  they  were  named — were  first  subjected  to  a  fumi- 
gation with  aromatic  plants ;  then  ^watered  with  sea- wat^r,  aiid  buried 
half  way  in  the  earth.  They  were  separated  each  one  from  another, 
and  strict  attention  was  paid  to  seel  that  the  cellar  contained  neither  lea- 
ther, nor  cheese,  nor  figs,  nor  old  casks.  Sometimes  persons  who  in- 
habited the  country  paved  the  store-room,  spread  sand,  and  placed  the 
dolia  on  it.'* 

At  the  end  of  nine  days,  when  the  feritoentation  had  cleared  the 
wine  from  those  substances  it  rejects,  they  carefully  covered  the  dolia, 
after  having  smeared  all  the  upper  part  of  the  inside;  as  well  as  the 
covers  theiHselves,  with  a  mixture  of  defrutum,  safiron,  mastic,  pitch, 
and  pine  nuts/'  The  butts  of  aqueous  wine  were  exposed  to  the  north ; 
spirituous  wines  often  braved  the  rain,  the  sun,  and  every  change  of 
temperature/' 

They  accelerated  the  fining  of  the  wine  by  throwing  in  plaster,  chalk, 
marble  dust,  salt,  resin,  <lregs  of  new  wine,  sea-water,  myrrh,  and  aro- 
matic herbs/'  The  butts  were  uncovered  once  a  month,  or  more  fre- 
quently, in  order  to  refresh  the  contents;  and  before  the  head  was  put 
on  again,  it  was  rubbed  with  pine  nuts/'  Wine  was  also  clarified  by 
drawing  it  ofi"  into  another  butt,  and  mixing  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  with 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XXIII. 

CoLUM  NiTABiUM. — A  Strainer,  uaed  to  separate  the  dregs  from  the  wine.  Twe  are  preserved  in 
the  collection  of  Herculaneam ;  they  are  made  of  white  metal,  and  worked  with  elegance.  Each  is 
composed  of  two  plates,  round  and  concave,  of  four  inches  in  diameter,  supplied  with  flat  handles. 
The  two  dishes  (as  it  were)  and  their  handles  adapt  to  each  other  so  well,  that  when  put  together  they 
appear  as  one ;  holes  in  great  nnmher  are  symmetrically  perforated  in  the  upper  dish,  which  keeps  the 
dregs,  and  lets  the  dear'  liquid  pass  through  the  lower  one.  The  Ktrainer  here  represented  is  taken 
from  Montfaucon's **  Antiquities"  and  was  found  at  Rome,  towards  the  end  of  the  17th  century.  It 
is  of  bronze,  and  ornamented.  On  the  handles  are  reliefs  in  silver,  referring  to  the  worship  of  Bacchus. 


328  WINE. 

salt/'  or  straining  it  through  the  colum  nivarium  (ahready  described)/* 
covered  with  a  piece  of  linen." 

Fine  wines  were  kept  in  the  wood  for  two,  three,  or  four  years,  ac- 
cording to  their  different  properties ;  after  which  they  were  transferred  to 
amphoree,  and  that  operation  required  the  greatest  care." 

The  amphorsB  were  earthen  pitchers  with  two  handles,"  reserved  for 
choice  wines."  To  prevent  evaporation  through  their  pores,  they 
covered  them  with  pitch,  and  stopped  the  neck  with  wood  or  cork, 
covered  with  a  mastic  composed  of  pitch,  chalk,  and  oil,  or  any  other 
fat  substance.  The  name  of  the  wine  was  inscribed  on  the  amphora ; 
its  age  was  indicated  by  the  designation  of  the  consuls  who  were  in  of- 
fice when  it  was  made.  When  the  amphora  was  of  glass,  it  was  ticketed 
with  these  details."  For  this  kind  of  vessels  they  had  store-rooms, 
which  were  commonly  at  the  top  of  the  house.*'  By  exposing  them  to 
the  sun  and  to  smoke  the  maturity  of  the  wine  was  hastened.*'  The 
discovery  of  this  means  of  ripening,  which  the  Boman  oenophiles  never 
failed  to  practice^  was  attributed  to  the  Consul  Opimius.** 

PUny  assures  us  that  the  vineyards  of  the  entire  world  produce  ]  95 
different  kinds  of  wine ;  or  double  that  number,  if  we  reckon  every 
variety.*'  The  whole  universe,  says  he,  furnishes  only  80  of  superior 
quaUty,  and  of  this  number,  two- thirds  belong  to  Italy .**  Modern 
agriculture  must  have  singularly  disturbed  the  calculations  of  the 
Roman  naturalist 

Let  that  be  as  it  may,  the  best  Greek  wines  were  those  of  Thasos,*' 
Lesbos,**  Chios,**  *  and  Cos.**    Italy  boasted  of  the  Sentinum,**  the 


•  We  are  not  aware  that  any  of  oar  dramatic  authors  eyer  gave  such  proof  of  generosity 
after  a  triumph  as  did  the  poet}  Ion.  Crowned  at  Athens,  after  the  representation  of  a 
tragedy,  he  made  a  present  to  each  Athenian  of  a  vase  filled  with  wine  of  Chios.^ 
*'Athtn.;*  L,  5. 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XXIV. 

»  

No.  1.  Amphora,  or  Dolium.  Upon  one  of  the  handles  is  engraTed  the  iigUi  P.  S.  A.  X;  the 
first  two,  probably,  are  the  initials  of  the  proprietor,  and  the  last  describes  the  capacity  of  the  rase, 
being  2ft0  quarts. — Momtvaucon's  "Antiquitin"  ezpL 

Nos.  3  and  8.  Smaller  Dolium,  foood  at  Hercolaneum,  buried  at  the  bottom  of  a  cellar.  The 
mouths  of  these  vases  were  fixed  in  a  marble  slab,  and  closed  with  a  cover  of  the  same  material.  There 
is  in  the  Villa  Albani,  an  amphora  of  terra  ootta  of  this  kind,  which  contained  18  Roman  amphore,  or 
403  quarts,  as  marked  by  numerical  letters,  engraved  upon  the  outside.  In  1750,  one  of  these  am* 
phore  was  found  at  Pouzzole,  which  was  five  feet  six  inches  in  height,  and  five  feet  in  diameter, 
containing  1,738  quarts.  Several  amphons  from  Herculaneum  and  Pompeii  have  inscriptions  written 
in  colours,  and  which  give  the  name  of  the  Preetor  Nonnins ;  the  same  as  those  found  at  Rome,  which 
were  inscribed  with  the  name  of  the  consul,  to  fix  the  year  of  the  vintage. 


"■ "    .J    • 


t  .  • 


ii< 


i\ 


■•   r 


r     r 


■ 


w 


..'1      ,   •■ 


'   '  I  • '  •    .  • 


1     t  J 


Ihi    -  ..     t      • 


.^     ' 


,1-  .    I,,     .  .' 
■.!'  1...      ^•. 


r    I     1 


*   .  ^  • '  •  •  -   I 


if.'  • 


'i     11 

■  I 


■r 


1  ..! 


r-. 


I  , 


I       «   ..  I 


I      ': 


4/ '. 


.i* 


t     n»-.  •       'I 


;  '1 


j: 


X     .     V' 


■1  :•.... 

<  '■!  .  1      » 

1  1    i.  •  * 

It  k  ^1 


1  •.    • 


•«•  I. 


u 


^  T.  Z  V^.iJ"-^,    7 1" 


/?    /  r*      a'  .        «-,x./<'^  . 


w 

f 


,-' 


WINE.  829 

Falemum,*'  the  Albanum,"  and  the  Mamertinum."  After  these,  a 
number  of  other  exceUent  wines  occupied  a  very  distinguished  place  in 
a  long  nomenclature  to  be  found  in  Pliny**  and  Athenceus,"* 

The  ancients  professed  to  have  a  very  particular  veneration  for  wines 
of  a  renowned  growth,  which  had  ripened  slowly  in  amphor®.  Some 
gastronomic  archeeologists  produced,  on  their  tables  certain  wines  which 
had  so  far  dried  up  in  leather  bottles,  that  they  were  taken  out  in 
lumps;'**  others,  placed,  in  the  chimney  comer,  became  in  time  as 
hard  as  salt'**  Fetronius  speaks  of  a  wine  of  a  hundred  leaves.'** 
Pliny  says  that  guests  were  served  with  wine  more  than  two  hundred 
years  old :  it  was  as  thick  as  honey."*  This  wine  was  thinned  with 
warm  water,  and  passed  through  the  straining  bag  {saccatio  vinorum)}^^ 

This  predilection  for  good  old  wine  was  common  to  the  Greeks  ;"* 
the  Romans — ^who  liked  it  for  the  bitterness  it  had  contracted  by  age  ;'*' 
and  the  Egyptians^  who,  notwithstanding  their  time-honoured  love  of 
beer,  were  not  unjust  towards  the  beverage  with  which  their  Osiris  found 
it  so  delightful  to  intoxicate  himself.'** 

Athenseus  sets  no  bounds  to  his  praise  of  old  wine.  He  says  it  is 
excellent  for  the  health  ;  it  is  the  best  thing  to  dissolve  the  food ;  it 
strengthens ;  it  assists  the  circulation  of  the  blood,  and  assures  a  peaceful 
sleep.'**     Who,  then,  would  be  ungrateful  enough  to  refiise  to  drink  ? 

The  topers  of  antiquity  did  not  disdain  white  wine,  but  they  seem  to 
have  viewed  it  as  of  secondary  importance.  It  digests  easily,  says  the 
writer  just  cited,  but  it  is  weak,  and  has  but  little  body."*  Bed  wine, 
on  the  contiary,  is  full  of  strength  and  energy,  and  it  is  the  first*that 
the  inhabitants  of  Chios  learned  to  make,'"  when  CEnopion,  the  son  of 
Bacchus,  had  planted  the  vine  in  their  country."* 

However,  there  was  no  lack  of  amateurs  of  white  wine,  and,  like  our- 
selves, the  ancients  doubtless  preferred  it  when  they  eat  snails,  oysters,  or 
any  of  those  shell  fish  with  which  the  Lucrine  lake  abounded.  They  even 
took  it  into  their  heads  (how  ingenious  is  gluttony  I)  to  change  red  wine 
sometimes  into  white.  To  do  this  it  was  only  necessary  to  put  three 
whites  of  egg,  or  some  bean  flour,  into  a  flagon,  and  shake  it  a  long 
time.  The  same  result  was  obtained  with  ashes  firom  the  white  vine."* 
Now,  is  Apioius  jesting  with  us  a  little  when  he  gives  this  recipe ;  or 
was  it  a  legerdemain  trick  to  amuse  the  guests  at  the  end  of  a  repast, 
when  too  frequent  libations  had  rendered  them  incapable  of  distin* 
guishing  clearly  one  colour  from  another  ? 

v 


330  WINE. 

The  Greeks  endeayoured  to  preclude  the  disastrous  effects  of  in- 
toxication by  putting  sea-water  into  the  wine ;  a  mixture  which  they 
also  thought  had  the  effect  of  assisting  digestion.  One  measure  of 
water  was  enough  for  fifty  measures  of  wine."*  And,  again,  the 
merchants  of  that  nation  took  so  much  interest  in  the  health  of  foreign 
consumers  that  they  never  shipped  the  wines  of  the  Archipelago  for 
Borne  or  elsewhere  without  diluting  them  in  this  manner.  Such,  for 
example, .  was  the  course  followed  in  concocting  that  celebrated  wine  of 
Chios,  which  Cato  imitated  so  as  to  deceive  the  best  judges."*  That 
honest  geoponic  has  transmitted  us  his  secret  Fifty-six  pints  of  old 
sea-water  are  thrown  into  a  pipe  of  sweet  wine  made  with  grapes  dried 
in  the  sun  ;  or  two-thirds  of  a  bushel  of  salt  are  put  into  a  rush  basket, 
and  suspended  in  the  middle  of  the  pipe,  where  it  is  left  to  melt."* 

This  very  simple  process  metamorphoses  the  most  indifferent  liquor 
into  that  delightfiil  nectar  which  gave  renown  and  fortune  to  the  isle  of  Cos. 

The  saline  wine  of  the  Greeks  {vinum  tethalcusomenon)  was  nothing 
else."'  Their  t/ialassites  wine,  so  much  in  demand  in  Italy  on  account 
of  its  apparent  age,  owed  its  reputation  to  the  fact  of  its  having  been 
plunged  for  some  time  in  the  sea."'  This  little  trading  knavery  was  a 
tolerably  innocent  means  of  increasing  the  profits  of  the  speculator, 
who  hastened  the  maturity  of  his  wines  without  employing  any  of  those 
deleterious  ingredients  which  illicit  traders  have  introduced  at  a  later 
period.  When  the  wine  had  remained  a  sufficient  time  in  the  sea  to  give 
it  age,  it  was  drawn  off  into  goatskin  bottles,  well  coated  with  pitch, 
and;  in  this  manner  it  supported  the  longest  sea  voyages."" 

The  following  are  the  made  wines  most  in  vogue  in  olden  times. 

The  Possum  was  one  of  those  most  esteemed  in  Bome,  particularly 
when  it  came  from  Crete.*'®  It  was  made  with  grapes,  spread  in  the  sun 
until  they  were  reduced  in  weight  to  one-half.  The  pips,  thus  dried, 
were  then  put  into  a  butt  containing  some  excellent  wort.  When  they 
were  well  soaked,  they  were  crushed  with  the  feet,  and  then  subjected  to 
a  slight  pressure  in  the  wine-press.  Sometimes  they  simply  plunged 
the  fresh  grapes  into  boiling  oil,  instead  of  exposing  them  to  the  sun, 
and  the  result  was  the  same."' 

The  Dulce  wine  was  obtained  by  drying  the  grapes  in  the  sun  for 
three  days,  and  crushing  them  with  the  feet  on  the  fourth,  at  the  time 
of  the  greatest  heat."'  The  Emperor  Commodus  thought  this  a  most 
delectable  drink."* 


WINE.  881 

The  Mulsum,  or  honeyed  ^ine,  was  an  exquisite  mixture  of  old 
Falemian  wine  and  new  honey,  from  the  Mount  Hymettus."*  The 
physician,  Coelius  Aurelianus,  recommends  the  holding  of  warm  mulsum 
in  the  mouth  as  a  palliative  in  cases  of  violent  head-ache."' 

The  name  of  Anisites  wine  was  given  to  that  in  which  some  grains 
of  aniseed  had  heen  infused."' 

The  Oranatum  was  prepared  by  throwing  thirty  broken  pome- 
granates into  a  pipe  of  wine,  and  pouring  over  them  ten  pints  and  a« 
half  of  a  different  wine,  hard  and  sour.  This  drink  was  fit  for  use  at 
the  end  of  thirty  days.**' 

Apicius  gives  us  the  recipe  for  the  Rosatum: — "  Put,"  syas  he, 
*'  some  rose  leaves  into  a  clean  linen  doth ;  sew  it  up,  and  leave  it 
seven  days  in  the  wine ;  take  out  the  roses,  and  put  in  fresh  ones ; 
repeat  the  operation  three  times,  and  then  strain  the  wine.  Add  some 
honey  at  the  time  of  drinking.  The  roses  must  be  fresh^  and  free 
from  dew.""* 

The  Violatum  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  only  violets  are  used 
instead  of  roses."' 

Bosatum  may  also  be  obtained  without  roses,  by  putting  a  small 
basket  filled  with  green  Ipmon  leaves  into  a  barrel  of  new  wine  before  the 
fermentation  has  taken  place,  and  leaving  them  there  for  forty  days. 
This  wine  is  to  be  mixed  with  honey  before  it  is  drunk."' 

Myrrh  wine — Myrrhinum,  among  the  ancients — was  wine  mixed 
with  a  little  myrrh,  to  render  it  bettor  and  make  it  keep  longer.  They 
thought  much  of  it."* 

All  these  wines,  like  those  previously  mentioned,  were  strained 
rtirough  the  colum  vinarium  before  they  were  served  to  the  guests. 
This  strainer  was  composed  of  two  round,  deep  dishes,  of  four  inches  in 
diameter.  The  upper  part  was  pierced,  and  received  the  wine,  which 
ran  into  the  lower  recipient,  whence  the  cups  were  filled."* 

In  Rome  the  price  of  common  wine — sometimes  adulterated  "' — ^was 
300  sesterces  for  40  urns,  or  15  sesterces  for  an  amphora ;  that  is  to  say, 
about  sixpence  per  gallon."*  At  Athens  it  was  thought  dear  when  it 
cost  fourpence  per  gallon.  This  measure  was  commonly  sold  for  not 
more  than  twopence."* 

In  the  early  days  of  the  Roman  republic  women  were  forbidden  to 
drink  wine;"'  but  that  law  fell  into  disuse,  and  noble  matrons  often 
carried  intemperance  as  far  as  their  toping  husbands. 

V  2 


832  WINE. 


LIQUEUR  WINE. 

It  must  be  owned  that  the  Boman  law  was,  for  a  long  time,  tyran- 
nical in  the  extreme  with  regard  to  women.  Totally  interdict  the  use  of 
wine!  Kill  the  unfortunate  creatures  who  were  unable  to  resist  the 
Beductions  of  that  dangerous  liquor  I  For  the  Boman  history  furnishes 
us  with  more  than  one  example  of  that  atrocious  chastisement  inflicted 
on  the  guilty  thirst  of  the  fair  sex.  The  barbarous  Micennius  immolated 
his  wife  on  the  butt,  at  which  he  caught  her  one  day,  quenching  her 
thirst  at  the  tap  or  the  bunghole.  The  ferocious  Bomulus  thought 
this  act  simple  and  natural:  he  did  not  even  reprimand  the  cruel 
husband."' 

Another  unfortunate  creature  discovered  the  place  where  her  husband 
kept  the  keys  of  the  cellar.  She  took  them,  and  had  the  imprudent 
curiosity  to  go  and  visit  the  mysterious  and  inauspicious  treasure,  to 
which  she  was  forbidden  all  access.  Her  family  perceived  this  innocent 
larceny,  and  refused  her  every  kind  of  food,  to  punish  her  for  an  ima- 
ginary crime.     She  died  in  the  tortures  of  hunger."' 

Is  it  necessary  to  speak  of  G.  Domitius»  that  uncourteous  judge,  who 
deprived  a  lady  of  her  marriage  portion  because  she  had  taken  the 
liberty  to  drink  a  spoonful  or  two  of  wine  unknown  to  her  lord  and 
master  ?"'  But,  let  us  say  it  at  once — Boman  civilisation  put  an  end  to 
such  strange  manners ;  and  so  early  as  the  age  of  Augustus,  Livia,  th» 
consort  of  that  emperor,  affirmed,  when  eighty-two  years  old,  that  she 
was  indebted  to  Bacchus  for  her  long  existence."*  Let  us  remark,  by 
the  way,  that  the  great  prince,  her  husband,  honoured  the  labours  of  the 
vine-dresser  and  the  serious  study  of  wines,*"  to  which  little  attention 
had  been  paid  down  to  his  time.  It  began  then  to  be  understood  that 
this  grateful  dhnk  draws  the  ties  of  friendship  closer,"'  and  all  honest 
people,  all  generous  souls,  were  eager  to  taste  it. 

The  good  Trajan  quaffed  off  numberless  cups  every  day :  of  course 
he  became  the  idol  of  the  human  species."'  Agricola  wished  to  drink 
before  he  died."^  The  imbecile  Claudius  often  found  some  ray  of 
wisdom  at  the  bottom  of  an  amphora."'    Domltian  merited  the  pardon 


WINE.  333 

of  his  crimes,  thanks  to  the  Btreams  of  wine  which  during  the  night  ran 
from  the  fountains  ;^*^  and  Caligula  would>  perhaps,  have  obtained  that 
popularity  which  always  failed  him,  had  he  possessed  sufficient  sense  to 
offer  to  the  Eoman  people  the  delicious  Falernian  wine  he  allotted  to  his 
favoiuite  horse."'  ^ 

The  ladies  ventured,  in  the  first  place,  to  wet  their  lips  with  a  few 
drops  of  those  light  wines  which  the  sun  seemed  to  ripen  for  them  at 
Tibur,  in  the  environs  of  Gumee,  and  throughout  Campania.*"    After  a 
short  time,  they  braved  the  Falernian  itself — true,  they  generally  mixed 
it  with  iced  water  or  snow  ;*"  but  the  boldest  are  reported  to  have  risked 
that  dangerous  liquor  without  taking  such  timid  precautions.    Falernian 
was  a  noble  wine  I    They  began  to  drink  it  as  soon  as  it  had  reached  its 
tenth  year.     Then  it  was  possible  to  bear  up  against  it.     When  it  was 
twenty  years  old,  it  could  only  be  mastered  after  it  was  diluted  with 
water.     If  older,  it  was  unconquerable;   it  attacked  the  nerves,  and 
caused  excruciating  headache."''     The  ladies  struggled  a  long  time  for 
the  victory ;  but,  alas !  the  Falernian  always  had  the  best  of  it.    Tired 
out,  at  length,  with  so  many  useless  efforts,  the  wisest  of  them  left  it  to 
their  husbands,  and  sought  other  beverages  which  possessed  less  dan- 
gerous charms.    Greece  and  Italy  invented  new  drinks  for  them,  which 
had  a  well-merited  vogue,  notwithstanding  the  discredit  into  which  they 
have  fallen  for  many  centuries  past.     Our  modem  beauties  would  smile 
with  an  air  of  incredulity  if  we  were  to  extol  asparagus  wine,  winter 
savory  wine,  wild  marjoram  wine,  parsley  seed  wine,  or  those  made  from 
mint,  rue,  pennyroyal,  and  wild  thyme ;  and  yet  these  liquors  were  the 
delectable  drinks  of  the  most  disting^iished  women  of  ancient  Bome,  of 
those  women  who  could  never  find  in  the  culinary  productions  of  the 
entire  universe  anything  sufficiently  delicate  or  rare.    Are  we,  then,  to 
blame  their  taste,  or  question  our  own  ? 

Leaving  aside  this  knotty  question,  which  we  do  not  feel  ourselves 
called  upon  to  resolve,  let  us  state  that  these  different  drinks  were  pre- 
pared in  a  very  simple  manner.  Two  handfuls  of  one  of  the  above- 
named  plants  were  put  into  a  butt  of  wort;  a  pint  of  sapa  and  half 
a  pint  of  sea-water  were  added."*  This  wine  was  drunk  by  the  Greek 
and  Roman  ladies  at  breakfast,"'  and  was  an  excellent  substitute  for  the 
stlatunit  a  drink  prepared  with  ochre,  and  which  we  can  hardly  believe 
to  have  been  introduced  by  sensuality  alone."' 

It  frequently  happened,  after  a  banquet,  that  the  wearied  and  jjolled 


83i  WINE. 

stomach  refused  with  loathing  the  least  nourishment.  An  intelligent 
slave  failed  not,  under  such  circumstances,  to  present  his  languishing 
mistress  with  a  cup  of  wormwood  wine,  before  she  quitted  her  couch. 
Anon,  the  livid  paleness  of  her  complexion  brightened  into  the  rosy 
hue  of  health,  the  dimmed  ey^  resumed  its  wonted  lustre,  and  that  very 
evening  the  briUiant  matron  could  seat  herself  fearlessly  at  a  fresh 
banquet.  That  precious  wine,  that  fashionable  tonic,  which  modem 
sobriety — be  it  said  to  our  praise — has  rendered  almost  useless,  sold  well 
in  Rome  under  the  reigns  of  the  Emperors.  It  was  composed  by  boiling 
a  pound  of  wormwood  in  240  pints  of  wort  until  it  was  diminished 
one-third.  There  was  also  a  more  simple  method  of  making  it» 
which  was  to  throw  a  few  handfuls  of  wormwood  into  a  butt  of  wine."* 

The  Uve  wood,  or  the  leaves  of  the  cedar,  the  cypress,  the  laurel,  the 
juniper-tree,  or  the  turpentine-tree,  boiled  a  long  time  in  wort,  produced 
different  bitter  liqueurs,  to  which  intemperance  complacently  attributed 
benign  qualities  and  numerous  medical  virtues."'  Equal  praise  may 
be  accorded  to  hyssop  wine,  that  famous  mixture  of  three  ounces  of  the 
plant  in  twelve  pints  of  wort."'  Its  effects  were  surprising,  and  the 
most  popular  physicians  would  not  have  failed  to  prescribe  it  for  their 
languishing  patients,  whose  strength  and  gaiety  it  restored. 

But,  thank  Heaven  I  our  Roman  beauties  were  not  always  obliged  to 
have  recourse  to  the  gloomy  experience  of  the  disciples  of  ^sculapius ; 
and  when  they  were  in  good  health,  more  exhilirating  liqueurs  lent  their 
aid  to  toast  their  return  to  health  and  pleasure.  They  were  then  seen 
sipping  myrtle  wine,  a  mild  beverage,  the  light  vapours  of  which 
brought  down  calm  and  profound  sleep.  It  was  wisdom  to  drink  it; 
for,  alas !  not  all  that  would,  can  sleep !  If  the  reader  be  troubled  with 
wakefulness,  he  will  hail  with  joy  the  recipe  for  this  beneficent  narcotic. 
Let  him  take  young  myrtle  branches  with  the  leaves,  pound  them,  and 
boil  one  pound  in  eighteen  pints  of  white  wine,  until  it  is  reduced  to 
two-thirds.*"  Let  him  drink  this  liqueur  of  the  Roman  ladies,  and, 
without  doubt,  he  will  sleep  as  they  did. 

The  petites  maitresses,  those  delicate  women,  whose  life  seemed  to 
be  a  tissue  of  vapours  mingled  with  tears — Rome  abounded  with  them — 
would  have  fainted  even  at  the  smell  of  the  wines  made  up  in  the 
manner  indicated  above.  Their  irail,  nervous  organization,  required  a 
different  kind  of  drink,  and  one  was  invented  for  them, — the  Adynamon 
This  adynamon,  or  wine  without  strength,  was  the  most  inoffensive  of 


WINE.  335 

Uqueure.  It  was  obtained  by  boiling  ten  pints  of  water  in  twenty  pints 
of  white  wort."*  A  small  cup  of  this  salutary  beverage  restored  a  debile 
Cynthia,  a  sickly  Julia,  wheu»  negligently  seated  at  her  toilet,  a  Boeotian 
slave  brought  a  nosegay  of  lilies  instead  of  a  crown  of  roses.  These 
charming  creatures  would  soon  have  lost  the  use  of  their  senses,  if  the 
adynamon  had  not  been  promptly  appUed  to  their  lips.  But  hardly 
had  they  tasted  the  marvellous  liqueur  when  animation  resumed  its  calm 
and  peaceful  course ;  nay,  after  the  lapse  of  a  few  seconds,  they  were 
enabled,  without  any  inconvenience  whatever,  to  witness  the  chastise- 
ment of  the  slave,  whose  naked  shoulders  and  breasts  were  lacerated  by 
their  orders  with  a  thong  studded  with  sharp  points."*  Who,  after 
that,  would  dare  doubt  the  properties  of  the  adynamon  wine  ? 

The  (Enantkinum  wine  was  destined  for  more  vigorous  constitutions, 
for  natures  of  less  exquisite  delicacy.  The  Boman  ladies,  somewhat 
fond  of  rusticating,  who  passed  a  part  of  the  year  in  their  villas,  pre- 
pared it  by  putting  two  pounds  of  wild  vine  flowers  into  a  butt  of  wort. 
They  were  left  there,  thirty  days,  and  then  the  liquor  was  drawn  off  into 
other  vessels."" 

Such  were  the  vinous  drinks  which  fashion  formerly  brought  into 
repute  in  the  capital  of  the  world.  The  women  set  no  bounds  to  their 
taste  for  these  concocted  wines ;  but  went  on  from  one  excess  to  another 
as  long  as  the  empire  lasted.  These  strange  habits,  now  buried  under 
the  Boman  colossus,  have  been  replaced  by  a  new  order  of  civilisation. 
Woman,  that  graceful  being  of  whom  antiquity  was  not  worthy,  now 
appears  such  as  Christianity  has  made  her,  to  reveal  to  us  virtues  which 
ancient  Greece  and  Italy  never  knew.  Daughter,  wife,  and  mother;  she 
consoles,  encourages,  and  supports  man  amid  the  trials  of  life.  Her 
sweet  smile  welcomes  him  at  the  cradle ;  her  prayer  accompanies  him  to 
the  tomb.  It  was  she  who  softened  the  ferocious  instincts  of  the  bar- 
barous hordes  that  the  forests  of  the  north  vomited  over  Europe ;  and 
still  exercising  her  empire  over  modern  society,  she  is  hailed  as  a  queen, 
whose  virtues  and  chaste  attractions  render  her  the  living  embodiment 
of  the  flower  and  the  angel,  those  sweet  symbols  of  love  and  beauty, 
between  which  a  modern  poet  has  gracefully  placed  her  throne. 


The  primitive  inhabitants  of  Great  Britain  learned  from  the  Bomans 
to  plant  the  vine,  under  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Probus.    The  con- 


336  WINE, 

querors  taught  them  also  the  art  of  cutting  it,  and  how  to  make  wine. 
But,  as  Strutt  observes,  the  vine  oould  never  be  of  any  great  utility  in 
this  country.  It  was  more  ornamental  than  useful,  with  the  exception 
that  it  afforded  the  means  of  procuring  a  cool  retreat  and  shade.^'^ 
However,  some  provinces  of  England  became  celebrated  for  their  wines. 
"  The  county  of  Gloucester  is  renowned  for  its  vines,"  says  WiUiam  of 
Malmesbury ;  "  and  the  wines  it  produces  are  scarcely  inferior  to  those 
of  France."  "* 

Saint-Louis  was  the  first  who  established  statutes  for  the  dealers  in 
wine.*"  New  ones  were  framed  in  1685,"*  and  the  dealers  were  then  di- 
vided into  four  classes,  each  of  which  was  designated  by  a  particular  name, 
viz.,  the  inn-keepers,  the  publicans,  the  tavern-keepers,  and  the  wine- 
dealers  by  measure.  The  inn-keepers  had  accommodation  for  man  and 
horse ;  the  publicans  served  drink  with  table-cloth  and  plates — that  is  to 
say,  they  might  serve  food  and  drink  at  the  same  time ;  the  tavern- 
keepers  served  drink  alone ;  and  the  retail  dealers  could  only  sell  it  in 
considerable  quantities  at  one  time."'  In  1680  the^e  four  classes  were 
reduced  to  two — wine-merchants  and  retail  wine-dealers. 

Under  the  reign  of  Louis  XIY.,  a  great  dispute  arose  concerning  the 
relative  merits  of  Burgundy  and  Champagne  wines,  and  the  preference 
due  to  the  one  or  the  other.  This  quarrel  originated  in  a  thesis,  main- 
tained at  the  commencement  of  the  1 7th  century  at  the  Medical  School 
of  Paris,  in  which  it  was  asserted,  that  the  wine  of  Beaune,  in  Burgundy, 
was  not  only  the  most  agreeable  but  the  most  wholesome.  This  thesis^ 
excited  no  murmur  at  the  time :  firom  the  Idth  century  the  wine  of 
Beaune  had  always  enjoyed  the  highest  reputation,  and  no  one  dreamed 
of  disputing  it.  But  forty  years  later  they  risked  a  proposition  much 
more  rash  than  the  preceding  one:  it  was  maintained,  in  the  same 
school,  that  the  wines  of  Burgundy  were  not  only  preferable  to  those  of 
Champagne,  but  that  the  latter  attack  the  nerves,  cause  a  fermentation 
of  the  humours,  and  infallibly  bring  on  the  gout  in  persons  not  naturally 
subject  to  it.  They  fortified  this  incredible  opinion  with  the  authority 
of  the  celebrated  Fagon,  chief  physician  of  Louis  XIV.,  who  had  just 
forbidden  .the  king,  as  they  said,  the  use  of  Champagne  wine. 

The  Champagne  people  took  fire — it  was  time — the  dangerous 
heresy^ threatened  to  spread;  so  they  attacked  the  Burgundians  bravely. 
The  latter  defended  themselves  with  equal  courage.  The  battle  waxed 
warm.      Each  party  sought  to  crush  their  antagonists  with  heavy 


WINE.  337 

writings.  The  inhabitants  of  Burgundy  pretended  that  the  wine  of 
Ghampftgne  owed  its  vogue  entirely  to  the  influence  of  Colbert  and 
Louvois,  the  then  ministers,  one  of  whom  was  a  native  of  Champagne, 
and  the  other  in  possession  of  immense  vineyards.  The  Champagne 
growers  proved  that  this  assertion  was  false  in  every  particular.  Long 
before  the  time  of  these  two  statesmen,  said  they,  the  French  got  tipsy 
on  Champagne  wine  ;  ergo,  they  valued  that  exhilirating  liquor.  This 
argument  was  irrefragable.  They  might  have  added  that,  from  the  1 6th 
century,  the  wine  of  Ai,  a  canton  of  Champagne,  enjoyed  such  renown 
that  the  Emperor  Charles  V.,  Pope  Leo  X.,  Henry  VIII,  of  England, 
and  Francis  I.  of  France,  were  0nxious  to  possess  this  nectar,  and  tra- 
dition assures  us  that  each  of  these  great  sovereigns  purchased  a  close 
at  Ai,  in  which  a  little  house  was  built  for  a  vine-dresser,  who  sent  them 
every  year  a  stock  of  wine,  which  enlivened  their  repasts. *•* 

The  epicureans  took  part  in  this  great  discussion,  and  that  they 
might  give  their  judgment  after  mature  deliberation,  founded  on  a 
perfect  knowledge  of  facts,  they  have  been  tasting  Champagne  and 
Burgundy  wines  these  two  hundred  years.  May  the  vouchers  in  this 
suit  never  fail  them ! 

Wine  was  long  used  for  presents  apd  fees — a  custom  established 
under  Charlemagne.  After  a  baptism,  a  marriage,  or  a  burial,  the 
priests  received  the  vicars  wine;  before  'm9xns%Q,  wedding  wine  vrQ,^ 
offered  to  the  intended  bride ;  after  a  law-suit,  the  counsellor  was  pre* 
sented  with  clerUs  wine ;  the  wine  of  citizenship  was  given  to  the  mayor 
of  a  town  in  which  any  person  took  up  his  abode.  This  present  sub- 
sequently took  the  name  of  pot-de-vin  (bribe),  still  in  great  favour.  It 
has  changed  its  character,  certainly,  but  the  variations  have  multiplied  to 
infinity.'" 

In  the  middle  ages  sober  people  intoxicated  themselves  regularly 
once  a  month.  Arnaud  de  Yilleneuve  examines  seriously  the  advan- 
tages of  this  Hygienic  custom."'  There  was  a  kind  of  glory  attached 
to  the  swallowing  of  more  wine  than  any  other  man  without  being  non 
compos  mentis.  There  was,  however,  a  means  of  avoiding  these  baccha- 
nalian encounters.  It  was,  to  choose  a  champion  who,  as  in  judicial 
combats,  accepted  the  challenges  for  his  candidate,  to  whom  the  victory 
or  defeat  was  attributed,  as  if  he  himself  had  drank."* 

In  the  middle  ages,  and  in  the  1 6  th  century,  intoxication  was  severely 
punished  in  France. 


338  WINE. 

By  five  ordinances,  in  the  years  802,  803,  810,  812,  and  813, 
Charlemagne  declares  habitual  drinkers  unworthy  of  being  heard  before 
courts  of  justice  in  their  own  cause,  or  as  witness  for  another/'* 

Francis  I.  decreed,  by  an  edict,  in  the  month  of  August,  1536,  that 
whosoever  should  be  found  intoxicated  was  to  be  imprisoned  on  bread 
and  water  for  the  first  offence ;  the  second  time,  flogging  in  the  prison 
was  added  ;  the  third  time,  he  was  publicly  flogged ;  and  if  the  offender 
was  incorrigible,  his  ears  were  cut  off,  he  was  deemed  infamous,  and 
banished  the  kingdom.''^ 

Now  every  one  is  free  to  quench  his  thirst,  and  drink  more  if  he 
chooses. 

"  The  Crafte  to  make  Tpocrae, — Take  a  quarte  of  red  wine,  an 
ounce  of  synamon,  ane  halfe  an  once  (ounce)  of  gynger,  a  quarter  of  an 
unnce  (ouuce)  of  greynes  and  long  pepper,  and  halfe  a  pound  of  suger, 
and  brose  all  this  (not  too  small),  and  then  put  them  in  a  bage  of  wuUen 
clothe,  made  therefore  (for  that  purpose),  with  the  wire,  and  it  hange 
over  a  vessel  tyll  the  wine  be  run  thorowe  (through).""' — Quoted  by 
Strutt. 

The  English  were  extremely  partial  to  a  drink  they  called  Clarey^  or 
Ciarre.  According  to  Arnold  "'  it  was  compounded  in  the  following 
manner: — 

"  For  eighteen  gallons  of  good  wj'ne,  take  halfe  a  pounde  of  ginger, 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  long  peper,  an  ounce  of  safron,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  coliaundyr,  two  ounces  of  calomole  dromatycus,  and  the  third 
part  as  much  honey  that  is  clarifyed  as  of  youre  wyne,  streyhe  them 
through  a  cloth,  and  do  it  into  a  clene  veasell." 

John,  in  the  first  year  of  his  reign,  made  a  law  that  a  tun  of  Bochelle 
wine  should  not  be  sold  for  more  than  twenty  shillings,  a  tun  of  wine 
from  Anjou  for  twenty-three  shillings,  and  a  tun  of  French  wine  for 
twenty-five  shillings,  except  some  that  might  be  of  the  very  best  sort, 
which  was  allowed  to  be  raised  to  twenty-six  shillings  and  fourpence,  but 
not  for  more,  in  any  case.  By  retail,  a  gallon  of  Rochelle  wine  was  to 
be  sold  for  fourpence,  and  a  gallon  of  white  wine  for  sixpence,  and  no 
dearer."* 


XXIX. 


REPASTS. 


Mortals  were  formerly  remarkably  sober,  and  the  gods  themselves  set 
them  the  example,  by  feeding  exclusively  on  ambrosia  and  nectar/  The 
most  illustrious  warriors  in  the  Homeric  ages  were  generally  contented 
with  a  piece  of  roast  beef;  for  a  festival^  or  a  wedding  dinner,  the  frugal 
fare  was  a  piece  of  roast  beef;  and  the  king  of  kings,  the  pompous 
Agamemnon,  offered  no  greater  rarity  to  the  august  chie&  of  Greece, 
assembled  round  his  hospitable  table.  It  is  true  that  the  guest  to  be 
most  honoured  received  for  his  own  share  an  entire  fillet  of  beef.' 

The  vigorous  but  uncultivated  appetites  of  these  heroes  were  hardly 
satisfied  when  everything  disappeared,  and  none  of  them  thought  to 
prolong  the  pleasures  of  good  cheer.'  Happy  times  of  ingenuous  and 
ignorant  frugality !  what  has  become  of  you  ? 

It  must  not,  however,  be  imagined  that  they  were  entirely  destitute  of 
more  refined  aliments.  Homer  gives  to  the  Hellespont  the  epithet  of 
Jishy;  Ithaca,  and  several  other  islands  of  Greece,  abounded  in  excellent 
game  ;  ^  but  the  magiric  genius  was  asleep — it  awoke  at  a  later  period. 

Beware,  however,  of  a  mistake:  those  men — with  so  little  choice  re- 
specting their  viands — all  possessed  stomachs  of  astounding  capacity.' 
Theagenes,  an  athlete  of  Thasos,  eat  a  whole  bull ;'  Milo  of  Grotona 
did  the  same  thing — at  least  once.'  Titormus  had  an  ox  «erved  for 
supper,  and  when  he  rose  from  table,  they  say  not  a  morsel  remained.' 
Astydamas  of  Miletus,  invited  to  supper  by  the  Persian,  Ariobarzanes, 
devoured  a  feast  prepared  for  nine  persons.'  Cambis,  Kiug  of  Lydia, 
had  such  an  unfortunate  appetite,  that  one  night  the  glutton  devoured 
his  wife !  '*  Thys,  King  of  the  Paphlagonians,  was  afflicted  with  voracity 


340  REPASTS. 

nearly  similar."  The  Persian  Gantibaris,  eat  so  much  and  so  long  that 
his  jaws  were  at  last  tired,  and  then  attentive  servants  used  to  press 
the  food  into  his  mouth."  * 

These  are  facts  of  which  we  do  not  exactly  guarantee  the  truth,  for 
history — ^it  is  no  secret — has  some  little  resemblance  to  the  microscope : 
it  frequently  magnifies  objects  by  presenting  them  to  us  through  its 
deceitful  prism. 

We  close  this  singularly  incomplete  list  of  the  ancient  polyphagists 
by  adding  that  the  Pharsalians"  and  the  Thessalians  ^*  were  redoubtable 
eaters,  and  that  the  Egyptians  consumed  a  prodigious  quantity  of 
bread." 

In  more  modern  times,  some  men  have  acquired,  by  the  energy  of 
their  hunger,  an  illustration  they  would  have  vainly  demanded  from 
their  genius  or  their  virtues.  The  Emperor  Claudius  sat  down  to  table 
at  all  hours  and  in  any  place.  One  day,  when  he  was  dispensing  justice 
according  to  his  own  fashion  in  the  market-place  of  Augustus,  his 
olfactory  nerves  scented  the  delicious  odour  of  a  feast  which  exhaled 
from  one  of  the  neighbouring  temples.  It  was  the  priests  of  Mars,  who 
were  merry-making  at  the  expense  of  the  good  souls  in  the  surrounding 
locality.  The  glutton  emperor  immediately  left  his  judgment-seat,  and, 
without  any  further  ceremony,  went  and  asked  them  for  a  knife  and 
fork."  Never,  no,  never,  adds  the  biographer  of  this  prince,  did  he 
leave  a  repast  until  he  was  distended  with  food  and  soaked  with  drink, 
and  then  only  to  sleep.  Yes,  the  ignoble  Csesar  slept ;  but  still,  the 
"  peacock's  feather,"  an  unseemly  invention  of  Roman  turpitude,  was 
called  into  requisition  to  prepare  the  monarch  for  new  excesses." 

Galba  could  taste  nothing  if  he  was  not  served  with  inconceivable 
profusion.  His  stomach  imposed  limits  upon  him,  but  his  eyes  knew 
none ;  and  when  he  had  gloated  to  his  heart's  content  upon  the  magni- 
ficent spectacle  of  innumerable  viands  for  which  the  universe  had  been 
ransacked,  he  would  have  the  imperial  dessert  taken  slowly  round  the 
table,  and  then  heaped  up  to  a  prodigious  height  before  the  astonished 
guests."  • 

Vitellius,  the  boldest  liver,  perhaps,  of  the  whole  imperial  crew,  and 
the  most  active  polyphagist  of  past  times,  caused  himself  to  be  invited 
the  same  day  to  several  senatorial  families.  This  deplorable  honour 
often  caused  their  ruin,  for  each  repast  cost  not  less  than  400,000 
sesterces  {£3,200).    The   intrepid  Vitellius  was  equal   to  the  whole, 


KEPASTS.  341 

thanks  to  the  peacock's  feather,  which,  doubtless,  was  cursed  more  than 
oribe  by  the  unfortunate  victims  of  his  dreadful  gluttony." 

True,  this  poor  prince  was  continually  tormented  with  a  hunger  that 
no  aliment  seemed  capable  of  satisfying.  In  the  sacrifices,  hke  the 
Harpies  of  whom  Virgil  speaks,'*  he  took  the  half-roasted  viands  from 
the  altars,  and  disputed  the  sacred  cakes  with  the  gods.  As  he  passed 
through  the  streets  he  seized  the  smoking-hot  food  spread  out  before 
the  shops  and  public-houses ;  he  did  not  even  disdain  the  disgusting 
scraps  that  a  miserable  plebeian  had  gnawed  the  evening  before,  and 
which  a  hunger-stricken  slave  would  have  hardly  contested  with  him.** 

Such  were  the  masters  of  the  world,  the  proud  Ceesars  I  before  whom 
haughty  Bome  bowed  the  head  and  trembled,  and  from  whom  it  basely 
implored  a  smile,  up  to  that  day  when  some  soldiers,  tired  of  their 
shamefril  obedience,  kicked  the  imperial  corpse  into  the  Tiber,  after 
having  mutilated  it  in  presence  of  the  populace^  who  crowded  joyously 
around  the  Gemonise." 

These  terrific  examples  of  insatiable  voracity  have  become  rare  and 
obscure.  A  few  isolated  facts  may  perhaps  be  met  with  at  very  distant 
periods,  which  remind  us  of  the  polyphagic  celebrities  of  Greece  and 
Italy.  There  are,  however,  two  which  would  have  merited  the  attention 
of  Yitellius  himself. 

The  ingenuous  Fuller  *'  speaks  of  a  man,  named  Nicholas  Wood,  to 
whom  the  county  of  Kent  proudly  claims  the  honour  of  having  given 
birth,  who  once  eat  a  whole  sheep  at  one  meal.  One  day  three  dozen 
of  pigeons  were  placed  before  him,  of  which  he  left  only  the  bones. 
Another  day,  being  at  Lord  Wootton  s,  and  having  a  good  appetite,  he 
devoured  eighty-four  rabbits  and  eighteen  yards  of  black-pudding  for 
his  breakfast*  We  leave  to  Fuller  the  responsibility  of  the  figures. 
Any  how,  the  brave  Nicholas  Wood  must  have  been  a  vigorous 
trencher-man ! 

The  second  anecdote  is  from  Berchoux: — 

Marshal  Yillars  had  a  house-porter  who  was  an  enormous  eater. 
"  Franz,"  said  he,  one  day,  "  tell  me,  now,  how  many  loins  you  could 
eat  ?  "  "  Ah  1  my  lord,  as  for  loins,  not  many :  five  or  six  at  most." 
"  And  how  many  legs  of  mutton  ?  "  *'  Ah  I  as  for  legs  of  mutton,  not 
many :  seven  or  eight  perhaps."  **  And  fatted  pullets  ?  "  "  Ah !  as 
for  pullets,  my  lord,  not  many :  not  more  than  a  dozen."  "  And 
pigeons  ?  "    *'  Ah  1  as  for  pigeons,  not  many :  perhaps  forty — fifty  at 


842  REPASTS. 

most,  according  to  the  appetite.'*    ''And  larks?"    "Ah!  as  for  that, 
my  lord — ^little  larks — ^for  ever,  my  lord,  for  ever !  "**  * 

A  trace  to  gluttons.     Let  us  speak  of  epicureans. 

It  is  to  them  that  gastronomic  civilization  owes  the  laws  by  which  it 
is  regulated ;  they  were  the  legislators  of  the  table :  they  introduce 
regularity  and  order  at  repasts.  The  breakfast,  dinner,  collation,  and 
supper  were  created  by  those  sages.  Fashion  has  often  modified  the 
nomenclature,  but  assuredly  it  will  never  be  able  to  supersede  it. 

The  Greeks  submitted  to  it  for  many  years ;"  and  then,  that  fickle 
people,  whom  everything  wearied,  decUned  the  drudgery  of  masticating 
so  firequently.  The  lower  orders  and  the  army  eat  twice  a  day  ;'^  the 
fashionable  people  contented  themselves  with  one  repast,'^  which  some 
had  served  at  mid-day,"  but  the  greater  part  just  before  sunset*'  The 
party  of  resistance  had,  as  yet,  yielded  only  on  one  point — the  collation ; 
,  and  they  continued  bravely  to  breakfast,  dine,  and  sup."  But  the 
monophagists  were  not  sparing  in  their  jokes,  and  the  new  fa&hion 
triumphed  at  last  over  the  prescription  of  ancient  usages.'^  Pagan 
sobriety  was  doubtless  far  fi*om  suspecting  that  the  Book  of  £cclesia8tes, 
in  accordance  with  it  on  this  subject,  pronounces  an  anathema  against 
the  kingdom  whose  princes  eat  in  the  morning.** 

The  Greek  manners  were  introduced  in  Rome,  and  persons  of  a 
certain  rank,  who  did  not  make  a  profession  of  gluttony,  gave  themselves 
up  to  the  pleasures  of  the  table  only  once  a  day.** 

The  tyranny  of  fashion  was  not,  however,  such  that  all  persons 
thought  themselves  bound  to  obey  it  under  pain  of  being  shamed  and 
ridiculed.  Many  unscrupulously  transgressed  its  laws,  and  more  than 
one  respectable  Greek  of  good  family,  following  the  example  of  Ulysses, 
who  prepared  his  breakfast  at  sun -rise,**  had  the  acratism  brought  so 
soon  as  the  crowing  of  the  cock  announced  the  return  of  day.**  This 
frugal  breakfast  was  composed  of  bread  steeped  in  pure  wine.**  The 
adults  restricted  themselves  to  this  slight  repast,  but  the  children  re- 
ceived more  substantial  nourishment.*' 

The  Romans,  when  they  were  not  asleep,  breakfasted  at  three  or 
four  o'clock  in  the  morning.**  A  little  bread  and  cheese,"  or  dry  fruits,** 
enabled  them  to  wait  for  the  solemn  hour  of  the  banquets. 

It  would  appear  that  the  Jews  dined  at  mid-day;**  it  was  the  hour 
at  which  St  Peter  was  hungry.**  This  repast  took  place  also  among 
the  Greeks  about  the  middle  of  the  day,**  if  we  are  to  beHeve  Athenaeus. 


REPASTS.  343 

However,  Cicero  relates  that  the  philosopher  Plato  appeared  to  be  very 
much  astonished,  when  travelling  in  Italy,  to  see  the  inhabitants  eat 
twice  every  day."  It  will  only  be  necessary  to  repeat  that  the  supper 
alone  formed  the  rule,  and  that  the  breakfast  and  dinner  were  excep- 
tions ;  they  depended  entirely  upon  the  casualties  of  will. 

About  mid-day^'  the  sober  Bomans  had  a  slight  collation/'  Seneca, 
who  never  loses  sight  of  himself  in  his  fastidious  treatises  on  wisdom, 
informs  us  that  a  little  bread  and  a  few  figs  were  all  that  his  virtue 
required.*' 

The  senators,  the  knights,  and  the  luxurious  ireed-men,  spared  no 
expense  either  for  dinner  or  supper.  The  priests  of  Mars,  of  whom  we 
have  already  spoken,  set  them  an  example  too  seductive  for  them  not 
to  follow  it.**  It  is  to  be  remarked,  by  the  way,  that  those  worthy 
ministers  of  the  god  of  war  took  this  repast  in  the  most  secret  part  of 
their  temple,  where  they  hardly  allowed  any  one  to  come  and  interrupt 
them.  This  gastronomic  ([uietude  was  also  very  much  the  taste  of  a 
celebrated  modem  sailor,  the  Bailiff  de  Suffirein.  He  was  at  dinner  in 
Achem,  India,  when  a  deputation  from  the  town  was  announced.  Being 
a  witty  glutton,  he  conceived  the  happy  thought  of  sending  word  to  the 
importunate  troop  that  an  article  of  the  Christian  reUgion  expressly 
prohibited  every  Christian  from  occupying  himself  with  anything  besides 
eating,  that  function  being  of  the  most  serious  importance.  This  reply 
singularly  edified  the  deputation,  who  retired  with  respect,  admiring  the 
extreme  devotion  of  the  French  general.*' 

The  collation — merenda — ^was  little  in  use.  It  took  place  about  the 
end  of  the  day,  before  supper,  particularly  in  summer,  among  the  work- 
men and  farm  labourers.^' 

We  now  come  to  the  principal  repast,  to  that  which  threw  such 
brilliancy  over  the  latter  centuries  of  Home,  when  a  culinary  mono- 
mania,  a  sort  of  gastronomic  furor,  seemed  to  have  seized  the  sovereign 
people,  who,  no  longer  great  by  their  conquests,  betrayed  a  desire  to 
become  so  by  the  number  and  audacity  of  their  follies. 

The  Hebrews  supped  at  the  ninth  hour,  that  is  to  say,  about  three 
o'clock  in  the  afternoon."  Their  custom  of  two  repasts  would  be 
sufficiently  proved  by  the  fact  that,  on  fast  days,  they  took  food  only  in 
the  evening."  Hence,  when  they  did  not  fast,  they  also  eat  at  another 
hour.  Their  ordinary  aliment  was  very  simple ;  we  shall  have  to  speak 
of  it  hereafter. 


344  REPASTS. 

In  the  primitive  times,  kings  prepared  their  own  suppers.*'     Beef, 
mutton,  goat's  flesh — such  were  the  viands  which   then  satisfied  the 
daintiest  palates."    Baskets,  filled  with  pure  wheaten  bread,  were  carried 
round  to  the  guests,"  and  heaps  of  salt,  placed  on  the  table,  gave  proof 
of  the  hospitality  of  those  simple  and  unsophisticated  ages.'* 

The  fierce  warriors  of  that  warlike  period  never  forgot  to  invoke  the 
gods  before  they  satisfied  their  appetites:  libations  of  wine  rendered 
them  favourable.*'  This  pious  duty  once  fulfilled,  they  gave  themselves 
up  without  restraint,  to  the  joys  of  good  cheer ;  and  the  sounds  of  the 
lyre  and  the  bufiboneries  of  mountebanks  enlivened  the  banquet,** 
which  again  received  iresh  animation  from  the  copious  healths,  which 
persons  the  least  versed  in  the  forms  of  society  never  forgot.** 

It  often  happened  that  each  one  paid  his  share,  or  brought  provi- 
sions with  him**  to  these  joyous  suppers,  of  which  the  last  rays  of  the 
setting  sun  always  gave  the  periodical  signal.*^  The  uncertainty  of  these 
amicable  meetings  constituted  their  charm.  Fic-nics,  as  we  see,  may  be 
traced  rather  far  back. 

It  was  then  that  pleasure  presided  at  those  repasts ;  dulness  had  its 
turn  when  luxury  proscribed  the  supper  in  open  air,  and  in  common,** 
after  the  manner  of  the  Jews,  who  assembled  in  gardens,  or  under  trees,** 
and  mingled  the  sweet  harmony  of  music  with  the  less  delicate  seduc- 
tions of  their  banquets.** 

The  breakfast  has  always  taken  place  after  rising;  dinner  in  the 
middle  of  the  day ;  the  collation  in  the  course  of  the  afternoon ;  and  the 
supper  in  the  evening.  In  the  1 4th  century,  people  dined  at  ten  o'clock 
in  the  morning/*  One  or  two  centuries  later,  they  dined  at  eleven  o'clock. 
In  the  16th  century,  and  at  the  commencement  of  the  17th,  they 
dined  at  mid-day  in  the  best  houses.  Louis  XIV.,  himself,  always  sat 
down  to  table  at  that  hour.**  This  order  was  not  modified  until  the 
18th  century. 

The  Sicilian  cooks  taught  unheard-of  refinements,  and  were  sought 
after  with  strange  eagerness.*'  The  chine  of  beef  and  haunch  of  mut- 
ton of  the  Homeric  epoch,  gave  way  to  sumptuous  banquets,  and  a 
learned  prodigality  divided  them  into  two  or  three  acts,  or  courses,**  the 
order  and  luxurious  majesty  of  which  have  been  adopted  in  modem 
times. 

It  appears  that  three  or  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon — the  ninth  hour — 
was  the  time  invariably  fixed  for  the  supper  of  the  Romans.**    Like  the 


REPASTS.  34r» 

Greeks  of  yore,  they  contented  themselves  at  first  with  simple  aliments, 
and  few  in  number ;  subsequently,  three  courses,  sometimes  seven^^*  or 
even  many  more,  appeared  to  them  to  be  hardly  sufficient  to  satisfy  the 
ardent  voracity  of  their  eyes,  and  glut  stomachs  which  odious  precautions 
assimilated  to  the  buckets  of  Danaus's  daughters. 

These  suppers,  the  details  of  which  always  appear  to  us  as  bearing 
the  impress  of  exaggeration,  notwithstanding  the  authority  of  the  writers 
who  furnish  them,  were  insufficient  for  certain  prodigies  of  extravagance 
and  furious  gluttony,  who  were  served  at  midnight  with  a  sort  of  "  wake" 
{comissatio),''^  at  which  some  of  them  gave  proof  of  renewed  greed  and 
vigour. 

Vitellius  was  renowned  for  this  kind  of  nocturnal  debauchery;" 
others  shone  in  the  second  rank,  but  no  one  equalled  that  monarch- 
cook,  who  made  the  empire  a  market,  and  his  shameful  reign  an  un« 
ceasing  banquet. 

Sensual  enjoyments,  and  every  variety  of  barbarity  that  follows  in 
their  train,  were  carried  to  the  highest  pitch.  There  was  something  vast 
and  monstrous,  of  which  nothing  can  give  us  an  idea,  in  the  eclipse  of 
mind^  and  the  depravity  of  their  hearts.  All  that  force  of  intelligence 
and  will  which,  under  the  influence  of  Christian  spiritualism,  has  re- 
vealed itself  in  modem  times  by  so  many  chivalric  inspirations,  so  many 
moral  institutions,  so  many  scientific  discoveries,  so  many  industrial 
works^  then  ingulfed  in  the  senses,  was  taxed  solely  for  their  gratifi- 
cation.  The  sensual  organization  of  man  had  acquired  a  development 
apparently  as  vast  as  that  of  intelligence,  because  inteUigence  had  be- 
come the  handmaid  of  the  senses :  hence  those  colossal  proportions  in 
the  tastes,  the  banquets,  the  pleasures  of  the  ancients,  when  compared 
with  ours,  which  make  us  regard  them  as  an  extinct  race  of  giants,  if 
we  consider  them  in  a  sensual  point  of  view ;  and  as  a  race  of  pygmies, 
if  we  measure  them  by  that  power  of  ideas — ^that  metaphysical  and 
moral  elevation — to  which  we  have  attained,  and  which  would  make  a 
child  of  our  days  the  catechist  of  all  the  philosophers  of  antiquity." 

Down  to  the  time  of  the  conquest  of  the  north  of  Europe  by  the 
Bomans,  the  food  was  very  simple.  Chopped  herbs  boiled  in  cauldrons, 
served  in  wooden  bowls  on  the  hide  of  an  ox,  spread  on  the  ground, 
in  the  midst  of  the  forest ;  balls  composed  of  different  kinds  or  flour, 
and  some  strips  of  meat  grilled  on  the  embers — such  was  the  food  of 
our  forefisithers." 

w 


346  REPASTS. 

The  table  at  which  the  Anglo-Saxons  took  their  repasts,  -ms  covered 
with  a  very  clean  cloth.  Each  one  received  a  horn  cup,  which  contained 
some  kind  of  pottage,  or  ale^the  beverage  for  which  they  had  a  predi- 


lection." The  plates  wj^  which  Strutt  has  enriched  his  work  give  a 
satisfactory^  idea  of  the  culinary  intelligence  of  the  nation.  They  had 
spits,  knives,  plates,  and  dishes  in  abundance.  England  was  marching 
with  giant  strides  towards  civilization.'' 

The  Anglo-Saxons  were  particularly  fond  of  boiled  meat.  They  cut 
up  the  animal  they  intended  to  cook,  put  the  pieces  into  a  cauldron, 
supported  by  a  tripod,  and  then  lighted  a  fire  on  the  ground.  They 
stirred  their  ragottt  incessantly  with  a  long  two-pronged  fork,  which 
also  served  them  to  take  out  the  meat  when  it  was  done.'' 

All  the  deplorable  excesses  of  the  Bomans  ought  not  to  divert  us 
from  the  fact,  that  religion  and  sound  policy  seem  to  have  consecrated 
repasts  in  common,  as  one  of  the  means  best  calculated  to  unite  men 
more  closely  in  the  bonds  of  concord  and  friendship."  The  Scriptures 
furnish  us  with  the  first  examples.  Among  llie  IsraeUtes,  the  banquets 
which  followed  the  sacrifices  always  took  place  in  an  assembly  of  rela* 
tions,  neighbours,  or  fiiends."  They  eat  together  and  in  public  on 
wedding  days  and  solemn  festivals.** 

The  first  Ghristians  promptly  adopted  this  custom :  their  love  feasts — 
their  agapa-^Yfere  served  in  the  church,  after  the  Oommunion.  The  ridn 
contributed  to  them  abundantly;  the  poor  according  to  their  means; 
and  the  indigent  who  presented  themselves  with  nothing  in  their  hands^ 
were  received  and  treated  as  brethren.*^  Admirable  association  of 
penury  and  opulence,  which  will  never  be  replaced  by  the  crude  Utopias 
of  modem  philanthropy ! 

As  an  act  of  justice  to  Pagan  legislators,  we  are  compelled  to  say 
that  sometimes  they  had  excellent  views,  which  go  far  to  extenuate 
many  of  their  aberrations.  The  laws  of  Minos  prescribed  to  the  Cretans 
the  annual  levy  of  an  impost,  the  half  of  which  was  to  be  consecrated  to 
the  nourishment  of  the  people.  No  one  could  eat  alone;  a  certain 
number  of  famili^  met  together  to  take  their  repasts  in  common."  At 
Lacedsemon,  each  one  brought  his  share  of  the  provisions  necessary  for 
the  supper  of  the  whole;*'  or  he  sent  at  the  commencement  of  the 
month  to  the  steward  of  the  common  halls,  wine,  cheese,  figs,  a  measure 
of  flour,  and  a  small  sum  of  money  to  defray  other  expenses.**  Friend*' 
ship,  sobriety,  and  concord  presided,  without  exception,  at  these  meetings. 


REPASTS.  847 

Solon  decreed  that  the  Athenians  should  assemble  at  the  Prytanea 
to  eat  together — sometimes  one,  sometimes  another — at  the  public  ex- 
pense. Each  was  invited  in  his  turn,  and  was  expected  to  be  there  on  the 
day  named."  The  Prytanea  of  Athens,  Megara,  Olympia,  and  Oyzica, 
contained  a  great  number  of  porticoes,  under  which  were  the  tables  at 
which  the  citizens  sat 

The  founder  of  Rome  also  had  the  wisdom  to  ordain  that,  in  certain 
cases,  the  inhabitants  of  the  same  ward  should  take  their  repasts  in 
common,  as  a  sign  of  peace  and  good  feeling ;  nay,  more :  he  decreed 
these  suppers  to  be  a  part  of  the  religious  worship,  and  they  were  called 
"  sacred  banquets."" 

Man  abuses  every  thing.  The  Romans,  tired  of  eating  merely  to 
support  life^  and  disdaining,  little  by  little,  that  austere  sobriety  which 
rendered  thorn  the  masters  of  the  world,  gave  themselves  up  at  last  to 
unbridled  luxury,  which  appears  to  have  redoubled  during  the  war  of 
Italy,  and  the  civil  wars  of  Marius,  83  B.C.  Cornelius  Sylla  assumed 
the  government,  and  one  of  the  terrible  dictator's  laws  {Lex  Cornelia) 
renewed  the  ancient  sumptuary  regulations,  and  fixed  the  prices  of  pro- 
visions.*' Julius  GcBsar  also  made  great  efibrts  to  oppose  the  redoubt- 
able invasions  of  Roman  gastronomy.  That  prince  stationed  guards  in 
the  markets,  with  orders  to  seize  whatever  they  found  there  in  contra* 
vention  of  the  laws.  K,  through  want  of  vigilance  or  fidelity,  they 
allowed  anything  to  escape,  it  was  sure  to  be  confiscated  by  more  active 
agents,  on  the  very  tables,  and  in  presence  of  the  assembled  guests." 
Resistance  only  increased  the  evil.  Augustus  thought  to  render  the 
laws  more  efficacious  by  modifying  them.  He  permitted  twelve  persons 
to  meet  in  honour  of  the  twelve  great  gods,  and  to  spend  eight  shillings 
in  ordinary  repasts ;  twelve  shillings  in  the  banquets  of  the  calends,  the 
ides,  and  the  nones ;  and  even  two  pounds  on  wedding  days  and  the  day 
following." 

Tiberius  granted  still  more.  Under  his  reign,  a  worthy  citizen  might 
spend  for  supper  the  sum  of  four  pounds,  without  having  to  fear  that 
any  one  would  find  fault  with  it** 

Caligula,  Claudius,  and  Nero — doubtless  better  judges  of  hberty  than 
their  predecessors— allowed  every  one  the  right  to  ruin  himself  as  joy- 
ously as  he  pleased.  These  good  princes,  so  far  from  repressing  the 
luxury  of  the  table,  strove  to  fortify  it  with  the  authority  of  their 
examples.** 

w  2 


J 


348  REPASTS. 

Vitellius  was  by  nature  a  non-refonner.  That  voracious  Caesar  ope- 
rated on  a  large  scale ;  he  spent  in  four  months,  for  his  suppers,  a  little 
more  than  five  millions  sterling.*'  A  trifle  for  a  Boman  emperor  I  Did 
not  the  riches  and  labour  of  Europe,  Asia,  and  Africa,  form  his  civil 
list  ?  It  is  quite  true  that  out  of  this  modest  revenue  he  had  to  find 
com  to  stop  the  cravings  of  the  proletarians,  and  provide  the  games  of 
the  Circus,  in  order  to  amuse  them  in  their  dangerous  idleness.  But 
Vitellius,  who  had  no  other  passion  than  that  of  good  cheer,  was  royally 
equal  to  the  task.  And  these  things  cause  no  surprise  when  we  re- 
member that  a  Boman  general,  Lucullus,  spent  not  less  than  £1,000  to 
offer  a  little  collation  to  two  of  his  friends,  who  refused  him  the  time  he 
required  to  treat  them  in  a  less  unceremonious  manner. 

We  find  in  the  historj  o{  "  Jack  of  Newbury /^^*  instructions  relative 
to  the  manner  in  which  an  English  tradesman  was  to  feed  the  persons 
in  his  employment  in  the  1 6th  century,  which  would  certainly  not  be 
very  pleasing  now  to  that  useful  and  laborious  class : — 

"  You  feed  your  folks  with  the  best  of  beef  and  the  finest  of  wheat, 
which  is  an  oversight ;  neither  do  I  hear  of  any  knight  in  this  country 
that  doth  it,  and,  to  say  the  truth,  how  were  they  able  to  bear  that  part 
which  they  do,  if  they  saved  it  not  by  some  means?  Come  thither,  and 
I  warrant  you  that  you  shall  see  brown  bread  upon  the  board  ;  if  it  be 
of  wheat  and  rye  mingled  together,  it  is  a  great  matter,  and  bread  most 
highly  commended,  but  most  commonly  they  eat  barley  bread,  or  rye 
mingled  with  peasen  or  such-like  coarse  grain,  which  is  doubtless  of 
small  price,  and  there  is  no  other  bread  allowed  except  it  be  at  their  own 
board ;  and  in  like  manner  for  their  meat,  it  is  well  known  that  necks 
and  points  of  beef  is  their  ordinary  fare ;  which,  because  it  is  commonly 
lean,  they  seeth  therewith  now  and  then  a  piece  of  bacon  or  pork, 
whereby  they  make  their  pottage  fat,  and  therewith  drive  out  the  rest 
with  more  content :  and  this  you  must  do.  And  besides  that,  the  mid- 
riffs of  oxen,  and  the  cheeks,  the  sheep's  heads,  and  the  gathers,  which 
you  give  away  at  your  gate,  might  serve  them  well  enough ;  this  would 
be  a  great  spareing  to  your  meat,  and  by  this  means  you  would  save 
much  money  in  the  year,  whereby  you  might  better  maintain  your 
French  hood  and  silk  gown." 

The  following  is  the  style  of  living  at  the  court  of  the  Dauphin  of 
France  in  the  ]  4th  century : — 

As  in  all  well-regulated  houses,  there  were  five  repasts,  viz. :  the 


REPASTS.  349 

morning  (except  on  fast  days),  the  breakfast ;  the  repast  of  ten  o'clock^ 
— {dix  heures,  or  the  decimJieure;  by  abbreviation  dicimer^  and  by  a 
second  abbreviation,  diner) — the  dinner ;  the  second  dinner,  the  supper 
{sauper)y  at  which  they  eat  no  more  soup  than  we  do ;  and  lastly,  the 
night  repast,  which  they  called  a  collation. 

As  an  every-day  fare,  the  Dauphin  took  for  his  dinner  a  rice 
pottage,  with  leeks  or  cabbage,  a  piece  of  beef,  another  of  salt  pork,  a 
dish  of  six  hens  or  twelve  pullets,  divided  in  two,  a  piece  of  roast  pork, 
cheese,  and  firuit ;  at  supper,  a  piece  of  roast  beef,  a  dish  of  brains,  neat's 
feet,  with  vinegar,  cheese  and  fruit.  Other  days,  other  dishes,  which 
were  also  pre-arranged  with  respect  to  kind  and  quantity.  The  barons 
of  the  court  had  always  the  half  of  the  quantity  of  the  Dauphin ;  the 
knights,  the  quarter ;  the  equerries  and  chaplains,  the  eighth.  The  dis- 
tributions of  wine  and  bread  were  made  in  the  same  proportions ;  such  a 
rank,  such  weight,  such  measure  ;  so  that  the  young  and  delicate  baroness 
had  four  pots  of  wine,  while  the  chorister  and  the  chaplain  had  but  one.'^ 

We  are  indebted  to  the  learned  Monteil  for  the  following  details 
relative  to  the  public  repasts  of  Louis  XIV. : — " 

The  usher  of  the  court,  at  the  hour  named,  goes  and  knocks  with 
his  wand  at  the  door  of  the  hall  of  the  body-guard,  and  says :  *'  Gentle- 
men, to  the  kings  table!"  a  guard  is  dispatched,  who  follow  him  to 
the  goblet,  where  one  of  the  officers  for  the  service  of  the  table  takes  the 
nave.     The  guard  accompany  him,  marching  by  his  side,  sword  in  hand. 

Having  arrived  at  the  dining-room,  the  officers  spread  the  cloth, 
try  the  napkins,  the  fork,  the  spoon,  the  knife,  and  the  tooth-picks ; 
that  is  to  say,  they  touch  them  with  a  morsel  of  bread,  which  they 
afterwards  eat. 

The  usher  returns  again  to  the  hall  of  the  body-guard,  knocks  at 
the  door  with  his  wand,  and  cries:  ''Gentlemen,  the  king's  meat!" 
Four  guards  then  follow  him  to  the  ambry,  where  the  equerry  of  the 
household  and  the  chief  steward,  or  major-domo,  test  the  dishes,  by 
dipping  a  piece  of  bread,  which  they  eat  After  this,  the  king's  meat 
is  carried,  the  guards  marching  with  their  drawn  swords  on  either  side ; 
the  chief  steward,  preceded  by  the  usher,  walking  in  front.  When  he 
arrives  near  the  table,  he  approaches  the  nave,  and  makes  his  obeisance 
to  it ;  and  if  the  announcer,  or  any  other  person  desire  also  to  do  it,  he 
may.  The  gentlemen-in- waiting  place  the  dishes  successively,  and  the 
table  being  covered  with  them,  the  king  then  enters. 


k 

4 


350  REPASTS. 

It  is  to  be  remarked,  that  it  is  always  a  prince  or  a  great  personage  who 
presents  the  wet  napkin  to  him  with  which  to  wash  his  hands,  whereas 
it  is  a  simple  valet  who  presents  him  with  the  dry  napkin  to  wipe  them. 

The  king  takes  his  seat. 

The  equerry-carver  carves  the  viands. 

The  king  serves  himself  on  a  plate  of  gold. 

When  he  asks  for  drink,  the  cup-bearer  calls  aloud :  "  Drink  for  the 
king  !**  At  the  same  time  he  makes  his  obeisance  to  him,  goes  to  the 
bu£fet,  takes  two  crystal  decanters,  one  of  which  is  filled  with  wine,  and 
the  other  with  water,  returns  to  the  king,  makes  another  obeisance, 
removes  the  cover  of  the  glass,  and  presents  it  to  the  king,  who  pours 
out  wine  and  water  according  to  his  own  pleasure. 

During  the  dinner  or  supper  of  the  king,  a  group  of  lordly  courtiers 
stand  behind  his  chair,  and  endeavour — though  frequently  in  vain — 
to  divert  him,  and  make  him  laugh ;  and  another  group,  composed  of 
ladies  of  the  court,  stand  behind  the  queen's  chair,  who,  on  their  part, 
try  to  amuse  her,  and  excite  a  smile. 

Whether  the  king  eat  in  public  or  private,  the  table  is  always  served 
in  the  same  manner : — 

AT  DINNER 

TWO   LARGE   TEURINES   OF   SOUP. 

TWO   MIDDLINO-SIZKJ)   ONBS. 

TWO   SMALL   ONES   AS   SIDE   DISHES. 

FIRST  COURSE.  SECOND  COURSE. 

TWO   LARGE   DISHES.  TWO   LARGE   DTSHES   OF   ROAST. 

TWO   MIDDLING  SIZED   ONES.  TWO   MORE,   AS   SIDE   DISHES. 

SIX   SMALL   ONES,   AS   SIDE   DISHES. 

AT  SUPPER 

The  same  number  of  dishes,  only  there  is  hut  three-fourths  of  the  quantity 

of  soup. 

The  king  eats  only  with  the  royal  family  and  princes  of  the  blood. 

Sometimes,  however,  the  Pope's  nuncio  has  the  honour  of  sitting 
at  his  table,  but  always  at  the  distance  of  four  places."' 

The  luxury  of  the  table  was  carried  so  far  under  Edward  III.  of 
England,  that  that  prince  was  constrained,  in  the  17th  year  of  his 
reign,  to  impose  sumptuary  laws  on  his  subjects,  forbidding  the  common 
people  the  indulgence  of  costly  food  and  fine  wines.'' 


REPASTS.  351 

The  neoessity  for  this  measure  is  demonstrated  by  the  fact,  of  which 
we  read  in  the  chronicles  of  Stow,  '*  that,  ''  at  the  marriage  of  Lionel, 
Duke  of  Clarence,  the  third  son  of  Edward  III.,  with  Violentis,  the 
daughter  of  Galeasius  IT.,  Duke  of  Milan,  there  was  a  rich  feast,  in 
which  above  thirty  courses  were  served  at  the  table,  and  the  fragments 
that  remained  were  more  than  sufficient  to  have  served  a  thousand 
people." 

The  same  chronicler  also  informs  us  that  King  Bichard  II.  held  the 
Ohristmas  feasts  in  the  great  hall  of  Westminster  in  1 099,  "  and  such 
numbers  came,  that  every  day  there  were  slain  twenty-six  or  twenty-eight 
oxen  and  three  hundred  sheep,  besides  fowls  without  number."  *' 

Bichard  Nevil,  Earl  of  Warwick,  kept  so  good  a  table,  that  his 
guests  often  eat  six  fat  oxen  for  their  breakfast.^®^  "  In  number  of 
dishes  and  change  of  meate,"  says  Holinshed,^®^  ''  the  nobiUtie  of 
Englande  do  most  exceede,  sith  there  is  no  daye  in  maner  that  passeth 
over  their  heades,  wherein  they  have  not  onely  beefe,  mutton,  veale, 
lambe,  kidde,  pork,  conie,  capon,  pigge,  or  so  many  of  these  as  the 
season  yieldeth,  but  also  some  portion  of  the  redde  or  fallow  deere, 
beside  great  varietie  of  fishe  and  wilde  fowle,  and  thereto  sundne  other 
delicates,  wherein  the  sweet  hand  of  the  portingale  is  not  wanting  " 

So  early  as  the  Ifith  century  the  inhabitants  of  the  City  of  London 
were  remarkable  for  the  astonishing  profusion  of  their  repasts,  if  we  are 
to  believe  the  poet  Masainger — 

'*  Men  may  talk  of  country  Christmas,  and  court  gluttony, 
Their  thirty  pounds  for  buttered  eggs,  their  pies  of  carps'  tongues, 
Their  pheasants  drenched  with  ambergrise ;  the  carcases 
Of  three  fat  wethers  bruised  for  gravy,  to 
Make  sauee  for  a  single  peacock : — ^yet  their  feasts 
Were  fasts,  compared  with  the  City's."**" 

The  description  of  one  dish  will  enable  us  to  judge  of  the  others — 

**  Three  sacking  pigs,  senred  up  in  a  dish. 
Took  from  the  sow  as  soon  as  she  had  farrowed, 
A  fortnight  fed  with  dates  and  muskadine,* 
That  stood  my  master  in  twenty  marks  a  piece ; 
Besides  the  puddings  in  their  bellies,  made 
Of  I  know  not  what."*" 

•  A  sort  of  wine,  mnch  esteemed. 


352  REPASTS. 

Hang  thyself,  voluptuous  ApiciuB !  thou  bast  never  dreamed  of  such 
delicate  fare ! 

In  the  comedy  of  the  *'  Parsons  Wedding  "^^^  the  captain  orders  for 
his  supper  "  chines  fry'd  and  the  salmon  calver  d,  a  carp  and  black 
sauce,  red  deer  in  the  blood,  and  an  assembly  of  woodcocks  and  jack- 
snipes,  so  &t  you  would  think  they  had  their  winding-sheets  on ;  and 
upon  these,  as  their  pages,  let  me  have  wait  your  Sussex  wheatear, 
with  a  feather  in  his  cap ;  over  all  which  let  our  countryman,  general 
chine  of  beef,  command.  I  hate  your  French  pottage,  that  looks  as  if 
the  cook-maid  had  more  hand  in  it  than  the  cook." 

The  luxurious  munificence  of  Norman  kings  is  almost  as  remarkable 
as  that  of  the  emperors  of  degenerate  Rome. 

William  the  Conqueror  had  himself  crowned  three  times  in  the  same 
year,  and  the  banquets  he  gave  on  those  occasions  were  such  that  they 
impoverished  the  kingdom."* 

At  the  dinner  given  on  the  marriage  of  Bichard^  Earl  of  Cornwall, 
and  brother  of  Henry  III.,  with  the  daughter  of  Raymond,  Earl  of 
Provence,  more  than  thirty  thousand  dishes  were  served  on  the  table 
of  the  bride  and  bridegroom."' 

In  the  year  1252,  ''John  Hansel,  the  kings  counsellor,  gave  a 
stately  dinner  to  the  kings  of  England  and  Scotland  and  their  queens ; 
there  was  also  present  Edward,  the  king's  son,  the  Bishop  of  London, 
and  many  earls,  barons,  knights,  allid  citizens ;  in  short,  so  large  was  his 
company,  that  his  house  at  Totehill  could  not  contain  them ;  therefore 
he  set  up  tents  and  pavilions  for  their  reception ;  seven  hundred  messes 
of  meat  was  not  sufficient  to  serve  them  for  the  first  course.""' 

The  following  details,  which  we  borrow  from  Monteil's  excellent 
work,"*  give  us  some  idea  of  the  style  of  living  in  the  mansions  of 
France  during  the  14th  century: — 

**  Whenever  there  is  a  dinner  of  ceremony,  the  clerks  of  the  church  are 
requested  to  bring  holy  water.  The  repast  is  commenced  and  concluded 
with  fruit.  The  bread  eaten  is  in  loaves  of  nine  ounces  only.  Every 
bason  of  meat  is  surrounded  with  sage,  lavender,  or  other  aromatic  herbs ; 
and  on  Sunday,  or  any  holiday,  negus  is  given.  The  sideboard,  or 
bufiet,  is  always  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  covered  with  jugs  and  large 
drinking  cups  of  gold  and  silver. 

'*  The  cellars,  store-rooms,  kneading  troughs,  dairies,  and  fruit-stores, 
are  fiUed  and  emptied  unceasingly — take  who  will,  when  he  will,  and  as 


EBPASTS.  353 

muoh  as  he  will.    ProvisioDS  of  every  kind  are  heaped  up  with  a  profu- 
sion that  announces  magnificence  allied  with  riches. 

''  The  great  number  of  nobles^  knights,  huntsmen,  falconers,  pages, 
kitchen  servants,  butlers,  bakers,  the  numerous  valets,  workmen,  gar- 
deners, harbingers,  door-keepers^  porters,  and  guards  are  not  equal  to 
the  task  of  consuming  so  much.  From  all  sides  come  relations,  allies, 
neighbours,  friends,  pilgrims,  and  travellers,  all  of  whom  remain  or 
depart  at  will,  being  feasted  as  if  it  were  the  morrow  of  a  wedding,  or  a 
patronal  festivity. 

''The  kitchen  chimney-places  are  not  less  than  twelve  feet  in  width. 
One  man  would  not  have  strength  sufficient  to  use  the  tongs  or  the 
shovels.  The  andirons  do  not  weigh  less  than  a  hundred  pounds,  the 
trivets  forty  pounds ;  copper  saucepans  of  thirty  pounds  are  common, 
and  so  are  spits  of  eleven  and  twelve  pounds.  One  roast  is  composed 
of  one,  two,  or  three  calves,  two,  three,  or  four  sheep,  besides  game, 
venison,  and  poultry.  The  boiling  of  the  saucepans,  the  exhalations 
from  the  grease,  render  the  atmosphere  so  fat,  so  thick,  that  it  is  only 
necessary  to  breathe  in  it  to  feed.  A  person  would  not  dare  enter  one 
of  those  kitchens  on  the  eve  of  a  feast  day,  for  fear,  as  it  were,  of  break- 
ing his  &st. 

"  In  the  16th  century  persons  washed,  their  hands  at  the  commence- 
ment of  a  repast,  and  a  second  time  when  it  was  concluded.  When 
the  master  of  the  house  was  particular  on  the  point  of  civility,  he  had  a 
bason  sent  round  at  this  second  ablution,  filled  with  perfumed  water.  ^'* 

*'  When  the  person  seated  in  the  chief  place  was  a  guest  of  distinction, 
politeness  made  it  indispensable  to  present  him  with  water  to  rinse  his 
mouth."' 

"  One  of  the  most  difficult  points  of  French  civility  in  the  16th  cen- 
tury was  to  drink  to  a  person's  health,  or  return  the  compliment  in  a 
proper  manner."'  A  guest  at  one  end  of  the  table  held  up  his  glass, 
and  called  out:  'Mr.  Such-a-one,  to  your  health!'  He  replied:  'I 
love  it  from  you!'"'  During  the  whole  of  the  repast,  healths  were 
bandied  to  and  fro,  in  every  sense.  At  the  end  they  touched  glasses  to- 
gether at  a  central  point,  which  created  a  very  singular  kind  of  clash, 
and,  at  the  same  time,  the  arms  underneath  formed  a  sort  of  fasces  of 
sleeves  and  cufb."  "' 


XXX. 


VARIETY    OF    REPASTS. 


The  fertile  country  inhabited  by  the  Jewish  people  furnished  them  with 
a  ver}'  great  variety  of  excellent  provisions.  Those  of  which  they  made 
the  greatest  consumption,  and  which  we  find  generally  mentioned  in  the 
Scriptures,  are  bread,  fiour,  barley,  beans,  lentils,  wine,  raisinSy  figs* 
honey,  butter,  oil,  sheep,  oxen,  fatted  calves,  &o/ 

The  fat  of  animals  offered  in  sacrifice  was  reserved  for  the  Lord ;' 
but,  with  this  exception,  the  Hebrews  could  freely  make  use  of  it  They 
esteemed  it  much,  and  when  they  wished  to  speak  of  a  rich  banquet, 
they  called  it  ''a  banquet  of  fat  animals." '  '*  He  that  loveth  wine  and 
oil,"*  says  Solomon,  **  shall  not  be  rich."  * 

The  extreme  simplicity  of  the  greater  part  of  the  Biblical  repasts 
ought  not  to  induce  us  to  suppose  that  the  Jews  were  entire  strangers  to 
the  inspirations  of  good  cheer.  '*  Solomon's  provisions  for  one  day 
were  thirty  measures  of  fine  flour,  and  three  score  measures  of  meal, 
ten  fat  oxen,  and  twenty  oxen  out  of  the  pastures,  and  an  hundred 
sheep,  besides  harts,  and  roebucks,  and  fallow- deer,  and  fatted  fowl/'  * 

That  primitive  nation  also  knew  different  kinds  of  banquets,  which, 
conformably  with  their  naive  manners,  were  associated  with  the  cele- 
bration of  a  religious  solemnity,  a  sad  or  a  jo3rful  event,  a  family  festi- 
vity or  mourning,  a  victory  or  a  public  calamity.* 

The  Greeks  and  Romans,  skilful  masters  in  the  art  of  good  living, 
were  early  on  the  alert  to  assure  the  collection  of  all  things  necessary  for 
the  support  of  life.  "  Take  care,"  said  Aurelian  to  Flavins,  "  take  care, 
above  ail  things,  that  the  markets  of  Home  be  well  supplied :  nothing 

♦  Fat  meat,  according  to  the  yulgate. 


VARIETY  OF  REPASTS.  355 

more  gay  or  more  peaceful  than  the  people,  when  they  are  well  fed."' 
This  remark  is  much  more  profound  than  it  at  first  appears. 

At  Athens,  special  officers  visited  the  markets,  and  only  permitted 
each  citizen  to  purchase  and  keep  in  his  own  house  the  quantity  of  pro- 
visions necessary  for  one  year.* 

The  ediles  of  Rome  performed  nearly  similar  functions.'  The  pre- 
fect of  the  town  was  invested  with  the  power  of  making  regulations  for 
the  markets/'  and  the  prefect  of  provisions  had  the  inspection  of  the 
sale  of  bread  meat,  wine,  fish,  and  all  other  kinds  of  aliment  required 
either  for  the  table  of  the  rich  or  poor  plebeian." 

During  a  long  time,  in  Greece  and  Italy,  the  only  charm  of  repasts 
was,  that  they  furnished  an  opportunity  for  the  exercise  of  those  duties 
of  kind  hospitality,  which  Apollodorus  has  described  in  the  following 
ingenuous  style :  "  As  soon  as  a  friend,"  says  he,  ''  steps  on  the  threshold 
of  his  host,  the  porter  receives  him  with  a  smiling  face ;  the  dog  of  the 
house  comes  immediately  to  caress  him,  amicably  wagging  his  tail ;  then 
some  one  runs  and  presents  him  a  seat  without  being  told."  "  This  last 
trait  is  charming. 

But  afterwards,  they  thought  much  more  of  honouring  the  god  of 
good  cheer  than  Jupiter  Hospes,  and  joyous  Comus  became  every- 
where the  fashionable  divinity.  One  of  the  ancients  describes  him  In 
the  following  manner :  ''  He  is  seen  at  the  door  of  an  apartment  com- 
municating with  the  banqueting  hall ;  his  smiling  face  is  fresh,  plump, 
and  ruddy ;  his  head  is  crowned  with  roses,  and  he  sleeps  standing ; 
his  left  hand  rests  on  a  thyrsus,  but  sleep  makes  him  loose  his  hold ; 
he  staggers,  and  the  torch  will  soon  fall  from  his  grasp." '' 

The  Greeks  were  fervent  in  their  worship  of  this  god,  at  an  epoch 
when  Rome  still  prided  herself  on  her  transcendant  sobriety.  Gonon 
gave  a  banquet  to  all  the  Athenians  after  the  battle  of  Cnidos,  about 
four  centuries  before  the  Christian  era;  and  his  celebrated  contempo- 
rary, the  handsome  Alcibiades,  conqueror  in  the  Olympic  games,  magni- 
ficently regaled  the  numerous  spectators  who  had  just  applauded  his 
triumph.** 

The  pagan  temples  themselves  often  rung  with  the  sound  of  the 
music,  the  chaunts,  and  the  dances  which  always  accompanied  the 
religious  banquets.  These  feasts  in  honour  of  the  immortals  must 
have  been  rather  unedifying  to  the  truly  faithful,  for  gaiety  generally 
degenerated  into  extreme  licentiousness. *' 


360  VARIETY  OF  REPASTS. 

The  conquest  of  Asia  was  fatal  to  the  Bomans.  Their  savage  rude- 
ness yielded  to  the  effeminate  manners  of  the  vanquished ;  and  hence- 
forth, the  epicureans  of  Italy  studied  but  one  thing — gastronomic 
delectation ;  had  but  one  worship — that  of  the  goddess  Victua,"  pro- 
tectress of  food,  and  sovereign  of  the  table. 

Luxury  made  appalling  progress.  Nearly  a  century  B.C.,  the 
Bomans  did  not  blush  to  give  50  denarii  {£i  168.)  for  a  young  fatted 
peacock ;  3  denarii  at  least  (more  than  2«.)  for  a  thrush ;  ^'  and,  a  century 
later,  4,000  sesterces  (£36)  were  given  for  a  couple  of  fine  young 
pigeons." 

Worse  followed ! 

Seneca  describes  in  few  words  the  luxury  of  the  table  among  the 
voluptuous  Bomans : — "  Behold,"  says  he,  ''  Nomentanus  and  Apioius, 
those  happy  conquerors  of  all  that  is  delectable  on  earth  or  in  the  sea. 
Behold  them  at  table,  stretched  on  their  couches,  and  contemplating 
innumerable  viands.  Harmonious  songs  flatter  their  ears,  a  variety  of 
pleasing  objects  occupy  their  eyes,  and  the  most  exquisite  savours  cap- 
tivate their  insatiable  palates."" 

The  genius  of  gluttony  multiplied  the  banquets  by  prescribing 
luxurious  gastronomic  assemblages,  sometimes  in  honour  of  the  gods, 
and  often  for  the  gratification  of  simple  mortals  themselves. 

Each  year,  at  the  ides  of  November,  a  repast  was  offered  to  Jupiter 
in  the  Capitol  {casna  Capitolina),  The  statue  of  the  god  was  present  at 
the  banquet,  reclining  on  a  magnificent  couch,  with  Juno  and  Minerva 
seated  on  either  side.  These  divinities  were  splendidly  served,  and,  as 
they  touched  nothing,  in  the  middle  of  the  night  the  seven  epulary 
priests  joyously  eat  the  supper  of  the  three  immortals.** 

The  cereal  banquet  {ccena  Cerealis)  was  equally  splendid,  and  Geres 
maintained  the  same  frugality." 

A  sterile  reminiscence  of  the  equality  which  reigned  among  men  in 
the  golden  age,  placed  the  slaves  at  table  by  the  side  of  their  masters, 
during  the  celebration  of  the  Saturnalia  {caena  Saturnalis).^^  This 
usage  was  conmion  to  the  Greeks  and  Bomans.*' 

The  ninth  day  of  the  August  calends,  and  the  thirteenth  day  of  the 
November  calends,  a  gastronomic  solemnity — a  monstrous  gala — brought 
together  the  Boman  pontiffs  to  celebrate  the  day  of  their  inauguration 
{ccena  pontificalis).  This  banquet  was  worthy  of  the  proverbial  deli- 
cacy of  those  9acred  stomachs.** 


VARIETY  OP  REPASTS.  857 

The  augurs  treated  themselyes  magnificently  in  their  turn  {c€sna 
auguralis),  when  they  entered  on  their  functions.  The  pagan  priests 
of  Rome  vied  one  with  another  in  a  noble  emulation  of  exquisite  refine- 
ment and  ruinous  viands;"  but  it  is  said  that  the  ministers  of  Mars, 
who  had  the  reputation  of  being  arch-epicureans  {ccena  saliaris),  always 
won  the  palm  in  this  struggle  of  magnificence  and  voluptuousness.'^ 

The  day  the  Emperor  took  the  title  of  Augustus,  he  gave  a  supper 
{ccena  imperaioria)  to  the  senators  and  magistrates.  The  tributes  of  a 
year  were  sometimes  hardly  sufficient  to  indemnify  the  grand  master  of 
these  imperial  orgies.'^ 

The  triumphal  banquets  (ccena  triumphalis)  were  less  elegant,  no 
doubt,  but  they  cost  the  victor  who  invited  the  people  immense  sums.'* 
The  guests  crowded  into  the  vast  inclosure  of  the  temple  of  Jupiter 
Capitolinus,*'  or  the  temple  of  Hercules.'* 

They  sat  down  to  table  to  celebrate  the  anniversary  of  a  birth-day 
(ccena  natalitia)*^  the  happy  wedding-day  {ccena  nuptialis)**  the 
arrival  of  a  fiiend  {ccena  adventitia)**  the  sad  day  of  his  departure 
{ccena  viatica).*^  The  melancholy  ceremony  of  interment  was  followed 
by  a  supper  {ccena /unebris),  at  which  the  guests  were  the  relations  and 
firiends  of  the  deceased.*'  They  drank  to  his  manes,  and,  by  degrees, 
the  wine  not  only  stifled  their  laments  but  called  forth  joyous  smiles. 
The  Romans  have  bequeathed  to  certain  modem  nations  more  than  the 
remembrance  of  their  funeral  repasts. 

In  the  palmy  days  of  Athens,  the  Greeks  evinced  more  of  the 
epicurean  than  the  glutton — a  fact  which  may  be  inferred  from  the 
description  of  the  supper  of  Dinias."  The  most  magnificent  of  their 
repasts  was,  perhaps,  that  which  Alexander  the  Great  had  served  to  ten 
thousand  guests,  who  received,  each  one,  a  present  of  a  golden  patera." 

In  Greece,  as  in  Rome,  the  greater  part  of  the  events  of  life  occa- 
sioned the  joyous  meeting  of  relations  and  friends.  At  the  birth  of  a 
child,"  a  banquet  was  given  in  his  honour;  he  was  named  on  the  tenth 
day,  and  the  ceremony  terminated  with  a  banquet,"  in  which  they 
ofiered  the  guests  cooked  Oherso  cheese,  cabbage  boiled  in  oil,  pigeons, 
thrushes,  fish,  and  brimming  cups  of  excellent  wine.**  The  teething 
repast  took  place  when  the  child  had  attained  his  seventh  month,  and 
the  weaning  supper  when  he  began  to  eat*^ 

These  family  feasts,  more  or  less  sumptuous  according  to  the  fortune 
and  rank  of  the  individuals  who  gave  them,  were  generally  signalized  by 


358  VARIETY  OF  REPASTS, 

a  custom  which  ridiculous  and  egotistical  vaoity  could  alone  authorise 
and  maintain.  On  the  banquet  day  care  was  taken  to  throw  the  feathers 
of  the  poultry  before  the  door  of  the  house,  in  order  to  excite  the  fruitless 
greed  of  the  poor  wretches,  who^  as  they  passed/'  prayed  heartily  that 
the  infernal  divinities  might  take  the  proud  amphitryon,  his  guests,  and 
even  the  meanest  of  his  servants. 

In  France,  about  1350,  the  setier  (about  twelve  English  bushels) 

ot-" 

£    t.    d. 

Wheat  was  worth 007 

Rye 0     0     3 

Oats 0     0     2i 

Beans 006 

Peas 006 

A  Hogshead  of  Wine Q    4     7 

A  Load  of  Hay 0     1  10 

An  Ox 0     6  10 

A  Horse 0  11     6 

A  Calf.     . 0     12 

A  Sheep 004 

A  Fat  Pig 020 

A  Gosling 001 

A  Hen 0     0    Of 

100  Eggs 0     0     H 

lib  of  Butter 0     0     8J 

Itb  of  Honey 0    0  lOJ 

lib  of  Wax 0     1  10 

Prices  of  a  few  articles  in  France  during  the  15th  century  :** 

£    i.    d, 
lib  of  Bread 0     0     OJ 

1  Pint  of  Wine 0  0     OJ 

1  Pint  of  Mustard 0  0     Of 

1  Bushel  of  Salt 0  0     2^ 

lib  of  Pepper 002 

lib  of  Cinnamon 0  12 

lib  of  Bacon 0  0     Of 

A  Pair  of  Pigeons 0  0     IJ 


VARIETY  OP  REPASTS.  359 

£  9.        H, 

A  Pair  of  Partridges 0  0:^ 

A  Cart-load  of  Wood  {wm  wne\      ....     0  0     8 

A  Sack  of  Charcoal 0  0     1 

Itb  of  Candles 0*  0     0* 

In  England,  under  the  reign  of  Edward  III.,  a  royal  proclamation 
fixed  the  price  of  the  following  articles : — ^ 


4ft 


£    «.     A 

A  Swan 0     0    4 

APorcelle 008 

An  Ewe 006 

A  Capon 006 

A  Hen 004 

A  Pullet 0     0    2^ 

APoucyn      ... 002 

A  Coney 004 

A  Teal 0     0     a 

A  River  Mallard 0     0     6 

A  Snipe 001 

A  Woodcock 008 

A  Partridge 006 

A  Plover 003 

A  Pheasant 014 

Twelve  Eggs 001 

Twelve  Small  Birds 0     0     1 

The  funeral  repast  of  Sir  John  Redstone,  Mayor  of  London,  who 
died  in  1*^31,  occasioned  the  following  expenses : — 

£    t.     d. 

Shipe  Brede       076 

7tbs  of  Sugar  for  the  same 0    4     1 

Two  unces  of  Saffrun 0     2     0 

Two  unces  of  Clovys  and  Mace 0     18 

Seven  unces  of  Pepper 0    0  10^^ 

Sixty  Eggs 0     0    7i  ' 

Seven  dysshes  of  Butter,  at  4^.  the  gallone  0     3     34 

Manchet  Brede 010 


I 


360  VARIETY  OF  REPASTS. 

400  of  Peers 034 

1ft  of  BjBketts  .     .     .   , 0     0     8 

TO  THE  PYKE-MONGER. 

Sixteen  Pikes,  at  1<.  4(2.  a  piece 114 

Eight  rouudes  of  Stuigeon 12     0 

TO  THE  PULTER. 

Six  roundes  of  Bra^rae 0  118 

Ten  Swannes,  at  65.  a-piece S     0     0 

Two  dozen  of  Qoayles 0  10    0 

Three  dozen  of  Rabetts 0     6     6 

Twenty-two  Capons 01210 

Nine  dozen  of  Pjgeons,  at  lOd.  per  dozen    .076 

FourGese 028 

300  Eggs       • 089 

TO  THE  BOWCHER. 

A  Surlojne  of  Be£fe 0     2     4 

Half  a  Vele  (Calf) 028 

Four  Maiybones 008 

TO  THE  MYLKE-WYFFE. 

Two  Gallones  and  Six  Dishes  of  Butter   ..042 

Eight  Gallones  of  Creme 0    4     0 

Twelve  Gallones  of  Curdde 0     16 

TO  THE  BREWER. 

Three  Barrelles  of  Ale 0  11     0 

A  Kylderkyn  of  Bere 0     10 

For  Double  Bere  to  the  Tabull 0     0    4 

Test 004 

TO  THE  VYNTENER. 

Thirty  two  Gallones  of  Redde  and    Clarett 

Wyne,  at  lOd.  per  gallon  ......  1     6    8 

Three  Gallones  of  Mackeray 0     0    4 

A  Rundlett  of  Muskadine 0    6     0 


VARIETY  OF  REPASTS.  361 

THE   GROCER. 

£    9,      d. 

Six  unces  of  Pepper 0    0     9 

Four  unces  of  Clovys  and  Mace      ....  0     2    4 

Two  unces  of  Saffrone 0     1  10 

18tb  of  Pruenes 030 

8tb  of  Gorans ....018 

61b  of  Dates 020 

Itb  of  Byskettes 0     0  10 

12tb  of  Sugar '.     ....  0     7     0 

Five  unces  of  Cynimion 0     18 

Four  unces  of  Gynger 0     0     6 

THE  BAKER. 

Four  busshelles  of  Chete,  at  Is.  lOd.  the 

busshelle         ..074 

ForHotBrede 0    4     0 

For  Fyne  Flour 0     0  11 

For  Basterde  Flour 0110 

THE  CHAUNDELER. 

APeckanda-balf  of  Salt 0     0     6 

ForCandelles 0     0    4 

ForVennyger 004 

For  Vergeys 006 

For  Pack-threade  and  Mustarde       ....  0     0     2 

For  Cappys  (Capers) 0    0    2 

For  Lop  of  Pottos       0    0     8 

For  Hyer  of  Pottes 0    0    4 

THE  COOKE. 

For  hys  labor  and  companye  for  eighteen 

messes  of  meat 0  15     0 

ForYerbys 008 

A  Quarter  of  a  Hundred  of  Fagotles  ...  0     1     2 

For  Coles 0     16 

Paide  ihe  turners  of  broches  and  skulyons, 

four  of  them 014 

X 


802 


VARIETY  OF  REPASTS, 


The  following  is  a  correct  copy  of  a  monster  bill  of  &re>  from  a 
paper  found  in  the  Tower  of  London : — * 


300  Quarters  of  Wheat. 

300  Tuns  of  Ale. 

104  Tuns  of  Wine. 

One  Pipe  of  Spiced  Wine. 

10  Fat  Oxen. 

6  Wild  Bulls. 

300  Pigs. 

1004  Wethers. 

300  Hogs. 

3000  Calves. 

300  Capons. 

100  Peacocks. 

200  Cranes. 

200  Kids. 

2000  Chickens. 

4000  Pigeons. 

4000  Babbits. 

4000  Ducks. 

204  Bitterns. 

400  Hemsies. 


200  Pheasants. 

500  Partridges. 

5000  Woodcocks. 

400  Plovers. 

100  Curlews. 

100  Quails. 

1000  Eggets. 

200  Bees. 

4000  Bucks,  Does,  and  Roebucks 

155  Hot  Venison  Pasties. 

4000  Cold  Venison  Pasties. 

1 000  Dishes  of  Jellies. 

2000  Hot  Custards. 

4000  Cold  Custards. 

400  Tarts. 

300  Pikes. 

300  Breams. 

8  Seals,  and 

4  Porpoises. 


At  the  feast,  the  Earl  of  Warwick  was  steward ;  the  Earl  of  Bedford, 
treasurer;  the  Lord  Hastings,  comptroller,  with  many  noble  officers; 
servitors,  1000  ;  cooks,  62;  kitcheners  and  scullions,  515. 

In  France  (14th  and  15th  centuries)  the  repasts  were  commonly 
divided  into  five  parts,  called  courses,  or  dishes.*' 

The  first  course  was  composed  of  cherries,  tender  firuits,  citrons,  and 
salads.** 

Milk-porridge,  puddings,  and  pottages  followed ;  it  was  the  second 
course." 

The  third  consisted  of  roast,  with  various  sauces.** 

The  second  roast,  or  fourth  course/'  presented  the  guests  with  venison 
and  game. 

The  fifth  course  took  the  name  of  fruit-cpurse.  At  this  they  served 
tarts  made  with  all  sorts  of  herbs,  flowers,  grains,  vegetables,  and  fruit. 


St 


*  Dinner  given  bj  the  Earl  of  Warwick,  at  the  bstallation  of  an  Archbishop  of  York,  in. 
the  year  1470. 


XXXI. 


THE  DINING-ROOM. 


The  ccenaculum  (diniDg-room),  properly  so  called,  was  the  place  in  the 
upper  part  of  the  house  where  they  eat*  It  was  reached  by  a  staircase,* 
and  thither  persons  repaired  during  the  summer,  particularly  in  the 
country.  The  Homan  villas  terminated  by  a  platform,  on  which  the 
Romans  often  collected  at  meal-time ;  the  air  was  not  so  hot,  and  the 
panorama  of  the  neighbouring  country-seats  was  presented  without 
obstruction,  to  the  gaze  of  the  guests.' 

The  dining-room  was  commonly  decorated  with  fasces  of  arms  and 
trophies,*  which  served  as  a  momento  of  the  warlike  virtues  of  the 
ancestors  of  the  master  of  the  house.  Enchanting  frescoes  stood  out 
marvellously  from  the  obscure  shading  of  the  wall,  round  which  were 
twined  fresh  garlands  of  flowers  ;  and  a  mosaic  floor — master- piece  of 
art  and  patience — harmonised  with  the  fascinating  landscape  of  the 
ceiling,  the  site  of  which  varied  with  every  course.* 

The  Emperor  Nero,  who  carried  this  taste  for  the  beautiful  rather 
too  far,  devised  a  sort  of  vault,  in  the  most  elegant  style,  and 
entirely  composed  of  movable  leaves  of  ivory,  which  exhaled   sweet 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE^No.  XXV. 

No.  1.  Large  Tase,  or  cratirt;  a  yesael  which  was  placed  in  the  banqaeting-room,  and  also  on 
the  empty  space  left  on  the  tables.  In  it  was  pat  wine  and  wati>r,  which  was  taken  out  with  a  9impvium, 
a  kind  of  small  cup,  fixed  to  a  very  long  handle,  bent  at  the  extremity  as  a  hook,  to  fill  the  cups  of  the 
gnests.  When  the  erath-es  were  not  fixed  on  tripods  {engylheea,  or  angi^heca),  which  supported 
them,  they  only  difiered  from  the  cups  by  their  size.  Some  were  of  such  dimensions  that  Herodotus 
speaks  of  two  crateres,  one  containing  800  amphons,  and  the  other  600 ;  these  ?ases  commonly  ex- 
ceeded ten-fold  the  uze  of  the  cups,  to  which  they  were  rery  similar  in  shape  and  handles. 

No.  3.    A  glass  Tpse,  with  two  handles,  for  iced  water. 

Nob  3.    Glass  bottle,  with  its  cup,  placed  on  the  table  for  each  guest 

X   2 


364  THE  DINING-ROOM. 

perfumes,  and  whence  flowers  fell  on  the  guests.  In  another  of  his 
dining-rooms  admiration  was  excited  by  a  magnificent  dome,  the 
rotary  movement  of  which  imitated,  day  and  night,  the  course  of  the 
celestial  bodies.'  These  prodigies  of  ancient  mechanism  adorned  the 
palace  that  the  prodigal  Caesar  called  ^*  the  gilded  house/' '  The  co* 
lossal  statue  of  that  phnce  rose  in  the  middle  of  the  ball :  it  waa 
120  feet  high  !• 

Studious  people,  or  those  who  wished  to  appear  so,  covered  some 
part  of  the  dining-room  with  books ;  for  it  was  a  custom  introduced 
into  Bome  to  have  recitations  or  readings  during  the  repast.*  Atticus 
had  always  a  reader;'*  and  Juvenal  promises  the  friend  he  invites  to 
supper  that  he  shall  hear  some  fragments  from  Virgil  and  Homer." 

The  Greeks  yielded  willingly  to  this  intellectual  pastime  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  banquet,  whilst  incense  and  other  perfumes  filled  the 
room  with  a  light  vapour." 

Opposite  the  entrance-door  stood  a  bufiet,  sometimes  of  iron,  but 
more  generally  among  the  Greeks  of  sculptured  wood,  bronze,  or 
silver,  on  which  were  represented  the  heads  of  oxen  or  satyrs."  This 
piece  of  furniture  was  placed  under  the  protection  of  Mercury,  and  a 
curtain  commonly  veiled  the  firont  of  it  It  served  for  the  display  of 
precious  plate — vases  of  silver,  silver-gilt,  and  gold,  enriched  with  mag- 
nificent precious  stones.'! 

The  bufiet  of  the  Bomans,— a  sort  of  sideboard,  of  rare  workman- 
ship,—rwas  appropriated  to  the  same  use."  Sometimes  a  single  foot 
supported  a  white  marble  table,  surrounded  with  a  border  of  vert- 
antique,  and  plates  and  dishes  were  arranged  on  two  elegant  shelves 
placed  above."  Again,  the  artist  frequently  conceived  the  idea  of 
giving  a  whimsical  form  to  the  bufi*ety  which  enhanced  its  price — it 
was  a  ship  laden  with  the  vases  necessary  for  the  banquet ;  four  enor- 
mous amphoree  occupied  the  deck,  on  the  two  sides  of  the  mast ;  towards 
the  prow  was  a  candelabrum,  and  at  the  stern  was  displayed  a  large- 
bellied  cantharus,   or  vase,  with  mobile   handles ;"  the  main-topmast 


DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XXVI. 

No.  1.    A  glau  raw,  with  two  handles. 
Ko.  2.    A,  glass  rase,  with  three  handles. 
No.  8.    Etruscan  Tase,  with  three  bandies,  terra  cotta. 

No.  4.    A  large  silver  vase,  to  bold  wine  and  water ;  when  placed  on  the  table,  the  liquor  was 
taken  out  with  a  ampnlum,  to  fill  the  drinking  cups. 
No.  6,    A  largebellied  cantharus—" Hereulaneum," 


7 


THE  DINING-ROOM.  366 

was  replaced  by  a  large  am,  and  two  cups  of  Bacclius  were  gracefully 
balanced  at  either  extremity  of  the  yard,"  along  which  were  suspended 
craters,  or  vases,  used  in  drinking  wine.^* 

The  buffet  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans  survived  the  ruins  of  those 
two  celebrated  nations ;  we  find  it  again  in  the  middle  ages,  and  even 
in  more  modem  times.  Then  also,  rich  people  loved  to  display  their 
plate  on  a  very  iapparent  piece  of  furniture,  which,  being  dressed,  took 
the  name  of  "dresser."  Monstrelet,  describing  the  magnificence  of  the 
Duke  of  Burgundy  during  his  sojoyrn  in  Paris,  relates :  "  that  in  the 
room  of  his  mansion  in  which  he  eat  was  a  square  dresser  {dressoir) 
with  shelves,  which  dresser  was  covered  and  loaded  with  very  rich  gold 
and  silver  plate.'* " 

Sovereigns  who  affected  great  munificence  had  buffets  of  metal ; 
there  were  three — one  for  silver,  one  for  silver-gilt,  and  one  for  gold. 
At  the  banquet  which  the  King  of  France,  Chiles  V.,  gave  to  the  Em- 
peror Charles  IV.,  his  uncle,  each  of  the  three  buffets  was  of  the  same 
metal  as  the  plate  it  supported." 

After  the  birth  of  a  child,  ladies,  when  they  received  visits,  had  a 
dresser  placed  in  their  rooxp.  Those  of  countesses  and  great  ladies  had 
three  shelves ;  those  of  the  wives  of  the  younger  sons  of  baronets  had 
two ;  women  well-connected  but  not  titled  could  have  no  shelf.  Those 
who  enjoyed  the  honours  of  the  court  placed  by  the  side  of  the  buffet 
a  little  table,  covered  with  a  white  cloth,  destined  for  the  hippocrass  and 
spiced  wine  they  offered  their  visitors,"  and  which  they  drank  in  hanaps, 
or  a  kind  of  chalice  of  earthenware,  gold,  or  silver.  Those  of  crystal 
were  much  esteemed.  Charles  the  Bald  gave  to  the  Abbey  of  St* 
Denis  a  hanap,  said  to  have  belonged  to  Solomon.  "  It  was  of  pure 
gold,  fine  emeralds,  fine  garnets,  and  the  work  so  marvellous  that  in 
all  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  never  was  there  anything  so  perfect."  *' 

The  great  lords  also  indulged  in  metal  dressers,"  to  which  the  16th 
century  gave  the  name  of  **  buffets."  Under  Henry  II.  of  France  the 
court  called  them  credence y  from  an  Italian  word  bearing  the  same 
meaning,"  and  which  they  have  retained. 

The  Hebrews  probably  knew  nothing  of  chimneys.  When  King 
Jehoiakim  bumed  the  book  which  Jeremiah  had  written,  "  he  sat  in 
the  winter-house  in  the  ninth  month:  and  there  was  a  fire  on  the 
hearth  burning  before  him."  ** 

When,  among  the  Greeks  or  Bomans,  they  wanted  to  warm  the 


366  THE  DINING-ROOM. 

dining-room,  they  also  had  reoourse  to  braziers  or  bronze  furnaces  of 
the  dimension  of  a  middling-sized  table>  resting  on  lion^s  daws. 
Foliage  in  copper,  bronze,  and  silver^  was  artistically  incrusted  round 
the  edge.  The  bottom  was  a  very  thick  iron  grating.  Above  and 
beneath,  brick-work  prevented  the  coal  from  touching  the  upper  part, 
or  escaping  through  the  interstices.*' 

They  also  made  use  of  two  kinds  of  stoves  to  warm  the  dining-room — 
the  one  was  concealed  under  ground  in  the  massive  wall,  and  little  pipes 
extended  from  its  orifice  to  the  .apartment ;  the  other,  portative  and 
light,  disappeared  whenever  it  was  judged  expedient.*' 

Among  the  pagans,  the  dining-room  wajs  lighted  by  torches  made  of 
a  resinous  wood,*'  or  tallow  candles.**  The  rich  had  lamps,  candelabra,** 
or  magnificent  lustres'  suspended  from  the  ceiling.**  They  even  knew 
the  luxury  of  wax  candles.'* 

In  the  middle  ages,  the  sovereigns  and  the  great  lords  had,  in  the 
middle  of  their  dining-rooms,  fountains  playing,  which  poured  fourth 
wine,  hippocrass,  and  other  liquors.  Some  gave  rose-water  and  divers 
odoriferous  liquids  to  perfume  the  banqueting-hall. 

Bubruquis  found  in  Tartary  a  Parisian  goldsmith,  Guillaome 
Boucher,  who  had  settled  under  the  sway  of  the  Khan,  and  had  made 
him  one  of  those  fountains.  : 


DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XXVI  a. 

Tub  Duxs  of  Bbunswick'i  Vasb. — ^This  is  one  of  the  finest  monuments  we  liave  yet  seen, 
whieb  has  reference  to  the  mjrsteries  and  sacrifices  of  Ceres  and  Baochas.  It  is  a  precioos  Tsse,  made 
of  one  single  piece  of  onyx,  from  the  cabinet  of  the  Dnke  of  Bronswick,  and  of  the  size  represented 
in  the  engraving.  It  was  pabliahed,  and  learnedly  explained,  in  16S3,  by  Jean  Henry  Eggeling,and 
printed  in  the  same  year.  Hiis  rase  is  of  a  singular  form ;  has  one  handle,  and  on  the  other  side 
a  spout,  which  begins  at  the  bottom,  and  finishes  by  a  bend  towards  the  top,  to  pour  out  the  liquor. 
Eggeling  believes  that  this  rase  is  of  the  number  of  those  the  ancients  called  guUu$,  because  the  liquor 
came  out  drop  by  drop :  he  comes  to  that  conelusiott  from  a  passage  of  Varro— "  Quo  vinwn  duhoMt,  nl 
minutaiim  funderent,  a  guU'u  guUum  appellaruni."  Tlie  vase  is  divided  in  three  parts  by  two  bands  of 
gold,  by  which  it  is  pirdled :  that  of  the  middle,  which  forms  the  largest  space,  contains  also  a  larger 
number  of  figures.  The  third  diminishes  towards  the  foot,  and  has  figures  also,  all  of  which  represent 
the  mysteries  and  sacrifices  uf  Cerea  and  Bacchus. 

The  reader  will  probcbly  feel  interested'  how  this  Taae  came  into  the  possession  of  the  Duke  of 
Bnmswick.  It  was  in  the  cabinet  of  the  Duke  of  Mantua.  When  that  city  was  taken  and  sacked,  in 
1639,  a  soldier,  who  had  possession  of  the  vase,  ofiered  it  to  Francis  Albert,  Dnke  of  Lower  Saxony, 
his  commander,  who  gave  him  a  hundred  ducats  as  a  reward.  This  prince  left  it  by  will  to  the 
Princess  Christina  Marguerite  of  Mecklenborg,  his  wife,  who  left  it  in  the  same  way  to  her  sister,  the 
Princess  So])hia,  Duchess  of  Brunswick.  She  also  gave  it  by  will  to  her  son,  Ferdinand  Albert,  Duke  of 
Brunswick.  The  lapidaries  thought  so  much  of  it,  that  they  offered,  in  turn,  from  sixty  to  ninety  thou- 
sand imperials.  In  the  inventory  of  the  Princess  Sophia  it  was  valued  .at  one  hundred  and  fifty 
thousand  imperials.* 

'Imfcrial,  a  gold  cola,  current  in  Rtxnuu  The  imperial  of  ten  roublea  (1756)  was  worth  nearly  £S  3a.  Od. 


D  J  K  t-"      Of=       B  R  U  N  ''-  vV  I  C  >^  '  S      V  A  S  £ 


THE  DINING-ROOM.  367 

The  municipal  bodies  adopted  them.  At  the  entrance  of  Charles 
VII.  into  Paris^  one  of  this  kind  was  seen  in  the  Rue  St.  Denis: — "  One 
of  the  tubes  spouted  milk,  another  vermilion-coloured  wine,  another 
white  wine,  and  another  pure  water;  and  persons  stood  all  round  with 
silver  cups  to  give  drink  to  the  passers-by." 

In  the  17th  century  playing  fountains  were  still  used  at  repasts/^ 


THE  TABLE. 


It  is  pretended,  says  AthensBus,  that  in  the  Homeric  times  each  guest 
had  a  table  to  himself/  on  which  he  was  served  with  **  a  saddle-back 
of  beef,  or  a  whole  sheep  or  goat."  It  was  the  custom  among  the  heroes, 
all  men  of  high  lineage,  aud  tolerably  aristrocatic  in  their  tastes.  The 
burghers  of  those  warUke  times  and  the  villeins  of  the  epoch  eat  their 
dinner,  without  form  or  ceremony,  on  a  heap  of  grass,  which  also  served 
them  as  a  seat  or  couch.' 

Wooden  tables — at  first  very  clumsy  ones,  no  doubt — only  came  into 
use  when  the  development  of  human  industry  had  enabled  men  to 
understand  that  they  might  be  preferable  to  a  truss  of  hay.'  A  passage 
in  Homer  would  seem  to  show  that  they  were  very  much  like  ours/ 
Perhaps  the  circular  form  was  generally  preferred.* 

Luxury  soon  called  for  the  most  precious  materials,  and  the  Greeks 
had,  at  a  very  early  period,  tables  of  bronze,*  and  even  of  fine  silver/ 
The  isle  of  Bhenea  produced  magnificent  ones/  and  an  expensive  fashion 
caused  those  luxurious  pieces  of  furniture  to  be  prized  when  they  pre 
sented  delicate  incrustations  of  silver,  brouze,  or  ivory,  and  rested  on 
lions'  claws  or  leopards'  feet.' 

Cneus  Manlius  introduced  these  rarities  into  Rome  after  the  con- 
quest of  Asia."  He  was  also  the  originator  of  tables  veneered  with 
plates  of  gold,"  which  ere  long  adorned  the  dining-rooms  of  princes 
and  senators,  and  the  excessive  price  of  which  was  only  surpassed  by 
that  of  tables  made  of  precious  woods  from  distant  countries/'  The 
maple,  the  whitten,  and  a  species  of  African  lemon-tree  occupied  the 


THE  TABLE.  369 

first  rank/'  and  the  prodigious  skill  of  the  workmen  gave  them  a  value 
superior  to  gold  and  silver.^* 

The  most  beautiful  of  these  tables  were  spotted  or  veined  to  imitate 
the  tiger's  or  panther's  skin ;  but  they  acquired  an  exorbitant  claim  upon 
the  admiration  of  connoisseurs  when  they  bore  the  marvellous  design  of 
a  peacock's  tail.  This  fantastic  play  of  nature  commanded  a  boundless 
price." 

An  artist  of  unrivalled  talent,  Garvilius  Pollio,  was  the  firsts  according 
to  Pliny,"  who  enriched  these  magnificent  woods  with  buhl-work  of 
ivory  and  shell  in  the  acme  of  perfection.^'  Under  the  reign  of  Nero, 
the  Bomans  dyed  this  shell,  and  thought  to  increase  its  primitive  value 
by  giving  it  the  tints  and  accidental  shades  of  the  cedar,  the  maple,  and 
the  lemon  tree." 

These  splendid  pieces  of  furniture  were  at  first  square;"  then 
round  ;'*  then  in  the  form  of  a  half-circle  or  half-moon,  and  this  horse- 
shoe-shaped table  they  called  a  sigma^  from  the  name  of  that  Greek 
letter,  which  resembled  our  C.'^  The  guests  whom  any  person  wished 
to  honour  most  were  placed  at  the  extremities  of  this  hemicycle,"  overlaid 
with  magnificent  covers,  which  replaced  the  skins  of  beasts,  formerly 
used  for  their  adornment;  and,  in  addition,  they  were  spread  with 
tissues  of  fine  linen  and  rich  stuffs  elaborately  worked." 

The  tables  were  changed  at  each  course.'^  The  Greeks  cleaned  them 
with  sponge ;"  the  Latins  used  a  sort  of  thick,  plushed,  linen  cloth." 

The  opulent  citizens  possessed  a  great  number  of  tables ;  some  were 
of  ivory,*'  others  of  maple  wood,  cedar  of  Mount  Atlas,"  or  lemon."  * 
Cicero  had  one  of  this  latter  kind  of  wood  which  cost  him  200,000  ses- 
terces— about  £1,480."  They  rested  on  one,  two,  or  three  feet,"  and 
were  called  monopedes,  bipedes,  and  tripedes. 

The  Bomans  often  changed  tables  only  twice  during  the  repast. 
Fish  and  fiesh  appeared  on  the  first,  and  the  fruit  was  served  on  the 
second."  The  same  custom  was  common  to  the  Greeks  and  the  oriental 
nations.  The  Hebrews  had  also  two  tables  in  their  solemn  feasts  and 
sacrificial  banquets;  on  one  was  served  the  flesh  of  the  victim,  and  on 
the  other  they  placed  the  cup  of  benediction,  which  passed  round  from 
one  to  another,  and  was  called  "  the  cup  of  praise." 

The  luxury  of  Bome  seemed  to  revive  after  she  had  become  extinct. 

*  This  lemoD-tree  wood  was  a  Bpecies  more  precioas  and  more  beaatifal  than  that  which 
we  now  pobsew. 


870  THE  TABLE. 

Saint  B6mi3i^op  of  BheimSf  left  to  his  hein  a  silver  table,  embellished 
with  figures.'*  Charlemagne  had  three  made  of  the  same  metal — ^the 
first  represented  the 'ancient  capital  of  the  woild;  the  second,  Constan- 
tinople ;  the  third,  every  known  region  of  the  earth.'*  Aymar,  Viscount 
of  Limoges,  found  on  his  estate  a  treasure,  which  consisted  of  a  table, 
round  which  were  seated  an  emperor,  his  wife,  and  several  children — all 
as  large  as  life,  and  of  massive  gold.  Richard  Coeur-de-Lion  pretended 
that  the  treasure  belonged  to  him  as  Lord  of  Limousin,  and  went  to  lay 
siege  to  the  castle  of  Chalons,  to  which  Aymar  had  retired,  where  the 
king  received  a  wound,  of  which  he  died  the  .6th  of  April,  1199." 

Silver  tables  efbiU  existed  in  the  17th  century.  Madame  de  S6vign6 
(1689),  speaking^of  persotis  whp,  following  the  example  of  Louis  XIV., 
sent  their  plate  to  the  mint,  says:  ''  Madame  de  Chaulnes  has  sent  her 
table,  two  guHidom,  and  her  beautiful  toilet  of  silver  gilt'* 

At  some  distance  from  the  digma,  on  a  slightly  raised  platform,  were 
three  kinds  of  elegant  cridence^ .iot  the  cups,  wines,  and  vases."  The 
major-domo  himself. generally  attended  to  this  part  of  the  service. 

A  very  curious  old  book,  cited  by  Strutt,  "  The  Booke  of  Ker- 
vynge,"*'  contains  the  following  instructions  as  to  the  manner  of  laying 
the  cloth  for  the  King  of  .England: — 

*'  Serve  your  Soverayne  with  wafers  and  ypocras.  Also  loke  your 
composte  be  fayre  and  clen^,.  and  your  ale  fyve  dayes  olde  before  men 
drynke  it,  and  be  curtays  of  answere  to  eche  persons ;  and  whan  ye  laye 
the  clothe,  wype  the  borde  clene  with  a  cloute  (cloth) ;  then  lay  a  couch 
(cloth)  ^  take  your  feluwe,  that  one  ende,  and  holde  you  the  other  ende, 
then  drawe  the  clothe  straughi,  the  bought  on  the  utter  edge,  take  the 
utter  parte  and  hange  it  even,  then  take  the  thyrde  clothe,  and  laye  it 
bought  on  the  inner  edge,  and  laye  estat  with  the  upper  parte  halfe  a 
fote  brode,  theu  cover  thy  cupborde  and  thyne  ewery  with  the  towel  of 
dyaper ;  than  take  thy  towell  about  thy  necke,  and  laye  that  on  syde  of 
the  towel  upon  thy  lefte  arme,  and  thereon  laye  your  soveraynes  napkyn, 
and  on  thyn  arme  seven  loves  of  brede,  with  thre  or  foure  trenchour 
loves,  with  the  ende  of  the  towel,  in  the  lefte  hande  as  the  maner  is ; 
then  take  thy  salts  seller  in  thy  lefte  hande,  and  t^e  the  ende  of  the 


DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XXVII. 

No.  1.  Etrascaa  flat  vaae,  of  terra  cotta,  with  a  cover,  to  hold  a  particular  drishr(wami,  peihaps). 

No  2.  A  marble  vtse,  ornamented,  for  water. 

No.  3.  A  metal  vase,  lo  fill  the  cups  of  the  guests. 

No.  4.  A  Greek  Etro^scan  drinking  vase,  of  terra  cotta.  in  form  of  a  sealed  BaochanoL — **  ITenmL*^ 


THE  TABLE.  871 

towell  in  your  ryght  hand,  to  bear  in  spones  and  kny  ves ;  than  set  your 
salte  on  the  ryght  syde,  where  your  soverayne  shall  sytte,  and  on  the 
lefte  syde  the  salte  set. your  trenchoures;  than  laye  your  knyves,  and  set 
your  brede  one  lofe  by  another;  your  spones,  and  your  napkyns,  fayre 
folder  besyde  your  brede,  than  over  your  brede,  and  trenchours,  spones, 
and  knyves,  and  at  every  ende  of  the  table  set  a  salte  seller,  with  two 
trenchour  loves,  and  yf  ye  wyll  wrappe  youre  soverayne's  brede  stately,  ye 
must  square  and  proporcyon  your  brede,  and  see  that  no  lofe  be  more 
than  another ;  and  than  shall  ye  make  your  wrapper  manerly ;  than  take 
a  towell  of  reynes,  of  two  yerdes  and  an  halfe,  and  take  the  towell  by  the 
endes  double,  and  laye  it  on  the  table ;  than  take  the  ende  of  the  bought 
a  bandfuU  in  your  hande,  and  wrape  it  harde,  and  laye  the  ende  so 
wrapped  betwene  two  towells,  upon  that  ende  so  wrapped  laye  your 
brede,  bottom  to  bottom,  syx  or  seven  loves;  than  set  your  brede 
manerly  in  fourm,  and  whan  your  soverayne's  table  is  thus  arrayed^  cover 
aU  other  hordes  with  salt,  trenchours,  and  cuppes ;  and  se  thyn  ewery 
be  arrayed  with  basyns  and  ewers,  and  water,  bote  and  colde ;  and  se  ye 
have  napkins,  cuppes  and  spones ;  and  se  your  pottes  for  wyne  and  ale 
be  made  clene,  and  to  the  surnape  make  curtesy,  with  a  clothe,  under  a 
fayre  double  napry ;  than  take  the  towelle*s  ende  next  you,  and  the  utter 
ende  of  the  clothe,  on  the  utter  syde  of  the  table^  and  holde  these  three 
endes  at  ones,  and  folde  them  at  ones,  that  a  ply te  passe  not  a  fote  brode ; 
than  laye  it  as  it  should  lye :  and  after  mete  wasshe  with  that,  that  is  at 
the  ryghte  ende  of  the  table,  ye  must  guyde  it  out,  and  the  marshall  must 
convey  it;  and  loke  on  eche  clothe,  the  ryghte  syde  be  outwarde,  and 
draw  it  streygthe ;  than  must  ye  reyse  the  upper  parte  of  the  towell,  and 
laye  it  without  ony  grouyng,  and  at  every  ende  of  the  towell,  ye  must 
convey  halfe  a  yarde  that  the  sewer  may  make  reverently  and  let  it 
be.  And  whan  your  soverayne  hath  washen,  drawe  the  surnape  even ; 
than  here  the  surnape  to  the  myddes  of  the  horde,  and  take  it  up  before 
your  soverayne,  and  here  it  into  the  ewery  agayne ;  and  whan  your  sove- 
rayne is  set,  loke  your  towell  be  aboute  your  necke ;  then  make  your  so- 
verayne curtesy ;  than  uncover  your  brede,  and  set  it  by  the  salt, 
and  laye  your  napkyn,  knyfe,  and  spone,  afore  hym ;  than  knele  on  your 
knee  till  the  purpayne  passe  eyght  loves ;  and  loke  ye  set  at  your  endes 
of  the  table  foure  loves  at  a  messe ;  and  se  that  every  persone  have  nap- 
kyn and  spone,  and  wayte  well  to  the  server,  how  many  dysshes  be  co- 
vered, that  so  many  cuppes  cover  ye ;  than  serve  ye  forth  the  table 
manerly,  that  every  man  may  speke  your  curtesy." 


372  TIIE  TABLE  SEATS. 


THE    TABLE    SEATS. 

The  Jews  originally  sat  down  to  their  meals ;  but  when  they  became 
subject  to  Persia  they  laid  on  couches  at  their  repasts,  like  their  con- 
querors, and  other  oriental  nations,  from  whom  the  Greeks  and  Romans 
borrowed  their  custom.'*  The  most  distinguished  place  was  at  the  head 
of  the  table,  at  the  extremity  of  the  room,  near  the  wall.  Saul  sat  in 
this  place  of  honour/*  Under  the  reign  of  Solomon,  the  Hebrews  still 
used  seats/'  The  Egyptians  were  early  acquainted  with  the  effeminate 
sumptuousness  of  table  couches.  They  often  placed  on  them  the  vene- 
rated images  of  Jupiter,  Juno,  and  their  king  himself." 

Before  they  had  adopted  this  refinement  of  oriental  luxury,  the 
Greeks  sat  at  their  repasts  on  chairs,  more  or  less  costly,  but  all  very 
elegant,  similar  to  those  which  adorn  our  drawing-rooms,  and  which 
have  been  modelled  from  theirs/' 

Homer's  heroes  sat  down  to  table,^*  and  Alexander  the  Great  appears 
to  have  preserved  the  custom.  That  prince  giving  a  repast  to  ten  thou- 
sand persons,  caused  all  to  be  seated  in  silver  arm-chairs,  covered  with 
purple*^*  However,  Hegesander  assures  us  that,  among  the  Mace- 
donians, he  who  had  succeeded  in  killing  a  wild  boar,  reclined  at  full 
length,  whilst  the  other  guests  remained  seated." 

Italy  always  imitated  Greece,  and,  like  her,  had  table  couches,  which 
at  first,  were  only  used  by  men :  a  feeling  of  propriety  interdicted  their 
use  by  women.*'  But  the  relaxation  of  morals,  seconded  by  fashion, 
soon  banished  this  seeming  reserve,  and  the  two  sexes  could  only  eat  in 
a  reclining  posture." 

A  round,  low  table,  made  of  common  wood,  and  resting  on  three 
legs,  was  placed  in  the  dining-room  of  persons  in  humble  life ;  the  rich 
had  it  made  of  lemon  or  maple  wood,  and  supported  by  a  single  ivory 
foot.*'  Three  couches  at  most  were  arranged  round  this  table  {tricli- 
nium) ;"  sometimes  two,  which  Plautus  names  biclinium  /*  and  these 
they  covered  with  purple  or  other  magnificent  stuffs."  Before  they 
placed  themselves,  the  guests  performed  their  ablutions  and  threw  off 
their  togas,  to  substitute  the  **  dinner  robe."  "   They  then  took  off  their 


THE  TABLE  SEATS.  378 

sandals/*  and   lay  down,  three  or  four  on  each  couch."    The  rules  of 
good  society  did  not  allow  that  number  to  be  exceeded. 

The  upper  part  of  the  body  was  supported  by  the  left  elbow ;  the 
lower  part  was  extended.  The  head  was  slightly  raised,  and  downy  little 
cushions  supported  the  back."  When  several  persons  occupied  the  same 
couch,  the  first  placed  himself  at  the  head,  in  such  a  manner  that  his 
feet  nearly  reached  the  shoulders  of  the  second  guest,  whose  head  was 
before  the  middle  of  the  body  of  the  preceding  one,  firom  whom  he  was 
separated  by  a  cushion ;  and  his  feet  descended  to  the  back  of  the  third 
guest,  who  followed  the  same  order  with  respect  to  the  fourth/^ 

When  a  couch  contained  three  persons,  the  one  in  the  middle  occu- 
pied  the  place  of  honour ;  when  there  were  four,  that  distinction  be- 
longed to  the  second.  The  place  at  the  head  of  the  couch  was  only 
offered  to  the  most  worthy,  when  not  more  than  two  persons  were  on  the 
couch." 

Among  the  Persians,  the  middle  place  was  reserved  for  the  king. 
Gyrus  placed  on  his  left  the  guest  to  whom  he  wished  to  do  the  most 
honour,  the  next  on  his  right,  the  third  on  the  left,  the  fourth  on  the 
right,  and  so  on,  down  to  the  last.**  In  Greece,  the  most  distinguished 
personage  occupied  the  head  of  the  table/* 

The  voluptuous  Heliogabalus  only  made  use  of  couches  stuffed  with 
hares'  down  or  partridges'  feathers.'*  The  Emperor  CElius  Verus 
introduced  a  more  exquisite  novelty :  he  had  his  filled  with  lily  and  rose 
leaves/'  The  first  of  these  princes — a  cruel  monarch,  or  capricious 
child,  according  to  his  strange  whims — amused  himself,  sometimes,  by 
placing  on  a  couch,  round  the  sigma,  at  one  time  eight  bald  men ;  at 
another,  eight  gouty  men ;  one  day,  eight  grey-headed  old  men ;  another 
day,  eight  very  fat  men,  who  were  so  crowded  together  that  it  was  almost 
impossible  for  them  to  raise  their  hands  to  the  mouth.  And  the  brain- 
less  dolt  shook  with  laughter  at  their  efforts  and  their  contortions." 
One  of  his  favourite  diversions  consisted  in  filling  a  leathern  table-couch 
with  air,  instead  of  wool ;  and  while  the  guests  were  engaged  in  drink- 
ing, a  tap,  concealed  under  the  carpet,  was  opened,  unknown  to  them ; 
the  couch  sank,  and  the  drinkers  rolled  pell-mell  under  the  sigma,  to 
the  great  delight  of  the  beardless  emperor,  who  enjoyed  greatly  his 
espieglerie.^ 

The  Celts  seated  themselves  at  their  repasts  on  hay,  before  very  low 
tables  /*    the  Belgians  reclined  on  a  kind  of  couch  /*   the  Gauls  on 


374  THE  TABLE  SEATS. 

the  skins  of  dogs  or  wolves.*'  These  different  authorities  are  easily  re- 
conciled ;  for  they  relate  to  different  cantons  of  Gaul. 

The  use  of  couches  was  not  unknown  in  the  middle  ages ;  we  find 
the  proof  of  it  in  the  fabliaux  of  the  1 3  th  century.  We  have  also  the 
description  of  a  magnificent  repast  given  by  a  bishop  to  two  great  officers 
of  Charlemagne,  at  which  the  prelate  was  seated,  or  lying,  on  feather 
cushions/*  But  this  fashion  was  unsuccessful,  and  people  preferred 
wooden  seats  and  stools,  covered  with  carpet.  When  they  gave  a  great 
feast,  they  seated  the  guests  on  benches — bancs — whence  comes  the 
word  "banquet.""  Henry  III.  of  France  introduced  arm-chairs  for 
himself,  and  folding  stools  for  his  suite.'*  Sometimes  people  eat  on 
the  floor.  St.  Arnold,  Bishop  of  Soissons,  took  his  repast  in  that 
manner  on  the  day  of  the  dedication  of  a  church,  after  having  had 
carpets  spread  on  the  ground.'*  In  winter  the  banqueting  place  was 
spread  with  straw  or  hay,  and  in  summer  with  grass  and  leaves.  Pub* 
licans  and  tavern-keepers  decorated  their  rooms  in  like  manner." 

The  gallantry  of  the  middle  ages  had  led  to  the  adoption  of  a  rather 
singular  custom,  which  consisted  in  placing  the  guests  two  and  two, 
man  and  woman,  and  serving  for  each  couple  one  common  dish,  which 
they  called  "  eating  in  the  same  porringer."  Neither  had  they  more 
than  one  cup.  In  families  the  same  goblet  served  for  all.  Saint  Ber- 
landa  was  disinherited  by  her  father,  who  was  exasperated  because, 
under  pretext  that  he  was  leprous,  she  had  washed  his  goblet  before 
making  use  of  it  for  herself." 

A  passage  in  Martial  would  seem  to  imply  that  the  guests,  among 
the  Romans,  laid  the  cloth  themselves ;"  that  is  to  say,  they  spread  on  the 
sigma  the  stuff,  more  or  less  precious,  with  which  it  was  to  be  adorned. 

A  somewhat  whimsical  custcyn  was  established  in  the  middle  ages  of 
chivalry.  When  it  was  intended  to  affront  any  one,  a  herald,  or  king-at- 
arms,  was  sent  to  cut  the  cloth  before  him,  and  turn  his  bread  upside 
down.  That  was  called  "  cutting  away  the  cloth,"  and  was  practised  in 
reference  to  cowards  and  faithless  vassals.  It  is  thought  that  Bertrand 
Duguesclin  was  the  originator  of  this  custom." 

Mention  is  made  of  table-cloths  in  the  life  of  St.  Eloi.  They  were 
in  use  on  common  tables ;  but  the  costly  ones  were  not  covered.  These 
cloths  were  plushed  and  shaggy,  as  we  find  by  the  description  of 
Nigellus,  the  author  of  a  poem  on  Louis-le-D6bonnaire.  They  were 
of  vast  dimensions.    In  the  inventory  of  certain  effects  in  the  monastery 


THE  TABLE  SEATS.  375 

of  Fontenelle,  in  the  9th  century,  we  read  of  four  table-cloths,  each  of 
which  measured  twelve  yards  and  a-half  by  two  and  a-half ;  another, 
twelve  and  a-half  by  three  and  three-quarters;  and  thirteen,  three  yards 
and  three-quarters  wide. 

In  the  12th  and  Idth  centuries  table-cloths  were  called,  in  France, 
doubliers,  doubtless  because  they  were  folded  in  two.  This  practice  was 
.  eventually  given  up ;  and  instead  of  a  doubled  cloth,  the  first  was 
covered  by  a  smaller  one,  and  removed  at  the  last  course.  Henry  III. 
required  this  dessert  cloth  to  be  artistically  plaited,  so  as  to  present 
pleasing  designs.^' 

Napkins  were  much  used  in  Greece  and  Italy.  In  the  time  of 
Augustus,  and  many  years  after,  each  guest  brought  his  own,  as  we 
bring  our  pocket-handkerchiefs.  Catullus  complains  of  a  certain  Asinius, 
who  had  stolen  his.  Martial  brings  a  similar  accusation  against  a 
parasite  named  Hermogenes." 

Napkins  were  sometimes  made  of  asbestos,  and  they  were  thrown 
into  a  brazier  to  clean  them.'*    But  these  rarities  were  seldom  possessed 

by  any  but  princes,  for  asbestos  was  as  expensive  as  jewels." 

•  ^^ 

The  constitution  of  St.  Ansegisius  for  the  monastery  of  Fontenelle 
mentions  plush  napkins  to  wipe  the  hands,  but  they  were  only  used 
before  and  after  the  repast.  The  town  of  Bheims  was  renowned  in  the 
middle  ages  for  the  manufacture  of  table  linen.  When  Charles  YII. 
made  his  entrance  there  they  presented  him  with  napkins,  **  very  rich 
and  curious  by  reason  of  the  beautiful  flowered  work." 


XXXIII. 


THE   SERVANTS. 


All  the  opulent  families  had  a  great  number  of  servants,  or  slaves,  whose 
low  extraction,^  the  chances  of  war,'  or  the  parental  will,'  subjected 
to  the  caprices  of  the  rich  as  a  mere  thing  possessed,  a  right,  a  pro- 
perty (res). 

They  were  known,  like  the  slaves  of  the  Jews*  in  former  times,  by 
their  ears,  which  were  pierced  with  an  awl  ;*  an  ineffaceable  stigma, 
which  always  reminded  the  freed-man  of  his  former  humiliation.  The 
slave  was  also  often  marked  with  a  hot  iron  on  the  back,  the  hands,  the 
cheeks,  or  the  forehead ;  and  the  characters  thus  imprinted  served  the 
master  as  an  evidence  against  his  fugitive  servant  in  whatsoever  place 
he  might  find  him.'  It  is,  perhaps,  to  similar  marks  that  the  prophet 
Zechariah  makes  allusion,  when  he  savs :  *'  What  are  these  wounds  in 
thine  hands?"'  Plautus,  whose  comic  vein  respects  neither  the  power 
of  the  Gods  nor  the  sanctity  of  misfortune,  calls  these  unfortunate 
creatures  "  lettered  slaves"  (servos  lileratos)* 

A  house  of  any  note  could  not  do  without  a  crowd  of  servants,  to 
whom  the  steward  (dispensator)  apportioned  the  labour,  the  food,  and 
the  chastisements.' 

In  a  lodge  near  the  vestibule  was  the  porter  (osiiarius),^^  whose 
watchful  eye  observed  every  one  who  went  in  or  out  by  day  or  night. 
They  made  sure  of  his  vigilance  by  chaining  him  to  his  place." 

The  hall  (atrium)  was  guarded  by  an  intelligent  and  confidential 
servant,  whose  functions  raised  him  above  the  other  slaves."  The 
atriensis — such  was  his  designation — ^had  the  care  of  the  arms,  trophies. 


THE  SERVANTS.  377 

precious  furniture,  and  books,  which  adorned  this  apartment  He  had 
also  to  take  extreme  care  of  the  paintings  and  wax  figures  there  pre- 
served  from  motives  of  vanity  or  by  a  sentiment  of  respect ;  and  it  was 
he  who  carried  those  images  of  venerated  ancestors  before  the  fimeral 
procession  of  the  head  of  the  family  when^  in  his  turn,  death  had  num- 
bered hi^i  with  his  progenitors.'* 

The  obsonator  bought  in  the  markets  the  meat,  fruit,  and  deUcacies 
necessary  for  the  repasts.'^ 

The  vocatores  carried  the  invitations,  received  the  guests,  and 
placed  them  at  table  according  to  their  rank."  These  functions  required 
a  peculiar  kind  of  urbanity  and  long  experience  on  tbe  part  of  the  indi- 
vidual who  fulfilled  them. 

The  arrangement,  the  keeping  in  order,  and  adornment  of  the  table- 
couches  belonged  exclusively  to  the  cubicularii  (valets). '*  These 
servants  are  mentioned  in  Suetonius  and  other  ancient  authors.  The 
Ceesars  had  a  great  number  of  cubicularii  who  obeyed  one  particular 
chief." 

The  dapiferi  brought  the  dishes  into  the  dining-room,"  and  tbe 
nomenclators  {nomenculatorea)  immediately  informed  the  guests  of  the 
names  and  qualities  of  the  things  with  which  they  were  going  to  be 
served.** 

•  The  structor  arranged  the  dishes  symmetrically."  The  scissor 
(carver)  cut  up  the  meats  to  the  sound  of  musical  instruments,  of  which 
he  followed  the  measure.  Finally,  young  slaves  (procillatores),"  served 
the  guests  attentively,  and  poured  out  their  drink.  Those  chosen  for 
this  employment  were  fine,  beardless,  adolescent  youths,  with  a  fresli 
complexion,  whose  long  silky  hair  fell  in  curls  over  the  shoulders.  A 
wide  riband  which  went  twice  round  the  waist  confined  their  fine,  white 
tunic— a  light,  graceful  vestment,  which  descended  in  front  to  the 
knees,  and  behind  hardly  covered  the  hamstring.'' 

While  the  guests,  softly  reclining  on  their  table-couches,  were  en- 
joying the  agreeable  surprise  reserved  for  them  by  an  amiable  amphi- 
tryon,  slaves  {sandaligeruli)  attended  to  their  sandals,  and  fastened 
them  on  at  the  moment  of  departure."  Others,  (Jiabellarii)  armed 
with  fans  of  peacocks'  feathers,'^  drove  away  the  flies,  and  cooled  the 
banqueting-hall." 

The  banquet  terminated,  servants  with  torches  and  lanterns  (adver- 
sitores)  conducted  their  masters  home,  and  pointed  out  to  them  the 

Y 


378  THE   SERVANTS. 

stones  that  might  be  lying  in  their  path,  and  which  repeated  libations^ 
might  have  prevented  their  visual  organs  tcom  discovering.'" 

We  must  not  omit,  in  this  nomenclature  of  the  principal  servants 
of  a  good  house,  the  taster  {pragustator),  who  tasted  or  tried  the  viands 
before  the  guests  touched  them  ; ''  nor  the  chief  steward  (iriclitHirches), 
and  director  of  the  repast,  who  had  to  occupy  himself  with  an  infinity 
of  detaOs  in  the  kitchen,  the  cellar,  the  pantry,  the  buffet,  and  the 
dining-room." 

A  living  synthesis  of  these  multiplied  ser\rices,  he  performed  them 
all  himsel£  The  least  negligence,  the  slightest  absence  of  mind  on 
his  part,  would  have  ruined  the  reputation,  utterly  marred  the  sumptuous 
hospitality,  of  his  master. 

Never  did  the  general  of  an  army  tremble  under  the  weight  of  a 
responsibility  so  redoubtable. 

Prociliatores,  or  cup-bearer,  an  officer  whose  duty  was  to  fill  and 
present  the  cup  to  the  king  and  princes.  This  charge  was  known  in  Egypt, 
and  the  ancients  transformed  Ganymede  into  a  cup-bearer  to  the  gods. 

Charlemagne  had  master  cup-bearers.  These  officers  signed  royal 
charters,  and  kept  rank  amongst  the  great  officers  of  state.  The  head 
one  took  the  title  of  Echanson  to  the  king,  of  master,  premier,  or 
great  ^chanson.  In  the  1 5th  century  the  ^chansons  exercised  their  func- 
tions only  on  the  coronations,  marriages,  and  entries  of  kings  and 
queens.  Louis  XVIII.  re-established  the  office  o(  premier  echanson. 
It  was  abolished  in  1830. 

There  was,  moreover,  a  class  of  miserable,  obscure,  despised  slaves, 
whose  useful  labours  rendered  them  necessary,  and  who  were  treated 
much  the  same  as  beasts  of  burden.  This  order  of  subaltern  servants 
were  composed  of : — 

The  lecticariL  They  carried  the  elegant  palanquin  in  which  the 
haughty  matron  or  the  noble  senator  were  conveyed  to  the  banqueting- 
hall." 

The  stokers  (/ocarii),  who  cut  the  wood,  lighted,  and  attended  to 
the  fires.** 

The  sweepers  {scoparit),  whose  indefatigable  activity  kept  the  apart- 
ments and  furniture  clean.*^ 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLAT£  No.  XXVIII. 

No.  1.    ProciUatoreB,  or  Eehamon,  from  a  painting  at  Hercalaneiiin. 
No.  3.    Tiicliniam,  from  a  scolptore  at  Pompeii. 


TUB   SERVANTS.  .   879 

The  washers  (peniculi).  With  a  sponge  and  a  cloth  they  cleaned 
the  precious  tables  which  adorned  the  ccenaculum^  or  dining-room. 
Sometimes,  also,  they  had  to  lay  the  covers." 

This  rapid  sketch  will  enable  the  reader  to  form  a  sufficiently  correct 
idea  of  the  comfort  and  luxury  which  prevailed  among  the  Bomans^ 
and  of  which  the  Greeks  set  them  the  example.  It  is  hardly  necessary 
to  remark  that  the  cup-bearers,  stewards,  carvers,  and  other  household 
officers,  whose  names  belong  to  modern  Europe,  perform  functions 
analogous  to  those  which  similar  servants  performed  formerly  in  Italy. 
But  these  last  were  debased  by  the  stigma  of  slavery,  and  degraded 
by  long  habit,  whilst  the  others  were  citizens. 


y2 


XXXIV. 


THE  GUESTS 


The  Jews  and  the  Egyptians  washed  the  feet  of  the  persons  whom  they 
received  into  their  houses>  and  offered  them  larger  portions  as  a  mark 
of  greater  honour.*  These  homely  and  hospitable  usages  have  disap- 
peared with  the  simplicity  of  the  primitive  ages. 

The  Greeks  required  their  guests  to  arrive  neither  too  soon  nor  too 
late.      It  was  a  rule  of  politeness  from  which  nothing  could  exempt 

them,'  and  which  we  ourselves  observe  at  this  dav. 

•  * 

In  the  Homeric  ages  each  one  received  his  share  of  meat  and  wine,' 
and  the  man  who  at  that  epoch  piqued  himself  on  his  knowledge  of  the 
science  of  life^  never  failed  to  offer  his  neighbour  a  part  of  his  dinner. 
So  Ulysses  gives  Demodochus  one-half  of  the  "  chine  of  beef"  with 
which  he  is  served/  It  is  true  that  the  King  of  Ithaca  was  regarded  as 
a  perfect  model  of  complaisance  and  delicacy. 

Another  custom  (adopted  it  is  said  only  in  the  modem  taverns 
and  dining-rooms)  was  that  of  wanning  the  remains  of  a  preceding 
banquet  for  other  guests.*  It  must  have  constituted  very  poor  fare,  for 
the  Greeks  were  remarkable  for  a  formidable  appetite,  and  their  repasts 
were  prolonged  indefinitely.  The  banquet  of  Menelaus,  noticed  by 
AthensBus,  is  a  proof  of  it.  They  eat  at  first  without  speaking,  and 
after  prodigies  of  mastication  they  began  to  discourse.  Then,  having 
washed  their  hands,  face,  and  beard,  a  fresh  attack  was  commenced, 
more  formidable  than  the  first ;  and  when  the  ardour  and  energy  of  the 
assailants  seemed  to  be  exhausted,  they  hardly  took  ti^e  to  breathe  ere 
they  fell  on  the  viands  with  renewed  avidity.  Nothing  resisted  them; 
the  dishes  were  cleared  ;  only  a  few  bones  remained  to  certify  their 
achievement.*    A  saddening,  unsatisfactory  trophy  for  future  guests. 


THE  GUESTS.  881 

Archestrates,  whose  gastronomic  axioms  we  camiot  respect  too  much, 
was  averse  to  large  dinner  parties.  Three  or  four  persons — five  at  most 
— chosen  with  care,  assembled  with  taste,  appeared  to  him  sufficient'  for 
those  solemnities  in  which  silence  was  to  be  maintained  so  long,  under 
pain,  said  Montmaur,  of  no  longer  knowing  what  one  eats. 

The  Lacedeemonians  admitted  as  many  as  fifteen  guests,  but  they 
elected  a  king  of  the  banquet,  and  that  ephemeral  autocrat  decided 
without  appeal  all  questions  which  might  have  compromised  the  tran- 
quillity of  the  banquet.' 

Greater  numbers  met  together  in  Athens.  Plato  gave  a  supper  to 
twenty-eight  of  his  firiends.'  Hundreds  of  citizens  often  met  together 
at  the  public  repasts ;  but  then  a  magistrate  was  deputed  to  see  that 
modesty,  moderation,  and  temperance  were  observed.'* 

The  Romans  understood  that  it  is  at  table  that  one  lives;  so  they 
gave  those  whom  they  invited  the  name  of  conviva  {cum  vivere,  living 
conjointly),  a  charming  type  of  that  easy,  gentle  cordiality  which  arises, 
is  fortified,  and  displayed  between  those  who  partake  of  the  same  dishes, 
drain  in  friendship  cups  of  the  same  wine,  and  separate  with  the  hope 
of  soon  seeing  a  return  of  the  same  pleasures. 

People  were  very  polite  in  Rome,  as  in  Greece,  when  they  met  in 
the  dining-room.  Never  did  they  fail  to  make  alow  bow.^^  This  act  of 
Roman  courtesy  recalls  a  very  pretty  expression  of  Fontenelle's,  which 
we  cannot  refirain  firom  citing.  This  grand  nephew  of  the  great  Comeille 
passed,  on  his  way  to  the  table,  before  Madame  Helv^tius,  whom  he  had 
not  perceived.  Fontenelle  was  then  ninety  years  of  age.  "  See,"  said 
she,  "  what  esteem  I  must  have  for  your  gallantry :  you  pass  before  me 
without  looking  at  me."  *!  Be  not  surprised.  Madam,"  replied  the  old 
gallant;  *'  if  J  had  looked  at  you  I  should  never  have  passed." 

In  the  year  of  Rome  570  (182  B.C.),  the  tribune  of  the  people,  0. 
Orchius,  was  the  prime  mover  of  the  first  sumptuary  law,  which  enacted 
that  the  number  of  guests  were  not  to  exceed  that  of  the  Muses,  nor  be 
less  than  that  of  the  Graces."  Subsequently  seven  were  thought  to  be 
sufficient,  and  some  insisted  that  when  there  were  more  the  banquet 
ought  rather  to  be  called  a  rout." 

In  the  year  of  Rome  548,  the  Consul  0.  Fannius  carried  a  law 
(Lex  Fannia)  which  prohibited  the  assembling  of  more  than  three 
persons  of  the  same  family  on  ordinary  days,  or  more  than  five  at  the 
nones,  or  on  festival  days."  This  rigorous  measure  was  pressingly  solicited 


382  THE  GUESTS. 

by  the  rational  portion  of  every  order  of  citizens,  who  could  not  witness 
without  a  shudder  the  whole  of  Italy  plunge  into  the  most  brutifying 
excesses,  after  obscene  orgies  which  we  dare  not  describe." 

But  who  could  dissipate  that  fearful  bewilderment  with  which  nations 
seem  to  be  seized  when  they  are  about  to  fall  ?  Borne  blushed  for  her 
ancient  virtues,  and  veiled  them  with  dissolution  and  crinies.  She  had 
exhausted  all  the  prodigies  that  the  genius  of  debauchery  could  invent 
-r-she  created  monsters ! 

Buinous  banquets  soon  revived,  and  the  number  of  guests  had  no' 
other  rule  than  the  unbridled  desire  of  ostentation  and  expense. 

Let  us  not  forget  those  miserable  parasites  who  managed  to  get  to  the 
comer  of  a  table  in  Greece  and  Italy,  and  to  whom  meagre  portions 
were  conceded  as  a  reward  for  cringing  servility,  such  as  the  vilest  slave 
would  have  been  ashamed  to  exhibit.     There  were  three  kinds  of  para- 
sites.    Some,  under  the  name  of  buffoons,  amused  the  company  with 
their  grotesque  attitudes  and  ridiculous  sayings."    Others  allowed  their 
ears  to  be  boxed,  and  suffered  a  thousand  different  torments,  provided  a 
piece  of  meat  or  a  bone  were  afterwards  thrown  to  them.     These  patient 
sufferers^'  diverted  the  Greeks  and  Bomans  very  much.     The  adulatory 
parasites  were  the  most  skilful  of  these  hungry  parias.     They  were  well 
treated  and  almost  respected.     They  were  persons  who  ppssessed  a  kind 
of  merit  which  was  always  equally  appreciated,  and  to  which  we  still 
render  justice— they  flattered  whosoever  gave  them  a  supper." 

An  energetic,  familiar  expression  in  French  often  replaces  the  word 
parasite,  transmitted  to  us  by  the  Greeks  and  Bomans :  that  expression, 
which  conveys  the  same  idea,  is  pique-assiette,  an  image  necessarily  asso- 
ciated with  disdain  and  insult 

The  Count  de  Gerval  had  invited  to  his  table  several  persons  of  high 
distinction,  among  whom  was  remarked  one  of  those  intruders  who  find 
means  to  get  themselves  received,  notwithstanding  the  profound  contempt 
they  inspire.  The  dessert  was  just  served,  and  a  magnificent  pear 
attracted  the  attention  of  the  parasite,  who  endeavoured  to  bear  it  off 
on  the  point  of  his  knife,  but,  in  so  doing,  he  broke  a  valuable  plate. 
"  The  deuce  take  it,  sir,"  said  the  master  of  the  house  ;  "  piquez 
lassietie  as  long  as  you  like,  but  don't  break  it !" 

The  guests  always  washed  their  hands,   and  frequendy  their  feet, 
before  they  placed  themselves  on  the  triclinium.*  "    They  received  that 

•  See  PUte  XXVIII.,  p.  378,  for  the  triclinium. 


THE  GUESTS.  383 

custom  from  the  orientals,  and  we  find  numerous  examples  of  it  in  the 
Old  and  New  Testaments."  Perfumes  were  then  poured  on  their  heads,** 
as  among  the  Jews,"  and  wreaths  of  flowers  were  offered  them." 

It  was  at  this  solemn  moment  that  the  guests  tiumed  their  attention 
to  the  election  of  the  king  of  the  banquet,  whose  grave  functions  con- 
sisted in  regulating  the  number  of  cups  that  each  one  was  expected  to 
empty  during  the  repast.'* 

Among  the  Anglo-Saxons,  he  who  wished  to  drink  ask^d  the  nearest 
person  to  pledge  him.  The  latter  replied  affirmatively,  and  imme- 
diately armed  himself  with  his  knife  or  his  sword  to  protect  the 
other  while  he  emptied  his  cup.  The  death  of  Edward  the  Martyr,  it 
is  said,  gave  rise  to  this  custom.  Elfrida,  his  mother-in-law,  caused 
him  to  be  basely  assassinated  from  behind  whilst  he  was  drinking." 

"The  following,"  says  Strutt,  "according  to  ancient  historians,  is  the 
manner  in  which  Bowena,  daughter  or  niece  of  Hengist,  drank  to  the 
health  of  Vortigern,  King  of  the  Britons.  She  entered  the  banqueting- 
hall  where  the  prince  was  with  his  guests,  and,  making  a  low  curtsey, 
she  said :  '  To  your  health,  my  lord  and  king.'  Then,  having  put  the 
cup  to  her  lips,  she  presented  it  on  her  knees  to  Vortigern,  who  took  it 
and  emptied  it,  after  having  replied :  '  I  drink  to  your  health.'"" 

We  find  in  the  works  of  Fasquier  an  affecting  anecdote  of  the  un- 
fortunate Queen  of  Scotland,  Mary  Stuart  f  "  On  the  eve  of  her  death," 
says  he,  "  towards  the  end  of  the  supper,  she  drank  to  all  her  attendants, 
commanding  them  to  pledge  her ;  the  which  obeying,  and  mingUng  their 
tears  with  their  wine,  they  drank  to  their  mistress." 

Divers  spectacles,  of  which  we  shall  have  occasion  to  speak  here- 
after, occupied  the  leisure  of  the  guests  during  the  interval  necessary  to 
remove  the  remains  of  one  course  and  serve  the  next.  These  represen- 
tations and  amusements,  of  which  they  never  tired  in  the  middle  ages* 
received  fi'om  our  ancestors,  in  France,  the  name  of  entre-meta;  a 
designation  much  more  true  and  just  than  the  modem  acceptation 
imposed  on  the  word — anything  served  between  the  roast  and  the  dessert 

The  entre-mets  were  interludes,  pantomimes,  concerts,  and  even 
melodramas  performed  between  each  course.  So  that  a  piece  which 
in  our  days  attracts  crowds  to  one  or  other  of  the  theatres,  would  have 
been  then  a  little  entre-meit  or  a  cold  side-dish  {hors-d'oeuvre). 

In  1287,  at  the  marriage  of  Bobert,  son  of  Saint-Louis,  with  Ma- 
chault,  Countess  of  Artois,  very  singular  spectacles  were  given  between 


384  THE  GUESTS. 

each  course  of  the  banquet  A  horseman  crossed  the  hall  by  making 
his  horse  walk  on  a  thick  cord,  extended  above  the  heads  of  the  guests. 
At  the  four  comers  of  the  table  were  musicians  seated  on  oxen ;  and 
monkeys,  mounted  on  goats,  seemed  to  play  the  harp.'' 

A  droll  custom  prevailed  at  the  court  of  the  Frank  kings.  St  Germier 
having  come  to  solicit  some  favour  from  the  King  of  the  Franks,  Clovis, 
that  haughty  Sicamber  received  the  bishop  with  kindness,  and  had  an 
excellent  dinner  served  for  him.  The  holy  bishop  took  leave  of  the 
king  after  the  banquet,  and  the  king,  who  sometimes  piqued  himself 
upon  his  politeness,  pulled  out  a  hair,  according  to  the  custom  of  the 
time,  and  offered  it  to  his  guest.  £ach  of  the  courtiers  hastened,  in  his 
turn,  to  imitate  the  benevolent  monarch,  and  the  virtuous  prelate  re- 
turned to  his  diocese  enchanted  with  the  reception  he  had  met  with  at 
the  court** 

Among  other  amusements  prepared  for  Queen  Elizabeth,  during 
her  sojourn  at  the  celebrated  castle  of  Eenilworth,  "  There  was,"  says 
Laneham,  '"  an  Italian  juggler  who  performed  feats  of  strength  and  leaps, 
and  cut  such  capers  with  so  much  suppleness  and  ease,  that  I  began  to 
afik  myself  whether  it  were  a  man  or  a  sprite.  Indeed  I  know  not  what 
to  say  of  that  comical  fellow,"  adds  the  artless  chronicler ;  "  I  suppose 
his  back  must  resemble  that  of  a  lamprey — it  had  ho  bone."  '^ 

In  England,  during  the  nliddle  ages,  the  courts  of  princes  and  the 
castles  of  the  great  were  crowded  with  visitors,  who  were  always  received 
with  sumptuous  hospitality.  The  pomp  displayed  by  the  lords  was 
truly  extraordinary,  and  it  is  difficult  to  understand  bote  their  fortunes 
could  suffice  for  it.  They  had  their  privy*counsellors,  treasurers,  secre- 
taries, chaplains,  heralds,  pursuivants*at-aims,  pages,  guards,  trumpeters 
—in  a  word,  aU  the  officers,  all  the  servants,  with  which  royalty  iteelf  is 
surroimded.  And  besides  this  numerous  domestic  establishment,  there 
were  troops  of  minstrels,  clowns,  jugglers,  strolling  players,  rope-dancers, 
&c.,  lodged  there  at  the  great  banqueting  times.  Each  of  the  apart- 
ments open  to  the  guests  presented  spectacles  in  harmony  with  the  gross 
taste  of  the  epoch.  It  was  a  marvellous  confusion,  a  prodigious  chaos, 
in  which  the  ear  was  struck  at  once  with  the  sound  of  dishes,  of  cup9 
clashing  one  against  another,  of  harmonious  music,  with  the  bustle  of 
the  dance,  the  notes  of  the  song,  pasquinades,  somersaults,  and  every^ 
where  the  most  boisterous  laughter.  The  face  of  decency  alone  was 
Blighdy  veiled-" 


THE  GUESTS.  385 

Sometimes  the  term  entre-meta  was  also  applied  to  decorations, 
which  were  paraded  through  the  banqueting  hall,  and  which  represented 
cities,  castles,  and  gardens,  with  fountains,  whence  flowed  all  kinds  of 
liquors.  At  the  dinner  which  Charles  V.  of  France  gave  to  the  Em- 
peror Charles  IV.  there  was  a  grand  spectacle,  or  finire-niet.  A  vessel 
appeared  with  its  masts,  sails,  and  rigging;  it  advanced  into  the  middle 
of  the  hall,  by  means  of  a  machine  concealed  from  the  view  of  all.  A 
moment  after  there  appeared  the  city  of  Jerusalem ;  its  towers  covered 
with  Saracens.  The  vessel  approached  it,  and  the  city  was  taken  by  the 
Christian  knights  who  manned  the  vessel.'^ 

Among  the  Egyptians  a  funereal  idea  was  made  the  means  of 
rousing  the  erewhile  buoyant  spirits  of  the  guests  at  the  end  of  a  repast. 
A  servant  entered  carrying  a  skeleton,  or  the  representation  of  amummy, 
which  he  took  slowly  round  the  dining-room  He  then  approached 
the  guests,  and  said  :  "  Eat,  drink,  amuse  yourselves  to-day;  to-morrow 
you  die  "" 

Greece,  and  Bome  in  particular,  adopted  this  lugubrious  emblem  of 
the  rapid  flight  of  time  and  pleasure.  This  sepulchral  image  hurried 
them  on  in  the  enjoyment  of  the  present :  it  never  revealed  to  paganism 
a  "  hope  full  of  immortality."  ** 


XXXV. 


A  ROMAN  SUPPER. 


Two  lustres  had  passed  since  the  vorld  obeyed  Domitius  Nero,  son  of 
Agrippina.  The  Romans,  a  herd  of  vile  slaves,  docile  adulators  of  the 
infamous  Cesar,  had  already  celebrated  nine  anniversaries  of  his  happy 
accession  to  the  empire,  and  the  Flamen  of  Jupiter  solemnly  thanked 
the  gods  at  each  of  these  epochs  for  all  the  benefits  that  the  well- 
beloved  monarch  had  unceasingly  lavished  on  the  earth. 

Few  princes,  it  is  true,  ever  equalled  Nero.  He  and  his  mother 
had  poisoned  Junius  Silanus,  the  pro-consul  of  Asia;  subsequently  the 
young  emperor  made  away  with  Agrippina,  and  the  senate  applauded 
that  horrible  crime,  which  was  only  the  prelude  to  outrageous  enter- 
prises which  astonish  the  historian  who  narrates  them. 

The  Flamen  was,  indeed,  bound  to  offer  up  solemn  thanksgivings 
to  Jupiter  for  having  hitherto  restrained  the  crowned  monster  from  the 
commission  of  evil  which  afterwards  marked  his  flagitious  career. 

It  was  the  64th  year  of  the  Christian  era.  The  emperor  had  passed 
some  time  at  Naples,  whence  it  was  thought  he  would  go  into  Greece ; 
but  suddenly  changing  his  project,  he  returned  to  the  capital  of  the 
world,  to  prepare,  it  was  said,  a  spectacle  of  unheard-of  splendour,  and 
such  as  Nero  alone  could  conceive. 

One  of  his  ancient  freed -men,  Caius  Domitius  Seba,  resolved  to 
celebrate  the  return  to  Home,  and  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  reign  of 
his  master,  who  was  now  become  his  patron  and  friend.  That  man 
possessed  immense  riches,  a  formidable  credit  at  court,  and  an  insolence 
which  had  struck  so  much  terror  into  the  souls  of  the  proudest  families 
of  the  empire,  that  they  had  long  since  humbled  themselves  before  him. 


A  ROMAN  SUPPER.  887 

So  that  it  'was  no  sooner  whispered  isimong  the  Boman  aristocracy  that 
the  magnificent  Seba  intended  to  give  a  banquet,  than  one  and  all 
became  anxious  to  be  numbered  with  the  guests  of  Cesar's  favourite. 

However,  days  past,  the  time  for  the  nocturnal  festival  approached, 
and  the  Invitor  had  not  made  his  appearance. 

Among  the  Hebrews,  nothing  was  more  simple  and  unsophisticated 
than  an  invitation  to  dinner;'  but,  with  the  Romans,  etiquette  required  that 
the  amphitryon  should  send  one  of  his  servants  to  each  person  who  was 
to  participate  in  his  pompous  hospitality.  This  servant,  who  was 
generally  a  freed-man,  went  firom  house  to  house,  and  indicated,  with 
exquisite  politeness,  the  day  and  precise  hour  of  the  banquet.' 

Seba's  Invitor  was  at  last  announced  to  the  two  consuls  of  the 
year,  Lecanius  Bassus  and  Licinius  Orassus,  who  accepted  with  tender 
gratitude  the  distinguished  honour  which  the  enfranchised  slave  deigned 
to  confer  upon  them. 

After  them  the  same  favour  was  received  with  the  same  gratitude 
by  the  Agrippas,  the  Ancuses,  the  Cossuses,  the  Drususes,  and  all  those 
who  were  the  most  noble,  powerful,  and  proud  in  Rome. 

The  next  day,  about  two  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  (the  repast  was  to 
begin  at  six  o'clock),  an.  unusual  movement  reigned  in  the  Palatine  baths, 
and  those  of  Daphnis,  near  the  Sacred  Way.  The  mediastini  kept  up 
a  steady  fire  under  the  coppers;  the  capsarii  folded  with  care  the  clothes 
of  the  bathers;  the  unguentarii  sold  their  oils  and  unguents ;  and  the 
fricatoreSy  armed  with  the  strigil — a  sort  of  wooden,  iron,  or  horn 
spoon — rubbed  and  scraped  the  skin  before  the  tractatores  came  gently 
to  manipulate  the  joints,  and  skilfully  shampoo  the  body,  which  gained 
by  this  operation  more  elasticity  and  suppleness.' 

The  upper  classes  of  the  Romans  never  sat  down  to  table  until  they 
had  undergone  all  these  preliminaries  of  minute  cleanliness/ 

The  future  guests  return  home,  after  the  bath,  to  employ  the  skill 
of  the  barbers  (tonsores),  who  are  in  waiting  to  give  more  grace  to  the 
hair,  and  remove,  with  the  aid  of  tweezers  and  pumice,  the  first  silvery 
indications  of  the  lapse  of  years,  which,  though  incessantly  efiaced,  still 
]y-appeared.* 

A  more  serious  occupation  succeeded.  Epicureans  should  never 
neglect  their  teeth — particularly  at  the  approach  of  a  banquet  Nor  did 
the  ingenious  gastronomy  of  the  first  century  of  our  era  neglect  to 
invent  tooth-powder,  which  cleaned  the  enamel  without  injuring  it,  and 


888  A  ROMAN  SUPPER. 

fortified  the  gums — those  fortresses  of  mastication.  Some  persons  made 
use  of  substances  which  no  one  would  adopt  in  the  present  day,  because 
our  delicacy  revolts  against  them.'  But  preparations  less  offensive  were 
employed,  and  men  of  good  taste,  as  well  as  £Eishionable  ladies,  extolled 
ox-gall,  goats'  milk,  the  ash  of  stags'  horns,  of  pigs'  hoofs,  and  of 
egg-shells.' 

Thus  were  the  teeth  equipped,  as  the  comic  Plautus  has  it;*  or, 
rather,  thus  were  they  prepared  to  undergo  the  labour  required  of  them. 

Those  who  had  had  the  misfortune  to  lose  some  of  those  powerful 
gastrophagic  auxiliaries  substituted  false  ones  of  ivory,  which  art  found 
means  to  render  absolutely  similar  to  their  neighbours.  The  eye  was 
deceived :  what  more  could  be  required  ?  * 

But  the  clepsydras"  and  the  celebrated  clock  of  the  field  of  Mars" 
announce  that  it  is  time  to  put  on  the  white,  light  robe,  a  little  longer 
than  the  pallium  of  the  Geeeks,  and  to  which  the  Latins  have  given 
the  names  of  vestis  ccsnataria^  vesiis  trielinaria,  vest  is  convivalis.^* 
This  last  part  of  their  toilet  finished,  the  guests  set  out  for  the  mi^i- 
ficent  abode  of  their  host,  preceded  by  a  few  slaves,  and  followed  by 
their  shadows — those  hungry  hangers-on  of  whom  mention  has  already 
been  made,  and  who  strive  to  obtain,  on  the  road,  a  smile  or  a  word  by 
dint  of  cringing  obsequiousness. 

Arrived  at  the  atrium,  the  crowd  of  Roman  nobles  are  conducted 
into  the  interior  of  the  house  by  the  parasites  of  Seba.  The  proud 
fireed-man  disturbed  himself  for  nobody ;  but,  like  the  opulent  Greeks, 
whom  he  aped,  he  left  to  these  ignoble  familiars  the  care  of  replacing 
him  in  the  honours  of  his  palace." 

They  enter  an  immense  hall,  decorated  with  unheard-of  luxury, 
lighted  by  lustres,*^  and  round  which  are  several  ranks  of  seats,  not 
unlike  the  folding-stools  and  arm-chairs  we  meet  with  in  the  present  day 
in  the  most  elegant  boudoirs,^*  The  guests  seat  themselves,  and  anon 
Egyptian  slaves  approach  with  perfumed  snow-water,  which  flows  firom 
golden  vases  of  the  most  graceful  forms,  and  cools  the  hands  of  senators 
and  Roman  knights,"  whilst  other  servants  disincumber  them  of  their 
patrician  shoes,  the  end  of  which  represents  a  crescent.*'  The  feet  then 
received  a  similar  ablution,  and  firesh  slaves,  skilful  orthopoedists, 
accomplish  in  a  twinkling  the  delicate  toilet  of  these  extremities,"  and 
imprison  them  again  in  elegant  and  commodious  sandals,  fastened  by 
ribands  which  cross  on  the  top." 


A  ROMAN  SUPPER.  389 

H^re  and  there  a  few  persons  are  remarked  who  still  wear  their 
togas,  having  doubtless  forgotten  to  substitute  the  banqueting  dress.  So 
soon  as  the  major-domo  perceives  them  he  makes  a  sign  to  some 
youths  clothed  in  white  tunics,  who  hasten  to  present  to  each  of  these 
guests  a  synthesis  J  or  short  woollen  vestment  of  different  colours/*  which 
envelopes  the  whole  body,  but  leaves  the  shoulders  and  breast  uncovered 
if  the  wearer  desire  it.** 

These  indispensable  preliminaries  being  terminated,  the  seats  disap- 
peared, and  the  guests  stood  waiting  for  the  freed-man,  Seba,  who 
speedily  entered  accompanied  by  the  two  consuls,  for  whom  places  of 
honour  had  been,  reserved  on  couches  beside  their  pompous  amphitryon. 
The  latter  deigned  to  address  a  few  words  of  welcome  to  his  noble  com- 
pany, and  each  one  stretched  himself  on  his  couch  of  gold  and  purple. 
The  fourth  couch  was  given  up  to  the  parasites  and  shadows/' 

Meanwhile,  slaves  were  burning  precious  perfumes  in  golden  vases 
{acerra)\  and  young  children  were  pouring  on  the  hair  of  the  guests 
odoriferous  essences,  which  filled  the  banqueting  hall  with  balmy  &a* 
grance.    Rome  had  borrowed  this  custom  from  the  east/' 

The  golden  panelling  of  the  hall  shone  with  dazzling  brightness  as 
it  reflected  a  torrent  of  light  from  the  crystal  candelabra,'*  and  the  melo- 
dious sounds  of  the  hydraulic  organ"  announced  the  commencement  of 
the  banquet.'* 

At  this  signal,  servants,  richly  dressed,  place  within  the  circle  formed 
by  the  couches  lemon- wood  tables  of  inestimable  phce,"  which  they 
immediately  cover  with  a  rich  tissue  of  gold  and  silk.  That  done^ 
sylph-like  hands  spread  them  over  with  a  profusion  of  the  rarest  flowers 
and  rose  leaves." 

Musicians  {symphoniaci)  then  occupy  a  kind  of  orchestra  or  plat- 
form, raised  at  one  of  the  extremities  of  the  hkll,"  among  whom  the 
flute  and  harp  players  are  to  be  particularly  remarked.'*  The  former 
constitute,  among  the  Romans,  a  special  body  dubbed  with  the  name  of 
GoUegey  and  they  have  the  exclusive  right  to  attend  banquets  and 
enliven  the  pomp  of  ceremonies." 

These  musicians  execute  a  slow,  dulcet  melody  while  the  slaves  are 
placing  on  the  tables  the  statues  of  some  of  the  principal  gods,"  together 
with  that  of  the  divine  Nero,  whom  a  pusillanimous  flattery  ranks 
already  with  the  immortals.  At  this  moment  they  also  arrange  here 
and  there  the  salt-cellars,"  while  the  more  meditative  of  the  guests  in* 


390  A  ROMAN  SUITED. 


M 


voke  Jupiter,  before  they  give  themselves  up  to  the  pleasures  of  the/east 
Hardly  is  this  short  prayer  finished  when  joyous  cup-bearers  distribute 
charming  little  crystal  cups,"  which  Ethiopian  slaves*'  fill  to  the  bhm 
with  a  generous,  honeyed  wine,  drawn,  in  the  first  instance^  firom  those 
large  pitchers  which  the  Greeks  have  named  amphone. 

Some  drops  of  the  exhilirating  liquid  are  ofiered  to  the  Lares  (house- 
hold gods),  by  sprinkling  it  in  their  honour  on  the  floor  and  the  table.*^ 
This  pious  libation  precedes  the  entrance  of  the  first  course  (antecoe/ta),** 
composed  of  the  lightest  and  least  succulent  kinds  of  viands,  by  means 
of  which  a  generous  host  stimulates  the  appetites  of  his  guests,  as  a 
preparative  for  brilliant  exploits.*' 

Lettuces,  oUves,  pomegranates,  Damascus  plums,^*^  tastefully  arranged 
on  silver  dishes,"  serve  to  encircle  dormice,  prepared  with  honey  and 
poppy  juice,**  forcemeat  balls  of  crab,  lobster,  or  cray-fish,  prepared 
with  pepper,  cummio>  and  benzoin  root/*  A  little  further,  champignon 
and  egg  sausages,  prepared  with  garum,**  are  placed  by  the  side  of 
pheasant  sausages,  a  deUcious  mixture  of  the  fat  of  that  bird,  chopped 
very  small,  and  mixed  with  pepper,  gravy,  and  sweet  sun-made  wine, 
to  which  a  small  quantity  of  hydrogarum  is  added/*.  Tempting  as 
these  delicate  viands  may  be,  the  practised  epicureans  seem  to  have  a 
decided  preference  for  peacocks'  eggs,  which  they  open  with  spoons. 
These  eggs,  a  master-piece  of  the  culinary  artist,  who  presides  over 
Seba's  stoves,  are  composed  of  a  fine  perfumed  paste,  and  contain, 
each  one,  a  &.U  roasted,  ortolan  surrounded  with  yolk  of  egg,  and 
seasoned  with  pepper/* 

We  will  not  go  through  the  hst  of  all  the  dishes  which  composed 
the  anteccena.  The  nomenclature  was  offered,  according  to  custom,  to 
the  guests  of  the  rich  freed-man,  but  the  reader  would  doubtless  think 
it  a  little  tiresome.  We  must,  however,  inform  him,  that  the  true 
gastronomists — and  there  were  many  at  that  banquet — did  no  more 
than  give  note  of  preparation  to  their  appetite,  by  plying  it  with  pickled 
radishes,*'  some  few  grasshoppers  of  a  particular  species,  fried  with 
garum,**  grey  peas,  and  olives  fresh  firom  their  brine/* 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XXX. 

No.  1.    A  Greek  Etrascan  vase,  or  amphora,  of  terra  cotta,  for  wine  and  water,  commonly  placed  on 
the  dinner  table. — Hamiltoic. 

No.  3.    A  Greek  terra  cotta  rase,  for  a  particular  wine. — Catlus. 
No.  8.    Etnucan  terra  cotu  vase,  to  hold  wine  on  the  table. — Caylus. 
,  No.  4.    A  ^aaa  amphora,  or  vaae,  of  large  dimenaions,  for  Falemian  wine. 
All  found  at  Hercolaneom. — Saint-Noic. 


A  ROMAN  SUPPER.  »»1 

The  first  course  was  removed  to  the  sound  of  music,"  Now  came 
chased  silver  cups,  much  larger  than  those  of  crystal  "—no  doubt  be- 
cause thirst  is  excited  by  drinking.  Amphoree  of  a  secular  wine  were 
ranged  by  the  major-domo  on  the  mosaic  flooring  of  the  hall,  at  some 
distance  from  the  triclinium,  and  they  proceeded,  by  the  invitation 
of  the  consuls,  to  the  choice  of  the  symposiarch  (or  master  of  the 
banquet),  upon  whom  devolved  the  duty  of  regulating  how  often  any 
person  was  to  drink,  and  of  preventing  the  guests,  in  the  best  manner  he 
could,  from  yielding  too  easily  to  bacchic  provocatioBS,  which  com- 
monly led  to  unseemly  gaiety  and  the  loss  of  reason." 

This  sor^  of  magirio  magistracy  was  obtained  by  lot,  or  the  unani- 
mous call  for  a  personage  worthy  of  such  a  distinction."  That  memo- 
rable  evening  every  voice  named  the  senator  Drusillus,  one  of  the  most 
determined  drinkers  of  the  Roman  aristocracy.  Drusillus  smiled, 
snapped  his  fingers,"  and,  by  the  order  of  his  master,  thus  intimated, 
a  slave,  who  was  standing  behind  him,  filled  a  golden  crater*  with  wine,, 
and  presented  it  tq  the  symposiarch. 

Thereupon,  the  latter,  slightly  raising  his  head  from  the  downy 
cushions  on  which  it  rested,  and  supporting  it  from  the  left  elbow/* 
makes  a  graceful  bow  to  the  amphitryon,  the  consuls,. and  the  rest  of  the 
aJssembly.  Then,  with  a  stentorian  voice :  "  Slaves,"  he  cried,  '*  bring 
wreaths  of  flowers."  Fugitive  images  of  the  spring  and  of  pleasure, 
they  shall  bind  our  brows.*'  At  the  same  time  let  garlands  adorn  our 
craters,  in  which  the  cherished  liquor  of  the  son  of  Semele  sparkles  ;*' 
and  let  us  bestow  no  thought,  during  the  fleet  joys  of  the  banquet,  on 
the  uncertain  and  fatal  hour  when  Atropos  shall  pronounce  our  doom." 

This  speech,  slightly  impregnated  with  the  epicurean  philosophy  so 
much  in  fashion  during  the  reign  of  Nero,  had  at  least  the  merit  of  a 
praiseworthy  conciseness.  Nor  did  it  Jail  to  attractapplause  from  the  audi* 
tors,  whose  brows  and  cups  were  speedily  adorned  with  wreaths  of  roses, 
which  young  boys,  clothed  in  white  tunics,  arranged  with  marvellous  art. 

The  slight  rustling  of  the  flowers  was  soon  drowned  by  the  shrill 
noise  of  the  trumpets  which  announced  the  second  course.  A  flatter- 
ing buzz  welcomed  this  profusion  of  viands,  which  encumbered  the 
tables,  and  well-nigh  crushed  them  with  their  weight.  There  were  the 
peacock,**  the  duck,  whose  breast  and  head  are  so  much  coveted;*' 

*  Cup,  or  crater,  used  bj  the  Grreeks  and  Romans  at  their  repasts,  made  either  of  gold,  silTer,  or  earth- 
enware (terra  cotta). — Hamilton,  **  Hereuianeum.'' 


892  A  ROMAN  SUPPER. 

capons'  livers,*'  peppered  becafiooes,**  grouse,  the  turtle-^ove,  the 
pheoicopter/'  and  an  infinite  number  of  rare  birds,  the  costly  tribute 
that  Europe,  Asia,  and  Africa,  exchanged  against  the  gold  of  the  pro* 
digal  Seba.  Other  gold  and  silver  dishes  contained  those  inestimable 
fishes  which  Roman  luxury  brought  so  much  into  fashion ;  the  scarus, 
or  parrot  fish,  sturgeons,  turbots,  mullets,  and  those  numerous  inhabit- 
ants of  every  sea  with  which  the  tanks  were  stocked,  to  supply  the 
kitchen  of  the  freed-sTave. 

Moreover,  there  were  wild  boars  &  la  Trayenne,^*  ranged  in  the 
centre  of  the  table,  in  silver  basins  of  a  prodigious  value ;  stuffed  pigs, 
quarters  of  stag  and  roebuck,  loins  of  beefi  kidneys  Surrounded  with 
African  figs,'^  sows  paps  prepared  with  milk,''  sows'  flank,"  and  some 
pieces  of  Gallic  bacon,''  which  certain  gluttons  loved  to  associate  with  a 
piece  of  succulent  venispn* 

While  the  carvers  were  cutting  up  the  meats  with  incredible  address, 
to  the  sound  of  a  light  but  animated  music,  Numidian  slaves  filled  the 
cups  from  small  leathern  bottles  with  old  Greek  wine,"  a  servant  carried 
bread  round  the  tables  in  a  silver  basket,"  and  others  ventilated  the 
apartment,"  or  offered  the  guests  warm  and  iced  water/^ 

In  every  direction  trays  circulated,  covered  with  divers  kinds  of 
meats,'*  which  they  took  care  to  humect  with  peppered  garum,"  that 
strange  condiment,  which  the  freed-slave  procured  from  Spain  at  a  price 
equal  to  its  weight  in  gold. 

Suddenly  the  symposiarch  commands  silence :  the  musicians  obey 
—the  slaves  are  motionless. 

**  Let  us  drain  our  cups,"  said  he,  "  in  honour  of  CeBsar.  Let  us 
celebrate  the  tenth  anniversary  of  his  glorious  reign,  and  his  happy  return 
to  the  metropolis  of  the  world.  Let  us  drink,  senators  and  knights,  as 
many  craters  as  there  are  letters  in  the  cherished  name  of  the  emperor."" 

Sense  and  reason  must  have  succumbed,  had  the  patrician  assembly 
toasted  Caius  Lucius  Domitius  Nero:  it  would  have  been  constructive 
treason  not  to  empty  twenty-three  cups ;  but  tbey  limited  themselves  to 
four,  which  represented  the  last  of  these  names. 

Joy  unrestrained  floated  with  the  fumy  wine,  furnished  from  large 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATE  No.  XXXI. 

No  I.  Carious  silver  dish,  with  Etruscan  letters  engraved  around  the  head  of  Medusa.  Petnmioi 
speakA  of  two  siWer  dishes,  upon  which  were  engraved  the  name  of  Trimaldon,  and  the  weight  of  eaeh 
dish. — Atbkn.;  Stuaet. 

Nos.  3  and  8.    Silver  dishes^—GoBRXB,  **  Etnuean  Mu$.** 


A  ROMAN  SUPPER.  893 

glass  amphorae,  on  which  were  these  words :  "  Falemian  wine  of  a  hun- 
dred leaves,  made  under  the  consulship  of  Opimius."  "*  The  consuls 
and  the  Roman  nobles  almost  forgot,  in  the  voluptuousness  of  the  splen- 
did repast,  that  the  executioner  of  Britannicus  and  Burrhus,  the  crowned 
tiger,  was  doubtless  thinking  at  that  very  moment  of  taking  some  of 
the  heads  then  present.  A  fiinereal  spectacle  soon  aroused  their  dor- 
mant fears. 

An  officer  of  the  palace  presented  himself  at  the  door  of  the  ban- 
queting hall.  He  advanced  slowly,  followed  by  two  slaves,  who  laid  on 
the  table  an  object  covered  with  a  winding-sheet.  "Pressing  occu- 
pations," said  the  imperial* messenger,  "prevent  CsBsar  from  sharing 
with  you  the  hospitality  of  Seba ;  but  he  thinks  of  you,  and  sends  you 
a  testimony  of  his  remembrance."  • 

"  Long  live  Caesar !"  cry  the  consuls,  the  freed-slave,  and  some  few 
trembling  voices.  The  officer  retires.  The  veil  which  shrouds  Nero's 
present  from  every  eye  is  removed,  and  all  perceive  a  silver  skeleton,  of 
terrifying  truthfiilness,  and  which,  by  its  admirable  mechanism,  proclaims 
artist  to  be  one  of  those  Greeks  who  have  come  to  Rome  to  seek  for- 
tune and  celebrity.'* 

This  episode  engrossed  the  thoughts  of  the  greater  part  of  the  guests, 
and  the  old  senator,  Lucius  Vafra,  could  not  help  saying,  with  a  sigh, 
to  his  neighbour,  Virginius  Rufiis,  one  of  the  consuls  of  the  preceding 
year :  "  Fear  the  Greeks :   fear  this  disastrous  present  1"  " 

But  the  hot  wine  which  was  being  served,'*  and  the  healths  which 
succeeded  without  interruption,  drove  the  sinistrous  presage  from  their 
minds;  and,  moreover,  the  present  of  the  emperor  was  nowise  contrary  to 
the  manners  of  the  epoch,  and  the  thought  of  death  would  only  have  en- 
livened the  repast,  if  it  had  been  presented  by  any  other  than  Nero. 

At  first  healths  were  drunk  in  the  Greek  fashion, — that  is,  begin- 
ning by  the  most  distinguished  personages,  he  who  drank  bowed  and 
said :  "  I  wish  you  every  kind  of  prosperity ; "  or  simply :  "  I  salute 
you."  In  pronouncing  these  words,  he  who  drank  the  health  took  only 
a  part  of  the  wine  contained  in  the  cup,  and  sent  the  remainder  to  the 
guest  he  had  just  designated.'* 

Many  craters  were  then  emptied  in  honour  of  the  mistress  of  tlje 
house  {domino)  \  neither  were  the  illustrious  dead  nor  absent  friends 
forgotten.  The  formula  was  nearly  the  same  for  all :  "To  your  healths/ 

*  See  Plate  XXX.,  No.  4. 
Z 


394  A  ROMAN  SUPPER. 

said  the  symposiaroh,  *'  to  our  own,  to  that  also  of  the  friend  whom  we 
cherish."" 

Sometimes  Drusillus,  still  fascinated  with  that  dulcet  poetry  of  the 
Greeks  with  which,  when  young,  he  had  stored  his  mind,  would  take  up 
the  harmonious  cadences  of  Horace,  and  thus  personate,  as  it  were, 
those  divine  chanters  of  Attica  who  have  inmiortalised  themselves  by 
celebrating  love,  wine,  and  pleasure. 

One  of  his  extempore  strains,  while  sipping  the  sparkling  liquor 
from  his  cup,  was : — 

This  dream  of  bliss  maintain,  prolong  these  happy  hours, 
0,  all-enchanting  wines !  peifomed  with  flowers 

Which  Cos  and  Cyprus  rear  ; 
Let  nothing  ever  change  this  soul-felt,  rich  delight ; 
For  I  would  say,  when  partmg  for  the  realms  of  night, 

I  never  knew  a  tear. 

This  sensual  philosophy  found  numberless  echoes  in  that  vain- 
glorious Rome,  who  exhausted  her  disdain,  outrage,  and  punishments  on 
the  (so  called)  new  fantastic  folly  that  the  Nazarenes  were  endeavouring 
to  introduce.  A  few  years  more,  and  their  doctrine  will  subjugate  the 
universe ! 

Time  passed  rapidly,  and  the  meats,  divided  into  equal  portions, 
were  served  to  the  guests,  who  frequently  did  not  touch  them,  but 
gave  their  share  to  their  servants,  or  sent  it  home.*^ 

So  soon  as  the  major-domo  perceived  that  appetite  began  to  flag, 
he  ordered  the  whole  to  be  cleared,  and  the  dessert,  spread  on  ivory 
tables/'  to  be  substituted  for  the  more  substantial  comestibles,  with 
which  the  guests  were  satiated. 

Exquisite  drinks,  artificial  wines,  delicate  and  light  aliments,'^  still 
came  to  titillate  the  palate  and  the  burthened  stomach — pears,  apples, 
walnuts,  dried-figs,  grapes  ;**  a  thousand  different  kinds  of  raw,  cooked, 
and  preserved  fruits ;  tarts,  cakes,  and  those  incredible  delicacies  which 
the  Latins  designated  by  the  collective  generic  term  bellaria,  wooed  the 
epicurean — ^if  we  may  be  allowed  the  expression — with  their  mild,  ma- 
terial, dangerous,  and  irresistible  eloquence. 

Some  one  proposed  to  replace  the  half-faded  flowers  by  Egyptian 
wreaths,  and  every  brow  was  soon  bound  with  garlands  of  roses  and 
myrtle,  interspersed  with   little  birds,  which,  by  their  fluttering  and 


A  ROMAN  SUPPER.  395 

chirping,  soon  restored  the  drowsy  company  to  that  animation  which 
seemed  to  wane." 

Then  began  the  amusements  of  the  evening. 

A  troop  of  strolling  players  were  admired  for  their  agility  and  sup- 
pleness. Some  rolled  round  a  cord  like  a  wheel  which  turns  on  its  axle ; 
they  hung  by  the  neck,  by  one  foot,  and  varied  these  perilous  exercises 
in  a  thousand  different  ways.  Others  slid  down  a  cord,  lying  on  the 
stomach,  with  their  arms  and  legs  extended.  Some  revolved  as  they  ran 
along  a  descending  cord.  Some,  in  a  word,  performed  feats  of  strength 
and  address  on  the  horizontal  rope  which  were  truly  incomprehensible, 
and  at  an  elevation  from  the  flooring  which  would  have  rendered  a  fall 
fatal." 

To  these  acrobats  succeeded  prestigiators,  who  appeared  to  receive  a 
peculiar  degree  of  attention.  One  placed  under  cups  a  certain  number 
of  shells,  dry  peas,  or  Htde  balls,  and  he  caused  them  to  disappear  and  re- 
appear at  will.*'  The  spectators  strained  their  eyes  without  being  able 
to  comprehend  anything.  Another  of  these  mountebanks  wrote  or  read 
very  distinctly  while  whirling  rapidly  round.*"  Some  vomited  flames 
from  the  mouth,  or  walked,  head  downwards,  on  their  hands,  and  beat 
with  iheir  feet  the  movements  of  the  most  agile  dancers.*'  Then  a 
woman  appeared,  holding  in  her  hand  twelve  bronze  hoops,  wifli  several 
little  rings  of  the  same  metal,  which  rolled  round  them.  She  danced 
graceftilly,  throwing  and  successively  catching  the  twelve  hoops,  without 
ever  allowing  any  of  the  rings  to  fall.*'  After  that,  another  juggler 
rushed,  with  his  breast  uncovered,  into  the  midst  of  a  forest  of  naked 
swords.  Every  one  thought  him  to  be  covered  with  wounds,  but  he 
re-appeared,  with  a  smile  on  his  countenance,  whole  and  sound.** 

These  feats  were  followed  by  an  interlude,  in  which  the  parts  were 
amusingly  sustained  by  marionettes.  The  Greeks  knew  this  childish 
pastime,**  and  Rome  did  not  disdain  it.**  These  little  bronze  and  ivory 
figures**  played  some  comic  scenes  tolerably  well,  and  obtained  the 
applauses  of  grave  senators,  who  more  than  once  forgot  their  senility  as 
they  contemplated  the  grotesque  pantomime. 

The  only  thing  now  wanting  to  render  Seba's  supper  a  worthy  spe- 
cimen of  nocturnal  Roman  feasts  was,  to  produce  before  the  guests  one  of 
those  spectacles  which  outrage  morals  and  humanity.  Nero's  freed-man 
had  been  too  well  tutored  to  refiise  them  this  diversion.  Young  Syrians,** 
or  bewitching  Spanish  girls/'  went  through  lascivious  dances,*'  which 

z  2 


396  A  ROMAN  SUPPER- 

raised  no  blush  on  the  brow  of  rigid  magistrates,  who  forgot,  m  the  abode 
of  the  vile  slave,  the  respect  due  to  their  age  and  dignity. 

After  the  voluptuous  scenes  of  the  lewd  Celtiberians,  blood  was  re- 
quired :  for  they  seem  to  have  been  formed  by  nature  to  take  a  strange 
delight  in  sudden  contrasts.  Ten  couples  of  gladiators,  armed  with 
swords  and  bucklers,  occupied  a  space  assigned  to  them,  and  ten  horrible 
duels  recreated  the  attentive  assembly.  For  a  long  time  nothing  was 
heard  but  the  clash  of  arms ;  but  the  thirst  for  conquest  animated  those 
ferocious  combatants,  and  they  rushed  with  loud  cries  on  one  another. 
Blood  flowed  on  all  sides ;  the  couches  were  dyed  with  it,  and  the  white 
robes  of  the  guests  were  soon  spotted.  Some  of  the  combatants  fell,  and 
the  rattles  announced  approaching  death ;  others  preserved,  in  their  last 
struggle,  a  funereal  silence,  or  endeavoured  to  fix  their  teeth  in  the  flesh 
of  their  enemies  standing  erect  beside  them.*'  The  spectators,  stupified 
vrith  wine  and  good  cheer,  contemplated  this  carnage  with  cold  impassi- 
bility ;  they  only  roused  from  their  torpor  when  one  of  those  men,  hap- 
pening to  trip  against  a  table,  struck  his  head  on  the  ivory,  and  his 
antagonist,  prompt  as  lightning,  plunged  his  sword  into  the  throat 
of  his  foe,  whence  torrents  of  black,  reeking  blood  inundated  the 
polished  ivory,  and  flowed  in  long  streams  among  the  fruits,  cups,  and 
flowers. 

The  deed  was  applauded ;  servants  washed  the  tables  and  the  floor 
with  perfumed  water,  and  these  stirring  scenes  were  soon  forgotten.  A 
last  cup  was  drunk  to  the  good  genius/*  whose  protection  they  invoked 
before  returning  home. 

Meantime  a  stifling  atmosphere  pervades  every  part  of  the  hall,  and 
a  hollow  noise,  rumbling  in  the  distance,  excites  at  intervals  in  the 
minds  of  the  guests  a  sort  of  undefinable  apprehension— the  ordinary 
presage  of  an  unknown  but  imminent  catastrophe.  The  consuls  raise 
themselves  on  their  couches  and  listen ;  their  host  endeavours  to  calm 
their  fears;  but  at  this  moment  a  slave,  panting  for  breath,  rushes 
towards  Seba,  and  pronounces  a  few  inarticulate  words.  "  Fire !"  cries 
the  anguished  freed  man.  ^^  Where  is  the  fire  T*  inquire  all  the  terrified 
guests,  who  have  heard  but  this  one  sinistrous  word.  "  Everywhere ! " 
replies  the  slave ;  "it  has  burst  forth  simultaneously  in  every  part  of  the 
city!"  No  one  waits  to  hear  more.  Consuls,  senators,  knights,  mu- 
sicians, and  servants,  jostle  one  another ;  and,  abandoning  those  who  fall, 
arrive  pell-mell  at  the  atrium.    The  porter  still  chained,  trembles  at  his 


•V 


A  ROMAN  SUPPER.  89> 

post;  the  flames  already  envelop  the  sumptuous  edifice — the  entire  street 
is  one  vast  brazier !  Rome  burns,  and  will  soon  be  a  heap  of  ruins  and 
ashes !  Flight  is  impossible — the  flames  intercept  every  issue !  *  *  * 
Nero  has  taken  his  measures  well. 

We  will  not  attempt  to  depict  the  mute  but  terrible  despair  of  those 
proud  patricians,  at  bay  in  the  midst  of  an  ocean  of  fire,  in  which  they 
are  fated  ere  long  to  perish.  The  wreaths  of  flowers  which  bind  their 
brows  are  already  parched  by  the  scorching  breath  of  those  roaring 
flames,  which  engulf  and  consume  everything  as  they  sweep  along.  A 
thick  smoke  begrimes  the  lustrous  robes,  whoso  graceful  folds  erewhile 
displayed  the  exquisite  urbanity  of  Seba's  guests,  and  which  now  exhibit 
only  a  sad  emblem  of  festive  joys.  The  dread  of  death,  and  I  know  not 
what  strange  anguish  at  this  all-important  moment,  blanch  those  human 
faces,  to  which  the  choicest  wines  of  Greece  and  Italy  had  just  given  a 
hue  of  purple.  These  men  feel — instinct  tells  them — ^that  life  is  theirs 
no  longer,  and  they  have  not  the  courage  to  die ! 

The  opulent  freed-man  calls  to  his  slaves,  and  promises  them  their 
liberty  if  they  consent  to  risk  their  lives  in  an  attempt  to  save  his.  But 
the  vile  herd  is  already  dispersed;  the  porter  alone  remains — ^for  no  one 
has  thought  to  liberate  him — and  he,  in  his  impotent  fiiry,  replies  by 
insulting  clamours  to  the  cowardly  supplications  of  his  quondam  master. 

This  horrible  scene  soon  changed  by  the  very  action  of  that  torrent 
of  fire  which  was  pursuing  its  devastating  course ;  and  the  next  day,  when 
Aurora  appeared,  a  heap  of  niins  was  all  that  remained  of  the  odious 
Seba's  magnificent  palace. 

The  two  consuls  and  some  of  the  senators  were  fortunate  enough  to 
escape  the  common  danger.  Less  besotted,  perhaps,  by  the  wine  and 
good  cheer,  and  finding  in  despair  that  incredible  energy  which  some- 
times operates  the  same  prodigies  as  courage,  they  rushed  through  the 
flames,  and  gained  the  country,  or  those  obscure  portions  of  the  city 
which  the  son  of  Agnppina  had  apparently  forgotten. 

Thus  it  was  that  Lucius  Domitius  Nero  celebrated  the  tenth  anni- 
versary of  his  glorious  reign.  While  the  fire  was  rolling  on  with  its  re- 
sistless flood  of  flame  from  temples  to  palaces,  and  fix)m  the  Circus  to 
the  Pantheon,  the  young,  poetic  Caesar,  his  brow  bound  with  laurel,  and 
holding  in  his  hands  a  golden  lyre,  viewed  firom  the  top  of  a  tower — where 
he  was  surrounded  by  a  troop  of  histrions  and  buffoons — the  conflagration 
he  had  just  kindled. 


•398  A  ROMAN  SUPPER. 

And  yfhile  the  imperial  Apollo  sang  some  melanclioly  verses  on  t^e 
fatal  destiny  of  the  antique  city  of  Troy,  his  ignoble  courtiers  cried  with 
enthusiasm  :  "  May  the  Gods  preserve  Nero,  their  august  son,  and  the 
delight  of  the  human  race ! " 

Such  was  the  last  gorgeous  feast  at  which  the  magiric  genius  presided 
in  that  Borne  which  Romulus  had  founded,  and  which  engulfed  the  trea* 
sures  and  wonders  of  the  world.  Destroyed  by  the  imperial  incendiary,  it 
arose  from  its  ashes  with  increased  beauty  and  voluptuousness ;  and  the 
wild  joy  of  its  new  banquets  caused  the  thoughtless  queen  of  nations 
quickly  to  forget  the  disasters  of  the  past,  and  the  sinistrous  presages  of 
the  Aiture. 


1 


BIOGRAPHICAL    NOTES. 


NERO. 

Lucius  Domitius  Nero's  father  was  Caius  Domitius  ^nobarbus ;  Agrippina 
was  his  mother.  He  took  the  reins  of  the  empire  at  the  age  of  eighteen 
(a.d.  54),  and  governed  at  first  with  clemency  and  equity.  The  Eoman 
people,  transported  with  love  for  their  young  prince,  indulged  the  fond  hope  of 
long  and  unalloyed  felicity ;  but  they  were  soon  aroused  from  this  delusion  to 
a  sense  of  the  dire  reality.  Nero  had  forgotten  himself  in  the  path  of  virtue ; 
he  rallied  by  trying  his  hand  at  crime,  and  found  at  last  his  true  vocation. 
Others  have  recounted  his  detestable  infandes:  we  will  merely  remind  our 
readers  that  he  poisoned  Britannicus, — that  he  caused  his  mother  to  be  slain, — 
that  he  killed  his  wife  Octavia  by  kicking  her, — and  that  Seneca,  his  preceptor, 
only  escaped  his  cruelty  by  having  his  veins  opened.  In  the  year  64  he  took 
it  into  his  head  to  set  fire  to  the  city  of  Borne,  and  then  accused  the  Christians 
of  that  prodigious  atrocity.  Language  cannot  describe  the  unbridled  luxury 
of  this  ignominious  emperor.  His  gilded  house,  his  ivory  ceilings,  his 
murrhine  vases,  the  nets  of  gold  and  scarlet  with  which  he  fished,  the  in- 
calculable profusion  of  his  repasts — everything  connected  with  Nero  betrayed 
a  species  of  pompous  monomania,  leading  to  excesses  so  immeasurable  and 
abominable  that  in  these  days  they  excite  doubt  or  incredulity. 

The  entire  world  detested  the  monster.  Galba  and  the  Roman  army  re- 
volted against  him,  and  the  pusillanimous  Caesar  fled  bare-footed,  and  wrapped 
in  a  sordid  robe.  But,  alarmed  at  the  idea  of  the  tortures  he  would  have  to 
undergo  if  he  fell  alive  into  the  hands  of  the  cohorts  and  the  people,  and 
finding  no  executioner  more  infamous  than  himself,  he  plunged  a  sword  timidly 
into  his  breast,  while  a  freed-man,  Epaphroditus,  guided  his  trembling  hand. 
This  happy  event  happened  in  the  year  68.     Nero  had  reigned  thirteen  years ! 

This  prince  sat  down  to  table  at  mid-day,  and  did  not  quit  it  till  midnight 
(Sueton.  in  Neron.  27), — ^he  had  reservoirs  stocked  with  the  most  rare  and  ex- 
quisite fish, — and  he  gave  to  his  boon  companions  suppers  which  vied  in  delicacy 
with  their  astonishing  magnificence.  Let  this,  then,  plead  our  excuse  for  having 
classed  the  cruel  but  epicurean  Caesar  among  the  high  culinaiy  notabilities 
whose  names,  glory,  or  excesses  we  record  in  this  work. 


400  BIOGRAPHICAL  NOTES. 


HELIOGABALUS. 

Heliogabulus  (Marcus  Aurelius  Antoninus  Yerus),  son  of  Antoninus  Cara- 
calla  and  Semiamira,  immortalised  himself  by  his  follies,  and  merited  the  name  of 
the  Sardanapalus  of  Rome,  His  grandmother,  Mcesa,  had  a  fancy  to  have 
him  invested  with  the  functions  of  Priest  of  the  Sun,  and  the  following 
year  (313)  the  army  elected  him  to  succeed  Macrinus.  He  was  then  only 
fourteen  years  old.  It  would  be  impossible  to  give  a  complete  catalogue  of 
the  crimes  which  stained  this  precocious  monster.  His  luxury  knew  no 
bounds,  and  his  insatiable  gluttony  led  him  to  send  into  distant  provinces  for 
rare  birds,  unknown  in  Italy.  The  golden  lamps  of  his  palace  were  supplied 
with  a  precious  balm,  and  scented  waters  of  exquisite  delicacy  were  daily  re~ 
newed  in  the  vast  piscina  of  this  beardless  Caesar.  His  beds  were  adorned 
with  coverlets  of  a  cloth  of  gold,  and  in  his  kitchens  none  but  skilfully  chased 
silver  utensils  were  employed.  It  is  said  that  Heliogabalus  invented  after- 
dinner  lotteries  :  his  guests  took  the  tickets  at  random,  and  fate  gave  to  one 
some  vase  of  inestimable  value,  to  another  a  simple  toothpick ;  a  fortunate  ad- 
venturer would  receive  for  his  allotment  ten  elephants,  richly  caparisoned,  and 
his  less  lucky  neighbour  had  to  content  himself  with  ten  flies,  and  loud  bursts 
of  laughter  from  the  imperial  stripling. 

Thank  Heaven !  this  frightful  phenomenon  of  turpitude  and  folly  never 
attained  manhood.  The  soldiers  of  his  guard  massacred  him  after  a  reign  of 
something  less  than  four  years,  and  threw  to  the  populace  the  dead  body  of 
a  young  man  of  eighteen,  who,  in  the  course  of  his  brief  existence,  had  ex- 
hausted the  treasures  of  the  empire,  and  enlarged  the  sphere  of  every  crime. 

The  gastronomic  art  is,  however,  indebted  to  the  odious  Heliogabalus  for 
some  useful  discoveries,  and  for  that  reason  alone  is  he  here  mentioned. 


EPICURUS. 

Epicurus — bom  337  years  b.  c,  in  the  market- to^vn  of  Gargettus,  near 
Athens — taught  in  his  gardens  a  system  of  philosophy,  which,  though  indulgent 
towards  the  requirements  of  the  senses,  possessed  the  merit  of  a  sovereign 
disdain  for  every  kind  of  superstition.  Epicurus  had  a  great  number  of  disci- 
ples among  the  ancient  pagans,  and  the  sensual  philosophy  of  modem  times 
hails  him  as  a  patron.  At  this  very  day  the  dainty  livers  rally  under  the  joyous 
banner  of  the  moralist  of  Gargettus,  and  his  cherished  shade  inspires  the  guests 
and  presides  over  the  soothing  intoxication  of  banquets 


MODERN    BANQUETS.* 


We  have  endeavoured  to  describe  in  the  preceding  pages  some  of  those  antique 
entertainments,  which  seem  to  he  the  summum  bonum  of  the  gigantic  power  of 
those  shameless  dominators  of  the  Roman  empire,  whose  reigns  might  he  counted 
as  so  many  hanquets,  and  for  whom  the  entire  world  was  transformed  into  one 
vast  market. 

We  are  reduced  to  despair  when  we  attempt  to  depict  such  sensualism,  and 
we  also  despair  of  inspiring  belief.  When  one  goes  back  into  those  old  pagan 
times, — when  one  shuts  out  the  world  as  it  is,  to  evoke  the  manners  and  customs 
of  days  gone  by,  and  breathe  in  their  atmosphere, — the  mind  experiences  a  sort  of 
stupefaction,  so  much  is  it  immersed  in  the  senses,  so  thick  is  the  moral  dark- 
ness, so  low  has  man  fallen ! 

And^  as  if  it  had  been  decreed  that  eveiything  should  concur  to  consummate  the 
annihilation  of  the  human  species,  on  the  one  hand,  almost  the  whole  family  of 
man  was,  for  the  first  time  since  their  dispersion,  collected  into  one  body  under  the 
Roman  domination,  which  spread  its  corruption  throughout  the  several  members ; 
while,  on  the  other  hand,  the  hordes  of  barbarians  who  pressed  round — hke  fero- 
cious beasts  waiting  till  the  arena  opened — were  about  to  over-run  the  earth,  in 
the  absence  of  any  civilising  element  that  could  interpose  to  stay  the  destruction, 
by  snatching  the  conquered  from  the  hands  of  victory,  and  the  conquerors  them- 
selves from  their  own  ferocity. 

It  belongs  not  to  us  to  portray  this  fearful  cataclysm,  this  sudden  transition 
from  the  development  of  all  the  arts  which  perpetuate  the  enjoyments  of  life  to 
the  profound  ignorance,  the  savage  rudeness,  which  the  northern  conquerors  im- 
posed on  enslaved  Europe. 

The  fifth  was  the  last  century  of  Rome.  It  was  then  that  barbarism  be- 
came everywhere  victorious.  The  Vandals  were  masters  of  Africa,'the  Lombards 
of  Italy,  the  Visigoths  of  Spain,  the  Franks  of  Gaul.  Literature  followed  the 
destiny  of  the  empire,  and  seemed  to  perish  at  the  same  time.  It  is,  however, 
impossible  for  nations  not  to  receive,  as  an  inheritance  from  people  civilised  before 
themselves,  a  great  part  of  their  intellectual  cultivation.  Happily  modern  Europe 
was  swayed  by  this  law :  the  barbarians  reduced  Rome  by  the  force  of  arms, 
— Rome  triumphed  in  the  long  run  over  the  barbarians  by  the  genius  of  civi- 
lisation and  her  arts. 

•  The  following  descriptions  of  rarioas  banqaeto  and  bills  of  fare  are  here  introduced,  in  the 
anticipation  that  in  after  jears  they  may  prove  interestix^,  and  induce,  for  the  future,  culinary  artists  to 
enlarge  and  preserve  those  magiric  archives. 


402  MODERN  BANQUETS. 

It  is  known  that  even  after  the  introduction  of  vulgar  idioms,  the  learned  of 
the  middle  ages  continued  the  use  of  Latin,  and  that  in  the  16th  century  that 
beautiful  language,  purified  from  barbarian  corruptions,  became  once  more  classic, 
particularly  in  Italy. 

At  that  epoch,  an  obscure  inhabitant  of  Mentz,  John  Guttenberg,  immor- 
talised himself  by  the  discovery  of  printing,  just  as  the  love  of  antiquity  was 
causing  the  old  literary  masterpieces  to  be  sought  out,  and  creating  a  demand  for 
copies  of  the  manuscripts. 

Then,  as  if  they  had  risen  from  their  tombs  after  a  thousand  years  of  forget- 
fulness,  all  the  writers  of  antiquity  re-appeared,  to  charm,  instruct,  and  renovate 
the  world. 

It  was  the  era  of  regeneration,  when  you,  0,  beloved  masters!  Pliny,  Apicius, 
Petronius,  Athenseus,— and  you,  ingenuous  and  faithful  chroniclers  of  the  gastro- 
nomic foUies  of  the  people-king, — were  resuscitated  in  all  your  glory !  Others 
instructed  the  universe  in  philosophy,  eloquence,  and  history, — you  taught  man 
how  the  ancients  dined ;  and,  thanks  to  your  lessons,  our  fathers  began  to  com- 
prehend that,  since  the  table  is  the  great  scene  of  life  where  bonds  of  friend- 
ship are  formed  and  cemented,  banqueting  is  indispensable  to  the  prosperity  of 
nations. 

No  one  will  accuse  us,  we  hope,  of  endeavouring  to  establish  a  paradox  for 
which  we  could  hardly  find  an  excuse,  in  our  love  of  the  culinary  art,  as  long 
ex])erienoe,  and  public  facts  within  the  memory  of  all,  victoriously  confirm  our 
assertion. 

Let  us  interrogate  the  10  th  century.  Hardly  had  the  lamentable  wars  which 
divided  the  nations  of  Europe  ceased, — hardly  had  the  vibration  of  the  last  cannon- 
shot  died  away, — ^when  the  people  of  every  clime — too  long  disunited — sealed  by 
fraternal  banquets  their  tardy  but  frank  reconciliation.  The  destructive  genius 
of  war  is  succeeded  by  those  grand  struggles  of  commerce  and  industry,  which, 
aided  by  the  arts  and  sciences  of  civilisation,  dispense  to  all  the  blessing  of 
reproductive  wealth. 

And  then  dinner  is  the  situ  qud  non, — ^to  that  goal  all  our  efforts  tend.  The 
Englishman  dines  in  Paris,  the  Frenchman  dines  in  London  ;  the  time-honoured 
national  dishes  become  cosmopolite,  like  those  who  dwell  on  the  banks  of  the 
Thames  or  the  Seine  ;  on  both  sides  the  people  are  proud  to  communicate  the 
arcana  of  those  delicate  preparations,  which  have  only  to  cross  the  frontier  to 
obtain,  under  a  favourable  sky,  a  more  ample  illustration  and  a  new  right  of 
citizenship.  Appetite,  the  roasting-jack, — in  a  word,  gastronomy,  serves  perhaps 
to  unite  men  much  more  firmly  than  motives  of  interest ;  and  more  than  one 
thought  useful  to  the  human  species  has  often  originated  in  the  midst  of  the 
creative  excitement  of  a  banquet,  where,  to  say  the  least,  we  meet  with  that  hearty 
goodwill  and  friendly  aid  which  might  be  wanting  elsewhere. 

Shall  we  mention  that  prodigious  enterprise  with  which  a  noble  prince — the 
enlightened  protector  of  industry  and  the  arts,  and  so  worthy  of  our  love  and  re- 
spect— has  deigned  to  couple  a  name  dear  to  public  gratitude  ? 

The  royal  plan  was  nothing  less  than  this  :  to  erect  an  immense,  costly,  and 


MODERN  BANQUETS.  403 

gumptuons  palace,  in  which  each  nation  should  deposit  the  material  proofs  of  its 
intelligence.  Neither  Rome  nor  Greece  ever  conceived  such  a  thought !  Louis  XIV., 
with  all  his  magnificence,  and  the  magic  pomp  of  his  reign,  imagined  nothing 
equal  to  it ! 

This  great  and  complex  idea  struck  manj  persons  no  doubt  with  surprise ; 
but  England — we  must  do  her  the  justice  which  facts  prove  to  be  her  due — b  always 
ready  to  undertake  impossibilities,  and  generally  performs  them. 

However,  it  was  necessary  to  bring  together  a  certain  number  of  influential, 
scientific,  patriotic,  and  wealthy  men,  and  obtain  their  co-operation  to  realise  that 
modem  arch  of  crystal,  into  which  the  industry  of  the  world  would  be  summoped  to 
send  its  most  marvellous  productions.  Banquets  were  proposed,  and  banquets  took 
place,  in  honour  of  a  prince  who  was  about  to  connect  all  parts  of  the  globe  in  the 
bands  of  commercial  fraternity.  The  Lord  Mayor  of  the  city  of  London — that  cele- 
brated factory  of  the  world's  trade !— invited  all  the  mayors  of  the  three  kingdoms  to 
come  and  place  themselves  by  the  side  of  the  august  spouse  of  their  sovereign,  at  a 
feast  worthy  of  such  guests  by  its  delicate  profusion  and  splendid  magnificence. 
There  his  Royal  Highness  Prince  Albert  received  the  enthusiastic  assurance  of 
the  realisation  of  a  colossal  project,  a  philanthropic  thought, — the  union  of  nations, 
by  rousing  the  noble  pride  of  their  nationality  ! 

In  their  turn,  the  mayors  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  were  desirous  of  offering 
to  the  Lord  Mayor  of  the  city  of  London  a  banquet,  at  which  his  Royal  Highness 
would  be  present ;  and  this  feast,  a  grandiose  and  sympathetic  demonstration  on 
the  part  of  the  votaries  of  the  memorable  London  Exhibition,  took  place  the  25th 
October,  1850,  in  the  gothic  Guildhall  of  York,  where  remembrance  of  the  past  was 
blended  with  hopes  for  the  future. 

It  was  resolved  to  intrust  us  with  the  direction  of  the  gastronomic  department, 
and,  let  us  add,  the  artistic  arrangement  of  that  banquet,  which,  by  reason  of  its 
unprecedented  richness  and  truly  magic  aspect,  no  pen  can  describe,  owing  partly 
to  the  magnificence  of  the  maces,  swords,  banners,  <Sz;c.,  of  each  county  being  for 
the  first  time  displayed  under  the  same  roof.  The  engraving  which  we  present  to 
our  readers*  will  perhaps  convey  an  idea  of  a  portion  of  the  splendour  of  the 
entertainment. 

The  guests  at  the  royal  table  consisted  of  the  following  distinguished  personages : 

The  Lord  Mayor  of  York  being  in  the  chair,  there  were  seated  on  his  right  his 
Royal  Highness  Prince  Albert,  his  Grace  the  Archbishop  of  York,  Earl  Fitzwilliam, 
Lord  John  Russell,  Earl  Minto,  Lord  Overstone,  Lord  Beaumont,  and  the  Right 
Honourable  Sir  Chtfrles  Wood.  On  his  Lordship's  left  were  the  Lord  Mayor  of 
London,  the  Marquis  of  Clanricarde,  the  Earl  of  Carlisle,  the  Earl  of  Abercom, 
Lord  Feversham,  the  Earl  Granville,  the  High  Sheriff  of  Yorkshire,  the  Right 
Honourable  Sir  G.  Grey,  Bart.,  and  Sir  J.  V.  Johnstone,  Bart. 

As  this  table  formed  a  prominent  feature  in  the  entertainment,  the  following 
distinct  bill  of  fare  was  provided  : — 

*  For  the  general  iiliutration  of  the  banquet,  see  the  "  lUuiiraUd  London  Xews"  of  NoTember 
3nd,  1850. 


404  MODERN  BANQUETS. 

BILL  OF  FABE  FOB  THE  BOTAL  TABLE. 


TS 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Troit  Potages.  Troit  Poistons, 

Fota^  k  la  Victoria.  Tarbot  k  la  MazariDe.  |* 

S.  Id.  &  la  Prince  of  Wales.  Bouffets  h  ritaliemie  Blanche^  tT 

§  Id.  Tortue  Transparente.  John  Dory  k  la  Marinidre.  3 

-^  Troit  Relevh.  r 

S  L' Extravagance  Culinaire  k  1' Alderman.*  g 

2  Chapons  k  la  Nebon.  *§ 

.«  Quariier  d'Agneaa  de  Maiaon  k  la  S4vign6.  S 

Quatre  Flancs, 

.  Timballe  de  Biz  k  la  Boyale.  ^ 

§S  Jambon  &  la  York.  S 

2. 
Vol  an  vent  k  la  Talleyrand.  S 

Cannetons  Canaris,  Mac^doine  de  L^games. 

5ijr  EntrSei. 

Sante  de  Faiflans  an  iiimet  de  Gibier.  Cdtelettes  de  Moaton  k  la  B^forme. 

Blancs  de  Volaille  k  la  York  Minster.  Biz  de  Veaa  A  la  Palestine. 

Turbans  de  Quenelles  de  Lapereanx  aox  Truffes.  Filets  de  Canneton  k  la  Seville. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Troii  Rdtii. 

Paon  k  I'ancienne  Borne  garni  d'Ortolans. 
B^casses  anz  Feuilles  de  C6leri.  6aillen6t8  des  Ardeoanes. 

Dix  EiUremeti, 

Crdme  de  la  Gkande  Bretagne  k  la  Victoria.  GrSme  de  la  Grande  Bretagne  k  TAlbert 

Galantine  d' Olsons  k  la  Voli^e.  Salade  de  Grouse  k  la  Soyer. 

Gel4e  de  Fraises  Fran9aises  k  la  Fontunebleao.  Chartreose  de  Fruits  aux  Pfiches. 

Hiroton  de  Homard.  G&teaox  crdmants  i  la  Duke  of  York. 

Tartelettes  prdlin^es  aux  cerises  de  M'^nt-  BocuUesauz  HnftresgraUnto&rOstend. 
morency. 

Troii  Relevh. 

i  Hure  de  Sanglier  k  I'Allemande  en  Surprise.  ^ 

g*  $  Jambon  Croquant  aux  Abrioots.  ^  3    § 


^  ^  Panier  de  Fruit  glac£  k  la  Lady  Mayoress.  ^  i   ^ 

-^  '^  Dessert  Florial  a  la  Watteau.  2.  >  » 


00 


s 


Raisins  de  Fontainebleau.  Baisins  Muscats.  b'  ^ 


i.li  ^ 


.   tg  g 

g^  ^         Fraises  des  bois  Fran9ai8es.  Melons.  *     *  *9 

2  P^hes  de  Montreuil.  Bananas.  p 

Ananas.  Compote  de  Chaumontelle. 

*  See  page  406. 


MODERN  BANQUETS.  405 

GENERAL  BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  248  GUESTS. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Trente-deux  Potages. 

Qnatre  Potages  i  la  Victoria.  Halt  Potages  H  la  Tortae  Transparente. 

Quatre  Id.  i  la  Prince  of  Wales.  Seize  Id.  k  la  Modeme. 

TrenU'deux  Pmssoru, 
Halt  Tarbots  k  la  Mazarin.  Huit  Filets  de  Merlans  It  la  Grftme. 

Hut  Traites  Sanmon^es  k  la  Marini^re.  Halt  Crimp  Cod  auz  Huttres. 

Trenis-^kux  Belevh. 

Six  Chapons  k  la  Nelson.  Six  Qaartiers  d' Agnean  de  Maison  k  la 

Six  Saddleback  de  Moaton  Oallois.  S^vigng. 

Qnatre  Alojaox  de  Boeof  an  Baifort  Qnatre  Dindonneanx  en  Diaddme. 

Six  Haunches  de  Venaison. 

Trente-deux  Fiance, 

Huit  Jambons  k  la  Tork.  Hnit  Timhalles  de  Riz  k  la  Boyale. 

Hnit  Poolardes  k  la  Basse.  Hnit  Pfttte  cbands  k  la  Westphalienne. 

Quarante-huU  Entriet. 

Hnit  Santas  de  Fiusans  an  fnmet  de  Gibier  anx  Tmfies. 
Hnit  de  Cdtelettes  de  Monton  k  la  Vicomtesse. 
Hnit  de  Blancs  de  Yolaille  d  la  Tork  Minster. 
Hnit  de  Riz  de  Yean  k  la  Palestine. 
Hnit  de  Rissolettes  de  Yolaille  &  la  Pompadonr. 
Hnit  de  Salmi  de  Gibier  k  la  Chassenr. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Quarante  BStie. 

Hnit  de  Perdreanx  anx  fenilles  de  C^leri.  Six  de  Grouses  k  TEcossaiBe. 

Hnit  de  Faisans  bard^s  an  Cresson.  Six  de  Leyreanx  an  jus  de  GroeeillesL 

Six  de  Gannetons  an  jus  d'Oranges.  Six  de  B^casses  et  B^cassines  an  jns. 

Cent  Entremets. 

Dix  Chartreuses  de  Pdches.  Dix  Crerettes  an  Yin  de  Champagne. 

Dix  Gelto  de  fraises  FranQaises  k  la  DixG&teaiixcr^mants&laDnkeofYork. 

Fontaineblean.  Dix  Petites  Mac6doines  de  fruit  cristallis^ 

Dix  Salades  de  Grouses  k  la  Soyer.  Dix  Mirotons  de  Homard  anx  Olives. 

Dix  Galantines  Aspiqn6es  k  la  Yolidre.  Dix  Tartelettes  prAlin^es  anx  Cerises  de 
Dix  Crimes  transparentes  an  Kirchenwaser.  Montmorency. 

Fmgt  Rdevh. 

Dix  paniers  de  Fruits  Glac^  k  la  Lady  Mayoress. 
Dix  Jambons  en  Surprise  k  1' Ananas. 

Side  Tabl^^Vegetablee. 

Cileri  &  la  Crime,  C^Ieri  i  la  Crime. 

Chonx  Flenrs  an  benrre.  Chonx  Flenrs  an  benrre. 

Haricots  Yerts.  Sea  Kale. 

Chonx  de  Bmxelles.  Choux  de  Bmxelles. 

Qrand Dessert  Floriali  la  Watieau. 


1 


40G  MODERN  BANQUETS. 

U Extravagance  (MtHaire  d  V Alderman,  or  the  One  Hundred  Guinea  Dish. — 
The  opportunity  of  producing  some  gaatronomic  phenomenon  for  the  royal  table  on 
such  an  occasion  as  the  York  Banquet  was  irresistible ;  accordingly,  the  following 
choice  morsels  were  carefully  selected  from  all  the  birds  mentioned  in  the  general 
bill  of  fare,  to  form  a  dish  of  delicacies  worthy  of  his  Royal  Highness  and  the 
noble  guests  around  him. 

The  extravagance  of  this  dish,  valued  at  one  hundred  guineas,  is  accounted  for, 
by  supposmg,  that  if  an  epicure  were  to  order  a  similar  one  for  a  small  party,  he 
would  be  obliged  to  provide  the  undermentioned  articles,  viz. : 

At  the  cost  of 
£    s,   d, 

5  Turtle  headsi  part  of  fins,  and  green  fat 34    0    0 

24  Capons,  the  two  small  noix  (nuts)  from  each  side  of  the 

middle  of  the  back  only  used,  being  the  most  delicate 

part  of  every  bird         880 

18  Turkeys,  the  same 8  12    0 

18  Fatted  pullets,  the  same       5  17    0 

16  Fowls,  the  same 280 

10  Grouse 250 

20  Pheasants,  noix  only        300 

45  Partridges,  the  same        370 

6  Plovers,  whole 090 

100  Snipes,  noix  only 500 

3  Dozen  Quails,  whole        300 

40  Woodcocks,  noix  only 800 

3  Dozen  Pigeons,  the  same 0  14    0 

6  Dozen  Larks,  stuffed 0  15    0 

Ortolans  from  Belgium 500 

The  garniture,  consisting  of  cockscombs,  truffles,  mush- 
rooms, crawfish,  olives,  American  asparagus,  crout' 
tades  (paste  crust),  sweetbreads,  quenelk*  de  voUulle 
(strips  or  slices  of  fowl),  green  mangoes,  and  a  new 
sauce 14  10    0 


£105    5    0 


In  order  to  present  to  the  reader  the  striking  contrast  of  extravagance  in 
ancient  and  modem  cookery,  we  here  give  an  engraving  of  the  celebrated  Roman 
dish  (Wild  Boar  i  la  Troyenne)  described  in  page  185.  It  appears  to  have  been 
one  of  those  extraordinary  efforts  of  genius  which  the  artist  could  only  produce  under 
the  sanction  of  a  lavish  'patron.  It  was  a  veritable  towr-de-force,  and,  no  doubt 
deserved  the  commendation  it  received,  not  only  because  it  was  of  colossal  size,  and 
the  good  taste  displayed,  but  also  on  account  of  the  various  culinary  delicacies  of  which 
it  was  composed.  We  have  no  account  of  the  cost  of  such  a  dish,  but,  judging 
from  the  excessive  prices  given  in  ancient  times  for  all  recherchi  articles  at  the 
tables  of  the  great,  it  must  have  been  enormous. 

We  will  now  resume  our  description  of  the  York  Banquet.    In  front  of  the 


I 


>  • : 


»  . 


u. 


•  I 


I  ■ 


«  • 


• 


•    I 


I      r  ** 


!    V. 


11.!      .         ■••.I.       ' 
,  ■  I      1 1.    •  -      I 

t.    .  •  ' 

■       »     1  t  • 


«.    I 


.(     < 


t ; '  •         ( 


'  t «'. 


I    I 


■     \' 


n 


1  -   «  '   r 


^i>i 


I  : 


A 


.   I 

.   I  • 


'.     f    .' 


/ 


J     i  • 


(  .   1. 


•  J    »     '  -     »:j   1^1 


,    r 


'i> '  !•*     ■;     ?■•    '  .  ..,■•.■  \' 


MODERN  BANQUETS.  407 

principal  table,  on  a  raised  platform,  covered  with  purple  cloth,  was  a  collection  of 
maces,  swords,  &c.,  estimated  by- competent  judges  to  be  worth  iS  12,000. 

The  most  conspicuous  ornament  was  placed  immediately  behind  the  great  cir- 
cular table ;  it  was  designed  by  the  author,  and  is  represented  in  the  accompanying 
engraving.  It  consisted  of  a  large  emblematic  vase,  twenty  feet  in  height,  painted 
and  modelled  by  Mr.  Alfred  Adams.  Around  the  base  are  Europe,  Asia,  Africa, 
and  America,  presenting  specimens  of  industry  to  Britannia.  From  the  centre  of  the 
base  springs  a  palm  tree,  surrounded  by  the  arms  of  the  cities  of  London  and  York ; 
medallion  portraits  of  her  Majesty  and  Prince  Albert,  encircled  by  the  shields  of  the 
principal  cities  and  towns  of  the  United  Kingdom,  form  the  body  of  the- vase ;  two 
figures  of  Ireland  and  Scotland  the  handles  ;  the  Prince  of  Wales's  emblem  the 
neck,  and  the  royal  arms  the  apex.  Appended  were  graceful  wreaths  of  flowers, 
in  which  the  symbols  of  the  Houses  of  York  and  Lancaster  (red  and  white  roses) 
predominated  ;  and  when  a  brilliant  flood  of  gaslight,  aided  by  powerful  reflectors, 
was  thrown  upon  this  splendid  decoration,  the  eflect  was  truly  magmficent 

Having  illustrated  this  volume  with  a  murrhine  vase,  belonging  to  the  House  of 
Brunswick,  and  a  curiously  worked  crystal  cup,  as  gems  of  ancient  production,  we 
give  here,  as  modem  works  of  art,  an  engraving  representing  three  superb  drinking 
cups, — one  for  his  Royal  Highness  Prince  Albert,  and  one  each  for  the  Lord 
Mayors  of  London  and  York  :  the  first  is  in  ruby  glass,  a  portion  of  the  stem  and 
base  internally  checquered  with  silver,  and  on  the  sides  bearing  wliite  sunken 
medallions  of  her  Majesty  and  the  Prince  Consort,  and  the  royal  arms  of  England. 
The  other  two  cups  were  of  the  same  size  and  shape,  but,  instead  of  being  ruby 
and  silver,  the  colours  were  emerald  and  silver  ;  and  on  the  sides  were  the  private 
arms  of  each  of  the  Lord  Mayors,  together  with  the  usual  heraldic  emblazonments 
of  the  cities  of  London  and  York  respectively.  They  were  presented  by  the  author 
of  this  work  in  the  name  of  the  Patent  Silvered-Glass  Company. 

This  banquet  was  of  so  interesting  a  nature,  that  we  could  not  omit  giving  some 
particulars  of  it  in  this  work  ;  at  all  events,  the  pomp  and  splendour  of  modem 
times,  as  far  as  banqueting  is  concerned,  must  prove  that — ^from  the  Greeks  and 
Romans,  down  to  the  middle  ages — ^we  have  not  been  exceeded,  except,  perhaps,  in 
waste  and  extravagance. 

The  national  entertainments  given  within  the  last  fifty  years,  to  commemorate 
striking  events,  are  too  fresh  in  our  memory  to  pass  them  in  silence. 

Many  persons  can  still  remember  the  coronation  of  the  Emperor  Napoleon 
in  1805.  On  that  occasion  a  grand  banquet  was  given  to  all  the  cugnitaries  of  the 
Empire  and  their  ladies,  nothing  being  omitted  that  was  calculated  to  solenmise 
with  siunptuosity  such  an  event. 

In  1810  the  city  of  Paris  offered  to  Napoleon  and  Maria-Louisa  (Archduchess 
of  Austria)  a  banquet  as  extraordinary  as  it  was  costly.  A  semicircular  gallery 
of  the  Cormthian  order  was  erected  on  the  whole  square  of  the  Hdtel-de-Ville, 
where  above  a  thousand  guests  joined  the  festival. 

In  1815  a  magnificent  entertainment  was  given  to  the  allied  sovereigns  by  the 
city  of  London,  where  richness  of  decoration,  massive  gold  and  silver  plate,  and 
profusion  of  culinary  rarities  struck  the  beholder  with  wonder. 


408  MODERN  BANQUETS. 

At  the  Coronation  Banquet  of  George  lY.,  in  1820,  the  old  customs  and  privi« 
leges  were  ransacked  to  give  ielat  to  that  solemnity,  one  of  the  grandest,  and  perhaps, 
the  most  sumptuous  that  ever  could  he  imagined  in  ancient  or  modern  times. 

In  France,  in  the  year  1824,  the  coronation  of  Charles  X.  was  celehrated  at 
Rheims  with  royal  magnificence  ;  the  hanquet  excited  the  admiration  of  all  present. 
At  that  solemnity  the  Duke  of  Northumberland  was  appointed  Ambassador  Extra- 
ordinary from  England,  and  few,  if  any,  ever  equalled  the  liberality  of  his  Grace, 
or  the  display  he  made  of  his  wealth,  to  represent  and  honour  his  sovereign  and 
country  at  the  court  of  Charles  X.  The  f§tes  and  banquets  given  by  his  Graf>e 
— ^and  at  which  the  author  was  present — were  ot  the  most  costly  if  not  extravagant 
description,  for  we  are  told  that  the  expenses  of  that  munificent  nobleman  were  not 
less  than  ^200,000. 

The  grand  banquets  and  receptions  of  King  Louis  Philippe  during  eighteen  years 
exhibited  too  much  liberality  and  splendour  to  be  forcrotten  ;  and  at  the  marriage 
of  his  eldest  son,  the  unfortunate  Duke  of  Orleans,  Versailles  presented  a  scene  of 
banqueting  and  rejoicing  unparalleled  since  the  time  of  Louis  XIV. 

On  her  Majesty's  visit  to  the  city  of  London  a  banquet  was  given  in  the  Guild- 
hall, the  grandeur  of  which  was  scarcely  ever  exceeded,  showing  the  loyalty,  de- 
TOtedness,  and  noble  hospitality  of  the  wealthiest  commercial  citizens  in  the  world. 

In  1838,  at  the  coronation  of  Queen  Victoria,  Buckingham  Palace  witnessed 
a  most  elegant,  chaste,  and  splendid  banquet.  The  Ambassadors  Extraordinary, 
sent  from  all  the  foreign  courts,  were  not  more  conspicuous  for  the  brilliancy  of 
their  costumes  than  the  native  nobility  who  graced  the  festive-board  of  the  youthful 
Queen  of  Great  Britain. 

On  this  occasion  a  very  elaborate  and  graceful  fountain  of  massive  gold  of  about 
three  feet  in  height  and  two  feet  in  diameter,  was  prominent  on  the  royal  table.  It 
spouted  four  difierent  sorts  of  delicious  wine  into  as  many  shells,  from  which  it 
dripped  into  four  reservoirs,  and  was  served  to  the  guests  by  means  of  a  golden 
ladle.    This  fountain  can  be  seen,  with  the  regalia,  in  the  Tower  of  London. 

On  that  joyful  day  the  mem^>ers  of  the  Reform  Club  intrusted  to  our  care, 
at  Gwyrdir  House,  a  sumptuous  entertainment  for  fifteen  hundred  persons,  on  a 
scale  of  liberality  deserving  of  the  highest  praise. 

The  marriage  of  Her  Majesty  with  H.  R.  H.  Prince  Albert  formed  one  of 
those  memorable  epochs  to  be  preserved  in  the  annals  of  banqueting. 

The  opening  of  the  Royal  Exchange,  in  1846,  was  also  one  of  those  extraordi- 
nary days  on  reSbrd,  where  the  Queen  of  a  great  nation  gave  proof  of  her  sympathy 
in  the  prosperity  of  her  merchant- princes,  by  presiding  over  a  splendid  entertain- 
ment to  commemorate  the  re-establishment  of  that  commercial  edifice. 

On  the  3rd  of  July  in  the  same  year,  his  Highness  Ibrahim  Pacha,  son  of 
Mehemet  Ali,  Viceroy  of  Egypt,  was  entertained  by  the  members  of  the  Reform 
Club  to  a  magnificent  and  most  sumptuous  banquet  provided  for  two  hundred 
guests.  The  author,  having  full  scope  to  do  honour  to  the  invitation,  provided 
the  following  liberal  selection  of  gastronomic  dishes,  many  of  which  were  inno- 
vated for  the  occasion : — 


MODERN  BANQUETS.  40!) 

BILL  OF  FABE. 

Seize  Potages. 

Qofltre  k  la  Yiotoria.  Quatre  k  la  Louis  Philippe. 

Qoatre  k  la  Gomte  de  PariB.  Qoatie  k  la  Colbert,  aux  Legumes  Printaniers. 

Seize  Potagee, 

Quatre  de  Turbots,  Sauce  k  la  Mazarin.  Quatre  de  SanraooB  de  Seyern  k  la  CrSme. 

Quatre  de  Buissons  de  Filets  de  Merlans  k      Quatre  de  Truiteis  Saumonees  en  Matelotte 
I'Egyptienne.  Marinidre. 

S^»e  Belevis, 

Quatre  de  Chapens  k  la  Nelson.  Quatre  de  Poulardes  en  Diademe. 

Quatre  de  Saddleback  of  Southdown  Mouton,      Quatre  de  Saddleback  d'Agneau,  roti  k  la 
rdti  k  la  Sojer.  S£vign6 

Baron  of  Beef  k  1' AngLuse.  Entr^  Pagodatiqne  de  riz  2k  la  Luxor. 

Cinquante-quaire  EntrSet, 

Six  de  Poussins  Printaniers  k  1' Ambassadrioe.  Quatre  de  Volaillee  Farcies  d  la  Busse  aux 

Six  de  Cdtelettes  de  Mouton  k  la  Reform.  Legumes  Verts. 

Quatre  de  Biz  de  Yeau  piques  en  Macedoine  Quatre  de  Pfit^s  Ghands  de  CailleB  k  la  Ban- 

de  Legumes.  quidre. 

Quatre  de  Petits  Yol-an-vents  aux  Ltutances  Quatre  de  Bissolettes  k  la  Pompadour. 

de  Maqnereanx.  Quatre  de  Grenadins  de  Bceuf  k  la  Be}  rout 

Quatre  de  Timballes   de  Biz  aux   Queues  Six  de  Cdtelettes  d'Agneau^  la  Yioomte(t8e,et 

d'Agnean.  Quatre  de  Turbans  Epigranune  de  Levreau 

Quatre  de  Jambonneanx  Braises  au  Yin  de  au  Fnmet 

Maddre. 

Seize  R6te. 

Quatre  de  Turkey  Poult,  Piques  et  Bard^s.         Quatre  de  Leyreaux  au  Jus  de  Oroseilles,  ei 
Quatre  de  Cannetons  au  Jus  de  Bigarades.         Quatre  de  Gros  Chapons  au  Cresson. 

dnquante-qwUre  Entremets, 

Six  de  Qelkea  Macedoine  de  Fruits  au  Dantzic.  Quatre  de  Salades  de  Yohtille  k  la  Soyer. 

Quatre  Turbans  de  Meringues  Demi-Glac^es.  Quatre  de  Haricots  Yerts  au  Beurre  Noisette. 

Quatre  de  Charlotte  Prussienne.  Six  de  Tartelettes  Prtlm^es  aux  Abricots. 

Six  de  Croqnantes  d'Amandes  aux  Cerises.  Quatre  de  Pain  de  Peches  au  Noyeau. 

Quatre  de  Galantines  k  la  Yoli^re.  Quatre  de  Petits  Pois  k  T  Anglo->Fran9aise,  et 

Quatre  de  Mirotons  de  Homard  iirindienne.  Quatre  de  Gel^s  Cristallis^es  k  T  Ananas. 

Releves  de  RSis. 

Cr£(ne  d'Egypte  k  1' Ibrahim  Pacha.  Quatre  de  Manivaux  de  Champignons  an 
Gftteau  Britannique  k  I'Amiral.  Curasao  en  Surprise. 

Qufitre  de  Jambons  Glaces  en  Surprise.  Deux  de  Meringues  Chinoises-Pagoda  aux 
Quatre  de  Cdtelettes  en  Surprise  a  la  Reform.  Fraises. 

A  A 


410  MODERN  BANQUETS. 

We  hardly  need  mention  the  annual  entertainment  which  takes  place  on  the  0th 
of  November,  when  the  city  of  London  makes  a  king  of  a  citizen. 

In  the  course  of  the  year  1844,  King  Louis  Philippe  paid  a  visit  to  her  Majesty 
Queen  Victoria  at  Windsor  Castle,  and  during  the  time  a  series  of  banquets  were 
given  in  honour  of  the  King's  visit  by  her  Majesty.  The  gold  plate— worth,  it  is 
said,  a  million  sterling — was  used  on  that  occasion.  We  shall  not  attnnpt  to 
describe  the  extraordinary  beauty  of  that  service :  the  value  in  itself  must  leave  the 
impression  that  nothing  like  it  is  in  existence. 

In  the  year  1848  the  return  of  Lord  Hardinge,  Govemor-Gtoeral  of  India,  from 
his  glorious  campaigns  in  the  East,  was  solemnised  by  a  sumptuous  banquet  ofoed 
to  his  lordship  by  the  members  of  the  Carlton  Club. 

In  the  year  1850  the  annual  meeting  of  the  Royal  Agricultural  Society  was 
held  in  the  fine  old  city  of  Exeter,  where  the  Society  was  welcomed  with  the  most 
enthusiastic  rgoicings,  and  we  had  the  honour  of  hemg  selected  by  the  committee 
to  provide  a  dinner  for  one  thousand  and  fifty  members.  As  this  rustic  banquet  was 
admitted  to  be  one  of  no  ordinary  kind  we  give  here  the  general  bill  of  fare,  and 
a  short  nairative  of  the  first  attempt  to  roast  a  whole  ox  by  gas. 

GRAND  AGRICULTURAL  PAVILION  DINNER. 


33  Dishes  of  Ribs  of  Beet 
35  Dishes  of  Roast  Lamb. 


^ ^ 

M  99  Dishes  of  Galantine  of  Veal.  » 

g  29  Dishes  of  Ham.  ^ 

%  66  Dishes  of  Pi«ssed  Beef.  o^^ 

^  2  Rounds  of  Beef  II  la  Garrick.  g' 

^  264  Dishes  of  Chicken.  B 


PQ 


H 


I  33  French  raised  Pies  2k  la  Soyer. 

198  Sprtog  Mayonnaiae  SJad.  g 

g  264  Cherry,  Gooseberry,  Raspberry,  and  Currant  Tarts.-  ^ 

\A  33  Exeter  Puddings. 

"  198  Dishes  of  Hot  Potatoes. 

Homer  tells  us  that  a  royal  culinary  artist  placed  before  Ajax  and  his  voracious 
companions  in  arms  a  whole  bullock  roasted.  Since  those  heroic  ages  many  no  doubt 
hare  shared  the  same  fate ;  and  we  know  that  in  this  country,  on  the  occasion  of  a 
rich  heir  coming  of  age,  a  roasted  ox  is  often  given  to  the  tenants  as  a  substantial 
fare,  with  a  well-nursed  butt  of  ale,  twenty-one  years  old.  Many  can  remember  that 
in  the  winter  of  1812  a  bullock  was  roasted  on  the  frozen  Thames,  which  certainly 
was  something  to  wonder  at.  Another  monster  effort  was  attempted  at  Hammersmith 
some  years  ago,  but  the  animal,  clumsily  suspended  from  the  summit  of  an  apparatus 
formed  of  three  beams,  was  burnt,  emitted  a  rank  smell,  and  did  not  roast.  All 
those  who  have  had  to  attend  such  an  operation  agree  that  it  is  rather  an  awkward 
affair,  and  not  performed  without  great  difficulties,  on  account  of  the  immense  foe, 
which  requires  constant  attention  to  keep  up  and  regulate  the  necessary  heat, — and, 
after  all,  it  is  seldom  entirely  successfid. 


MODERN  BANQUETS.  411 

For  the  present  feetiral,  the  author,  who  knew  well  the  power  and  efficacy  of 
gas,  wished  to  honour  the  guests  with  a  dish  of  hit  own,  never  yet  attempted,  and 
which  he  has  entitled  the  **  Baron  and  SaddUhaek  of  Beef  H  la  Magna  Charla/* 
He  therefore  proposed  to  roast  a  haron  and  saddleback  of  beef,  weighing  five  hun- 
dred and  thirty-five  pounds,  in  the  open  air.  The  magistrates  very  willingly  put  the 
castle  yard  at  his  disposal,  and  it  was  anticipated  that  a  large  Pandemonium  fire 
would  have  been  seen  ;  but,  to  the  surprise  of  every  one,  a  few  bricks,  without 
mortar,  and  a  few  sheets  of  iron,  forming  a  temporary  covering  to  a  space  six  feet 
mz  inches  in  length,  and  three  feet  three  inches  in  width,  were  the  only  appearance 
of  an  apparatus,  with  two  hundred  and  sixteen  very  small  jets  of  gas  coming  through 
pipes  half-an-inch  in  diameter.  It  was  hardly  credited  that  such  a  monster  joint 
oould  be  properly  done  by  such  means ;  however,  incredulity  soon  vanished  on 
seeing  it  friziling  and  steaming  away ;  and  after  eight  hours'  roasting  it  was 
thoroughly  dressed,  at  a  cost  of  less  than  five  shillings  for  gas. 

After  having  allowed  it  to  cool  it  was  removed,  and  carried  by  eight  men 
through  the  principal  streets  of  the  ancient  and  loyal  city  of  Exeter,  accompanied 
by  a  band  of  music,  playing  "  The  Roast  Beef  of  Old  England,'*  and  followed  by 
thousands  of  the  incredulous  of  the  previous  day.  On  its  arrival  at  the  pavilion 
it  was  deposited  under  the  grand  triumphal  arch,  designed  and  erected  by  the 
author ;  it  was  17  feet  high,  and  1 0  feet  wide,  and  composed  of  all  the  produce  of 
agriculture  and  the  farm. 

The  following  list  will  give  some  idea  of  its  magnitude :  it  consisted  of— 

One  swan,  two  turkeys,  four  geese,  four  ducks,  ^ght  fowls,  eight  pigeons,  four 
rabbits,  one  fine  barn-door  cock,  six  ox  heads,  four  calves'  heads,  two  rams'  heads, 
two  stags'  heads,  two  whole  lambs — ^all  natural,  and  in  their  plumage  or  skin — 
ornamented  with  vegetables,  fruit,  and  flowers,  viz.,  cabbages,  turnips,  potatoes, 
carrots,  leeks,  celery,  rhubarb,  onions,  French  beans,  peas,  asparagus,  sea-kale 
stalks ;  sheaves  of  wheat,  oats,  barley ;  pine  apples,  citrons,  cherries,  grapes, 
melons,  peaches,  apricots,  greengages,  apples,  gooseberries,  strawberries,  cur- 
rants, and  the  choicest  kinds  of  flowers— all  being  the  production  of  the  county — 
and  surmounted  by  various  implements  of  agriculture.  There  was  also  an  elegant 
jug,  ornamented  with  flowers,  filled  with  clotted  cream.  On  the  top  of  the  huge 
piece  of  beef,  was  placed  a  black  pig's  head,  weighing  eighty  pounds  when  killed. 

It  was  in  the  recollection  of  many  persons,  that  thirty-five  years  ago  a  baron  of 
beef,  wdghing  only  two  hundred  and  forty-two  pounds  was  roasted  in  Exeter,  under 
the  superintendence  of  twelve  blacksmiths,  at  their  forge  fire,  for  a  banquet  given  at 
the  time  peace  was  proclaimed. 

The  Parisians  have  not  forgotten  the  great  fdte  of  the  distribution  of  eagles 
by  his  Majesty  the  Emperor  of  the  French,  on  that  day  when  he  relinquished  the 
functions  of  President  of  the  Republic  for  a  more  august  title.  That  military 
solemnity  was  followed  by  a  splendid  banquet,  at  which  there  were  several  thousands 
of  guests.  It  would  be  superfluous  to  add,  that  the  arrangements  for  that  gigantic 
repast  evinced  the  intelligent  taste  and  incredible  resources  of  imagination  of  our 
continental  neighbours. 

An  entire  volume  would  not  suffice,  if  we  attempted  to  recount  all  the  pompous 

A  A  2 


412  MODERN  BANQUETS. 

feasts  which  followed  in  succession  during  the  last  oentoiyy  *'  the  age  of  powder 
and  suppers."  But  we  cannot  pass  in  silence  the  memorahle  punch  giyen  in  1746 
hy  Sir  Edward  Russell,  Commander-  in-Chief  of  the  British  forces,  which  can  only  he 
assimilated  in  point  of  extravagance  to  the  great  hanquet  of  the  Earl  of  Warwick^ 
the  description  of  which  was  extracted  from  the  **  Gastronomic  Regenerator,"  and 
reproduced  in  this  work,  page  362. 

The  bowl  was  the  marble  basin  of  a  delightful  garden,  fonning  the  central  point 
of  four  Tast  avenues,  bordered  with  orange  and  lemon  trees.  A  magnificent  collation 
was  served  on  four  immense  tables,  which  occupied  the  whole  length  of  the  several 
avenues.  The  basin  had  been  filled  with  four  large  barrels  of  brandy,  eight  barrels 
of  filtered  water,  twenty>five  thousand  citrons,  eighty  pints  of  lemon  juice,  thirteen 
hundred  weight  of  sugar,  ^ve  pounds  of  nutmeg,  three  hundred  biscuits,  and  a 
pipe  of  Malaga  wine.  An  awning  over  the  basin  protected  it  from  ram,  which 
might  have  disturbed  the  chemical  combination  of  the  delicious  beverage ;  and,  in 
a  charming  little  rose- wood  boat,  a  cabin  boy,  belonging  to  the  fleet,  rowed  about  on 
the  surface  of  the  punch,  ready  to  serve  the  joyous  company,  which  numbered  more 
than  six  thousand  persons.* 

We  cannot  terminate  this  rapid  sketch,  without  mentioning  that,  affcer  several 
years  of  research  in  compiling  this  work,  we  completed  our  task  on  the  day 
following  that  on  which  her  Most  Gracious  Majesty  the  Queen  of  England  offored 
the  largest  royal  banquet  since  her  accession  to  the  throne,  to  an  assembly  of  kings^ 
queens,  and  princes,  and  the  flower  of  the  British  atistocracy,  consisting  of  a  hundred 
and  twenty  guests,  on  the  occasion  of  the  baptism  of  his  Royal  Highness  Prince 
Leopold  George  Duncan  Albert.  This  regal  entertainment  took  place  on  the  2dth  of 
June,  and  never,  perhaps,  did  the  august  sovereign  display  so  much  magnificence 
and  majesty.  We  shall  not  publish  the  details  of  this  imposing  banquet;  and, 
moreover,  we  should  infonn  our  readers  of  nothing  new,  were  we  to  tell  them  of  the 
artistical  selection,  execution,  and  perfection  of  the  billof  fare,--of  the  richness  of  the 
ornaments  and  service, — of  the  royal  and  feminine  gracefulness  of  the  mother,  wife, 
and  queen.  ''  May  Heaven  grant,' '  say  we,  in  the  words  of  the  immortal  Bossuet, 
''  that  the  children  of  this  illustrious  princess,  like  a  crown  of  olive  saplings,  may 
cling  round  her,  and  grow  in  virtue,  strength,  and  renown ;  may  the  Ruler  of 
empires  throw  a  halo  round  the  destiny  of  the  august  mother,  and  show  to  all  that 
His  mighty  hand  upholds  thrones  and  protects  kings ! " 

« 

*  While  thus  hastily  enomeraUng  some  modem  banqaetn,  we  caimoi  refrain  mentioning  that  illoate 
feast  of  the  most  eiTeminate  of  Assyrian  kings,  the  plan  of  which  teems  to  have  been  imparted  by  the 
magiric  genius  himself  to  our  celebrated  tragedian  Charies  Kean.  Erery  night,  Sardanapalus,  the 
•ensual  king  of  the  too  joyous  Nineyites,  rising  from  his  tomb,  with  hia  twenty-six  centuries  of  renown, 
seats  himsdf  at  table,  in  order  to  unveil  to  us  long  buried  splendours,  and  confirm  our  belief  in  those 
sumptuous  orgies  of  which  history  preserves  to  us  but  uncertain  details. 

The  admirable  works  of  Botta,  Flandin,  Layard.and  Bonomi,haye  allowed  the  ingenious  major  domo 
who  presides  at  these  Assyrian  feasts  of  the  19th  century,  to  mvest  them  with  that  ooukur  loeaU  which 
would  formerly  have  been  sought  in  vain ;  and,  should  the  shade  of  the  voluptuous  prince  wander  amidst 
the  guests  seated  at  his  table,  it  may  still  recognise  the  cup  from  which  he  imbibed  intoxication  and 
forgetfulness  of  his  tragic  destiny.  Altogether,  this  scenic  n-presentation  appears  to  us  the  realisation 
of  an  extraordinary  dream,  and  we  have  been  tempted  to  place  this  fictitious  repast  of  Sardanapalus 
amongst  the  modem  banquets  here  called  lu  remembrance. 


TABLE   OF   REFERENCES 


TO 


9indmt  anH  iHotiem  Wxittt^* 


I. 


AGRICULTURE. 

1.  PlatarcL  De  laid,  et  OBirid.;   Ovid. 

FabuL  lib.  v.  6,  7 ;  AureL  Vict  De 
Orig.  Gknt  Koman. 

2.  Gknes.  cap.  ii.  15. 

3.  Ibid.  cap.  iii.  28. 

4.  Guyier,  Discoun  sor  les  R^Tolations  da 

Globe,  6e.  €dit.  p.  171. 

5.  Jadic.  cap.  vi.  11,14. 

6.  Roth,  cap.  ii.  3,  5. 

7.  I.  Samael,  cap.  xi.  5. 

8.  L  Reg.  cap.  xix.  19. 

9.  Gn^n^e,  Lettres  de  Qnelques  Jaifs,  torn. 

iii.  p.  23,  edit  in  12mo. 

10.  Levitic.  cap.  xx?.  23. 

n.  Diodor.  Sicul.  lib.  ii.  §  3. 

12.  Aristot  De  Repobl.  lib.  ii.  cap.  7. 

13.  Levitic.  xxy.  3,  6. 

14.  Mishna,  passim. 

15.  Exod.  iii.  8. 

16.  Joseph.  De  Bello  Judaic  lib.  iii.  cap.  8. 
17-  Juvenal.  Sat  xv.  10. 

18.  Genes,  cap.  xii.  10. 

19.  Ibid.  cap.  xlii.  1,  2,  3. 

20.  Varro.  De  Re  Rustic;  Flin.  xviii.  7 ; 

Plutarch.  In  G»sar. 

21.  Plutarch.    De    Isid.;    Tibull.    lib.  i. 

eleg.  viL  29. 

22.  Fabretti.  Inscript  p.  574. 

23.  Homer.  II.  x.  351 ;  Odyss.  viiL  124. 

24.  Polydor.  Virgil. 

25.  Plin.  xviiL  4. 

26.  Aul.  GeH.  L  23. 

27.  Plin.  iv.  8 ;  Flor.  i.  2. 


28.  Flor.  viii.  3. 

29.  Goloroell.  ii.  5. 

30.  Ibid.  ii.  2. 

31.  Varrc  L  29. 

32.  Encyclopedie  M^thodiqae;  Antiqait^s 

Planches. 
83.    Gato.  De  Re  Rustica,  x.  xi. 

34.  Strutt^  Manners  and   GusCbms,  &c, 

vol.  i.  p.  32,  fig.  vii. 

35.  Plin.  xvii.  5, 8. 

36.  Varro.  Lid,  38 ;  Golumell.  ii.  5,  6,  9. 

37.  Geoponic.  xii.  4 ;  Virgil.  Georg.  i.  81 

Plin.  xvii.  9. 

38.  Gato.  cap.  xxz. ;  Plin.  zviii.53 ;  Varrc 

ii.  2. 
89.    Golumn.  Trajan,  tab.  88. 

40.  Passerii  Lucern.  Fictil.  tab.  9. 

41.  Gessner.  ii.  tab.  32,  no.  75. 

42.  Mongez.  Encjclop.  Method.  Antiquit 

Planches. 

43.  De  Re  Rustica,  i.  50. 

44.  Virgil.  Georg.  lib.  iv. 

45.  Plin.  viii.  30. 

46.  Golumell.  ii.  21. 

47.  Isaias,  xxviii.  27. 

48.  Herculan.  v.  95. 

49.  Geoponic  ii.  27,  81 ;   Plin.  xviii.  80 ; 

Varro.  i.  57  ;  Golumell.  i.  6. 

50.  Dioscorid.;  Diodor.Sicul.;  Die  Nicseus. 

51.  Id. 

52.  Strab.;   Plin.;  Strutt,  Manners^    &c, 

of  the  Ancient  Britons,  vol.  i.  p.  7. 

53.  Strutt,  Ibid.  p.  48. 

54.  Id.  Ibid.  pp.  43,  44. 

55.  Fontan.  tom.  ii.  liv.  iii.  titre  88,  p.  1 1 90. 


J 


414 


TABLE   OF   REFERENCES. 


IL 

3. 

CEREALS. 

4. 
5. 

1. 

Tit.  Liv.  Dccad.  i.  lib.  1. 

6. 

2. 

Plin.  xriii.  8. 

7. 

3. 

Cato.  R.  R.  cap.  86. 

8. 

4. 

Virgil  Georgic.  i.  210. 

9. 

5. 

II.  Samaely  cap.  xvii.  28. 

10. 

6. 

Saeton,  In  August,  xiv. 

11. 

7. 

Ezod.  cap.  ix.  31. 

12. 

8. 

Virgil.  Georgic.  I  216. 

13. 

9. 

Xenophon.  De  Expedit  Cyri,  lib.  vil ; 

14. 

Plin.  xyiii.  7. 

15. 

10. 

Geoponic.  ii.  38. 

16. 

11. 

Plin.  xviii.  40, 

17. 

12. 

Id.  xyiii.  16. 

18. 

IS. 

Dioscorid.  ii.  16. 

19. 

14. 

Virgil.  Georgic.  i.  153. 

20. 

15. 

Plin.  xviii.  17. 

21. 

16. 

Id.  xviii.  7,  10. 

22. 

17. 

Diosoorid.  ii.  117. 

18. 

Galen.  De  Facultai.  Aliment.  1 17. 

23. 

19. 

Herodot  ii.  36. 

20. 

Diosoorid.  lib.  ii.  cap.  3 ;  lib.  iiu 

24. 

21. 

Plin.  xxiL  25. 

25. 

22. 

Id.  ii.  7. 

26. 

23. 

Petron.  cap.  i. 

27. 

24. 

Plant  Poen.  act.  i.  sc.  2,  112. 

28. 

25. 

Leg.  xii.  Tabul.  pars  iL  L.  ix. 

26. 

Ulp.  50  Dig.  t  V.  L  2 ;  Arc.  ad.  GharU. 

29. 

D.  50,  t  iv.  1.  18,  §  6 ;  Wolfius,  t  v. 

SO. 

Oper.  Demosth.  f.  358. 

31. 

27. 

Samuel  Petit.  Conunent.  lib.  v.  tit  5. 

32. 

28. 

Plin.  lib.  xviii. 

33. 

29. 

Dio.  lib.  xi.  3 ;  Isidor.  lib.  nit  cap.  14. 

SO. 

Panem  et  Circensea. 

34. 

31. 

Demosth.  In  Pborm. 

35. 

32. 

Plutarch.  In  Cat  Miy. ;  Cic.  in  Verrem. 

36. 

33. 

Sueton.  In  Jul.  Cssar.  cap.  41. 

34. 

Dio  Cassins,  lib^  xliii. 

87. 

35. 

Id.  lib.  Iv. 

38. 

36. 

Sueton.  In  Neron.  cap.  10 ;  Tacit  lib.  xv. 

39. 

37. 

Spartian.  In  Sever. ;  Liv.  lib.  ii. 

40. 

38. 

Socrat  iu  10,  13 ;  Sozomen.  iii.  6. 

41. 

39. 

Cic  Pro  Leg.  Manil. 

40. 

Liv.  lib.  xxxiii. ;  Cic  Ad  Attic,  ep.  ix. 

42. 

et  seqq. ;  Varrc  R.  R. ;  Plin.  xviii.  7. 

43. 

41. 

Stew's  Chronicles,  p.  167. 

42. 

Fabian,  vol  ii.  p.  30. 

44. 
45. 

III. 

46. 

GRINDING  OP  CORN. 

47. 
48. 

1. 

Apnd  Athenseum. 

49. 

2. 

Ovid.  Fast  iv.  399. 

Tibull.  il  eleg.  8. 

Pausan.  In  Arcad. 

Virgil.  Geoi^.  iv.  81. 

De  Mensura  Cibi. 

Lncret  v.  14. 

Plin.  viL  51. 

Encjclopb  3Iethod.  Antiquit  Pknches. 

Varro.  apnd  Nonnium. 

Plin.  xviii.  3. 

Polyb.  L  22. 

Deateronom.  xxiv.  6. 

Exod.  xi.  5. 

Numer.  xi.  8. 

Pausanias,  v.  /wXi},  Histor.  Laoonioor. 

Homer.  Odyss. 

Id.  Ibid.  vii.  105. 

Plin.  xviii.  11. 

Gell  xxxl  3 ;  Terent  Andr.  act  i.  so.  2. 

G«1L  xiii.  22. 

Virg.  Georg.  i.,  et  ibi  Servius,  v.  267, 
274. 

Ovid.  In  Fastis ;  Rosin.  Antiquit  Ro- 
man, iv.  10. 

Paschal.  Coron.  p.  260. 

Rosin,  loc.  cit 

ApuL  Milesiar.  lib.  ix. 

Terent  Andria.  act  i.  sc.  2. 

Menrsius,  Criticar.  Exeroitat  part  i. 
cap.  9. 

Id.  Ibid. 

GelL  iii.  3. 

Vitruv.  X.  10. 

Plin.  xviii.  10. 

Vid.  Turneb.  Salmas,  et  Perrault,  sec- 
tion Vitruve. 

Goetzius,  De  Pistrinis  Veterum. 

Strabo,  Geograph. 

De  Canone  Frumentar,  Urb.  Rom.  L.  iv. 
Cassiodor.  Variar.  iiL 

5th  century, 

Decernimus  de  AqnsBductn,  L.  x. 

Anno  536. 

Procop.  De  Bello  Gothico.  i.  15. 

Vitruv.  X.  5 ;  Schneider ;  Palladins, 
R.R.i.42. 

Plin.  xxxvi.  30. 

Odyss.  XX.  105,  119;  Cato.  R.R.  cap. 
56. 

Leges  Ethelberti. 

Stnitt,  Manners,  &c.,  vol.  iL,  p.  13. 

Apud  Strutt,  ibid. 

Ibid.  p.  14. 

Heringius. 

Monast  Anglic,  t.  L  "p.  816;  t  ii.  p. 
459  ;  t  iii.  p.  107. 


TABLE   OF   REFERENCES. 


416 


IV. 
MANIPULATION  OF  FLOUR. 

1.  Montfu^e,  Essais. 

2.  Genes.  xviiL  6. 
8.    Exod.  xti.  39. 

4.  Reg.  xix.  6. 

5.  Levitic.  viu  9. 

6.  Calmet  Bible,  torn,  vu  p.  257,  ibl. 

7.  Waserus,  De  Antiq.  Mensoris,  ii.  5. 

8.  Genes,    iii.   19 ;    Exod.  iL  20 ;    xviii. 

12 ;  et  passim. 

9.  Calmet.  loc.  cit 

10.  Fleury,  Mosurs  des  Israelites,  chap.  12. 

11.  Rath,  ii.  14. 

12.  Calmet.  loc.  cit. 

13.  Plin.  xviiu  11. 

14.  Exod.  xiL  15,  17  to  20,  84,  39. 

15.  Leyitic  vii.  9. 

16.  Genes,  xv.  17. 

17.  Levitia  iL  4 ;   vii.  9 ;    xi.   85 ;    xxyi. 

26  ;  Calmet  Bible,  torn.  yi. 

18.  Genes,  xl.  1,  et  seqq. 

19.  Cassiodor.  Variar.  vL ;  Olai  Magni  Hist. 

xiii.  13;  Panis  a  Pane. 

20.  Cic.  Pro  Cluentio ;  Isidor.  xx.  2. 

21.  Pattre— Manger. 

22.  Nonnius  Maroello^  De  Prop.  Sermon. 

23.  Athen.  iii.  13. 

24.  Id.  Ibid. 

25.  Id.  Ibid. 

26.  Id.  Ibid. 

27.  Aristoph.  Ban.  v.  856. 

28.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Faonltat  lib.  i. 

29.  Athen.  iii  29. 

80.  C»L  Bhodig.  xxri. 

81.  Athen.  loc.  cit. 
32.    Id.  Ibid. 

83.  Id.  Ibid. 

34.  Id.  Ibid. 

35.  Id.  Ibid. 
Ze.  Id.  iii  18. 

87.  Plin.  xviii.  7. 

88.  Athen.  loo.  cit 

89.  Plant  Pcen.  et  Mostellar ;  Plin.  xriii.  8. 

40.  Tit  Liv.  Dec Llib.T. cap; 48— Floras. 

41.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Pacoltat  i.  18. 

42.  Festns ;  Lactant  Divinar.  Institut  cap. 

20 ;  Ovid.  Fast  il  525. 

43.  Plin.  xviii.  11. 

44.  Pomp.  Sabiii.  In  Moret.  Virgil. 

45.  Maximar.  C.  DoExcasat  Muner.  L.  xiL 

46.  Vitrav.  Architect,  vi.  9. 

47.  Plin.  xviii.  10. 


48. .  Plin.  xviiu  11. 

49.  AareL  Vict ;  si  qais  De  Pistorib.  L.  ii. ; 

si  cai.  Ibid.  L.  iv. 

50.  Optio,  Ibid.  L.  iv. 

51.  Nulli  Pistori,  Ibid.  L.  xxi. 

52.  Ne  Qais,  Ibid.  L.  xv. 

53.  Quicamqne,  Ibid.  L.  xxiL 

54.  Gell.  XV.  19. 

55.  Brod.  Miscellan.  v.  21 ;    Plin.  xix.  1 ; 

ColomelL  v.  10  ;  Petron.  S5. 
66,    Juvenal  Sat  x.  82. 

57.  Ammian.  Marcellin.  xxvi. ;  Saeton.  In 

Claud,  cap.  18. 

58.  Plin.  xviii  7,  9,  10,  11. 

59.  Id.  xix.  4. 

60.  Id.  Ibid. 

61.  Gronovios. 

62.  Bichard.  Gorrnl  Annal.  Prinoipio. 

63.  Plin.  xviii  11. 

64.  A.D.  75. 

65.  Ovid.  Fast,  vl,  260,  et  seqq. 

66.  Pitt  Ercolan.  tom.  ii.  p.  141. 

67.  Gronovijns. 

68.  Gels,  il  18 ;  Galen.  De  Facnltat  Ali- 

ment  I 

69.  Id.  iv.  6. 

70.  Ammian.  Maroellin.  xvil    17;   Sencc. 

Epist  83. 

71.  Athen.  iii.  28. 

72.  Encyclop.  M^thodiq.  Antiqnites. 

73.  Plant.  Aulul.  act  il  sc  9,  ver.  4;  Plin. 

xviii.  11. 

74.  Encjdop.  Method.  Antiq. 

75.  Ibid. 

76.  Ibid. 

77.  Strutt,  loc.  cit 

78.  Delamarre,  Traitfe  de  la  Police. 

79.  Reglement  da  20  Mars,  1635. 

80.  Monteil  Hist  des  Fran^ais,   tom.  ii., 
pp.  47,  48. 


V. 


FRUMENTA. 

1.  Servias. 

2.  ^Theophrast.  ex  versione  Gazse. 

3.  'Hippocrat  DeVictfts  Ration.;  Galen.De 

Aliment  Facnlt  lib.  I 

4.  Plin.  xviii  7  ;  xx.  25  ;  Bruyerin.  v.  7 ; 

et  seqq. 

5.  Denteron.  viil  8. 

6.  II.  Samuel,  xvil  28. 

7.  Paralipomen.  ii.  9. 

8.  Sueton.  In  August  cap.  14. 

9.  Theophrasi. ;  Menand. ;  Plin.  xviii.  7. 


416 


TABLE   OP   REFERENCES. 


10. 
U. 

12. 

13. 
14. 

15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

27. 
28. 
29. 

80. 

81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 

Z6. 


Galen.  De  Aliment.  Facoltat  lib.  i. 

Id.  Ibid. 

Athen.  ill.  36. 

Broyerin.  v.  6. 

Hippocrat.  De  Victas  Ratione. 

Id.  Ibid. 

Plin.  xviii.  17  ;  Villicbins,  cap.  zii. 

Colman,  I/ezicon ;  Mearsias, 

Gato.  B.  B.  cap.  Ixxzvi. 

Galen.    De  Aliment.  Faenliat.  i.  17; 

Brajerin.  v.  21. 
Yarro.  De  Liug.  Lat. ;  Colamell.  ii. 
Virgil.  Georg.  lib.  iv. 
Plin.  xviiL  7. 
Id.  Ibid. 

Diofloorid.  iL  120. 
Plin.  xviii.  24. 

Plin.  Jnn.  Epiet.  ad  Septic,  Glar. 
Cato.  KB. 

ColnmelL  xii.  55 ;  Cato.  cap.  86. 
Plin.  xviii.  7  ;  Broyerin.  v.  23  ;  Galen. 

De  Aliment  Facoltat.  lib.  L 
J.  A.  St  John,  The  Hindoos,  yoL  L  p. 

357. 
Martial. 
Athen.  viL 
Plat  in  Gorg. 
Athen.  i.  13. 
Andrieoxy  '*  Les  rois  malais^ment  soof- 

frent  qn'on  leor  rfesbte." 
Athen.  13. 

VL 
GRAINS:   SEEDS. 


1.  Plin.  zx.  22. 

2.  Nonnios,  De  Re  Cibaria,  i.  14. 
8.    Plin.  xix.  8,  22. 

4.  Matth.xiii.81;xyii.  20;  Marc  iv.  31 ; 

Lnc.  xiii.  19 ;  xvii.  6. 

5.  Boerhaave,  Hist  Phint 

6.  See  Lea  Bigarrnres  do  Seigneor  des 

Accords.  Paris,  1662,  p.  62. 

7.  Plin.  XX.  20. 

8.  Varro.  R.  B. 

9.  Plin.  xviii.  7,  14. 

10.  Id.  Ibid. 

11.  Athen.  i.  15. 

12.  Ibid.  ii.  14. 

13.  Plin.  xviii.  14. 

14.  Broyerin,  vii. 

15.  Plin.  xix.  1. 

16.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Faeolt  I ;  Brny- 

erin.  vii.  12. 


17.  Plin.  loc.  cit 

18.  Broyerin,  vii.  13. 

19.  Simea  Sethi,  De  Aliment.  Facult. 

VIL 


VEGETABLES. 


1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 


5. 
6. 


Nonnios,  De  Be  Cibar.  i.  5. 
Plin*  xviii.  10. 
Genes,  ix.  3. 
Ibid.  XXV.  34. 
Samoel,  xvii.  28. 
Daniel,  L  12,  16. 

7.  Athen.  i.  45. 

8.  Iliad. 

9.  Athen.  ii.  8. 

10.  Varro.  De  Be  Rost  i.  23,  32 ;  Isidor. 

Orig.  xvii.  4. 

11.  Cata  35,   36;   VirgU.  Georg.  L  ii. ; 

Varro.  De  Re  Bost  i.  23,  32. ;  Ovid. 
Fast  T.;  Gell.  iv.  11. 

12.  Virgil.  Georg.  translat  by  Delille. 

13.  Sigonios,  De  Nominib.  Roman. 

14.  Cic  lib.  viL  Epist  26  ad  Fab.  Gall. 

15.  97  years  B.  c. 

16.  Dia  Epitom.  Tiber. 

17.  ApicioB,  De  Obsoniis.  i.  23. 

18.  Caroli  Magni  Capital. 

VIIL 
DRIED  VEGETABLES. 


1. 


2. 
3. 

4. 
5. 


Ovid.  Fast  iii.;    Festus,   De   Verb. 

Signif. ;  Nonnios,  L  5. 
Festos,  loc  cit 
Nonnios,  loc  cit 
Id.  loc  cit 
Theophrast  De  Cans.  Plant;    Clenu 

Alex.  Strom.;   Cic.   De  Divinat  i. ; 

Plin.  xriii.  7, 12. ;   Simeo.  Sethi,  De 

Aliment  Faeolt  p.  134. 
Hippocrat.  iiu  aphor.  20. 

7.  Plin.  xviii,  12. 

8.  PoUox  et  Eostath. 
Isidor.  Orig.  vii. ;  Nonnius,  i.  5. 
II.  Beg.  xvii.  28. 
Ezech.  iv.  9. 
Athen.  ilL  1. 
Id.  Ibid. 
Id.  Ibid 
Dioscorid.   ii.  99;     Athen.   loc.  cit; 

Plin.  xxL  16 ;  Theophrast  v. 
16.    Plin.  xvi.  30 ;  xxiv.  2. 


6. 


9. 
10. 

n. 

12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 


TABLE  OF  REFERENCES. 


4ir 


17.  Pinkerton*8  Ancient  Scot.  PoemSi  to). 

ii.  p.  481. 

18.  Anecdotes  of  Some  Distingaished  Per- 

sons, vol.  iiL  p.  817. 

19.  Boemas  Anbanus.  Mores,  hegea,  &c, 

Omnium  GFentinm,   Oenev.  1620,  p. 
266. 

20.  Brand's  Popular  Antiquities,   vol.    i. 

p.  24. 

21.  Athen. 

22.  Virgil.  Georg.  L  227. 
28.    Athen.  ii.  15. 

24.  Galen.  Be  Aliment.  Facult.  ii. 

25.  Id.  Ibid.  v. ;  Nonnius,  L  5. ;  Platina, 

De  Tuend.  Valetud. 

26.  Golumell.  ii.  10. 

27.  Melanges  Tir^s  d'une  Grande  Biblio- 

thdqne. 

28.  n.  Reg.  zvii.  28. 

29.  Martial  i.  42. 

80.  Lambinus ;  Erasm.  In  Adagiis. 

81.  Columeli.  il  10. ;  Plin.  xviii.  12. 

82.  Martial  loc  cit. 
SZ.    Horat  Sat  I  8. 

84.  Athen.  iv. ;  Nonnius,  De  Re  Cibar. ; 
Bmjerin.  vii.  8. ;  Florentin.  ap.  Con- 
stant Cesar,  xl 

1^,    Athen.  tI  4. 

B6.    Id. ;  Nonnins ;  Bruyerin.  Ice.  cit 

87.  Genes,  zxy.  34. 

88.  II.  Beg.  xvii.  28. 

89.  Ibid,  xziil  11. 

40.  Ezech.  iy.  9. 

41.  Cic.  Tnscul  iv. ;  Virgil  Geoig.  I  il ; 

Isidor.  Orig.  xyiL 

42.  Apptan.  De  Bello  Parthioo ;  Plutarch. 

In  Vita  Crassl 
48.    Virgil.  Georg.  I  228. 
44.    Plin.  XY.  12. 


IX. 
KITCHEN  GARDEN. 

1.  Delille,  Prfifaoe  du  Po^me  des  Jardins. 

2.  Nmn.  xxiy.  6. 

8.  Virgil  Gkorg.  iy, 

4.  Esth.  viL7,  8. 

5.  Ex  Trog.  Pompeio.  Justin,  xxxvl 

6.  Q.  Curt.  y.  1. 

7.  Odyss.  yil 

8.  Dio.  xlyil ;  Sueton.  Cess.  83. 

9.  Cata  Varro.  Columeli  passim. 
10.  Cal.  Siculus.  Eclog.  il 


11. 

Frontin.  Ccel  Sympos.  CEnigm.  72; 

Pallad.ix.  11. 

12. 

Scriptores  Bel  Rustic  passim. 

18. 

Ibid. 

14. 

Hippocrat  AphorisuL 

15. 

Plin. 

16. 

Cato.  De  Re  Rustic.  156,  157. 

17. 

Athen.  ix.  2. 

18. 

CatOb  loc  cit 

19. 

Ch.  St  Laurent,  Diction.  Encyclopdd. 

20. 

ApiciuB,  De  Obsoniis,  ill  9. 

21. 

Id.  Ibid. 

22. 

Id.  Ibid. 

23. 

Id.  Ibid. 

24. 

Oliyier  de  Serres. 

25. 

Columeli  X.  25  let  254w 

26. 

Plin.  xix.  8. 

27. 

Athen.  I  6. 

28. 

Id.  IX.  2. 

29. 

Id.  Ibid. 

80. 

Martial,  xiil  18. 

81. 

Apicius,  ill  2. 

82. 

Id.  Ibid. 

38. 

Id.  iil  11. 

84. 

Diosoorid. 

S5, 

Stephan.  Thesanr.  Ling.  Latin.;  Ch. 

St  Laurent,  Diet.  Encyclop. 

36. 

BeokmiMin,  Hist,  of  Inyent 

87. 

Hispanicum  Olus. 

88. 

Athen.  il  18. 

89. 

Id.  Ibid. 

40. 

Horat  Epod.  il  58. 

41. 

Martial  iil  89. 

42. 

Cic.  yil  Familiar.  26. 

48. 

Plin.  XX.  21. 

44. 

Apicius,  iil  8. 

45. 

Id.  Ibid. 

46. 

La  Fontaine,  Fables. 

47. 

Athen.  il  21. 

48. 

Id.  Ibid. 

49. 

Id.  Ibid. 

50. 

Plin.  xix.  4. 

51. 

Id.  xix.  8. 

52. 

Sueton.  Oct  Cm.  87. 

53. 

Apicius,  iii.  3. 

54. 

Plin.  loc  cit 

65. 

Dictionnaire  des  Sciences  NaturcUes. 

56. 

Plin.  xix.  5. 

57. 

Id.  Ibid. 

58. 

Id.  Ibid. 

59. 

Athen.  il  18. 

60. 

Id.  Ibid. 

61. 

Propert.  iy.  2.  48. 

62. 

Juvenal.  Sat  xiv.  47. 

63. 

Athen.  ii.  18. 

418 


TABLE   OP  REFERENCES. 


64. 

A  then.  iL  18. 

119. 

ApiciuB,  L  31. 

65. 

Id.  Ibid. 

120. 

Id.  Ibid. 

66. 

Id.iz.8. 

121. 

Id.  iiL  6. 

67. 

Id.  Ibid. 

122. 

Id.  Ibid. 

68. 

Apicias,  iii.  4. 

123. 

Id.  Ibid. 

69. 

Id.  Ibid. 

124. 

Exod.  xii.  8 ;  Num.  ix.  11. 

70. 

Id.  Ibid. 

125. 

Athen.  iL  18. 

71. 

Id.  Ibid. 

126. 

Id.  Ibid. 

72. 

Athen.  L  6. 

127. 

M&rtiaL  xiii.  14. 

73. 

ScriptoreB  Bei  Bustie. 

128. 

Bibl  Sacra,  loc  cit 

74. 

ApiciiM,  iiL  13. 

129. 

Athen.  L  12. 

76. 

Plin.  xix.  5. 

130. 

Theophrast  Hist  Plant  vL  7. 

76. 

Id.  xxi.  15. 

131. 

Galen.  De  Aliment  Facnlt 

77. 

Apicius,  iii.  21. 

132. 

Sneton.  In  August 

78. 

Id.  Ibid. 

133. 

Gh.  St  Laurent  Diet  Encjcl. 

79. 

Id.  Ibid. 

134. 

Apicius,  iii.  15. 

80. 

Festofl. 

135. 

Id.  Ibid. 

81. 

Dr.  Charbonnier. 

136. 

PUtina;  Tallleyant 

82. 

Plin.  XX.  20. 

137. 

Plin.  XX.  8. 

83. 

Id.  Ibid. 

138. 

VirgiL  Georg.  L  120. 

84. 

Id.  xix.  12. 

139. 

GolumelL  x.  8. 

85. 

ApiciuSy  iii.  11.] 

140. 

Pallad.  L  30 ;  ApuL  De  Herb.  47. 

86. 

Plin.  xix.  8. 

141. 

Apicius,  iiL  18. 

87. 

Athen. 

142. 

Geoponic^  xiL  31. 

88. 

Apicins,  iii.  9. 

143. 

Num.  xi.  5. 

89. 

Eaell  i.  20. 

144. 

Socrat  Li  Zenophont  Symposio. 

90. 

Athen.  U.  13;  Pollux,  tL  9. 

145. 

Plin.  xix.  6. 

91. 

Id.  Ibid. 

146. 

Horat  libu  L  Epod.  xu.  21. 

92. 

Dioficorid.  iii.  14. 

147. 

.  Apiciu8»  iiL  15. 

93. 

Plin.  xxi.  16. 

148. 

Alexand.y.  10. 

94. 

Id.  Ibid. 

149. 

Num.  xL  5. 

95. 

Herroolao  Barbaro. 

150. 

G^eoponic.  xii.  29. 

96. 

Raell.  i. 

151. 

Ibid. 

97. 

2nd  cent  A.c: 

152. 

Athen.  ix.  3. 

98. 

Ghden.  De  Aliment.  Facnlt. 

153. 

Apicins,  iii.  10. 

99. 

Golnmell.  x.  236. 

154. 

Id.  Ibid. 

100. 

Geoponic  xii.  39. 

155. 

J.  A.  St  John,  The  HindooB^  yoL  L 

101. 

Ibid. 

p.  357. 

102. 

Apicins,  ilL  19. 

156. 

Suidas.  Tiber.  iiL 

103. 

Oh.  St  Laurent,  Diet  EncycL 

157. 

Geoponic.  xiL  20. 

104. 

ApichiB,  loc  cit 

158. 

Ibid. 

105. 

Id.  Ibid. 

159. 

Ibid. 

106. 

Tertollian,  De  Anim^cap,  32. 

160. 

Apicius,  iiL  7. 

107. 

Id.  Adv.  Marc.  iv.  40. 

161. 

Pasquier,  Recherches  sor  la  France. 

108. 

PUn.  XX.  2, 

162. 

Babjlonic  Talmud. 

109. 

Nnm.  xi.  5. 

168. 

Athen.  L  6. 

110. 

Apicius,  iiL  4. 

164. 

Plin.  xix.  5. 

111. 

Id.  Ibid. 

165. 

Id.  Ibid. 

112. 

Gh.  St  Tianrent  Diet.  Encjc. 

166. 

Id.  Ibid. 

113. 

Apicin8,  iiL  5. 

167. 

Varro.  R  R;  GolumelL  xi. ;  Plin.  xtiii. 

114. 

Num.  xi.  5. 

168. 

Geoponic.  xii.  21 ;  Varro.  i.  11. 

115. 

Athen. 

169. 

Sueton.  In  Yespas.  iy. 

116. 

Geoponic.  xii.  7,  4. 

170. 

Apicius^  iiL  13. 

117. 

Plin. 

171. 

Id.  L  24. 

118. 

Apicius,  iii.  6. 

172. 

Athen.  iL  16. 

TABLE  OP  REFERENCES. 


410 


178. 

Plin.  xiz.  5. 

9. 

Geoponic.  xiL  26. 

174. 

Atheo.  loc.  cit 

10. 

Ibid. 

176. 

Theoplirast  Uist  Plant,  vil  4. 

11. 

Ovid.  Blamed.  Amor.  402; 

;    Jnrennl 

170. 

Id.  Ibid. 

Sat.  ix.  1 34 ;  Oolnmell  x. 

171. 

177. 

Id.  Ibid. 

12. 

Isidor.  xyiL  11. 

178. 

Oeoponic.  xii.  22. 

13. 

Geoponic  xiL  34. 

179. 

Ibid. 

14. 

Virgil.  Eclog.  iL  48. 

180. 

Ibid. 

15. 

Golumell.  xi.  3. 

181. 

Ibid. 

16. 

Dioscorid.  L  52. 

182. 

Ibid. 

17. 

Id.  T.  41. 

183. 

Apiciii8»  iii.  14. 

18. 

Apicins,  yL  9 ;  viL  6. 

184. 

Plin.  xz.  6. 

19. 

Plin.  XX.  17. 

185. 

Saidas. 

20. 

Id.  Ibid. 

186. 

Plant  PoBn.  7.  5,  84. 

21. 

Psalm  L  9. 

187. 

Suidas. 

22. 

GolumelL  viL  5. 

188. 

Virgil.  Eclog.  ii.  9. 

23. 

Plin.  xzv.  11. 

189. 

Diet,  des  Sciences  NatareL 

24. 

Golumell.  xiL  S5, 

190. 

Athen. 

25. 

Plin.  XX.  17. 

191. 

Geoponic  xiL  80.   ■ 

26. 

Dioscorid.  v.  88, 

192. 

Ibid. 

27. 

CatcItB.  127. 

198. 

Plin.  lix.  16. 

28. 

Golumell  x.  288. 

194. 

Banier,  Mytholog.  torn.  viL  p.  198. 

29. 

Id.  xii.  35. 

195. 

Plutarch.  Sympos.  v.  8. 

30. 

Plin.  XX.  22. 

196. 

Anacreon,  paasiuL 

31. 

Id.  xxL  22. 

197. 

Horat.  Od.  i.  SS. 

82. 

Id.  Ibid. 

198. 

Paschal.  Coron.  p.  486. 

83. 

Gonst  Gffis.  Yi.  14. 

199. 

Homer.  Iliad,  ii. 

84. 

Plin.  XX.  14. 

200. 

Plin.  XX.  1. 

85. 

Geoponic.  xiL  83. 

201. 

ApiciuB,  iii.  2. 

S6. 

Athen. 

202. 

Id.  iii.  15. 

37. 

Maoer.  L  12. 

208. 

Plutarch.  Sjrmpos.  t. 

38. 

Athen. 

204. 

Golumell.  xi.  3.  ' 

39. 

Geoponic.  xiL  25. 

205. 

Apicius^  iiL  12. 

40. 

Turneb.  Ailvers.  viiL  5. 

206. 

Gie.  In  5  TnscnI.  cap.  84. 

41. 

Ovid.  Hetam. 

207. 

Id.  De  Finib.  iL  92. 

42. 

Plin.  XX.  14. 

208. 

Plutarch.  De  Virtute  et  Vitio,  sub  fin. 

48. 

Geoponic.  xiL  24. 

209. 

Dr.  Gharbonnier. 

44. 

Ovid.  Art  Amat.  iL  418. 

210. 

Geoponic.  xiL  27. 

45. 

Apicins,  i.  29 ;  iv.  2. 

211. 

Ibid. 

46. 

Plin.  xix.  8. 

212. 

Ibid. 

47. 

Martial.  iiL  77,  5. 

SIS. 

Plin.xtx.8. 

48. 

Apicius,  L  80. 

214. 

Apicins,  iiL  16. 

49. 

Id.  X.  2.  7. 

215. 

Id.  Ibid. 

50. 
51. 

Plin.  xiL  7- 
Apicius. 

X. 

52. 

Lamprid.  Elogab.  21. 

PLANTS  USED  IN  SEASONING. 

53. 
54. 

Plin.  xxvii.  7. 
Strabo.  Geograph.  viL 

1. 

Plin.  xix.  8. 

55. 

Apicius,  L  8. 

2. 

Id.  Ibid. 

56. 

Martial  viiL  68. 

8. 

Nonnius,  De  Be  Gibarift. 

4. 

Dalechamp,  Ad  Plin.  xx.  25. 

XL 

5. 
6. 

Petron.  cap.  I 
Plin.  loc.  cit 

FRUITS. 

7. 

Dioscorid.  ii.  120. 

1. 

Genes.  iL  16.* 

• 

8. 

Plin.  XX.  20. 

2. 

Deotcrun.  xx.  19. 

420 


TABLE   OP  REFERENCES. 


S.  LeTitie.  xiz.  23,  24. 

4.  Deoteron.  xx.  6. 

5.  Or'id,  Metam.  xiy.  tf23. 
0.  Propert  it.  2,  10. 

7.  Ovid.  Fast  I  415. 

8.  Virjpl.  Oeorg.  L  18. 

9.  Natalia  Comes,  til  16. 

10.  Id.  iL  1. 

11.  Id.  110. 

12.  Tiball.  ii.  3,  67. 
IS.  Athen.  iz. 

14.  Sneton.  In  August.  76. 

15.  Vid.  Stackiam,  Nonniom,  Brayerinnm, 

Ac 

16.  Seneca,  Epist.  122. 

17.  Id.  De  Irft,  i.  16. 

1 8.  Id.  ControT.  t.  5. 

19.  ApiciuSy  L  20. 


xn. 

STONE  FRUIT. 

1.  Constant.  Ces.  ix.  1. 

2.  Id.  Ibid. 

Z»  MwdL  Agam. 

4.  Statins.  TheK  ii. 

5.  Enri|Hd.  Heraol.  act  iL 

6.  Apollon.  Rhod.  It. 

7.  Id.  ii.  et  ibi  Scholiast. 

8.  Id.  Ibid. 

9.  Diodor.  SicaL  Ti. 

10.  Genes.  1 11»  12. 

11.  Genes.  xxTiii.  18. 

12.  Diodor.  T. ;  Jnstin.  xiii. 
IS.  fexod.  xxT.  6. 

14.  Ibid.  xxix.  7. 

15.  Ibid,  xxiii.  40. 

16.  Exod.   LeTitie  Numer.    Deoteronom. 

passim. 

17.  Hishna. 

18.  Flin.  XT.  4. 

19.  Athen.  ii.  25. 

20.  Id.  Ibid. 

21.  Id.  iT.  4. 

22.  Plin.  xxiii.  S. 

23.  Raellins. 

24.  Athen.  ii.  8. 

25.  Theophrast  Hist  Plantar,  passim. 

26.  Plin.  XT.  I. 

27.  Id.i.  2. 

28.  Id.  Till.,  xii.,  xt.,  xti. 

29.  Cato.  i.  1,  3,  31,  67,  68, 144. 


80.  VantK  R.  R.  i.  2. 

31.  Columell.  i.  6,  t.  8  ;  xii.  50. 

32.  Plin.  XV.  8. ;  Mathiol  In  Dioscorid.  L 

33.  Plin.  loccit 

34.  Martial,  xii. 

35.  Tit  Lit. 

36.  Spartian.  xxii. 

37.  Horat  Od.  6.  lib.  iL 

38.  Plin.xiiL2. 

39.  Sueton.  In  Ces.  53 

40.  Salmas.  De  Homonym.  Hjles  latricn. 

cap.  103. 

41.  Plin.  xxiL  24. 

42.  See  p.  269. 

43.  Apicius,  i.  5. 

44.  yid.Pontan. 

45.  Natal.  Com.  tiL  15. 

46.  BibL  Sacr.  passiuL 

47.  Levitic.  x.  9  ;  Denteron.  xit.  26. 

48.  Gu6n6e,  Lettres  de  Qnelqnes  Juifs,  torn. 

iiL  p.  270,  edit  8Ta 

49.  Joseph.  De  Bell.  Jaduc  ii.  2. 

50.  Theophrast  ii.  8. 

51.  Plin.  xiiL  14. 

52.  Plutarch.;  Athen. 

53.  Hieronjm.  Ad  Enstochium,  epist.  19. 

54.  Plin.  XT.  25 ;  Ammian.  Marcdl.  xx.  13. 
56.  Plin.  XT.  25. 

56.  YirgiL  Georg. 

57.  Athen.  iL  11. 

58.  Theophrast  iiL  13 ;  ix.  i. 

59.  Plin.  XT.  25. 

60.  Id.  Ibid. 

61.  ColnmelL  t.  10 ;  xL  2. 

62.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Facnltat  iL  ;  Dios- 

corid. L  131. 

63.  Plin.  XT. 

64.  Theophrast  iiL  5. 

65.  PIm.xT.  14. 

66.  ColumelL  x.  17. 

67.  Plin.  ziiL  9 ;  xt.  13. 

68.  Galen.  iL 

69.  Dioscorid.  L  131. 

70.  Apicius,  L  26. 

71.  Theophrast  L  11 ;  It.  3  ;  ix.  1. 

72.  Athen.  iL  10. 

73.  Theophrast  et  Athen.  loc.  cit ;  Geo- 

ponic.  X.  40. 

74.  Virgil.  Eclog.  iL 

75.  Plin.  xiii.  10  ;  xt.  12. 

76.  Dictionnaire  des  Origines. 

77.  M^moires  de  Dangeau. 

78.  GaiUard,  Hist  de  Francois  L 

79.  Theatre  d' Agriculture. 


TABLE   OF  REFERENCES. 


421 


XIIL 

PIP  FRUIT. 

1.  Theophrast  ii.  4. 

2.  Athen.  iii. 

3.  Gata  De  Re  BaBtic&. 

4.  Plin.  X?.  11. 

5.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Facult. 

6.  ColamelL  ▼.  10. 

7.  Fallad.  XI.  20. 

8.  Forum  Capedinarinm. 

9.  Dioecorid.  v.  20. 

10.  Ulpian.  iz.  Seas,  de  Trit  Yin.  01 

11.  Athen.  iiL  6. 

12.  Id.  Ibid. 

18.  Apicias,  i.  19. 

14.  n.  R^.  V.  28, 24 ;  1  Paralip.  xiv.  14, 16. 

15.  Theophrast  ii.  28,  et  passioL 

16.  Plin.  XV.  15. 

17.  Galen.  De  SimpL  Medicam.   v. ;   De 

Aliment  Facnlt  ii. 

18.  Grandea  Ohroniqaea  Fran^aifles;  Vita 

B.  Francisc. 

19.  Cant  il  8, 5 ;  yii.  8 ;  Yiii.  5 ;  Joel,  i.  12. 

20.  Cant  ii.  8. 

21.  Bruyerin.  xi.  16. 

22.  Athen.  i.  21. 
28.  Strab.  xt. 

24.  Tomeb.  De  Vino.  p.  22. 

25.  Virgil  Georg.  ii.  126,  et  seqq. 

26.  Athen.  iii.  4. 

27.  Theophrast  i.  22  ;  ir.  4 ;  vilL  8. 

28.  Athen.  loo.  cit 

29.  Diosoorid.  L  186. 

80.  Athen.  loo.  cit. 

81.  Lib.  L  cap.  21.  Lend.  1705,  8vo. 

32.  Plin.  xiL  8 ;  xxiiL  6 ;  xxv.  28. 

33.  Pallad.  xiL  7. 

84.  Athen.  iiL  4. 

85.  Apicios,  i.  21. 

86.  Plin.  xxiii.  6 ;   Athen.  iiL  4 ;  Galen. 

Simplic.  Medic.  viL 

87.  Annee  Litt^raire,  1755. 

88.  NoQYean  Diet  Chiss.  d*Hist  Nat  Paris, 

1844. 

39.  Ann§e  Litter.  1755. 

40.  Brand's  Popnlar  Antiquities,  voL  L  pb  9. 

41.  Dictionnaire  d'Histoire  Natnrelle. 

42.  Genes,  iii.  7. 
48.  Xum.  XX.  5. 

44.  Ibid.  24,  28. 

45.  n.  Reg.  iv.  25. 

46.  ly.  Reg.  xyiiL  81. 


47.  Gu6n6e,  Lettr.  de  Qaelq.  Jaifs,  torn.  iiL 

pp.  271.  272. 

48.  Paasan.  In  Atticis. 

49.  Athen.  iii. 

50.  Id.  iiL  2. 

51.  Sukon,  fig,  and  phaind,  I  detect 

52.  Plataroh.  De  Curiosit 

53.  Athen.  xiv. 

54.  Plin.  XV.  18. 

55.  Cato.  R.  R.  94,  99,  138. 

56.  Varro.R.R. 

57.  Plin.  loc.  cit 

58.  Athen.  iiL  14. 

59.  Brujerin.  xL  87. 

60.  LReg.  xxT.  18,  27. 

61.  Clem.  Alex.  In  Paedag. 

62.  Plin.  xiL   1;  Plutarch.  In  CamiU. 

890  B  c. 

63.  Athen.  iiL 

64.  Galen.  De  Cibis  Boni  et  Mali  SuccL 

65.  Hippocrat  De  Dioat  iL 

66.  Plin.  xxiv.  14  ;  Diosoorid.  iv.  38. 

67.  Upa  eritpot  and  rt5«f. 

68.  Mathiol.  In  Dioscorid.  L  105. 

69.  VirgU.  Eclog.  iiL  92. 

70.  Ovid.  Metam.  xiiL  816. 

71.  Id.  Ibid.  L  104. 

72.  Plin.  XTi.  25. 
78.  Athen.  ii.  12. 

74.  Apicins,  L  22. 

75.  Psalm  Ixxxiv.  6 ;   i.  Chron.  xiv.  14, 15. 

XIV. 
SHELL  FRUIT. 

1.  Macrob.  2 ;  SatomaL  14;  Colnmel.  ▼.  10. 

2.  Athen.  i.  49. 

8.    Genes,  xliii.  11. 

4.  Athen.  iiL 

5.  Id.  Ibid. 

6.  Apiciiis,  iv.  2. 

7.  Plin.  xxiiL  4. 

8.  Id.  xtL  25. 

9.  Diitonr;  Amandier. 

10.  Theophrast  Hist  Plant 

1 1.  Exod.  xxY.  33 ;  xxxviL  19. 

12.  Ca&t  vL  10. 
18.    Plin.  XV.  22. 

14.  VaiTO.  L.  L.  iv. ;  Dioscorid.  i.  141. 

15.  Theophrast  L  8,  et  passim. 

16.  CataL  In  EpithaL  TaUis  et  Malli. 

17.  Servins,  In  VirgiL  Eclog.  viiL 

18.  Plin.  XV.  22. 

19.  Pers.  Sat  i;  Hesych.  Lexie.  voc.  Nux. 


4-22 


TABLE    OF    REFERENCJJS. 


20.  GkJen.  Simpl.  Medicam. 

21.  HathioL  In  Diosoorid.  i.  141. 

22.  Avicen.  y.  4. 

23.  Athen.  ii.  7. 

24.  Id.  Ibid. 

25.  Plin.  xziii.  8  ;  Q-  Seren.  Sammonic. 

26.  Theophrast.  i.  5  ;  Athen.  iu  7. 

27.  Cato.  R.  R.  8 ;  Macroh.  Saturnal.  iii.  18. 

28.  Nucula.  Festua. 

29.  Nonnias.  i.  37. 

30.  Galen.  De  Aliment.  Facalt  ii. ;  Dios- 

oorid. u  42. 

31.  Hospinian.  De  Orig.  Festor.  Christian. 

foL  113.  B. 

32.  Plin.  xiiL  6. 

33.  Theophrast.  iv.  5. 
84.  Plin.  XV.  22. 

35.  Galen.  De  Alim.  Facalt  IL 

36.  Avicen.  lib.  ii. 

37.  Athen.  it  18. 

38.  Virgil.  Eclog,  ii.  52. 

39.  Id.  Eclog.  i.  82. 

40.  Nicand.  Interp.  Tumeb. 

41.  Sipont 

42.  Natalis  Comes,  iil  16. 

43.  Martial,  i.  44. 

44.  Colamell.  xii.  41. 

45.  Plin.  xiiL  19. 

46.  ColomelL  loc.  cit 

47.  Apicins,  I  18. 

48.  Athen.  xiv. 

49.  Paosan.  et  Diodor.  passim. 

XV. 
ANIMAL  FOOD. 

1.  Genes.!.  29;  iii.  17,  18,  19. 

2.  Ibid,  iil  21. 

3.  Ibid.  iii.  19. 

4.  Ibid.  iv.  4. 

5.  Ibid.  xvii|.  8. 

6.  Xenoph.  De  Cjri  Expedit. ;  Varro.  B.  K. 

ii.  I ;  Bmyerin.  ii.  1  ;  iv.  1 . 

7.  Hieronyra.  Adv.  Jovin.  Amob.  Cont. 

Gent  ii. 

8.  Plutarch.  De  Esq  Cam. ;  Porphyr.  De 

Nun  Necan<I.  &c 

9.  Bossnet,  Discourssur  THlst.  UniverseJ. 

10.  Genes,  ix.  3. 

1 1.  Herodot  Hist  i. ;  VirgiL   Greorg.  i. ; 

Ovid.  Metam.  i.  et  xv. 

12.  Broyerin.  ii.  1 ;  Plin.  zvL  5. 

13.  Ovid.  Metam.  i.  3. 


I    14.    Porphyr.  DeNonNccandis  ad  Epoland. 

Animantib.  i. 

15.  Plin.  viL  5;  Porphyr.  L  ii. ;   Polyd. 
Virgil.  De  Ber.  Inventor.  iiL  2. 

16.  756  years  afler  the  Deluge. 

17.  943  years  after  the  Deluge ;  Athen.  ix. 
Var.  R.  B.  ii.  4 ;  Ovid.  Metam.  xv  s 

18.  Ibid.  loc.  cit. 

19.  Plin.  vii.  56. 
•20.    La  Fontaine,  Les  Animanx  Malades  de 

la  Peste. 

21.  Plin.  loc  cit;  Nonnias  iu  1;  ^Elian. 
Var.  Hist.  i.  3 ;  Pans.  i. 

22.  895  B.a 

23.  Porphyr.  loc  cit 

24.  Homer,  passim. 

25.  Plutarch.  De  Esu  Camium. 

26.  Gtfue?.  ix.  3. 

27.  Levitic.  xxii.  24. 

28.  Deateron.  xxv.  4. 

29.  Exod.  xidii.  5. 

30.  Deuteron.  xx.  10. 

31.  Exod.  xxiii.  12. 
82.    Genes,  passim. 

33.  Xenoph. 

34.  Homer. 

35.  Leg.  xii.  Tabul.  L.72;  Ulrio.  Zasii 
Catalog.  Leg.  Antiq. 

36.  Ibid.  Ixxi. 

37.  Columell.  i.  3. 

38.  Cic.  In  Brut 

39.  Hyginius  in  Frontin.   De  Controvera. 
Agror.  cap.  De  Loc.  Publicis. 

40.  Leg.  L  De  Abigeis.  iiL  Oves  ss.  De 
Abigeis. 

41.  Scrofoy  a  sow. 

42.  Varro.  ii.  1. 

43.  Geoponic  passim;  Cato.  Varro.  Plin. 
CoIumelL  Pallad.  passim. 

44.  Varro. 

45.  Aul.  Gell.  xiii.  21. 

46.  Ovid.  Fast  iii.  523. 

47.  S.  Augustin.  De  Civitat  Dei.  vi.  9. 

48.  Gkoponic  xvii. 

49.  Paralipom.  xxiii.  15 ;  xxxiii.  14;  n.  Es- 
dras,  iiL  1,  2S ;  xii.  38 ;  Sophon.  L  10. 

50  Tit.  Liv.  xxix.  37. 

51.  Bosin.  Antlquit  Bom.  p.  39. 

62.  Id.  Ibid.  p.  38. 

53.  Ulpian.  De  Officio  Prefect  Urbis. 

54.  Homer. 
65»  Tumeb.  Adverp. 
5fi.  Gruter.  p.  647,  n.  6. 
57,  Encyclop.  Method.  AnUquit ;  Gruter. 

loc.  cit. ;  Montfaaoon,  Antiq.  ExpHq. 


TABLE   OF  REFERENCES. 


4-2J3 


58.  Cod.  Theod.  L.  I.  De  Suariis  et  Pe- 

cuariis. 

59.  Ibid. 

60.  Cod.  Valent  De  Suariis. 

61.  Ibid. 

62.  Ibid. 

63.  Ibid. 

6  K  Onuphr.  Punvin.  Descript.  Urb.  Bom. 

64.  Sext.  Rufin.  Descript  Urb.  Bom. 

66.  Geoponic  iii. 

67.  Apicius,  i.  10. 

68.  Id.  i.  8. 

69.  Delamarre.  liv.  v.  litre  23,  chap.  6. 

70.  Monteil.  HiHtoire  des  Fran^ais,  tom.  ii. 

p.  46. 

71.  Arret  du  Parlement,  18  Mai»  1366. 

72.  Delamarre. 

73.  Bdglement  da  20  Mars,  1635. 

XVL 
ANIMALS. 

1.  Athen.  iii.  7. 

2.  Id.  ix.  5  ;  Balenger.  ii.  24. 
,  3.     Herodut.  ii.  47. 

4.  Plutarch.  De  Isid.  et  Osirid ;  ^iion.  De 

Animal,  x.  16. 

5.  Levitie.  xi.  7,  8. 

6.  I.  Macchab.  i.  65,  66  ;  IL  Macchab.  vi. 

18,  et  seqq. 

7.  In  Barakamo.  vi.  7.  §  7  ;  Maimonides, 

In  Niskcmamon.  cap.  v. 

8.  Ribusohim.  49. 

9.  Hoorabeck.  De  Conviv.  Judieis,  vii.  1. 

10.  Ilerodian.  v. 

11.  i^ltan.  xvi.  37. 

12.  Koran,  chap.  yi. 

13.  Varro.  B.  B.  ii.  4;  Clem.  Alexandr. 

Stromat  ii. 

14.  Scholiast.  Aristophan.  In  Acharn. 

15.  Macrob.  Saturn,  i.  6  ;  Aul.  GelL  iv.  6. 

16.  Varro.  loc.  cit 

17.  Fest  De  Verb.  Signific. 

18.  Varro.  loc.  cit. 

19.  Id.  Ibid. 

20.  Johan.  Pierius,  Hiero^rlyph.  ix. 

21.  Plutarch.  Sjmpos.  y.  10 ;  Cie.  De  Natiur. 

Deor.  ii. 

22.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Facnlt  iii. 

23.  Id.  De  Gib.  Bom  et  Mali  SuccL 

24.  Id.  Method.  MedendL  vii. 

25.  Athen.  passim. 

26.  Id.  iii.  7,  9 ;  ix.  6,  et  passim. 

27.  Id.  iv.  1. 


28. 

Athen.  ix.  4,  5. 

29. 

Bulens^er.  ii.  24. 

30. 

Petron.  Satyr. 

31. 

Macrob.  Sat.  iii.  13. 

32. 

Athen.  ix.  7. 

33. 

Varro.  B.  R.  ii.  41. 

34. 

Plin.  viii.  51. 

35. 

Petron.  Satyr. 

36. 

Lamprid.  In  Alexand.  Sever. 

37. 

Macrob.  Saturn,  iii.  13. 

38. 

Plin.  xi.  37. 

39. 

Nonnius,  ii.  3. 

40. 

Strabo.  vi.  3,  7  ;  Martial.  Lemmate  de 

PemA. 

41. 

Nonnius;  Stockius. 

42. 

Cato.  B.  B.  cap.  ultima 

43. 

Strabo,  iv. 

44. 

Plutarch.  Sjmpos.  v.  10;  Varro.  B.  U. 

u.  4. 

45. 

Bruyerin.  xiii.  1. 

46. 

Athen.  ix.  1 ;  Petron.  Satyr. 

47. 

Juvenal  Sat  xi. 

48. 

Spartinn.  In  Adrian. 

49. 

Plin.  viii.  57. 

50. 

Dio.  ex  Xiphil.  In  Vespasian,  cap.  x. 

51. 

Id.  In  Claud,  v. 

52. 

Apicius,  i.  9. 

53. 

Plutarch.  Apoptheg. 

54. 

Apiciusi,  viii.  7. 

55, 

Id.  Ibid. 

66. 

Id.  Ibid. 

57. 

Cato.  B.  B.  163. 

58. 

Apictus,  vii.  3. 

59. 

Id.  vii.  9. 

60. 

Athen.  iii.  21. 

61. 

Id.  ii.  4. 

62. 

Id.  Ibid. 

63. 

Id.  vii.  2. 

64. 

Id.  Ibid. 

65. 

Id.  vii.  3. 

66. 

Id.  Ibid. ;  Plin.  viiL  51. 

67. 

Apicius,  viu  9. 

6'8. 

Id.  iu  1. 

69. 

Id.  ii.  4. 

70. 

Id.  il.  1. 

71. 

Id.  ii.  2. 

72. 

Fontan.  Ordonnances. 

73. 

Delamarre,  Trait6  de  la  Police. 

73  A.  Trisor  de  la  Sante,  liy.  iii. 

73  B,  Champier,  xiii.  2. 

74. 

Clem.  Alexundr.  Stromat  v. 

75. 

Banier,  Mytholog^e,  tom.  i/p.  354. 

76. 

iElian.  Hist  xii.  34. 

77. 

Enripid.  Alcest  act  v. 

78. 

Pollux,  ix. 

424 


TABLE   OF  REFERENCES. 


79.  Banier,  torn.  L  p.  448 ;  JBlian.  Hist 

TUL  8. 

80.  Gic  De  Natiir.  Dear.  u. 

81.  ArUtophan. 

82.  PiuUrch.  Solon. 
88.  Homer.  ptBsixD. 

84.  Genes,  xii.  16 ;  xx.  14 ;  xxi.  27 ;  xxit. 

85 ;  xxxiL  5»  et  passim. 

S5.  Ibid.  xviiL  7,  8. 

86.  Ibid.  ix.  8. 

87.  Ibid. 

88.  Deateron.  xiv.  4. 

89.  Galen.  De  Ration.  Vict  ii. 

90.  Poseidip.  apud  Athen.  x.  2. 

91.  Theodor.  Ibid. 

92.  Mann.  Sandwic.  pu  36. 

98.  n.  B^.  tL  1 9 ;  Uomer.et  Atbep.  passim. 

94.  Nonnios. 

95.  Homer.  Iliad. 

96.  Athen.  ill  7. 

97.  Id.  Ibid. 

98.  Id.iv.  7. 

99.  Id.TL9. 

100.  Encyclop.  Method.  Antiqnit&s. 

101.  Horat  iL  Sat.  5;  LEpist  15. 

102.  Apicius,  yiii.  5. 
108.  Id.  Ibid. 

104.  Apicios,  viiL  5. 

105.  Id.  Ibid. 

106.  Pers.  Sat  iL  48;  ApoL  MeUm.  il; 

Fnlgent  De  Vocib.  Antiq. 

107.  Valer.  Maxim,  yiii.  1. 

108.  Sonnini;  Desmarest:  Boda£ 

109.  Taillevant 

110.  Seuec.  Natur.  Qatest  iv.  6. 

111.  Banier,  torn.  L  p.  854. 

112.  Natal  Com.  Mytholog. 
118.  Exod.  xix.  88  to  42. 

114.  Banier,  tom.  L  p.  447. 

1 15.  Exod.  xii.  xxiii. 

116.  Genes.  xxiiL  19. 

117.  IT.  Beg.  iil  4. 

118.  AmoB,  Ti.  4,  7. 

119.  Athen.  L  16. 

120.  Id.iy. 

121.  Id.  Til  24. 

122.  Id.  pasfflm. 

123.  Cels. 

124.  Apicins,  nil  6. 

125.  Id.  Ibid. 

126.  Id.  Ibid. 

127.  Id.  Ibid. 

128.  Id.  Ibid. 

129.  Beckwith's  edition  of  Bloont's  Jocnlar 

Tenuies,  p.  281. 


130. 
131. 
182. 
133. 
134. 
135. 
136. 
187. 
138. 

139. 
140. 
141. 
142. 
143. 
144. 
145. 
146. 
147. 
148. 
149. 
150. 
151. 
152. 
153. 
154. 
155. 
156. 
157. 
158. 


Genes,  xxvil  9,  17. 

Exod.  xiL  5. 

Judic.  XT.  1. 

Lnc  XV.  29. 

Herodot 

Ibid. 

Athen.  ill  1 ;  iv.  7. 

Id.  ix.  8. 

Athen.  L    6;  Clem.  Alexandr.  Pie- 

dagog.  ii.  1. 
Athen.  ix.  13. 
JuTenal.  Sat  xi. 
Varro.  R.  B.  il  3. 
Apicins,  viil  6. 
Id.  Ibid. 
Id.  Ibid. 
Id.  Ibid. 
Id.  Ibid. 
Levitic  xl  26. 
lY.  B^.  yl  25. 
Galen. 

Plm.  Till  48. 

Gralen.  De  Aliment  Facdtat  iil 
Id.  De  Bation.  Vict  cap.  7. 
Id.  De  Alim.  Facnlt  iii. 
Id.  Ibid. 

Hippocrat  De  Dioot  il 
Fest  Pomp, 
Athen.  viil 
Plutarch.  De  FortonA  BomanonmL 


XVIL 
POULTRY. 


1. 


Aristot  De  Longit  et  Brevit  VitA, 

cap.  4. 
Galen.  De  Aliment  Facnlt  iil  18. 
Macrob. ;  Dio. 
Genes.  I 

Lacian.  xri.  De  Sjris  De&. 
Oppian.  CUix.  Cyneget  il  189. 

7.  Aristophan.  In  Avibns. 

8.  ^lian.  Var.  HiKt  il  28. 
Plin.  X.  21 ;  ColumeU.  yiii.  2. 
Plin.  loc.  cit 
Erasm.  Chiliad,  i.  cent  1 ;  ColnmeU. 

yiu.  c.  2. 
Plin.  X.  50. 
L.  Fannia.  Snmptnar.- In  Catalog.  Leg. 

Antiq.  Ulricl  p.  143. 
Macrob.  Satumal  iil  17. 
Anl  Gell  ii.  24 ;  Plin.  x.  50. 
Martial  xiil  63,  64. 


2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 


9. 
10. 
11. 

12. 
13. 


14. 
15. 
16. 


TABLE   OF  REFERENCES. 


425 


17. 

ApicitiB,  yi.  9. 

69. 

18. 

Bosiii.  Antiquit  Boinan.  p.  207. 

70. 

19. 

GaleD,  De  Aliment  Facult.  iiL  ;   Non- 

71. 

nius.  il  22. 

72. 

20. 

A  then,  il  12;  iy.  1 ;  iz.  4. 

78. 

21. 

Plin.  X.  50. 

74. 

22. 

Varro.  R.  B.  iii.  9. 

23. 

ColumelL  viiL  7  ;  Plin.  z.  51. 

75. 

24. 

Plin.  Ibid. 

76. 

25. 

L.  Fannia.  loc  cit 

77. 

26. 

Nonnius.  iL  22. 

78. 

27. 

Apicius,  vi.  9. 

79. 

28. 

Cic.  De  Divinat 

80. 

29. 

Yal  Maxim,  i.  4. 

81. 

80. 

Aristot. ;  Vopiscos. 

82. 

81. 

Athen.  iv.  7»  et  passim. 

83. 

82. 

Apiciua^  iy.  1. 

84. 

S3. 

Id.  vL  9. 

84. 

Id.  Ibid. 

85. 

Z5. 

Id.  Ibid. 

86. 

36. 

Id.  Ibid. 

87. 

87. 

Aristopfaan.  In  Ayib. 

88. 

88. 

Id.  Acharn.  iy.  1,  14. 

89. 

39. 

Athen.  iL  12 ;  iy.  1,  et  passim. 

90. 

40. 

De  Gomp.  Medic  Second,  loc  y.  4. 

91. 

41. 

Plutarch.  In  Gaton. 

92. 

42. 

Athen.  iz. 

48. 

De  Aliment.  Facalt  xiii. 

98. 

44. 

Ayicen.  Ganon  Medicins. 

94. 

45. 

Macrob.  Saturual.  iii.  18. 

95. 

46. 

MartiaL  ziii.  52. 

96. 

47. 

Apicius,  iy.  2. 

48. 

Id.  iy.  5. 

97. 

49. 

JElian.  y.  ziL ;   Gessner.  iii.  ;  Aldro- 

98. 

yand.  ziz. 

99. 

50. 

Aristot.  Hist  Animal.  L  1. 

100. 

51. 

In  AristoteL  loc  cit. 

101. 

52. 

Homer.  Odyss. 

102. 

58. 

Athen.  ii.  12 ;  iy.  1,  et  passim. 

103. 

54. 

Diod.  SicuL  iL  8. 

104. 

65. 

Athen.  iz.  7. 

105. 

66. 

Aristoph.    In   Ayib.  ;     Porphyr.    De 

106. 

Abstin.  iy. 

107. 

57. 

Gsesar.  De  Bello  Gall.  y. 

108. 

58. 

Brand's  Popular  Antiquities. 

109. 

59. 

Plin.  z.  22. 

60. 

Polyb.  ii. ;  Plat  In  Gamillo. 

110. 

61. 

Pierii  Hieroglyph. 

111. 

62. 

GolumelL  yiiL  13. 

112. 

63. 

Alez.  ab  Alex.  Gonial.  Dier.  iii.  12. 

64. 

Plot.  De  Boman.  Fortunft. 

118. 

65. 

Nonnios.  iL  3. 

114. 

66. 

Plin. 

115. 

67. 

Lamprid.  In  Seyer. 

116. 

68. 

Pallad.  L  80 ;  Athen.  iz.  7 ;  Plin.  z.  22. 

117. 

Plin.  Ibid. 

Id.  iz.  20. 

Id.  Horat  Sat 

Plin.  yiiL  51. 

Martial,  ziiL  58. 

Plin.  z.    22 ;    Galen.    De    Aliment. 

Facolt  iiL  20 ;  ^ginet  ii.  82. 
Athen.  iz.  7. 
Pallad.  L  80. 
Apicios,  yL  8. 
Id.  yi.  5. 
Id.  yi.  9. 

Brand's  Popolar  Antiqoities. 
Strab.  yJL 
Homer.  Odyss. 
Hesychios. 
Selden,  De  Diis  Syria,  ii.  8 ;  Tibnll.  L 

8,  18. 
Bibl.  Saor.  passim. 
Gantic  passim. 
Leyitic  L  14,  17. 

S.  Ghrysost  HomiL  de  Patiently  Job. 
Homer. 

Athen.  iL  12 ;  iy.  1,  5 ;  iz.  11,  etpass. 
Id.  Ibid. 
Qointilios,  In  Geoponic.  ap.  Gessner 

de  Ayibos,  iiL 
Plin.  z.  87. 
Id.  Ibid. 

Varrc  B.  R.  uL  7. 
Hippocrat  De  Inter.  Affect ;  Galen. 

De  Bat.  Vict 
Apicios,  yL  9. 
Varrc  B.  B.  iiL  9. 
Martial,  sob  Lemmat  Nomidicss. 
Plin.  xix.  4. 
Apicios,  yi.  9. 
Athen.  L  10. 

Sophocl.  ap.  Plin.  xxxyii.  2. 
Aristot  Hist  AnimaL  yL  2. 
Apod  Athen.  xiy.  9. 
Ibid.  iz.  8. 
Varrc  R  B. 
Soeton.  In  Galigol.  22. 
Hesych.  Lezic  Soidas.  In  Verb.  Me- 

leagrides. 
Volteran.  De  Urbe. 

Beckmann  ;  Diction,  des  D^cooyerte^. 
Hortaot,  Diet.  Histuriq.  de  la  ViUe  de 

Parisy  torn.  iy.  p.  417. 
Apicios,  yL  9. 
Hortaot  loc.  cit 

Aldroyand.  ziii.  1 ;  Nonnios,  ii.  24. 
^lian.  ziiL  18. 
Diodor.  SicoL 


( 


BB 


42tf 


TABLE    OF   REFERENCES. 


118.  JEWttSL  xi.  83. 

1 19.  Varro.  R.  K  iii.  6 ;  Athen.  xiv.  9,  25. 

120.  Aul  GelL  vii.  16. 

121.  ^lian.  v.  21 ;  AldroTand.  xiii.  1. 

122.  Athen.  xiv.  25. 

123.  Id.  Ibid. 

124.  Macrob.  Saturn,  iii.  13. 

125.  Juvenal. 

126.  Varro.  R.  R.  iii  6 ;  iGlian.  v.   21 ; 

Plin.  X.  20. 

127.  Horat  lib.  iL  Sat  ii. 

128.  Varro.  B.  B. 

129.  Alezand.  ab  Alexandr.  Genial.  Dier. 

ii.  IS. 

130.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Facult  ilL 

131.  S.  Aagustin.  De  Givit  Dei,  xxiL  4. 

132.  Apicius,  vi.  5. 


XVIIL 

MILK,   BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND 

EGGS. 

1.  Genes,  xviil  8. 

2.  Exod.  iii.  8  ;  Levitic.  xx.  24 ;  Numer. 
'    xiii.  28 ;  et  passim. 

3.  ProverK  xxvii.  27. 

4.  Ovid.  Metam.  i.  3  ;  Fast  iv. 

5.  Homer. 

6.  Herodot  iy. 

7.  Straba 

8.  Cesar;  Tacit 

9.  Longos.  iii. 

10.  Rosin.  Antiq.  Roman,  p.  287. 

11.  VarraR.R.  ii.  11. 

12.  Hi|$pocrat  Aphorism,  v.  64. 

13.  Galen.  De  Ration.  Vict 

14.  Nonnias,  ii.  15. 

15.  Sueton.  In  Othon.  xiL 

16.  Martial,  x.  68. 

17.  Juvenal.  Sat  vi. 

18.  Plin.  xxviii.  12  :  xxxiii.  11. 

19.  Nonnius,  iu  15. 

20.  Apicius,  iv.  2. 

21.  Beckmann. 

22.  Rabbi  Salom. 

23.  Job,  xxix.  6. 

24.  Aristot.  Hist  AnimaL  iii.  20. 

25.  Id.  Ibid. 

26.  Hippocrat  De  Morbis,  iv. 

27.  Hecat  Abderan.  apud  Athen.  x.  14. 

28.  Galen.  De  Aliment ;  Id.  SimpL  Medi- 

cam.  X. ;  Plin.  xxviii.  9. 


29.  Plin.  Ibid. 

30.  Id.s.41. 

31.  Gralen.  De  Aliment  Facult 
82.  Dioscorid.  ii.  81. 

33.  Herodot  iv.  2. 

34.  Plin.  xxviii.  9. 

35.  Rdglement  du  20  Mars,  1635. 

36.  Antiquitat  Ecclesiast 

37.  Dictionnaire  de  la  France. 

38.  Parmentier:  Beurre. 

39.  Justin.  xiiL 

40.  Apollodor.  iL ;  Panson.  viii. 

41.  Homer.  Iliad.    / 

42.  L  Reg.  xvii.  18  ;  Judith,  x.  5 ;  Job,  x.  10. 

43.  Aristot  Hist  Animal  iii.  20. 

44.  Hippocrat  De  Morbis.  iv. ;  Aristot  loc. 

cit 

45.  Plin.  xi.  41 ;  xxviii.  9. 

46.  Ulpian.  in  L.  viii.  sicat  §  Aristo. 

47.  Onuphr.  PanvinL 

48.  Athen.  i.  30  ;  Plin.  xi.  42. 

49.  Plin.  xL  41. 

50.  Stuckius,  Antiq.  ConvivaL  L  21. 

51.  Pansan.vL 

52.  Varro.  De  Ling.  Lat  iv.  22. 

53.  CicEpist  xiv.  16 ;  Famil.  u.  16, 17,  20. 

54.  Athen. 

55.  Strabo.  xiL 

56.  Sueton.  In  August  76. 

57.  Gr^ire,  Essai  Historiq.  sur  TAgricnlt 

58.  Ovid.  Fast  iv.  371. 

59.  Columell.  vil  8. 

60.  Id.  Ibid. 

61.  Apicius,  iv.  1. 

62.  Id.  i.  33. 

63.  Parmentier :  Fromagc 

64.  Plutarch.  Sympos. 

65.  Alexand.  Ab  Alexandr. ;  Villichius,  De 

Arte  Magiricd,  10. 

66.  Lucian.  De  De&  Syr. 

67.  Tit  Liv.  xli. ;  Varro.  R.R.  i.  2. 

68.  Snidas ;  JuvenaL ;  Macrob.  viL  16. 

69.  Plin.  X.  55. 

70.  Cic.  De  Divinat 

71.  Plutarch.  Sjmpos. ;  Macrob.  SatomaL 

vil  16. 

72.  Suidas ;  CobI  Rhodig. 

73.  Triph.  apud  Athen.  ii. 

74.  Horat  Sat  I  3. 

75.  Id.  Sat  ii.  4. 

76.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Facalt 

77.  Macrob.  Sat  iii  13. 

78.  Plin.  X.  53. 

79.  Apud  Athen.  il  16. 

80.  Plin.  X.  20. 


TABLE   OF   REFERENCES. 


427 


Bl.    Galen.  De  Djnamidib ;  PlixL  xxiz.  8. 
82.    Apiciufly  viL  17. 
88.    Id.  Ibid. 

84.  Id.  Ibid. 

85.  Id.  iL  8. 

86.  Id.  iy.  1. 

87.  Id.iv.  2. 

88.  Court  de  Gkbelin,  Monde  Primitif,  torn. 

sir.  p.  251. 

89.  Brand's  Popular  Antiqtdties,   vol.    L 

p.  147. 

90.  Diction,  des  Origines. 


XIX. 
HUNTING. 

1.  Genes,  z.  9. 

2.  ]bid.xzl20. 

3.  I.  Reg.  zvii.  84,  et  seqq. 

4.  Ovid.  lib.  iz.  Fab.  8. 

5.  Artemidor.  iL  Oneirocrit  85. 

6.  Xenophon. 

7.  NataUs  Comes.  MythoL 

8.  Homer. 

9.  Aristot  De  Repnbl.  cap.  4. 

10.  Plato,  De  Legibas,  Dialog.  viiL 

11.  Horat  Epist  1 18. 

12.  Jul  Poll 

18.  Homer.  Iliad,  v. ;  Odyss.  iv. 

14.  Plot  In  Pelopid. 

15.  Id.  In  Alexandr. 

16.  Id.  In  Philopcem. 

17.  Xenoph.  De  Venatione,  passim. 

18.  Symmach.  Epist  y.  66. 

19.  Xenoph.  loc.  cit, 

20.  Id.  Ibid. 

21.  Claadian.  De  Land.  Stilich.  iil ;  Sym- 

mach. Epist.  ii.  17. 

22.  Montfanoon,  Antiq.  EzpL 
28.  Id.  Ibid. 

24.  Apal.  Milesiar.  yiii 

25.  Probw  Grammatic.  ad  lib.  iiu  Georgic 

26.  Sidon.  ApolUnar.  Carm.  vil  198 ;  Ovid. 

Metam.  viii. 

27.  Strab.  Geograph* 

28.  Lncret 

29.  MartiaL 

80.  Polloz,  Onomast  y.  4. 

81.  Jnl.  Finnic.  Matemos. 

82.  Dio  Chrysost 

88.  Varro.  R.  B.  it  3 ;  Plin.  viii.  52. 

84.  Instit  Justinian.  De  Ber.  Diyision.  L  i. 
De  Aoqnir.  Doman.  §  11. 


35.  L  iii.  Qnod  enim.  De  Acqair.  &c 

Z6.  Genes,  zzyii.  S,  4. 

87.  m.  Beg.  iy.  23. 

38.  Xenoph.  Ezped.  Cyri,  L 

39.  Id.  De  BepabL  Lacedsem. ;   Herodot 

Hist  yii. ;  Athen.  iy.  passim ;  Petron. 
Sat 

40.  Asserins,  Vita  j^lfredi. 

41.  W.  Malmsbnr.  Hist  Beg.  Anglor.  iL  6. 

42.  Id.  Ibid.  cap.  8. 
48.  Id.  Ibid.  cap.  13. 

44.  Ducarrel's  Anglo-Norman  Antiquities. 

45.  Johan.  Sarisburiensis,  De  Nugis  Curia- 

lium,  L  4. 

46.  Stmtt's  Sports  and  Pastimes,  edit  1801, 

p.  6. 

47.  Aristot.  Hist  Animal,  iz.  6. 

48.  P]in.yiiL82. 

49.  Galen.  De  Bat  Vict. 

50.  Denteron.  xiL  15,  22. 

51.  in.  Beg.  iy.  23. 

52.  Stnckius. 

53.  Nonnius,  iL  10. 

54.  Apicius,  yiiL  2. 

55.  Id.  Ibid. 
66.  Id.  Ibid. 

57.  Galen,  loc.  oit  ,*  De  Alim.  Facult 

58.  Athen.  L  4. 

59.  Xenoph.  Ezped.  CyrL  L;  Athen.  ii; 

Plir.  yiii.  53. 

60.*  Apicius  yiiL  2. 

61.  Id.  Ibid. 

62.  Id.  Ibid. 

63.  Plin.  loc  cit ;  Nonnius,  iL  10. 

64.  Apicius,  loc.  cit 

65.  Athen.  ziL 

66.  Petron.  Sat 

67.  Virgil.  Mneid.  iL  1. 

68.  Macrob.  SatumaL  iiL  13. 

69.  Plin.  viiL  51. 

70.  Athen.  iv.  1. 

71.  Hippocrat  De  Dioet  iL;  Plin.  viiL  51,52. 

72.  Juvenal.  Sat  L  141. 

73.  Plin.  yiiL  51 ;  MercuriaL  ii.  28. 

74.  Caton.  Censor.  Orat. ;  Plin.  loc.  cit 

75.  Eubul.  apud  Athen.  yii.  24. 

76.  Varro.  B.  R  iii.  13. 

77.  Senec.  Epist  90. 

78.  Varra  loc.  cit. 

79.  Senec  De  ProvidentiiL  cap.  4. 

80.  Apicius,  yiii.  1. 

81.  Id.  Ibid. 

82.  Id.  Ibid. 

83.  Id.  Ibid. 

84.  Id.  Ibid. 


6B  3 


428 


TABLE    OP   REFERENCES. 


S5.    ApicinSy  yiii  1. 

86.    Platarch.  Sjmpoe.  iy.  5. 

87*    Joseph,  contra  Apion. 

88.  Levitic.  xi.  6. 

89.  CflBsar,  De  Bell.  Gall  y. 

90.  Xenoph.  Exped.  Cjri. 

91.  Iferodot.  yii. ;  Athen.  iii.  1. 

92.  Apud.  Athen.  ix.  12. 

93.  Archestrat  ap.  Athen.  ix. 

94.  Athen.  xiy. 

95.  Stnckios.  ii.  8. 

96.  Hippocrat.  De  Dioet.  iL 

97.  Galen.  De  Aliment.  Facolt  et  pasBim. 

98.  Lamprid.  In  Sever. 

99.  Martial,  ad  Gelliam. 

100.  Horat  Sat  lib.  il  4. 

101.  Proverb,  xxx.  26. 

102.  Martial  xiiL  60 ;  Varro.  B.  B.  iil  12. 

103.  Plin.;  Varro. 

104w    Bochart,  De  Animal.  Saor.  Script 
liL  81. 

105.  Strabow  Geog^aph.  liL 

106.  Galen.  De  Alim.  Facul.  iii.;  Varro. 

B.  B.  iii.  12 ;  Plin.  viii.  29. 

107.  VarraRR. 

108.  Plin.  yil  66. 

109.  Ghden.  De  Alim.  Facult  iii. 

110.  Athen.  iy.  4. 

111.  Martial. 

112.  Aristot  Hist  AnimaL  vL  26. 
118.    Athen.  iv.  6. 

114.  Strabo.  Gkograph. 

115.  Photin.  BibUoth.  p.  1355. 

116.  Le  Vaillant^  Vojages,  tonL  ii.  p.  27. 

edit  18mo. 

117.  Id.  Ibid.  pp.  27  to  29. 

118.  Senec.  Epist  85,  sub  fin. 

119.  Id.  De  Breyit  Vitas,  cap.  18. 


XX. 

FEATHERED  GAME. 

1.  Leyitic.  xi.  13  to  19. 

2.  Clem.  Alexandr.  Stromat  vil  fol.  718. 

Lutet  1629. 

8.  Aristophan.  In  Ayib.  532,  et  1578. 

4.  Plin.  X.  51. . 

5.  Belon.  Histoire  des  OiBeaux.  anno  1 555. 

6.  AriBtophan.  In  Avib. ;  Martial  xiil  72. 

7.  ManiliuB,  370. 

8.  Isidor.  xii.  7. 

9.  Calixen.  apud  Athen.  xix.  8. 
10.  Ptolem.  Eyerget  Comment.  xiL 


11.  Aristophan.  in  Kubib.  109;  Philoxen. 

apb  Athen.  iy.  2.' 

12.  Athen.  xiv.  9. 

13.  Plin.  X.  22 ;  xi.  33,  37 ;  xix.  4. 

14.  Saeton.  In  Vespasian. 

15.  Id. 

16.  Lamprid.  xxxyii. 

17.  Saeton.  In  Caligul.  22. 

18.  Id.  Ibid.  30. 

19.  Petrarca^  De  Bemed.  Dialog,  xviii. 

20.  Galen.  De  Aliment.  Facalt  et  passim. 

21.  Athen.  iL  12,  et  paasiuL 

22.  Plin.  iv.  48. 

23.  iElian.  De  AnmuJ.  Nat  ii.  1. 

24.  Lamprid.  In  Sever. 

25.  Aldrovand.  Ornithol  nil  17. 

26.  Athen.  i.  6. 

27.  ld.ix.ll. 

28.  Bochart  De  AnimaL  Script  part.  iL 

lib.  L  cap.  19. 

29.  Galen.  De  Part  FacilL  cap.  155. 

30.  Athen.  loc  cit 

31.  Exod.  xvL  13. 

32.  Athen.  IL  12 ;  iv.  1. 

33.  Aristophan.  apnd  Athen.  ix.  1 1. 

34.  Aristot  Hist  AnimaL  ix.  8. 

35.  Varra  B.  R  iiL  5. 

36.  Plin.  ix.  23,  72. 

37.  Galen.  Epidemior.  v.  comm.  5,  text  45. 

38.  Apad  Athen.  xL 

39.  Aristot  Hbt  AnimaL  ix.  8. 

40.  Lncian.  In  Dialog,  de  Gymnasiis. 

41.  Aldrovand.  Omith.  xiiL  22. 

42.  Quintilian.  Institnt  Orat.  v.  9. 

43.  Athen.  iL  12^ 

44.  Id.  xiv.  6  ;  Aristophan.  In  Avibas. 

45.  Athen.  iy.  1,  et  passim. 

46.  Clem.  Alexandr.  Pcodagog.  ii.  1. 

47.  Varro.  B.  B.  iiL  2,  3. 

48.  Id.  L  38. 

49.  Id.  iiL  5 ;  Nonnins,  iL  29. 

50.  Varro.  loc  cit 

51.  Pers.  Sat  vi. 

52.  Martial.  iiL  51. 

53.  Plant  Triummo.  act  ii.  sc.  4. 

54.  Lamprid.  ElogabaL 

55.  Horat  Epist  xv.  41 ;  Martial,  xiil.  92. 
66.    Plutarch.  In  Pompeio. 

57.  Athen.  iL  12,  et  passim. 

58.  Varro.  B.  B.  L  38  ;  Horat  Epist  iL 

59.  Galen.  De  Cibis  Boni  et  Mali  SuocL  L 

60.  Chroniq.  Scandal  de  Louis  XL 

61.  Plin.  X.  42. 

62.  Athen.  iL  12. 

63.  Galen.  Do  Sanit.  Tuendd.  xi.  16. 


TABLE   OF   REFERENCES. 


429 


64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 

71. 
72. 

73. 
74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
91. 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 

96. 
97. 

98. 

99. 
100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 

104. 


Apicias,  X.  48. 

Latinas  Lattnius ;  Bajle. 

Moli^re;  Amphitryon. 

Kiranides.  c.  7. 

Martial  xiii.  66. 

Sueton. ;  Lamprid. ;  Plin.  z.  48. 

Histoire  G-^nerale  des  Voyages^  torn. 

L  p.  269. 
Petron.  c.  33. 
Aristot  h'lsL   AnimaL  iz.  49;  Plin. 

Z.29. 
Athen.  xiy. 
Martial  xiil  48. 
Juyenal  xiy.  7. 
Yarro.  B.  B,  iil  5. 
Id.  lb. 
Strabo.  xyL 
Marmol  Africa. 
Lamprid.  Li  Blogab. 
Bosin.  Antiqait  Boman.  p.  207. 
Horat.  Sat  lib.  L  2,  49. 
Nepot  Fragm.  x.  1. 
Aristot  Hist  Animal  ix.  26. 
Vorro.  B.  B.  iii.  9. 
Athen.  I  28. 
Plin.  X.  22. 
Martial  xiil  76. 
Antiphan.  apud  Athen.  ii.  12. 
Ambros.  In  cap.  I  Epist  ad  Bom. 
Martial,  xiil  85. 
Aristot  Hist  Animal. 
Banier.  Mytholog.  tom.  I  p.  354. 
Martial  y. 
Galen.  De  SImpIio.  Medic.  Facoliot 

XL  33. 
Snidas  In  Vitell 
Nicolas,  Etudes  sur  le  Christianisme. 

tom.  I  254. 
Horat  Sat.  I  3. 
Pktarch.  Vita  Cnton; 
Id.  Vita  FLimin. 
Tacit 

NicoUUy  loc  cit 
Plin.  xxxil  8 ;  Gek  y.  6,  18 ;   Dios- 

corid. 
Diction,  d'  Hist  Nat 


XXL 


FISH. 


1.  Golomell.  B.  B. 

2.  Levitic.  xl  10. 
8.    Strabu  xWl  1. 


4. 

Clem.  Alexandr.  Strom,  yil  fol  718; 

Iiutet  1619. 

5. 

Athen.  viii.  4. 

6. 

Odyss.  xii.  332. 

7. 

Plat  De  Bepubl  iil 

8. 

Athen.  I 

9. 

Id.  yiil 

10. 

Lacian.  Bion  Praxis. 

11. 

Athen.  yil  20. 

12. 

Id.  yi.  2. 

13. 

Xenarch.  Comic.  Apad  Athen. 

14. 

Plutarch.  Sympos.  iy.  4. 

15. 

Plin.  xviil  3. 

16. 

Senec.  Quast  Natural,  iil  17, 18. 

17. 

Juyenal.  iy.  11. 

18. 

Plin.  ix. 

19. 

Cic.  Epist  XX.  atl  Attieum.  1. 

20. 

Plin.  loc  cit;  Dio  Cassius,  L.  iy.;  Seneo. 

De  Clement  I  18. 

21. 

Senec  De  Ird.  iil  40. 

22. 

Id.  lb. 

23. 

Dio  In  8eyer.  xxl 

24. 

B^glements  de  St  Louis. 

25. 

Edit  sans  date. 

26. 

Lettres  Patentes  dn  19  Mars,  1543 

27. 

lb.  du  16  Septembre,  1606. 

28. 

The. Popish  Kingdome,  fol  56. 

29. 

Delamarre. 

SO. 

Po^es  des  Troubadours. 

31. 

Athen.  yil  6,  12;  Macrob.  Satnmal. 

iil  16. 

32. 

Athen.  loc.  cit 

83. 

Id.  lb. 

34. 

Plin.  ix.  17. 

35. 

Martial  xiil  91. 

36. 

Dio  liil 

37. 

Stattttum  de  Presrogativa  Regis ;  anno 

17,  Edward,  il  ell. 

38. 

Sonnini,  Poissons.  tom.  iy.  p.  351. 

39. 

Id.  lb.  p.  341. 

40. 

Id.  lb. 

41. 

Diction,  de  UiConyersation.  tom.  il  533. 

42. 

Diction,  d' Histoire  Naturel  torn.  x. 

p.  485. 

43. 

lb. 

44. 

Athen.  I  11. 

45. 

Senec  Qunst.  Natur.  iil  17,  18. 

46. 

PUn.  ix.  30. 

47. 

Horat  Sat.  ii. 

48. 

Martial  x.  31. 

49. 

Juyenal  iv.  11. 

50. 

Sueton.  In  Tiber.  34. 

51. 

Senec  Epist.  95, 

52. 

Galen.  De  Aliment  Facnltat 

53. 

Plin.  ix.  31. 

430 


TABLE   OF  REFERENCES. 


54. 

Lamprid.  Elogab.  20. 

104. 

Encyclop.  Method.  Antiqatt^s. 

65. 

Apicias,  ix.  13. 

105. 

NonninB^  Ichthjophagia^  p.  9. 

56. 

Id.  IK 

106. 

Ariatot  Hist  Animal.  yilL  13. 

57. 

Athen.  viL  22. 

107. 

Plin.  ix.  15. 

58. 

UacroK  Sat  iiu  15  ;    ^lian.   Yar. 

108. 

Apicius,  ix.  12. 

Jiist  c  173;  Porphyr.  De  Abatin. 

109. 

Athen. 

ab  AnimaL 

110. 

Id. 

59. 

Id.  lb. 

111. 

Plin.  ix.  3. 

60. 

Plin.  X.  70 ;   Lacian.  De  Deft  Sjr. ; 

112. 

Cetti,  Peace  di  Sardegna,  p.  134. 

Martial,  x.  30. 

113. 

AldroYand.  De  Piacibus ;  Gessner,  De 

61. 

Varro.  B.  B.  iiL  2. 17. 

PiscibuB. 

62. 

Id.  viil  16. 

114. 

Eodox.  apnd  Athen.  vii. 

63. 

TertuUian.  De  PalUo. 

115. 

Archeatrat  apad  Athen.  IK 

64. 

(xeoponic  xx. 

116. 

Philcemon.  apad  Athen.  lb. 

65. 

Varro.  iiL  3 ;  PUUna,  De  ToendA  Va- 

117. 

Galen.  De  Aliment  Facnlt 

letodin. 

118. 

Plat  apod  Athen.  viL  8. 

66. 

SaetoiL  In  ViteL 

119. 

ApiciuSy  X.  2. 

67. 

Lamprid.  In  Elogabi 

120. 

Paw. 

68. 

Athen.  L  6. 

121. 

Herodot  Hiat 

69. 

Horat  Sat.  iL  ult 

122. 

Apollodor.  In  Chronic;     Platareh. 

70. 

Apicio8»  X.  8. 

De    Solert   AnimaL ;    iBlian.    De 

71. 

Qalen.  De  Alimeot  EacuL  iii. 

Piaciboa. 

72. 

Herodot  iL 

123. 

Athen.  viL 

73. 

Sonnini,  Poiasona,  torn.  yL  p.  51. 

124. 

Agathiocid.  apad  Athen. 

74. 

Id.  lb.  p.  6a 

125. 

Macrob.  Satornal.  iL 

75. 

Macrob.  Satomal.  iL  2. 

126. 

Ariatophan.  In  Lyaiatrat  36. 

76. 

GhssaneTi  De  Aqaatilibii%  iii. 

127. 

Bulenger.  De  Conviviis.  xi.  30. 

77. 

Oppian.  Halientioon,  x. 

128. 

Athen.  yiL  12,  13. 

78. 

Pennant,    British    Zoology,  yoL  iii. 

129. 

Hippocrat  De  lutemia  A£Eect 

p.  78. 

130. 

Apod  Athen. 

79. 

Bloch.  Ichtyologie :  Lamproie. 

131. 

Juyeual.  Sat  y. ;  Nonnina,  iiL  5. 

80. 

Paolo  Giovio. 

132. 

ApicioBy  X.  14. 

81. 

Platina. 

133. 

Bloch.  Ichtyolog.  Angaille. 

82. 

Id. 

134. 

Plin.  ix.  2. 

83. 

Athen.  viL 

135. 

Auaon.  Mosella. 

84. 

Id.  IK 

136. 

Bloch.  Ichtyolog. 

85. 

Plin.  ix.  17. 

137. 

Ariatot  iy.  8;   yL  14;    Athen.  yiL; 

86. 

Id.  lb. 

Plin.  xxxiL  1 1. 

87. 

Marlianns,  Topographia,  v. 

138. 

Alexand.  apad  Athen.  yiL 

88. 

Plato,  apud.  Athen.  yiL  8. 

189. 

Apidas»  iy.  2. 

89. 

Horat  Epod.  ii.  ▼.  49. 

140. 

Bloch. 

90. 

Athen.  yiL  ;  MartiaL  xiii.  84. 

141. 

Id. 

91. 

Plin.  ix.  17. 

142. 

PHn.  ix.  29. 

92. 

Aristot  iL  17. 

143. 

Athen.  yiL 

98. 

i^ilian.  i.  2. 

144. 

^lian.  Hiat  Animal.  xyiL  1. 

94. 

Oppian.  Halient  iv,  78. 

145. 

Varro.  iiL  3. ;  Plin.  ix.  17, 54. 

95, 

Horat 

146. 

Athen. 

96. 

PUn.  ix.  42. 

147. 

Macrob.  SatnmaL  iiL  15. 

97. 

Joveual.  Sat  iv. 

148. 

Plin.  xxxii.  5. 

98. 

Id.  lb. 

149. 

MartiaL  xiii.  90. 

99. 

Berchoox,  Gastronomie. 

150. 

Festoa. 

100. 

Clem.  Alexandr.  Piedagog. 

151. 

Apicina,  x.  12. 

101. 

Athen.  L  6. 

152. 

Bondelet  Poissons. 

102. 

Plat  apnd  Athen.  viL  8. 

153. 

Athen. 

103. 

Strab. 

154^ 

Apicia%  ix.  9. 

TABLE    OF    REFERENCES. 


431 


155.  Plin.  ix.  17. 

156.  Athen.  yii.  20. 

157.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Facalt.  ill 

158.  Bloch.;  SonninL 

159.  Aristoi.  vi.  14. 

160.  Athen. 

161.  Id. 

162.  Anson.  In  Mosel. 

163.  Apieius,  x.  6. 

1 64.  Lacepdde,  Poissons,  torn  iiL  p.  1 3 1 ,  note. 

165.  Plato  apud  Athen.  viL  8. 

166.  Borion.  apud  Athen.  vii. 

167.  Arist.  Hist.  Animal,  ii.  5. 

168.  Plin.  iz.  42. 

169.  Lac^p^de,  Poissons,  torn.  iii. 

170.  Id.  lb.  p.  117. 

171.  Salmo  &  Saltn ;  Olans  Magnns,  zx.  3. 

172.  Auson.  In  Mosel.  97. 

173.  Plin.  ix.  18. 

174.  Id.  lb. 

175.  "  Sir  W.  Scott,  The  Coyenanters,  yoI.  i. 

chap.  viii. 

176.  Plin.  ix.  29. 

177.  Apicius,  ix.  4. 

178.  Athen.  vii.  7 ;  AldroYand.  iii. 

179.  Scholiast.  Aristophan.  In  Equit.  768. 

180.  Anson.  Mosel.  827. 

181.  Herat  Sat  ii.  2. 

182.  Apicias^  x.  1. 

183.  Jnvenal.  xt.  317. 

184.  Apicios,  ix.  11. 

185.  Athen.  i.  6. 

186.  Vid.  -ffilian.  Hist  Animal,  xiv.  1. 

187.  Athen.  L  49. 

188.  Horat  Sat  ii.  8. 

189.  Plin.  xxii.  IL 

190.  Id.  lb. 

191.  Anson.  Mosel  125. 

192.  Id.  lb. 

193.  Mnesim.  apud  Athen.  ix.  15 ;  Aldro- 

▼and.  Be  Piscibus,  ii. 

194.  Apicius,  ix.  3. 

195.  Athen.  yil  22. 

196.  Galen.  De  Gib.  Boni  et  Mali  Succi. 

197.  Sonnini,  Poissons,  torn*  iy.  p.  143. 

198.  Aldroyand.  De  Piscibos,  iii.  66. 

199.  Colnmell.  yiiL 

200.  Pliu  xxxii.  11. 

201.  Athen.  yii.  8 ;  Aldroyand.  ii. 

202.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Facolt  iii. 

203.  Apicius,  ix.  10. 

204.  Id.  lb. 

205.  Athen.  i.  6. 

206.  Plutarch.  De  Snperstit 

207.  Apicius,  iy.  2. 


208.  Anaximand.  apnd  Athen.  vii. 

209.  Martial,  xiii.  88. 

210.  Plin.  ix.  17. 

211.  Bosc.  Hareng. 

212.  Sonnini,  Anchois. 

213.  Dio.  Cfdigul. 

214.  Athen.  iii.  12. 

215.  Horat  Epod.  iL  49. 

216.  Athen.  i.  6. 

217.  Apicius  ix.  14. 

218.  Id.  ix.  7. 

219.  Macrob.  Satumal. 

220.  Lucilius,  Sat  xiii. 

221.  Plutarch.  Sympos.  ix. ;  Senec.  Epist 

108. 

222.  Athen.  iv. ;  Clem.  Alex.  Pssdag.  ii. 

223.  Athen.  loc.  cit 

224.  Senec.  Epist  88. 

225.  Plin.  xxxii.  6. 

226.  Juvenal,  vi.  302. 

227.  Plin.  loc  cit 

228.  Athen.  iv. ;  Macrob.  iii 

229.  Nonnius,  iii.  36. 

230.  Plin.  loc.  cit 

231.  Id.ix.54. 

232.  Plin.  loc.  cit ;  Varro.  B.  R.  iiL 

233.  Plin.  loc  cit 

234.  Athen.  L  xiii. 

235.  Senec. 

236.  Die;  Sueton 

237.  Athen.  i.  6. 

238.  Id.  lb. 

239.  Auson.  Epist.  xiii. 

240.  Id.  lb. ;  Sidon.  ApoUinar. 

241.  Apicius,  ix.  6. 

242.  Id.  i.  12. 

243.  Athen.  iiL  23. 

244.  Id.  lb. 

245.  Id.  lb. 

246.  Trallian.  De  Epilepsia. 

247.  Apicius,  ix.  8. 

248.  Id.  iiL  5. 

249.  Id.  L29. 

250.  Athen.  loc  cit 

251.  Horat  Sat  lib.  iL  4. 

252.  iKidor.  Origin,  xii.  6. 

253.  Strabc  viL ;  Plin.  ix.  19. 

254.  Plin.  lb. 

255.  iElian.  De  Animal,  xii.  41. 

256.  Chiliad. 

257.  Plin.  xxxiL  2. 

258.  Apicius,  ix.  2. 

259.  Id.  lb. 

260.  Athen.  L  12. 

261.  Plin.  ix.  2. 


482 


TABLE  OF   REFERENCES. 


262. 

Jayenal. 

24. 

Soeton.  In  Claad  32. 

268. 

Apiciiu,  iz.  1. 

25. 

Id.  In  Vitell. ;  Dio. 

264. 

Id.  lb. 

26. 

Id.  lb. 

265. 

Maton.  Parog.  apod  Aihen. 

27. 

Saeton.  In  Tiber.  42. 

266. 

lb. 

28. 

Id.  In  Galba.  22. 

267. 

Apicius,  loc.  cit 

29. 

Spartian.  In  Vero.  5. 

268. 

Id.  Ih. 

30. 

Id.  In  Get&. 

269. 

Id.  lb. 

8L 

Taillevant 

270. 

Rib. 

82. 

Id. 

271. 

Athen.  i.  8. 

38. 

Id. 

272. 

Apicius,  iz.  5. 

34. 

Histoire  da  Daapbin^. 

278. 

Isu.  zix.  8;  Jerem.  zvi.  16;  Ezecfa. 

S&. 

Froissart,  torn.  iv.  chap.  2. 

zlTii.  10. 

36. 

Ecole  de  Sakerne,  kc^ 

274. 

Homer.  Odyss.  xxiL  884^ 

37. 

Monteil,  Histoire  des  Fran^aLs,  torn,  ii 

275. 

944  jean  B.C. 

pw  68. 

276. 

Hesiod.  Sent  Hercul  v.  212. 

38. 

Memoires  de  Lamarche. 

277. 

Platarch.  Bjmpos. 

39. 

Onuphr.  PanvinL 

278. 

Eroolano.  1757,  torn.  L  Tavola,  86. 

40. 

MartiaL  vii.  30. 

279. 

Varro. 

41. 

Varro.  E.  R.  i.  2. 

280. 

Cio.  Epist  libb  ii.  ad  Atticam. 

42. 

Petron.  edit  Nodot  tom.  i.  p.  116. 

281. 

Senec.  ControT.  y.  5. 

43. 

Donat  In  Adelph.  act  iv.  sc.  2. 

282. 

Id.  Epist  100. 

44. 

Juvenal  viu  184. 

288. 

Id.  Nat.  Qaest  iii.  17. 

45. 

Senec  Epist  47. 

284. 

Apicias,  L  2. 

46. 

Varro.  De  Vita  Popal  Roman.  I 

285. 

Galen.  De  Cib.  &c.  15. 

47. 

Vid.  lips.  Saturn,  ii.  2 ;  Juvenal  v.  121. 

48. 

Petron.  c.  36 ;  Senec  Epist  47. 

49. 

Sidon.  Apollin.  iL  Epist  9. 

XXIT. 

50. 

Eroolano. 

51. 

Petron.  c  47. 

THE  COOK. 

52. 

Stephan.  t.  FocuIbs. 

1. 

MedicQB  ad  Palatum. 

53. 
54. 

Horat  Od.  I  9,  y.  5.             -jj*' 
Juvenal.  Sat.\262.           N 

2. 

Anton.  Liberal  Fab.  ii. 

65, 

Rosin.  Antiquit  Roman,  -p.  237. 

3. 

Senec.  Epist  95. 

66. 

Aristophan.  Veip.  act  i.  8c.  2. 

4. 

Dio  In  Neron. 

57. 

Appian.  Bell.  Civil  ir. 

5. 

Alexand.  ab  Alezandr.  Genial.  Dier. 

58. 

Athen.  I  49. 

6. 

Lex  Fannia ;  L.  Orebia ;  L.  Cornelia, 

59. 

Virg.  ^.neid.  iiu  466. 

&c 

60. 

Athen.  I  viil ;  Plin.  xvi.  1 1. 

7. 

Martial.  Domini  debet  baberegalam. 

61. 

Eroolano. 

8. 

Athen.  i.  31.' 

62. 

lb. 

9. 

Homer.  Iliad, 

63. 

lb. 

10. 

Evemer.  apad  Atben.  xi?.  22. 

64. 

Lamprid.  ElogaK  19;  Cic.  Pro  Rose 

11. 

Athen.  vii. 

Amer.  133. 

12. 

Id.  i.  8. 

65. 

Encjrclop^d.  Method.  Antiqnit^s. 

IS. 

Id.  lb. 

66. 

Galen.  De  Compos.  Medicam.  iii.  5. 

14. 

Id.  lb. 

67. 

Apicius,  passim. 

15. 

Plato.  In  Gorg. 

68. 

Ercolano ;  Varro.  De  L  L.  iv.  27. 

16. 

Athen.  i.  7. 

69. 

Encjrclop^d.  loc.  cit 

17. 

Id.  I  9. 

70. 

Columell  xii.  46. 

18. 

Id.  i.  10. 

71. 

Apad  Siracidem.  ziiL  3. 

19. 

Senec.  Oculonim  Gala. 

72. 

Senec  Epist.  85. 

20. 

Athen.  xii. 

73. 

Cajlns,  Antiquit  Romam.  torn.  i. 

21. 

Id.  lb. 

74. 

Plin.  xxiil  2. 

22. 

iElian.  Vor.  Hist  i.  27. 

75. 

Catc  R  R  84. 

28. 

Plutarcb.  Priecept  San. 

76. 

Varro.  De  L  L.  iv. ;  Plin.  xxziil  4w 

TABLE    OF   REFERENCES. 


433 


77.  Ercolano;  Winckelmann. 

78.  Petron.  c.  83 ;  Martial  xir.  121. 

79.  Athen.  i.  6. 

80.  Caylaa,  Becaeil  d'Aniiquit^s,  torn.  iiL 

pL  84,  na  5. 

81.  Eroolano. 

82.  lb. 

88.  CoeL  Bhodig.  ziii.  32. 

84.  AriBtophan.  In  Avibns.  361. 

86.  Mat.  Rdgnier,  Sat  x. 

86.  Cic  Toscnl  y.  21;   Martial  xil  67; 

Tit  Liv.  zzzix.  6. 

87.  AtheB.  ii.  9. 

88.  Petron.  Satyr. 

89.  Bejerlink.  Theair.  Yite  Haman, 

90.  Gato.  c  74. 

91.  Plin.  xviii.  11. 

92.  Pers.  Sat ;  Plin.  loc.  cit 

93.  Plin.  lb. 

94.  Athen.  iy. 

95.  Varro.  R.  R.  ill  14. 

96.  Plin.  xviil  24. 

97.  Id.  lb. ;  Veget  De  Arte  Yet.  i.  52. 


xxiir. 

SEASONINGS. 

1.  Enseb.    Prsspar.   Eyang.  I ;    Polydor. 

Yirgil.  De  Berum.  Invent  iil  5. 

2.  Levitic.  ii.  3. 

3.  Diodor.  Sicol.  ii.  48. 

4.  Galen.  De  Simplic.  Medicam. 

5.  Festos. 

6.  Amob.  il 

7.  Sallnst  Bell  Togort 

8.  Athen.  iii.  1. 

9.  Tit  Liv.  xi.  9. 

10.  Plin,  xxxi.  7. 

11.  Lib.  yi.  F.  F.  De  Captiy.  et  Poet 

12.  Delamarre. 

13.  Phut  Poennl  1.  2,  32. 

14.  Golamell  xiu  6. 

15.  Plin.  xxxi.  8. 

16.  Yid.    Scaliger. ;  Aoson.  Lect.  il   28, 

p.  165. 

17.  Pollux,  yi.  9;  Athen.  x. 

18.  Apicins.  i.  27. 

19.  Plin.  xxxi.  8,  7. ;  xxxil  11. 

20.  Isidor.  Origin,  xx.  3. 

21.  Plin.  loc.  cit 

22.  Id.  xxxi  43. 

23.  Id.  lb. 

24.  Martial,  xiil  102. 


25.  Plin.  xxxi  8. 

26.  Plin.  ii  Lemaure.  torn,  yiil  p.  489,  note. 

27.  Stephan.    Thesanr.     Ling.    Grsec.    v. 

Garon. 

28.  Id.  lb; ;  G^ponic.  xx. 

29.  Apicins;    Plin.  k  Lemaire.  torn,  yiil 

p.  435,  note. 

30.  Plin.  ix.  17. 

31.  Id.  viil  31. ;  Nonnios.  iil.  44. ;  Colu- 

mell  yl  9. 

32.  Geoponic.  xx. 

33.  lb. 

34.  lb. 

35.  Dioscord. ;  Stephan.  loc.  cit 

36.  Stephan.  lb. ;  Martial,  yiii.  26. 

37.  Stephan.  lb. 

38.  Galen.  De  Simplic  Medici,  il 

39.  Lamprid.  Elogab.  29. ;  Apicins,  I  31. 

40.  Apicins,  I  34. 

41.  Id.  I  33. 

42.  Id.  I  35. 

43.  Jndic.  xiy.  18. 

44.  Plin.xxil24. 

45.  Geoponic.  xy.  7. 

46.  lb. 

47.  Plin.  loc  cit 

48.  Apollod.  il ;  Fanson.  yiil ;  Plin.  vil  66, 

49.  Genes,  xliil  11. 

50.  Jostin.  xiii. 

51.  Plin.  xi.  13. ;  xxl  10. 
52  Athen.  iil  25. 

53.  Diog.  Lnert  Yitie  Philoeophor.  viil 

54.  Athen.  ii.  6. 

55.  Fnlgentios,    De    Obscuris    Yocibus. ; 

Amob. 

56.  Theophrast  De  Mellc 

57.  Yirgil  Georg.  iv. 

58.  Plin.  X.  6,  12. 

69.  Galen.  De  Aliment  Facult  iii. 

60.  Varrc 

61.  Aristot  Hist  Animal,  iil  10. 

62.  Dioscorid.  il  75. 

63.  Id.  lb. ;  Piin.xxil    4. 

64.  Apicius,  i.  1. 

65.  Id.  I  32. 

66.  Id.  lb. 

67.  Theophrast  loc.  cit 

68.  Dioscorid.  ii.  75. 
6a  Plin.  xil  8. 

70.  Strabo.  xv. ;   Senec  Epist  64;  Galen. 

De  Simpl  Medic  vil 

71.  Panl.  iEginet  De  Ling.  Asperitate,  c  3. 

72.  Pancirol.  Rerum  Mirabiliuro,  &c  il  5. 

73.  Theophrast  Hist  Plant  iv.  6 ;  ix.  4, 

5,7. 


434 


TABLE    OF   REFERENCES. 


74l 

Herodot.  HisL  ;  AiistoL  Hist  AnmuiL 
iz.  14. 

XXIV. 

75. 

Plin.  zii.  19. 

PASTRY. 

76. 

Galen.  De  Antidotis. 

^    A^W^    ^  ^V    Jk  • 

77. 

Id.  De  Simplic.  Medic,  yii. 

78. 

MathioL  In  Dioacorid.  i.  13;  aano  1570. 

1. 

Dictionnaire  de  la  Conyersation,  tonw 

79. 

Saint^Foiz,  Enais  snr  Paria. 

xiil  p.  344. 

80. 

Plin.  ziu  7. 

2. 

Genes,  xl  17. 

81. 

Tbeophrast.  ix.  22. 

3. 

Calmet    Bible,  torn,  yl  p.  257,  foL  i 

82. 

Diosoorid.  ii.  153 ;  Plin.  xiL  27. 

Leyit.  il 

88. 

Dioscorid.  ▼.  6  ,  et  ibi  Mat.hioL 

4. 

Athen.  ill  25. 

84. 

Galen.  De  Simplic.  Medicam.  iv.  y. 

5. 

Id.  lb. 

85. 

Ruth  il  12. 

6. 

Hesjchins ;  Plin.  yiil  2. 

86. 

Athen.  ii.  26. 

7. 

Athen.  iy.  14. 

87. 

JuTenal  xiil  85 ;  Martial  ziii.  122. 

8. 

Cic  Familiar,  ix.  20. 

88. 

Colamell.  xii.  17 ;  Plin.  xiy.  20. 

9. 

Leyitic.  il  5. 

89. 

Diosoorid.  ▼.  17  ;  Galen.  SimpL  Medic. 

10. 

Athen.  xiy.  14. 

L ;  ^ginet  De  Simpl.  p.  51. 

11. 

Id.  lb. 

90. 

Spartian.  In  Hadrian. 

12. 

Id.  lb. 

91. 

Colnmell.  xii.  4. 

13. 

Lamprid.  In  Elogab.  c.  27. 

92. 

Salmas.  Exercitat  PliniansB,  p.  898; 

14. 

Athen. 

Plin.  XX.  20. 

15. 

Id.  xiy. 

93. 

Amelot  de  la  Hoossaje,  M^moirea  Hi»- 

16. 

Jayenal  yi.  202. 

toriqnes. 

17. 

Cato.  R.  K.  c  84. 

94. 

Athen.  iL  21. 

18. 

Pers.  yl  50. 

95. 

Plin.  xix.  2. 

19. 

Spartian.  In  Vero.  5. 

96. 

Id.xix.3. 

20. 

Cato.  K  R. 

97. 

Id.  xix.  2. 

21. 

Fabri  Thesanros  y.  Placenta. 

98. 

Diosooridea. 

22. 

Horat  Epist  I  10,  11 ;   Plin.  yil  53  ; 

99. 

Id. 

Athen.  il 

100. 

Athen. 

23. 

Plin.  xviil  11. 

101. 

Philoxen.  apud  Athen. 

24. 

CataRR. 

102. 

Athen.  il  21. 

25. 

Id.  lb.  c  80. 

103. 

Martial  xiil  50. 

26. 

Plin.  xviil  1 1. 

104. 

Apiciufl,  I  31. 

27. 

Apicias,  yil  11. 

105. 

Id.  lb. 

28. 

Id.  Id. 

106. 

Platina,  De  HonestA  Volnptate. 

29. 

Id.  lb. 

107. 

Ayicenn. 

30. 

Id.  Ik 

108. 

Plin.  xix.  2. 

31. 

Tulleyant 

109. 

Apicios,  I  25. 

32. 

Id. 

110. 

Dia  In  Claud,  tab.  fia. 

33. 

Ii 

111. 

Id.  lb. 

34. 

Plutarch.  Vita.  Coriolan. ;  Plin.  xxxyii. 

112. 

Id.  lb. 

cap.  nldmo. 

113. 

Senec  Epist.  xcy. 

35. 

Polydor.  Virgil  y.  2  ;  Nonvelles  Ephfe- 

114. 

Id.  Epist  cyiil 

m^rides :  6  Janyier. 

115. 

Horat  ii.  Sat  iy. 

36. 

Tertullian.  De  Idolol  c.  14 ;  S.  Cyprian. 

116. 

Senec.  Nat  Qanst  iy.  13,  sab  fin. 

Epist  103 ;  Concil  Troll  can.  Ixil 

117. 

Martial,  xiil  47. 

37. 

Brand's  Popal  Antiqoit.  yol  I  p.  132, 

118. 

Athen.  ii.  19. 

133. 

119. 

Id.  lb. 

38. 

Stnckios;  Platina. 

120. 

Id.Ibu 

39. 

Fontanon,  Ordonnances. 

121. 

Id.  lb. 

40. 

Delamarre. 

41. 

Tailleyant 

42. 

Id. 

43. 

Platina,  De  Honest  Volnpt 

TABLE   OF  REFERENCES. 


485 


XXV. 

XXVI. 

WATER. 

BEVERAGES, 

1. 

Aristot  Heiaphjs.  L  8;  Senee.  Nat 

OF  WHICH  WATEB  IB  THE  FOUNDATION. 

Qasst  iil  13. 

2. 

Herodot ;  Cjrill.  adv.  Jul 

1. 

Diodor.  Sicol.  iy. 

8. 

Strabo. 

2. 

Herodot  ii.  77. 

4. 

Jul.   rirmicos,    De    Profiu.   £elig. ; 

3. 

Plin.  xxii.  25 ;  Colnmell.  x.  116 ;  Dios- 

Athanas.  orat.  contra.  Gent 

corid.  ii.  79,  &c. 

5. 

Banier,  Mythologie,  torn.  iy.  p.  279. 

4. 

Plin.  loc.  cit 

6. 

Id.  lb. 

5. 

Paw. 

7. 

Virgil,  ^neid.  viiL  72. 

6. 

Strab. 

8. 

Psalm.  xciiL  4. 

7. 

Plin. ;  Strab. ;  Paw. 

9. 

PausaiL 

8. 

Plin. 

10. 

ToloflaDHfl,  In  Sjntog.  Juris,  i.  4 ;  Si- 

9. 

Aristot  De  Ebrietate. 

gonios,  De  RepabL  Athen.  iy. 

10. 

EsohjL  In  Lycnrgo. 

11. 

Plato.  De  Legib.  yl 

11. 

SophocL  In  Triptolemo. 

12. 

460  years  B.C. 

12. 

Antholog.  Grec 

18. 

Plin.  zzxi.  3. 

13. 

Plin.  xxiL 

14. 

Frontin.  De  Aquedaot  L;  Lips.  De 

14. 

Mdbom.  De  Cereriria,  6, 7 ;  In  Tbesaor. 

Magnitad.  Rom.  ilL 

Gronoyii,  torn.  ix. 

15. 

Eutrop.  ii.  9. 

15. 

Tacit  De  Morib.  German,  c  23 ;  Plin. 

16. 

Plin.  iii.  15 ;  Cassiodor.  yiL  ep.  6. 

xiy.  22. 

17. 

PliD.  xxxi.  6. 

16. 

Plin.  lb. 

18. 

In  Tit  Liv.  L 

17. 

Diosoorid.  il  80,  81. 

19. 

Bosinus,  Antiquit  Bom.  p.  60. 

18. 

Mallet^  Nortbem  Antiqaities^  6. 

20. 

Frontin. 

19. 

Cassar.  De  Bell.  Gall 

21. 

Id. 

20. 

British  Cyclopedia. 

22. 

Sneton.  In.  Ang.  cap.  13. 

21. 

Ibid. 

23. 

Ingeniosa  Sitis.  Martial,  xiy.  117. 

22. 

Beckmann.  Inyent  torn.  iy. 

24. 

Senec.  Nat  Qntest  iy.  13. 

23. 

Vol.  xy.  p.  201,  Edinborgb,  1795. 

25. 

Ant  Marc    Salyin.  in   Lect    Acad. 

24. 

From  a  Mannscript,  quoted  by  Stnitt, 

Forfnr. 

Manners^  &c  yol.,  iii.  pp.  72,  73. 

26. 

Senec.  loc.  cit 

25. 

Stow's  Chronicles,  p.  218. 

27. 

Boem.  Ant  Bom.  p.  403. 

26. 

Holinshed,  Descript  Brit  94. 

28w 

GelL  xix.  5 ;  Plin.  xix.  4. 

27. 

Monteil,  Histoire  des  Fran9ais^  torn.  ii. 

29. 

Martial,  xiy.  117. 

pp.  49,  50. 

80. 

Montfiuicon.  AnUqoit  Expliq. 

28. 

Plin. 

81." 

Sneton.  In  Domit  21. 

29. 

Hippocrat  De  Deniitionet  Cels.  iii.  7. 

82. 

Id.  lb. 

30. 

Mercnrial.  Obsenr.  iii. ;  Coelins^  xxx.  21. 

zs. 

Martial,  xii. ;  JnyenaL  Sat  y.  60. 

31. 

Spartian.  In  Hadrian. 

84. 

Athen.  L  iu 

82. 

Plin.  xiy. ;  Q.  Curt  lib.  zxiiL  Hort  c. 

85. 

Dia  In  Cland. 

16,  ex  Palkdia 

86. 
87. 

Antich.  Ercolan. 

Dictionnaire  des  Origines. 
Pirn.  xiy.  16. 

uippocrat.  JJe  i>ueL 

84. 

88. 

Id.  lb. 

35. 

Denteron.  xiy.  26;   xxix.  6;  et  Bibl. 

89. 

lb. 

Sacr.  passim;   Ambrosius,  De  Helia 

40. 

Cels.  iy.  19. 

et  Jejnn.  c  15 ;  Hieron.  ad  Nepotian. 

41. 

Sneton.  In  August. 

36. 

Plin.  xiy.  17« 

42. 

Plin.  xix.  1. 

37. 

Id.  lb. 

43. 

Id.  Ik 

88. 

Isidor.  XX.  3. 

44. 

M^moires  dn  Sire  de  Joinyille. 

39. 

Id.;  PanL  ^ginet 

45. 

Plin.  xxu  37* 

40. 

PanL  .^ginet 

46. 

:  Borj  St  Vincent,  Essai  snr  les  lies 

41. 

Dioecorid.  y.  22;  Pallad.  Angnst  13. 

Fortnnfec8»  pp.  220  et  seqq. 

42. 

ColnmelL  xiL  87;  Pallad.  xiii.  2. 

436 


TABLE  OF  REFERENCES. 


43.  Diflcoiid.  r.  34 ;  Plin.  ziv.  16. 

44.  Plin.  lb. 

45.  Id.  lb. 

46.  Rib. 

47.  CobI.  Rhodig.  vii.  26  ;  zxL  7. 

48.  Saeton.  In  Neron.  c.  48. 


XXVIL 
DRINKING  CUPS. 

1.  Clem.  Alezandr.  Piedagog,  ii.  2. 

2.  Homer. 

3.  Emnen.  Cardian.  et  Diodot.  Erythriens, 

In  Diariis  Bernm  ab  Alexandro  6es- 
tarnm. 

4.  Tbeopomp.  Hist  26. 

5.  Aristot  In  Syracusan.  Polit. 

6.  Sueton.  In  Tiber.  42. 

7.  Id.  lb. 

8.  Aihen.  L  30. 

9.  Homer.  Odyas. 

10.  Hippocrat  De  Diost.  iiL  sub.  fin. 

11.  Senec  De  Tranquillitate  Anims,  snb 

fin. 

12.  Plat  De  Repnbl.  ii. 
18.    Athen.  I  21,  23. 

14.  Id.  zi.  14. 

15.  Mnsonius,  De  Luzn  Greoor.  c.  2. 

16.  Id.  lb. 

17.  Strab. 

18.  Cesar. 

19.  Id. 

20.  Valer.  if.  3 ;  Senec  Epist  95. 

21.  Ovid.  Fast,  iii ;  TibulL  L  10. 

22.  Plin.  zvi.  35. 

23.  Id.  lb. 

24.  Apal.  Milefliar.  iL 

25.  Plin.  xxxvi.  26. 

26.  CobI.  Rhodig.  Antiq.  Lection,  zz.  30 ; 

Crinitos.  Honest.  Diseiplin.  zziii.  4 ; 
Dooza.  Comment  In  Petron. 

'27.  Petron.  ilNodot  tom.  1.  pp.  198,  200. 

28.  Plin.PrsBiat  ad  libr.  z zziii. 

29.  Rosin.  Antiq.  Roman,  p.  898. 

30.  61  years  B.C. 

31.  Plin.  zzzrii.  2. 

32.  Id.  lb. 

33.  Martial,  zi?.  113. 

34.  Scaliger.  Ezercitat   92. 

35.  Cardan.  De  Sabtilit  v.  f.  143. 

36.  Mme.  Dacier,  Entrop.  Delphin.  pi  104. 

37.  Mariette ;  Caylas,  &c. 


38.  Propert  lib.  4,  eleg.  6. 

39.  Christios,  De  Murrinis,  &c  Lips.  1743. 

40.  Mongez. 

41.  Montfauoon,  Antiqnit  Ezpliq.  tom.  ii. 

pi.  78 

42.  Apnleius ;   Sidon.  Apollinar.  canu.  24 

in  fine. 

43.  Martial.  TiiL  51. 

44.  Plin.  zzziiL  12. 

45.  Id.  Prsefat  ad  lib.  zzziii. 

46.  Atben.  zi. 

47.  Montfiincon.  Antiq.  Ezpliq. 


XXVIIL 
WINE. 

1.  Herod,  il ;  Plutarch.  De  Isid.  et  Osirid. ; 

Diodor.  iiL 

2.  Cic.  De  Natur.  Deor.  iii. 
8.  Tbeopomp. 

4.  PluUu-ch. 

5.  Aurel.  Victor. 

6.  Entrop.  iz.  17. 

7.  Genes,  iz.  20. 

8.  Plin.  ziv. 

9.  Deuteron.  zziL  9. 

10.  lb.  zziu  6. 

11.  Osee.  ziy.  8. 

12.  Ezech.  zxvil  18. 

13.  G«ne8.  zliz.  11 ;  Jerem.  ii.  21. 

14.  Psalm  ciiL  15. 

15.  Calmet  Commentaire  snr  Esther,  t.  fit 

16.  Cantic  yiii.  2. 

17.  Herodot  L 

18.  Id.  lb. 

19.  Banier/Mythologie,  torn.  L  pw  464. 

20.  Plutarch.  De  Isid.  et  Osirid. 

21.  Athen.  zv. 

22.  TitLiv. 

23.  Horat  Epist.  lib.  ii.  ad  Torqoat 

24.  Serenus  Sammonicus. 

25.  Euseb.  In  Chron. 

26.  Plin.vii.  66. 

27.  Diodor.  SicuL  v. 

28.  Plutarch.  De  Legend  Poet 

29.  Plutarch.  Sympos.  iii.  10. 

30.  Hippocrat  De  Diaetet 

31.  Id.  lb. 

32.  Herodot  iv. 

33.  Martial  viiL  26. 

34.  Horat  Od.  il  11,  17. 

35.  8.  Augustin.  De  Civ.  Del  zviil  18. 


TABLE  OP  REFERENCES. 


437 


36. 

Ovid.  Fast  iv.  861,  efc  seqq. 

82. 

Geoponic.  vii.  5,  6. 

87. 

Plin.  xviii.  19. 

83. 

Herat  Art  Poet  v.  21. 

38. 

Banier,  Mythol.  torn.  L  p.  548. 

84. 

Id.  Od.  i.  20. 

39. 

Colamell.  zl  2 ;  iv.  28. 

85. 

Petrou.  34. 

40. 

Lef(.   Duod.    TabuL   L.  IxiL ;    Plin. 

86. 

Senec.  Epist.  115  ;  Oolumell.  zii.  41: 

ZTUL  3. 

87. 

Colamell.  i.  6 ;  Horat  Od.  iil  8. 

41. 

Uipian. 

88. 

Plin.  ziv.  4. 

42. 

Apicins,  L  17. 

89. 

Id.  ziv.  6,  29. 

43. 

Id.  lb. 

90. 

Id.  ziv.  13. 

44. 

Greoponic.  yi.  11. 

91. 

Yirgil.  Georgic  ii.  91. 

45. 

lb.;  VirgiL  Georg.  iL  241. 

92. 

Horat  Epod.  ix.  34 

46. 

Georg.  ii.  7. 

93. 

Id.  Sat.  L  10,  24. 

47. 

Athen.  v. ;  Anacr.  Od.  xvii. 

94. 

Geopon.  passim. 

48. 

Colamell.  zii.  41. 

95. 

Plin.  ziv.  6. 

49. 

Plin.  xiv.  11 ;  Athen.  i. 

96. 

Id.  lb. 

50. 

Vitray.  zi.  9. 

97. 

Id.  lb. 

51. 

Longus.  ii.  1,  2. 

98. 

Id.  lb. 

52. 

Cato.  R.  B.    12,    13,    18;    Vitruy. 

99. 

Id.  ziv.  et  zziii.. 

yi.  6. 

100. 

Athen.  L  et  ix. 

53. 

Le  Pittore  Antiche  d'Eroolano,  Napoli, 

101. 

Aristot 

1757,  torn,  i ;  Tavola,  35. 

102. 

Galen. 

54. 

Yarro.  i.  54 ;  Cato.  23. 

103. 

Petron.  c  34. 

55. 

Cic.  De  Clar.  Orat  o.  83. 

104. 

Plin.  xiv.  4. 

66. 

Nonnios,  zyii.  13. 

105 

Martial,  xl  60. 

57. 

G«oponic.  vl  15. 

106. 

Apnl.  Milesiar.  iL 

58. 

Le  Pitture,  &c.  loc.  ciL;     Athen.  i. 

107. 

Senec  Epist  64. 

31 ;  Dioecor.  y.  9. 

108. 

Lacan.  PharsaL  x.  164. 

59. 

PaUad.  zi.  18. 

109. 

Athen.  i.  47. 

60. 

Plin.  ziy.  9. 

110. 

Id.  lb. 

61. 

Id.  lb. 

111. 

Id.  lb. 

62. 

lb.  iz.  57. 

112. 

Id.  lb. 

63. 

Id.  xyiiL  74. 

113. 

Apicins,  i.  6. 

64. 

Id.  lb. 

114. 

Athen.  i. 

65. 

Ovid.  Fast    iv.   782;    Festos,    Bur- 

115. 

Plin.  xiv. 

ranica. 

116. 

Gate  R.  It 

66. 

Geoponic   vi.  16;    Plutarch.  QaiBst 

117. 

Plin.  xiv.  8. 

Nat  26;  Plin.ziv.ll. 

118. 

Id.  lb. 

67. 

Geoponic.  vi.  12. 

119. 

Maseum  Borbonicum.  torn.  iii. ;  Ta. 

68. 

Varro.   B.   R,  L  18 ;    (Geoponic.    vi. 

yoL  28. 

2,  12. 

120. 

Plin.  xiv.  9. 

69. 

Le  Pittore,  &o. 

121. 

Varro.  DeYitft  Pop.  Rom.;  Colamell. 

70. 

Antiq.  de  Pomp. 

R.  R. ;    Martial,  xiii.  106 ;    Juve- 

71. 

Sponii,  MiscelL  Ernd.  Antiq.  p^  125. 

nal  ziv.  270. 

72. 

Id.  lb. ;  Javenal.  ziv.  311. 

122. 

Colamell.  ziL  27. 

73. 

Plin.  ziy.  21. 

123. 

Die  Commod. 

74. 

Geoponic.  vL  2 ;  Varra  R.  R.  L  13 ; 

124. 

Macrob.  vii.  12 ;  Plin.  xxii. 

Cata  R.  R.  23. 

125. 

Leclerc,    Histoire    de   la 

75. 

Colamell.   xiL  25,    80;    Cata     107; 

p.  479. 

Yarro.  i.  65  ;  Geoponic  iv.  12. 

126. 

Geoponic  viii. 

76. 

Id. 

127. 

Ibid. 

77. 

Id. 

128. 

Apicius,  L  4. 

78. 

G^ponic  viL  15  ;  Colamell.  xii.  38. 

129. 

Id.  lb. 

79. 

Geoponic.  vii.  22. 

130. 

Id.  lb. 

80. 

Ibi  viL  37. 

131. 

Plin.  xiv.  13. 

81. 

Pollaz.yi.  19;  z.  75. 

132. 

Ercolano. 

438 


TABLE   OF  REFERENCES. 


183. 

1S4. 
135. 

136. 
137. 
138. 
139. 
140. 
141. 
142. 
143. 
144. 
145. 
146. 
147. 
143. 
149. 
150. 
151. 
152. 
153. 
154. 
155. 
156. 
157. 
158. 
159. 
160. 
161. 

162. 
163. 
164. 
165. 
166. 

167. 
168. 

169. 

170. 
171. 

172. 
173. 
174. 


Plin.  zziii.  1. 

GolumeU.  iii.  3. 

Bookh,  Poblio  Eoonomy  of  Athois, 
ToL  L  p.  133. 

Yaler  Mmx.  iL  1. 

PUd.  ziv.  13. 

Fah.  Ptctor.  apod  Plin.  lb. 

Plin.  lb. 

Id.  zIt.  6. 

Id.  ziy.  28. 

Athen.  y. 

Dio.  Trajan. 

Id.  In  Seyer. 

Sneton.  In  Gland. 

Dia  Domitian. 

Id.  In  CaligoL 

Athen.  i.  47. 

TibolL  ill  dflg.  6 ;  Martial,  v.  65. 

Athen.  L  48. 

Plin.  ziy.  16. 

Platarch.  Sympos.  viiL  6, 

Featns. 

Plin.  loc  cit. 

Id.  lb. 

Id.  lb.  ColamelL  ziL  35. 

Plin.  loc  cit ;  GolnmelL  zii.  37. 

Dioaoorid.  y.  13 ;  Plin.  loc.  cit 

Meorsina. 

Plin.  loc  cit 

Stmtt,  Manners  and  Gostoma  of  the 
Ancient  Britona,  yoL  1.  p.  7« 

W.  Malmsbor.  De  Pont  lib.  iy. 

Delamarre^  Traits  de  hi  Police. 

Id.  IK 
Id.  IK 

Melanges  Tir^s  d'nne  Grande  Biblio- 

th^e. 
Mfenage. 

Amaud  de  Villeneuve ;  Trait£  dn  Re- 
gime de  la  Sant6.    ^ 

Lea  Bigarmrea  dn  Siogneur  des  Ao- 
oorda. 

Baloze.  Capital.  B^.  Franc  passim. 

Fontanon.  Gonfl  des  Ordon.  torn.  iL 
p.  822. 

Stmtt  Manners  and  Castoms»  && 

Id.  lb. 

Id.  IK 


XXIX. 


REPASTS. 


1.  Athen.  L  16. 

2.  Id.  L  15: 


3.  Homer.  Biad. 

4.  Athen.  i.  16. 

5.  Aristot  ProbL  zzvL  45. 

6.  Posidippos.  In  Epigr. 

7.  Hierap.  Theodor.  de  Gertanu 

8.  JEtcA.  Alezand. 

9.  llieodoniB. 

10.  Xanthns,  In  Lydiacis. 

1 1.  Theopomp. 

12.  GlearcK 

13.  Mnesimach,  In  Philippe 

14.  Grates  Theban.  In  Lamia. 

15.  Hecatens  apud  Athen. 

16.  Saeton,  In  Glaud.  33. 

17.  Id.  IK 

18.  Id.  In  Galba.  22. 

19.  Id.  In  VitelL  13. 

20.  Virgil  iBneid.  iil 

21.  Sneton.  loc.  cit 

22.  Id.  In  VitelL  17. 

23.  Fuller's  Worthies. 

24.  Berchonz,  Gastronomic,  note 

25.  Athen.  L  19. 

26.  Herodot  L  63;  Theophrast  CharaeL 

c3. 

27.  Plat  Epist  7. 

28.  Athen.  L  9. 

29.  Id.  IK 

30.  Id.  y. 

31.  PlntaicK  Sympos.  viiL  6. 

32.  Eoelesiast  z.  16. 

33.  Mercurial.  Variar.  lect  iy.  17,  In  Arte 

Gymnast  L  11. 

34.  Homer.  Odyss. 

35.  Athen.  L 19 ;  Aristophan.In  Ayib.  1286. 

36.  Id.  IK ;  Schreyelias ;  Platarch.  Sym- 

pos. yiiL  6. 

37.  Apoleins,  Metam.  L 

38.  Martial,  ziy.  283. 

39.  ApuL  loc  cit 

40.  Sneton.  In  August  76. 

41.  Genes.  zliiL  16. 

42.  Act  z.  9,  10. 

43.  Athen.  L  9.  PhitarcK  Sympos.  yiiL  6. 

44.  Cic  Tuscnlan.  Quest  5. 

45.  Sueton.  In  Galigul.  58. 

46.  Horat  Sat.  i.  6. 

47.  Senec  Epist  84,  87. 

48.  SaeUm.  In  Glaud.  32. 

49.  Berchouz,  Gastronomic,  notes. 

50.  Isidor.  Origin,  zz. 

51.  Joseph.  De  Bello  Jud.  yii. 

52.  Jud.  zz.  26;  IL  Beg.  L  12 ;  lb.  iiL  25. 

53.  Biblia  Sacra»  passim;  Iliad,  iz.  206, 

218;  Odyss.  zy.  322. 


TABLE   OF  REFERENCES. 


439 


54.    Homer.  Iliad.  xxL  863. 
65,    Id.  lb.  ix.  217. 

56.  Id.  Odyss.  xvii.  455. 

57.  Id.  Iliad,  vii.  480. 

58.  Id.  lb.  xii.  311. 

59.  Id.  lb.  ix.  225. 

60.  Id.  Odyss.  i.  226  ;  Terent.  Eannch.  iii. 

4 ;  Athen.  viii. 

61.  Aristophan.  EccL  652. 

62.  Macrob.  Satarnal.  ii.  13 ;  Val.  Max.  ii.  1. 

63.  Biblia  Sacra,  passim. 

64.  n.  Beg.  xix.  35. 

65.  See  La  Farce  de  Palhelin. 

66.  M^moires  de  Dangeau. 

67.  Plato.  De  RepabL  iii.  13. 

68.  Pollnx,  vi.  83. 

69.  Martial,  iv.  8. 

70.  JuvenaL  L  95. 

71.  Lir.  ix. 

72.  Sueton.  in  Yitell  18. 

73.  Nicolas,  Etades  sar  le  Ghristianisme, 

torn.  L  p.  254. 

74.  Strabo ;  Diodor.  Sicnl. ;  Csesar. 

75.  Stratt,  Manners,  &c,  vol.  L  p.  48. 

76.  Id.  IK 

77.  Id.  lb.  p.  49. 

78.  PlutarcL    Sympos.   L;   Xenoph.  Bes- 

pnbL  Laced. ;  Plat  De  Conviviis. 

79.  Exod.  xxul  6 ;  I.  Beg.  ix.  22,  et  pas- 

sim. 

80.  PhUo.  De  Vitft  Contempl. 

81.  S.  Paul.  L  Corinth,  xi.  20,  et  seqq.; 

Ghrjsostom.  HomiL  27 ;  TertnlL  Apo- 
loget  c  89;  Augostin.  Epist.  64; 
Baron.  Annal.  sob  an.  67,  877,  384. 

82.  Plat  De  Conviviis;  Aristot  Polit  il 

8 ;  Yii.  10. 
88.    Xenoph.  De  Bepab.  Lac. ;  Plotarch*  In 
Vita  Ljreorg. 

84.  Plotarch.  lb. 

85.  Diogen.  Laert ;  Plotarch.  Vita  Solon. 

86.  Elor.  L  1 ;  Lir.  i.  6 ;  Dionys.  Halicam. 

Ant  Bom.  L;  PlotarcL  Vita  Bo- 
molL 

87.  Plotarch.  Vita  Salle. 

88.  Sueton.  In  J.  Caesar. 

89.  Bolenger,  De  Conviriia. 

90.  Id.  Ih. 

91.  Vid.  Soeton. ;  Lamprid. ;    Dio.  &c. 

92.  Id. 

98.    Apod   Stnitt,  Manners,  &&   toL  iii. 
p.  111. 

94.  Monteil,  Histoire  des  Frangais,  torn. 

iL  p.  126. 

95.  Id.  IK  torn.  vil.  p.  888,  et  seqq. 


96.  See     Piganiol,     Description    de  U 

France. 

07.  Holinshed,  p.  969. 

98.  Stow,  Chron.  p.  267. 

99.  Id.  Sorvey  of  London,  p.  521. 

100.  Strott,  Manners,  &c.  voL  iL  p.  104. 

101.  Holinshed.  Desorip.  Brit.  94. 

102.  Massinger,  The  City  Madam. 

103.  Id.  lb. 

1 04.  Killigrew,  The  Parson's  Wedding. 

105.  Strott,  Manners,  &c.  vol.  ii.  p.  19. 

106.  Mathieo  Paris,  anno  1248. 

107.  Stow's    Sorvey    of    London;     apod 

Strott,  Tol.  ii.  p.  19. 

108.  Monteil,  Histoire  des  Frangais,  torn.  L 

p.  106,  et  seqq. 

109.  L'Isle  des  Hermaphrodites. 

110.  Contes  d'  Eotrapel 

111.  Ibid. 

112.  Des  Accords,  Les  Bigarrores.  ch.  6. 
1 18.  Aveutores  de  Foeneste,  tiv.  iv.  ch.  2. 


XXX. 


VARIETY  OF  REPASTS. 


1. 

Biblia  Sacra,  passim. 

2. 

Levitic  iii.  16. 

3. 

IsaL  xxv.  6. 

4. 

Prov.  xxi.  17. 

5. 

m.  Beg.  iv.  22,  23. 

6. 

Biblia  Sacra,  passim. 

7. 

Ap.  Ulric.  Rasiom,  In  Catal.  L^g. 

Antiqoar.  ad  Leg.  JoL  de  Annon&. 

8. 

Pkta  De  Leg.  vi.  xxxiv. ;  Aristot  de 

BepubL  iv.   4,  15 ;   vi.  8 ;    PosteL 

De  Magistr.it  Athen. 

9. 

Gomel  Annal.                              / 

10. 

Accors. 

11. 

Bosin.  Antiqoit  Roman,  p.  588. 

12. 

Athen.  L  4. 

13. 

Philostrat 

14. 

Athen.  i.  5. 

15. 

Id.  V. ;  Homer.  VirgiL  passim  ;  Ba- 

nier ;  Stockios. 

16. 

Amob.  iii. 

17. 

Varra 

18. 

Colnmell. 

19. 

Senec.  De  ViU  Beat&,  c  11. 

20. 

Liv.  xxiv. 

21. 

Plant  Menech.  i.  1,  25. 

22. 

Tiboll.  i.  3, 

28. 

Macrob.  SatumaL  i.  7. 

24. 

Herat  Od.  ii.  14. 

440 


TABLE    OF    REFERENCES. 


25.  Varro.  R.  R.  iii.  6. 

26.  Apnl.  Meiam.  iv.  152. 

27.  Saeton. ;  Lamprid.;  Dio. 

28.  Plin.  ix.  55. 

29.  Possidon.  ii. 

80.  Crinit  De  Honest  Discipl.  xxiv.  5. 

31.  Spartian.!  Stackius. 

82.  Lacian.  In  Lapith. 

88.  Saeton.  In  Vitell.  13. 

84.  Plant  Baoch.  i.  1,  61. 

S5.  Yatin.  o.  12;  Varro.  apad  Nonninm. 

1234. 

36.  Barth^lemy,  Anacharsis. 

87.  Pererins,  Comment  In  Daniel 

38.'  Athen.  h. 

39.  Poljen.  Strateg.  vi. 

40.  Athen.  iL  ix. 

41.  Id.  iv. 

42.  Aristoph.  Acharn. 

43.  Monteil.  Histoire  des  Pran9ai8»  torn.  i. 

p.  203. 

44.  Id.  lb.  iii.  p.  489. 

45.  Strutt.  Manners,  &c.  vol.  iii.  p.  1  IS. 

46.  From  a  Manuscript  in  the  Harleian 

Library,  quoted  by  Stmtt,  Manners, 
&C.  voL  iiL  p.  114. 

47.  Taillevant  Le  Viandier. 

48.  Id.  lb. 

49.  Id.  lb. 

50.  Id.  lb. 

51.  Id.  lb. 

52.  Id.  lb. 


XXXL 
THE  DINING-ROOM. 

1.  Valla,  iv. 

2.  Fest  Pomp.  iii. 

8.    Vid.  Fabr.  v.  Solarium. 

4.  Petron.  Satyric. 

5.  Ercolano,  &c ;  GeH's  Pompeiana,  pas- 

sim ;  Senec.  Epist  90. 

6.  Sueton.  In  Neron.  81. 

7.  Id.  lb. 

8.  Id.  lb. 

9.  Senec.  De  Tranquill.  Anim.  c  9. 

10.  Cornel.  Nepos. 

11.  Juvenal  Sat  ii. 

12.  Athen.  iii.  21 ;  Gelliil  19. 

13.  Athen.  Lys.  Frag.  46. 

14.  Athen.  Pollux,  x.  122;  Plat  Repub. 

iii. ;  Theophr.  Charact  22. 

15.  Juvenal  iii  204. 


16.  Encyciop.  Method.  Antiquit 

17.  lb. 

18.  lb. 

19.  Virgil -ffin.  vil  528. 

20.  Monstrelet^  Chroniques. 

21.  MeUnges  Tir^s  d'une  Grande  Biblio- 

th^ne. 

22.  lb. 

28.  Chroniques  de  St  Denis. 

24.  Vigiles  de  Charles  VIL 

25.  L'Isle  des  Hermaphrodites. 

26.  Jerem.  xxxvi.  22. 

27.  Eroolano,  &c. 

28.  Plin.  Epist  il  17. 

29.  Apul.  Metam.  iv. 

80.  Columell  il  22. 

81.  Sil  Italic.  Punicor.  vu 

82.  Petron.  d  Nodot  torn.  i.  p.  116. 

Z3.  Paulinus,   Episcop.  Nolae.  D.    Felicis 

Natali,  6. 

84.  Mercure  Galant  Mars,  1681. 


XXXIL 
THE  TABLE. 

1.  Athen.  i.  20. 

2.  Tibull  il  6 ;  Valer.  Flac  Argonaut  I 
8.    Plin.  xxxiil  11. 

4.  Horn.  Odyss.  iii  188. 

5.  Aihen.  xi.  78. 

6.  Athen.  ix.  75. 

7.  Homer.  Odyss.  iii  354  et  seqq. ;  861 

et  seqq. 

8.  Athen.  xi.  27. 

9.  Potter,  il  p.  877. 

10.  Liv.  ix.  Decad.  4. 

11.  Id.  lb. 

12.  Plin.  xvi.  27. 

13.  Id.xiil  15. 

14.  Id.  lb. 

15.  Id.  lb. ;    Senec.    De  Tranquil.  Anim. 

c  I ;  Id.  De  Beneficiis,  vil  9. 

16.  Plin.  ix.  11. 

17.  Id.  lb. 

18.  Id.  xvi. 

19.  Fest  V. 

20.  Varro.  L.  L.  iv. 

21.  Sidon.  Apollin.  Epist  ii.  2. 

22.  Id.  lb.  I  11. 

23.  Rosin.  Ant  B^m.  p.  877. 

24.  Servius.  -^n.  I  ad  finem. 

25.  Homer.  Odyss.  I  259;   Pind.  Olymp. 

i.  26. 


TABLE.  OF  REFERENCES. 


441 


26.  Martial. 

27.  Apul.    Milesiar.  il  ;     Basil    Magnus 

Orai  ad  Divitea. 

28.  Pliiu  ziii.  15. 

29.  Id.  lb. 

80.  Id.  lb. 

81.  Id.  lb. 

82.  Stackias. 

83.  Id.;  Galmei. 

84.  Gregor.  Tor. 

85.  Egiiihard. 

i6,  Polydor.  Virgil  p.  257 ;    Bapin  De 
Thoiras. 

87.  Varro.  L.  L.  iv.  26. 

88.  Printed  A.]>.  1508 

THE  TABLE  BEATS. 

89.  Calmet 

40.  I.  Beg.  iz.  22. ;  zx.  25. 

41.  Calmet.  torn.  v.  fol  356. 

42.  Diodor,  Sicul 

43.  Eroolano,  torn.  L  tav.  29 ;  Athen.  zi. 

44.  Athen.  I  81. 

45.  Id.  lb. 

46.  Id.  lb. 

47.  Isidor.  zz.  11. 

48.  Yaler.  Maxim,  ii.  1. 

49.  Bosinns;  Stuckios. 

50.  Scholiast  Jayenal  Sat  t.  17. 

51.  Rosin,  p.  880. 

52.  Athen.  iu  9. 
63.  Martial  ii.  46. 

54.  Id.  iii.  49. 

55.  Bosinus. 

56.  Horat.  Serm.  ii.  8,  253. 

57.  Stnekias;   Rosinus;  Ercolano,  passim. 

58.  Lambin.   In  Sat,  iv.  lib.  il ;  Horat ; 

Mercurial  De  Art  Gymnast 

59.  Xenoph.  De  Psd.  Cyri,  viil 

60.  Platarch.  Sympos. 

61.  Lamprid.  In  Elogab. 

62.  Spartian.  In  Vero. 

63.  Lamprid.  loc  cit 

64.  Id.  lb. 

65.  Possidonins. 

66.  Strabo. 

67.  Diodor. 

68.  Le  Moine  de  St  Gal 

69.  M^age. 

70.  L'fsle  des  Hermaphrodites. 

71.  Vie  de  St  Amonld. 

72.  Melanges  Tir68  d'nne  Grande  Biblio- 

th^ue. 

73.  Vita  S.  Berlande. 


74.  Martial,  xii.  29. 

75.  Alain  Chartier. 

76.  L'Isle  des  Hermaphr. 

77.  Martial  loc  cit 

78.  Plin.  xxzy.  15;  zzxvl  19. 

79.  Id.  Ibid. 

XXXIII. 

THE  SERVANTS. 

1.  Gratems,  pp.  260,  966,  973. 

2.  Kipping.  Antiqoitat 
8.    Dionya.  Halicamass.  il 

4.  Exod.  zxi.  6 ;  Deateron.  zv.  17. 

5.  Jnyenal  Sat  I 

6.  Cal  Bhodig.  Antiqait  viil  11. 

7.  Zachar.  ziii.  6. 

8.  Plant  Casin.  act  il  so.  6. 

9.  GmteroB,  p.  596. 

10.  Petron.  Satyric. 

11.  Colomelli.;  Tiboll  I  7. 

12.  Vid.  Pignoriom,  De  Servis. 
18.  Id.  lb. ;  Petron.  loc.  cit 

14.  Senec.  Epist.  47. 

15.  Plin.  zzxv.  10 ;  Senec.  De  Irft.  iil  87. 

16.  Pignor.  loc.  cit. 

17.  Sueton.  In  Domit  16 ;  Capitol.  Pertin.  4. 

18.  Hildebrand.  Compend.  Antiqait  RonL 

19.  Plin.  xxxil  6 ;  Petron.  c.  47. 

20.  Petron.  c.  35. 

21.  Id.  c  36. 

22.  Philo.  De  VitA  Contemplativft. 

23.  Plant  Trin.  ii.  1,  22. 

24.  Propert  ii.  25, 11. 

25.  Terent  Eunnch.  iii.  5,  47 ;  Fulv.  Ursin. 

In  Appendic.  ad  Ciaccon. 

26.  Phwt  Most  iv.  1,  24 ;  Terent  Adelphi. 

12. 

27.  Pignorins ;  Sueton.  In  Claud.  44. 

28.  Petron.  c.  22  ;  Pignorius. 

29.  Senec.  Epist  29 ;  Lips.  Elector,  i.  19. 
SO.    Uipian.  L.  I  §  5,  Dig.  De  Naut  Caupon. 

et  Stabnlar. 

31.  Id.  Dig.  zxzyiil  t  7,  L.  yiii.  Fin.  $  1. 

32.  Stuckius. 

XXXIV. 
THE  GUESTS. 

1.  Genes,  xliil  et  passim. 

2.  Schol  Theocrit  In  Idyll,  vil  24 ;  Plut. 

Sympos.  yiii.  6. 


0  0 


442 


TABLE   OF  EEFERENCES. 


8.  Athen.  1.  21. 

4.  Id.  i.  23. 

5.  Homer. 

6.  Athen.  i.  19. 

7.  Id.  L  7. 

8.  Xenoph.  D«  Republ.  Laced. ;  Plut.  Vita 

Lycarg. 

9.  Athen.  i. 

10.  Plutarch.  Sjmpos. 

11.  ApuL  Milesiar.  x. 

12.  Macrob.  Saturnal.  iii.  17. 

13.  Gell.  xiiL  11 ;  De  Num.  Conviv. 

14.  Macrob.  loc.  cit. 

15.  Saminonic.  SeveruB ;  Macrob.  loc.  cit 
IC.  Plant;  Horat 

17.  Plant. 

18.  Athen.  vi.  5 ;  Tcrent  Eumich.  ii.  2, 13, 

etl6. 

19.  Virg.  ^n.  L ;  Plant.  Pers.  v.  2 ;  Athen. 

xiv. 

20.  Genes,  xviii.  4 ;  xix.  2 ;  Judic.  xix.  21 ; 

Luc.  vii.  44 ;    1  Timoth.  v.  10,    et 
passim. 

21.  Tibull.Eleg.iv.  6. 

22.  Marc.  xiv.  3. 

23.  Horat  Od.  iii.  14;  Anacr.  passim. 

24.  Plin.  xiv.  22 ;  Plut  Sympos. ;  Athen.  x. 

25.  Strutt,  Anglo-Saxons,  vol  i.  p.  49. 

26.  Id.  lb.  p.  48. 

27.  Froissard. 

28.  Saint-Foix,  Essais  sur  Paris. 

29.  Laneham,  Sports  exhibited  at  KenU- 

worth. 

30.  Johan.  Sarisburiensis,  i.  8,  p.  34. 

31.  Saint-Foix,  Essais,  tom.  iv.  p.  185. 

32.  Herodot  ii. 

33.  Sapient  iii.  4. 

XXXV. 
A  ROMAN  SUPPER. 

1.  Gknes.  xviii. ;  Esther,  v. ;  Matth.  xxii. 

2.  Plin.  xxxY.  10. 

8.  Mercurial.  De  Arte  Gymnast  p.  94, 
edit  Frisii ;  ApuL  Metaraorph.  v.  In 
Principio ;  Id.  lib.  iv.  Asini. 

4.  Apul.  loc.  cit. 

5.  Leclerc,   Histoke  de  la  Mfedecine,   p. 

573. 

6.  ApuL  lib.  i.  Apologiae  Sua,  ex  CatulL 

7.  Sammonic.  Seren,  De  Medicinfi,  c.  15. 

8.  Plaut  In  Captivis,  act  L  ac  2,  y.  84. 

9.  MartiaL  v.  44. 

10.  Plin.  viL  60. 


11.  Id.  xxxvL  10. 

12.  Tumeb.  Adversar.  xxiii.  19  ;  xxvli.  18. 

13.  Theophrast  Charact.  20. 

14.  VirgiL  iEn.  L  V.  729. 

15.  Montfaucon.  Antiq.  ExpL 

16.  Petron.  k  Nodot.  torn.  i.  p.  122. 

17.  Plutarch.  Problem.  Romanor.  76. 

18.  Petron.  loc  cit 

19.  Terent  Heautontimor.  act  L  sc,  1. 

20.  Octav.  Ferrarius,  De  Re  Vestiaria,  i.  31. 

21.  Le  Pitture  Antiche  d'Ercolano,  torn.  L 

tav.  14. 

22.  Dio.  Ixix. 

23.  Senec.  De  Vita  Beat& ;  TibulL  iv.  6  ; 

Psalm,  passim. 

24.  SiL  Ital.  Punicor.  vL 

25.  Petron.  Conviv.  Trimalcion. 

26.  Just  Lips. 

27.  Juvenal.  Sat  xL 

28.  Pacatus. 

29.  Vitmv.  Architect,  v.  8. 

30.  Quintilian.  Institut.  Oraton  i.  14. 

31.  Valer.  Maxim.  iL  1. 

32.  Amob.  ii. 

33.  Id.  lb. 

34.  Quintilian.  Declamat  301. 

35.  Juvenal.  Sat  v.  32 ;  vl  164. 

36.  Terent  Eunuch,  act  L  sc.  2,  v.  85. 

37.  Virgil.  lEn,  v. 

38.  Oic  ad  Familiar,  ix.  20. 

39.  Horat  Sat  ix.  8,  9. 

40.  Petron.  k  Nodot  tom.  i.  p.  124. 

41.  Id.  lb. 

42.  Id.  lb. 

43.  Apicius,  iL  1. 

44.  Id.  lb. 

45.  Id.  lb. 

46.  Petron.  p.  128. 

47.  Athen.  iv. 

48.  Id.  lb. 

49.  Id.  lb. 

50.  Petron.  tom.  i.  p.  130. 

51.  Alex.  Trallian.  lib.  Problem  1. 
52-    Aul.  Gell.  xv.  2. 
53.    PluUrch.  Sympos.  L- Quasi.  4. 
64.     Martial,  vi.  89. 

55.  Id.  iiL  8. 

56.  Lucan.  Pharsal.  lib.  iii.  carm.  14. 

57.  Athen.  iii.  21. 

58.  Virgil.  Georg.  ii.  528. 
58  A  Macrob.  SatumaL  ii.  9. 

59.  MartiaL  xiiL  52. 

60.  Plin. 

61.  Martial,  iii.  5. 

62.  Id.  xiii.  71. 


TABLE  OF  REFERENCES. 


443 


63.  JuvenaL  i.  141, 

61  Petron.  i  Nodot,  torn.  i.  p.  136. 

65.  Martial.  xiiL  44. 

66.  Id.  zlii.  56. 

67.  Id.  xiii.  53. 

68.  Petron.  torn.  L  p.  130. 

69.  Id.  p.  136. 

70.  Martial,  iii.  82. 

71.  Id.  lb. 

72.  Horat.  Sat.  ii.  8,  86. 

73.  Petron.  p.  138. 

74.  Martial,  i.  62. 

75.  Petron.  p.  132. 

76.  Id.  lb. 

77.  Virsril.  JEn.  ii.  49. 

78.  Plant.  Cur.  i.  3,  15. 

79.  Encydop.  Method.  Antiquit^s. 

80.  Plant.  In  Sticho. 

81.  Sueton.  In  Galba. 

82.  Juvenal.  Sat  xL 

83.  GelL  ziiL  11. 


84.  Martial,  y.  79. 

85.  Fest  PanirolL  torn.  ii.  tit  2,  De  Pur. 

oellanis. 

86.  ITicephor.  Gregoras ;  Manilius ;  ISTicetas ; 

Vopiscos. 

87.  CaBaub.  In  Athen.  i.  15. 

88.  Xenoph.  In  Conviy. 

89.  Herodot  vi.  129. 

90.  Xenoph.  loo.  oit;  Caylns.  Becneil  d'An- 

tiqnit^s.  torn.  i.  p.  202. 

91.  Cajlug,  lb. ;  Athen.  iv. 

92.  Socrat  In  Conviy.  Xenoph. 

93.  Horat  Sat  lib.  ii.  7,  v.  82. 

94.  Caylns,  torn.  iv.  pi.  80,  No.  1 ;  torn.  yi. 

pL  90,  No.  3 ;  torn.  vii.  p.  164. 

95.  Vet    Scholiast  Juvenal,   ad  y.   162| 

sat  11. 

96.  Rosinus,  Antiquit  Roman,  p.  391. 

97.  Macrob.  SatornaL  iL  1. 

98.  RoAinna,  lb. 

99.  Id.  p.  410. 


C  C  2 


TABLE  OF  RECIPES 


OF 


meSans  of  taxmfi  ^Di^^^ 


OXEN. 

Care  taken  of  oxen  at  the  plough 
Qreek  and  Roman  manure    .    . 


PaK« 

14 

14 


CEREALS. 

How  to  keep  corn  any  length  of  time  .  15 
Marshal  Vauhan's  method  for  asing 

com  in  soup 15 

Bural  occupation  of  the  Anglo-Saxons 

throughout  the  year 17,18 

BREAD. 

Bread  made  of  spelt 19 

Granea  porridge 20  . 

Avena  oats  for  cattle  and  porridge      .  20 

Seor  bread 31 

Azumos  biscuit 33 

Artolaganofl  biscuit 33 

Escarites 33 

Melitates 33 

Tynmtes 83 

Method  of  making  leaven      ....  36 

Autopyron  bread 37 

AthletflB*8  bread 37 

Gappadocian  ditto 38 

Artoplites  ditto 38 

Astrologicus  ditto 38 

Panis  madidus  paste 38 

Various  kinds  of  bread  made  in  Paris 

in  the  14th  century 40 

Alphiton,  or  barley  gruel      ....  41 

Another  sort .........  42 

How  to  obtain  the  flayoor  of  vanille  from 

oats,  and  make  an  excellent  cream  .  42 
Bice  good  in  consamption  and  spitting 

ofblood 43 


Carthaginian  pudding  .  .  «  . 
Indian  com  hasty  pudding    .    .    . 

SEEDS. 

Mustard,  its  influence  and  qualities 
Coriander,  its  properties  .  .  .  . 
Lupin,  fit  for  fattening  cattle     .    . 


Pan* 
44 
44 


46 
47 
47 


VEGETABLES. 

Method  of  preseiringyegetables     .    .  51 

TwelfUi-Night  cake 54 

Haricots  presen-ed       56 

Apicius*s  method  of  dressing  cabbages  61 

Dried  cauliflowers 61 

Beet,  its  medicinal  qualities  ....  62 

Apicius,  on  stewing  the  beet ....  63 

Beet-root  as  a  salad 63 

Mallows  as  a  salad 64 

How  to  keep  asparagus  several  days    .  65 

How  to  cook  the  gourd     ....    66,  67 

Turnips,  how  to  dress 67 

Carrots  as  a  salad,  and  otherwise   .    .  68 

Purslaine,  its  internal  use     ...    .  69 

Sorrel,  stewed 69 

Method  of  rendering  artichoke  mild    .  71 

Way  of  dressing 71 

How  to  preserve  them 71 

Pompion,  how  to  dress  it;  three  re- 
cipes    72 

Cucumber;  four  recipes 73 

ApiciuflTs  oenogarum 73 

Lettuce,  method  of  cultivation  by  Aris- 

toxenus 74 

How  to  dress  lettuces 75 

Endives,  way  of  stewing  them    ...  76 


TABLE   OF  RECIPES. 


445 


Onions,  stewed 76 

Leeks,  stewed 77 

Badishes,  how  to  preserve  them ...  79 

Horse-radish,  its  virtues 81 

Garlic,  its  qualities 82 

Parsley,  stewed 82 

ChervU,  how  used 84 

Water-cress,  its  properties     ....  85 

PLANTS  USED  IN  SEASONING. 

Poppy,  how  used 86 

Sow-thistle,  good  for  rabbits  ....  87 

Bocket^  good  for  removing  freckles     .  87 

Fennel,  good  for  strengthening  the  sight  88 

Dill,  its  qualities 88 

Anise-seed,  its  properties 88 

Hyssop,  good  for  cutaneous  eruptions  .  89 
Wild  marjoram,  a  most  delicate  condi- 
ment, &C. 89 

Savory,  its  usefulness 89 

Thyme,  its  culinary  value      ....  89 
Wild  thyme,  efficacious  for  the  bite  of 

serpents 89 

Sweet  maijoram,  oil  extracted  from  it .  89 

Pennyroyal,  a  digestive 90 

Bue,  a  cure  for  the  ear-ache  ....  90 
Mint,  a  preservative  against  curdling 

ofmilk 90 

Assafoetida,  chewed  by  the  Persians 

and  Indians 92 

Ginger,    an  aperitive  good    for   the 

scurvy  and  the  chest 92 

Wormwood,  good  for  giddiness  ...  93 

STONE  FRUIT. 

Olive  tree^  preparation  of  its  fruit  .    •  98 

and  qualities 99 

Dates,  their  various  uses 101 

Peaches,  how  to  preserve  them  .    .    .  104 

PIP  FRUIT. 

Quinces,  how  to  preserve  them  ...  107 

Pears,  strengthening  qualities    ...  107 

Lemons,  method  of  preserving    .    .    .  110 
Mulberry,  a  beneficent  fruit,  agreeable 

to  the  stomach,  and  digestible  .    .  116 

SHELL  FRUIT. 

Almonds,  how  to  dress  them,  and  their 

various  properties 117 


Walnuts,  considered  astringent,  sto- 
machic, an  antidote  to  poison,  and  di- 
gestible    119 

Pistachios,  good  however  dressed    .    .  121 

Chesnuts,  how  to  preserve     ....  122 

Pomegranate,  preserving 123 

REARING  OF  CATTLE. 

Oxen,  how  to  fatten  them 128 

Method  of  salting  and  preserving  meat  131 

THE  PIG. 

Hog  i  la  Troyenne 136 

Apician  brine,  for  salting  pork  .    .    .  138 

Apician  pork 138 

Macedonian  pork 138 

Stufied  sucking  pig 139 

Aristoxenic  ham '   .    .  139 

Lucullian  ham 139 

Ventre  de  truie  &  hi  Troyenne    ...  139 

Ditto  el  la  Bomaine 139 

Fillet  of  pork  d  la  Boeotienne     •    .    •  139 

Tetines  de  truie  a  la  Salienne     ...  140 

Ditto  d  la  Flamine 140 

Olympian  pig's  liver    ......  140 

Oapitolian  pig's  liver 140 

Campanian  bacon 140 

Quenelles  ofpig's  liver  and  brains  .    .  140 

Lucanian  sausages 140 

Imperial  sausages 141 


THE  OX. 


Beef  k  Tlb^rienne  .      ... 
Stewed  beef  h  la  Sarmate 
Dish  of  veal  4  la  Syracusaine 
Noix  de  Veau  &  la  Tarantaise 
Cisalpine  preserve   .    .    .    • 


144 
144 
144 
144 
145 


THE  LAMB. 


Lamb's  head  k  la  Quirinale  ....  1 47 

Quarter  of  lamb  k  TEsquilon     .    .    .  147 

Palatine  broil 147 

Roast  lamb  &  la  Phrygienne       .    .    .  147 

Lamb  i.  la  Trimalcion 147 

THE  KID. 

Kid  &  la  Trans-Tiberienne     ....  149 

Boast  kid  H  la  Janiculum       ....  149 

Rid  &  b  Tarp^ienne 149 

Kid&laTivoli        149 

Kid  &  la  Mdisienne 149 


446 


TABLE  OF  RECIPES. 


POULTRY. 
Capon  k  la  D^liaqne    .    • 


Pift 

1^5 


THE  HEN. 
Foalarde  &  la  Viminale    •    . 


156 


THE  CHICKEN. 

Apician  Macedonia  of  chicken   .    •    .  157 

Parthian  chicken 157 

Numidiau  chicken 157 

Chicken  k  la  Frontonienne    ....  157 

Chicken  &  la  Coslienne 157 

THE  DUCK. 

Docks'  brains  k  \'  Epicnrienne  .  .  .  159 
Apicins's  seasoning  for  irild  dock       .    159 

THE  GOOSE. 

SeJQs's  seasoning     .......  161 

Apician   seasoning   for  roast  goose's 

liver       161 

Boiled  goose  k  la  GaoloiseJ    ....  161 

THE  PIGEON. 
Boast  pigeon,  with  Seryilian  seasoning    163 

THE  GUINEA  HEN. 
Gainea  ben  k  la  Numide 168 

THE  TURKEY  HEN. 

Turkey  ft  I'Africaine 165 

How  to  fatten  torkey 165 

Torkey's  eggs  more  delicate  than  hen's 

eggs       166 

How  to  preserve  tnrkey 166 

THE  PEACOCK. 
Peacock  of  Samos 167 

MILK,  BUTTER,  CHEESE,  AND 

EGGS. 

HILK. 

Hygeian  qualities  of  milk  ....  169 
Asses'  milk,  good  in  weak  constitutions  169 
Mac^oine  Gemumique  of  milk      .    •    170 


BUTTER. 

Method  of  preserving  butter 


Method  of  preventing  rancidity . 


Pag« 

172 


CHEESE. 

Salad  of  cheese,  k  la  Bithynienne  .    .  174 

Dish  of  Tromelian  cheese      ....  174 

Cheese  of  Bouergue 174 


EGGS. 


Eggs  k  la  Bomaine  .    .    . 
Hard  eggs  k  V  Athenienne 
Fried  eggs  k  V  Epcendte 
^^IJP^^9^  ogg  pudding 
Lesbian  eggs  aux  roses     . 


177 

177 
177 
177 
177 


THE  STAG. 

Quarter  of  stag  roast  k  V  N^m^enne 
Shoulder  of  stag  k  V  Hortensius 
Fillet  of  stag  k  la  Persane     .    .    . 

THE  ROEBUCK. 


183 
183 
183 


Boebnck  with  spikenard  .  . 
Boebuck  aux  prunes  .  .  . 
Roebuck  aux  Amandes  de  Pin 

THE  DEER. 
Deer  it  la  Marcellus .... 


184 
184 
184 


185 


THE  WILD  BOAR. 


Wild  boar  k  la  Troyenne        ....  185 

Wild  boar  k  la  Pomp^e 187 

Quarter  of  wild  boar  k  la  Thebaine      .  1 87 

Fillet  of  wild  boor  k  la  Mac^donienne  .  187 

Wild  boar's  liver  k  la  Grecque        .    .  187 

Wildboar'sheadaiaCantabre  ...  187 

Green  ham  of  wild  boar  d  la  Ganloise  .  187 


... 


172 


ELEPHANT. 
Elephant's  feet  roasted .    .    . 


192 


FEATHERED  GAME. 


Pheasant's  flesh,  good  for  weak  stomachs  1 95 

Starling,  a  nourishing  and  light  food  ^  200 

Fig-pecker,  an  exquisite  bird     .    .    .  203 

Ortolan,  has  the  same  reputation     .    .  203 

Ostrich,  fatted  and  salted 203 

Ostrich's  eggs,  enormous,  how  to  cook 

them 204 

Ostrich's  fat,  used  in  the  preparation  of 
dishes ;  cures  rheumatism  and  para- 
lysis    204 


TABLE  OF  RECIPES. 


447 


Salftngan's  nest,  a  delicioas  seasoning  •  205 
Salangan's  nest,  good  for  exhanstion  and 

debile  stomachs 205 

Salangan's  nest,    makes  a  fortifying 

pottage 206 

Snipe,  delicate  savonr  of  the  fat .    .     .  207 

Snipe,  how  to  find,  when  in  perfection .  207 

Lark,  its  supposed  property  ....  207 
The   common   lark,    wholesome    and 

delicate 237 

FISH. 

Caviar,  how  manufactured     .    .    .    .  217 

Mallet,  way  of  dressing 219 

Lamprey,  Italian  method  of  cooking    .  228 

Scarus,  an  epicurean  dish      ....  224 

Conger-eel,  how  dressed 226 

Eel,  Apicius's  recipe 227 

Pike,  preserved 228 

Carp,  curious  way  of  dressing     .    .    .  229 

Eel-pout,  how  to  dress  the  liver  .    .    .  229 

Trout,  dressed  as  the  preceding  .    .    .  230 

Gold-fish,  how  served 230 

Whiting,  manner  of  cooking      .    .    .  231 

Cod-fish,  how  cooked  by  the  Greeks    .  231 

Perch,  way  of  dressing 232 

Scates,   the  eggs  excellent  for   inter- 
mittent fever 233 

Sepia,  Apicius's  recipe 234 

Swordfish,  how  dressed  by  the  Greeks .  234 

Shad,  way  it  is  cooked 234 

Rhombo,  a  delicate  fish,  how  dressed  .  235 

Mugil,  how  prepared 235 

Loligo,  how  prepared 237 

Sole,  a  nourishing  and  light  food    .    .  237 

Pilchard,  way  of  cooking 238 

Loach,  how  dressed 238 

Gudgeons,  how  dressed 239 

Herring,  methods  of  preserving.    .    .  240 

Anchovy,  how  salted  and  how  dressed  .  241 

Emphractum  stew 242 

Oysters,  how  dressed  at  Rome    .    .    .  243 

Oysters,  how  preserved 244 

Sea-hedgehog,  way  of  cooking    .    .    .  2J5 

Mussel,  how  dressed 245 

Tortoise,   the  blood  supposed  to  cure 

diseases  of  the  eyes,  how  dressed     .  246 

Sea  crayfish,  Roman  way  of  dressing  .  247 

Lobster,  how  cooked 248 

River  crayfish,  how  dressed  and  pre- 
served       248 

Crab  sausages 248 

Frogs,  bow  dressed 249 

Preserving  of  fish 251 


SAUCE  AND  SEASONING. 

Sauce  h  la  Cameline 258 

Tence  sauce 258 

Brine,  how  made 269 

Digestive  salt^  how  made  .....  269 

Garum,  various  recipes  .    .    .      270  &  271 

Digestive  garum(Apiciu8)    ....  272 

Wonderful  seasoning  of  Apicius      .    .  274 

Oxyporon  seasoning. 274 

Honey,  its  medicinal  properties .    .    .  276 

Cinnamon,  its  medicinal  properties      .  276 

Greek  and  Roman  pickles      ....  278 

Truffles,  Apicius's  method  of  preparing  280 

Syrup  of  truffles,  how  made  ....  280 

Truffles,  medicinal  quality     .     .     .     .  281 

Truffles,  how  to  preserve 281 

The  Emperor  Verus's  pie,  how  made    .  287 

Cato's  cake,  how  made 287 

Ancient  pie,  the  placenta,  how  made  .  287 

Globi,  method  of  making 288 

Apicius's  globi,  three  recipes      .    .    .  289 

Original  pastry,  its  progress,  how  made  291 

Darioles,  how  composed 292 

Curious  tarts 292 

WATER. 

Aristotle's  method  of  obtaining  ice .    .  295 

BEVERAGES. 

Zythum  and  Curmi,  how  composed      .  299 

Strong  ale,  how  to  make  a  hogshead    .  302 

Bracket,  way  of  making 303 

Ptisana,  recipe 304 

Oxycratus,  do. 304 

Sicera,  made  of  grain,  honey,  or  fruit.  304 

Hydromcl,  method  of  making  it     .    .  304 

Hydromelon,  how  composed  ....  305 
Hydrorosatum,  simple  addition  to  the 

preceding 305 

Apomeli,  simple  recipe      .....  305 

Omphacomeli,  ingenious  mixture     .    .  305 

Myrtites,  aromatic  drink 305 

Date  wine,  how  nuide 305 

Artificial  wines 305 

Nero's  refreshing  water 305 


TEA. 
Various  teas,  how  manufactured 

COFFEE. 

Various  qualities  of  coffee .    . 


.    306 


310 


448 


TABLE  OP  RECIPES. 


Coffee,  made  with  roasted  rye     ...  311 

Coffee^  with  chicory 311 

Coffee,  made  with  lupin 311 

Coffee,  its  medicinal  properties  .    .    •  311 

Coffise,  its  physical  effecto 312 

CHOCOLATE. 

Various  kinds  of  oocoa 313 

Chocolate,  how  manofactnred     .    .    .  313 

Ghiapa,  perfumed  chocolate  ....  814 

Chocolate,  its  properties 314 

WINE. 

Grapes,  way  of  preserving  fresh     •    .  S25 

Wine,  method  of  makmg 325 

Piqoette,  simple  way  of  obtaining  it    «  326 

Carenum,  how  obtained 326 

Defirutnm,  how  obtained 326 

Sapa,  how  obtiuned 326 

Wine,  how  to  preserve  it 326 

Preparation  of  dolia  for  wine     .     .    .  327 

Wine,  how  to  fine  it 327 

Athenseos's  opinion  of  old  wine .    .    .  329 
Difference  of  properties  between  white 

and  red  wines 329 

Process  of  preparation  for  Chios  wine  .  330 

Passum  wine 320 

Dulcewine 330 

Mnlsnmwine 381 


Paf« 

Anisites  wine 331 

Rosatom  wine»  Apicins's  recipe  .    ,    .  331 

Violatum  wine 331 

Myrrhinnm  wine 331 

LIQUEUR  WINE. 

Various  compoation  of  liqueurs,  herbs 

employed 338 

Liqueur  wine  for  Greek  and  Roman 

ladies 338 

Wormwood  wine,  how  made,  its  pro- 
perties      334 

Bitter  liqueurs,  how  obtained     .    •    .  334 

Myrtle  wine,  its  properties     ....  334 

Adynamon  wine,  its  properties  .    .    .  335 

(Enanthinum  wine 335 

Burgundy  and  Champagne  wines    .    •  336 

Ypocras,  how  composed 338 

Clarey,  how  composed 338 


REPASTS. 

ROMAN  SUFFEIt. 

Fly  dishes,  or  dormice,  what  they  con- 
sist of     390 

Champignon  and  egg  sausages,  how 
made 890 

Grasshoppers,  how  prepared  and  cooked    890 


INDEX. 


Page 

AlMuma^  sideboard 264 

Abderites,  give  up  their  soil  to  frogs    .    249 

Ablation S82,  388 

872 

889 

264 

64 

263 

23 

24 

24 

842 

895 

256 

127 

877 


»> 


>» 


Ablutions,  before  supper    .    . 
AcerrsB,  vases  for  perfumes    . 
Acetabulum,  vinegar  cruet    . 
Acetaria,  pickles  of  the  ancients 
Achilles  turned  the  spit    .    . 
Acorns,  a  primitive  food   •    . 
eaten  by  the  Spaniards 
a  substitute  for  wheat 
Acratism,  breakfast     .    .    . 
Acrobats,  known  to  the  ancients  '^ 
Adephagia,  the  goddess  of  good  cheer 
Adrian's  regulations  respecting  cattle 
Adversitores,  Roman  footmen     •    . 

Adynamon  wine       834 

Jilsopus*  dish  of  singing  birds  *  .    .    .     193 

Agape,  love  feasts 846 

Agricultural  Society  of  England  (the 

Royal) 16,  410 

„  trophy 411 

Agriculture 9 

„  its  origin 9 

f,         developed  the  industry  of 

the  Jews 11 

very  ancient  in  Egypt  .    .      12 
highly   respected   by   the 

Roman  Sienate     ...      18 
first  treatise  on    ....      16 
^honours  paid  to  ....      16 
protected  by  Charles  JX. 

of  France 18 

Aiwine 387 

Albanumwine 829 

Albert,   banquets  offered  to  H.  B.  H. 

Prince 408 

Alcibiades*  banquet 855 

Ale,  its  ancient  reputation     ....    801 
„    its  curative  properties     ....    801 
how  it  was  made  in  England  .    .    802 


II 


•  9 


99 


11 


ff 


t>ag. 

Ale,  its  price  under  Edward  II. .  .  .  302 
Alec,  a  kind  of  brine  ....  240,271 
Alexander  the   Great   discovered  the 

eschalot 82 

„        was  fond  of  apples     .    .    .  108 

„        an  admirer  of  peacocks  .    .  166 

„        his  magnificent  banquet     .  357 

„        his  silver  arm-chairs .    .    .  372 

Alfred  the  Great  a  renowned  hunter    .  181 

AHsander,  a  valuable  remedy      .    •    .  91 

Almond  tree 117 

„         anativeofPaphlagonia    .  117 

„         highly  valued  in  the  East.  117 

, ,         how  to  augment  its  fertility  1 17 

Almonds,  Apician  preparation  of    .    .  117 

,,        eaten  before  drinking .    .    .  117 

„        oil  extracted  from  .    .    •    .  117 

„        paste  obtained  firom    ...  118 

„        their  various  uses  .    .     .    .  118 

Alose  sauce     .........  258 

Alphonso  of  Castil^  his  repugnance 

to  garlic 81 

Amalthssa,  the  goat 23 

Amboise  (George  d'}.  Archbishop  of 

Rouen 172 

Ambrosia,  the  food  of  the  gods    .    •    •  23 

Amphis,  despised  horse-radiriies ...  80 
Amphorie,  vases  used  for  wine    .     828,  890 

Ampulla,  a  crystal  bottle 296 

Amusements  of  the  guests 383 

Anacreon  sung  parsley      .....  83 

Anaphe,  an  island  desolated  by  hares  .  188 

Anchovies 240 

„       how  preserved 240 

u       supplied  a  kind  of gamm  240,  270 

„        how  cooked 241 

Andalusia,  renowned  for  its  olives    •    .  98 

Anecdote,  severity  of  Pygmalion     .    .  125 

„       the  eggs  of  Petronius .    .    .  201 

Angel-fish,  its  size 237 

Anglo-Saxons,  devoted  to  agriculture  .  17 


4A0 


INDEX. 


Anglo-Saxon^  their  inral  occnpations  17 

,,            their  calinary  utensils  .  S46 

Animal  food  added  to  Tefjretables      .    .  123 

„          when  ftrat  introduced  .    .  124 

Animals 133 

Anise-seed,  extolled  bj  Pythafforas      .  88 

„        recommended  by  Plinj .    .  88 

Anisiteswine 331 

Anna  Perenna,  a  potectress  of  flocks    .  128 

Antecona,  first  course 390 

Antidote  of  Mithridates 119 

Antiphanns,  a  patron  of  quails    ...  197 

Antony  was  fond  of  fishing     ....  250 

,,      his  liberality  towards  a  cook  .  256 

Apician  pork 138 

Apicii,  the  three 200 

Apicius,  he  killed  himself 51 

,1       his  gastronomic  treatise     .    .  200 

„       his  prize  for  a  new  brine   .    .  213 

„       his  voyage  to  Africa     .    .    .  247 

,,       his  cakes 289 

Apollo  was  an  ichthyophagist    .    .    .  210 

Apomeli,  a  kind  of  beverage  ....  305 

Appetite,  its  three  degrees     .    .    •    .  255 

Appins  Clandius*  aqueduct     ....  295 

Apple  tree  in  Greece 108 

„        seldom  mentioned  in  Holy 

Writ 108 

„        cultivated  by  the  Latins    .  109 
f,        introduced  into  Gaul     .    .  109 
Apples,  named  after  eminent  person- 
ages      109 

Apricot  tree 103 

Apricots,  their  price  in  Rome     .    .    .  103 

„      how  prepared 104 

Apronian  cherry 103 

Apronianus,  his  decree  respecting  the 

Roman  butchers 130 

Aqueducts  of  Rome 294 

Archestrates,  his  culinary  meditations .  254 
Archimagiros,  chief  cook  ....  256,  260 

Argonauts,  they  discovered  the  pheasant  1 94 

Aristceus,  the  inventor  of  oil  mills  .    .  97 

a,               „          of  cheese     .    .  173 

,,       discovered  honey    ....  273 
Aristocracy  of  England,  its  munificent 

hospitality 384 

Aristoxenic  ham       139 

Aristoxenus,  his  lettuces    •    .    .    .    .  74 

Armeniaca,  apricot  tree 103 

Artemidorus,  regulated   the   culinary 

language 254 

Artichoke,  known  to  the  ancients    .    •  70 

„        despised  by  Oalen      ...  70 

,,        sung  by  Columella     ...  70 


Artichoke,  forgotten  during  a  long  pe- 
riod        70 

,,        their  preparation  ....  71 

,,        how  to  render  them  mild     .  71 

,,        how  preserved 71 

,,        when  introduced  into  Eng- 
land       52 

Artificial  dishes 260 

»       wines 305 

Artocreas,  akindofpie    .    .    .      265,286 

Artolaganos,  a  kind  of  bread  ....  32 

Artoplites 38 

Artopticius  panis 38 

ArvsJes  brothers,  instituted  by  Romulus  13 

Asafcetida,  esteemed  by  the  ancients   .  91 

„        extraction  of  its  resin     .    .  92 

Ascalon,  the  native  place  of  eschalots  .  82 

Asparagus 84 

„        brought  from  Asia;   grown 

at  Ravenna 65 

„        Roman ;  their  size ;  how  pre- 
pared    65 

„        boiled  ;     how    preserved  ; 

hurtful  to  the  sight     .    .  65 

,,        when  introduced  into  Eng- 
land       52 

„         wine 333 

Ass,  its  flesh  forbidden  to  the  Jews; 

patronised  by  Meoeenas       .    .    .  150 

Asses  used  in  Roman  mills   ....  26 

,,     milk  beneficial  to  Erancis  I.     .  169 
f,      „      cheese  obtained  from  it     .173 

Astrologicus  panis,  a  sort  of  bread     .  38 

Astydamas,  a  great  eater     ....  339 
Athelstan,  a  promoter  of  the  art  of 

venery 181 

AthensBus  praises  the  Damascus  plum  105 

Athenians,  their  epicurism    ....  126 

Athletse,  fed  on  figs 113 

Atriensis,  hall-keeper       376 

Atrium,  hall       .........  376 

Attalus  fond  of  gardening   ....  59 

Attica,  its  pomegrantes 122 

Augurs,  their  banquet 857 

Augustus,  cured  by  lettuces    ....  75 

„      was  fond  of  cheese    .    .'  .    •  174 

,,      his  sumptuary  regulations      .  347 

Autopyron,  a  coarse  bread    ....  37 

Aveline,  filbert 120 

Avena,  vats 20 

Aviaries  for  thrushes     ......  198 

„      Varro*s 198 

Aymar*s  table  of  massive  gold    .    .    .  370 

Azumos,  a  sort  of  bread 32 

Babylon,  her  celebrated  gardens    .    .  59 


INDEX. 


451 


Pace 

Bacchma,    protector  of  the  grapes ; 

ripened  the  figs     ....  95 

^      kills  agoat 124 

,,      the  same  as  Osiris ;  cultivated 

the  vine       322 

,,      worshipped  hy  the  Bomaas    .  524 

Bacon,  a  suhstitale  for  oil     ....  100 

,,     was  sold  in  pablic-houses .    .    .  138 

Bailli  de  Soffren,  a  witty  epicure    .    .  843 

Bain  Marie  of  the  ancients    ....  262 

Bakehouses  in  Rome 34 

Baker,  of  King  Pharaoh 31 

„      Greek  bakers 32 

„      in  Rome 34*  35 

„  submitted  to  certain  regulations  35 
„  under  the  Norman  kings  .  38,  39 
„     in    France  ;    how    they  were 

admitted  at  Paris   ....  39 

Bancs,  benches 374 

Banquet  of  Geta 126 

„      of  Caranus 155 

„      of  Charles  VI. 259 

„       of  Alexander  the  Great    .    .  357 

„       etymology      .     .....  374 

„       offered  to  Napoleon;  to  the 

allied  sovereigns .    .    .    •  407 

„      to  H.  M.  Queen  Victoria  .    .  408 
„      on  the  occasioil  of  the  baptism 

ofPrince  Albert  Duncan   .  412 

Banquets  of  the  ancients        ....  345 

„       of  William  the  Conqueror    .  352 

,,      of  the  Hebrews 354 

„       in  the  Temples 355 

„       triumphal 357 

„       modem      ....  401,  407,  408 
„      Conducive  to  .the  prosperity  of 

nations       402 

„       offered  to  H,  R.  H.  Prince 

Albert 403 

„      given  by  the  Reform  Club      .  408 

Barbarossa's  pike 228 

Barbers  in  Rome 387 

Bardakes,  cooling  vases 297 

Barley,  an  ignominious  food  ....  20 

„     a  symbol  of  fertility  ....  41 

„     gruel       41,  42 

„     water       42,  304 

Basque  fishermen 231 

Baths  in  Rome 387 

Bean,  a  dismal  food  ;  offered  to  Apollo ; 

served  on  good  tables     ...  53 
„    Egyptian ;  Greek  i  royalty  of  the 

bean 54 

Beaune  «ine 336 

Beocafico 201,  203 


Beef 143 

„    ^rib^rienne;  &laSarmate  .    .  144 

Beer,  an  ancient  beverage      ....  299 

„    a  substitute  for  wine    ....  300 

Bees,  under  the  protection  of  Mellona  273 

Beet,  etymology 62 

„    preparation 62, 63 

„    preservation 6S 

„    a  vermifuge 62 

Belisarios,  his  watermills  on  the  Tiber  28 

Bellaria,  dessert 394 

Bellay,  Bishop  of  Mans  (Du)    ...  24 
Berlanda,  disinherited  by  her  father 

(St.)       374 

Beuchlingen  (Countess  of),  fond  of  eel- 
pouts  229 

Beuckels,  the  Dutch  fisherman  .    •    .  239 
Beverages,    of  which   water    is   the 

foundation 299 

Biclinium 372 

Bill  of  Fare   ....    264,404,405,409 
„     of  an  English  dinner  in  the  15th 

century 362 

Birds,  when  served 193 

„    a  dish  of  7,000  birds    ....  207 
, ,    mixed  with  garlands  of  flowers  394,  395 
Birds' -nests,  various  opinions ;  described 

by  Poivre 205 

„       substantial  food ;  of  two  sorts  206 

Bittern 198 

Black  pudding 138 

„     sauce  of  Lacedsemon    ....  252 
Blackbirds,  dear  to  the  Roman  epicures ; 
medicinal  properties;  imprisoned 

by  Louis  XI 199 

B16,  wheat 19 

Blit,  its  msipidity 68 

BoBotia,    produced    excellent    pome- 

grantes 122 

,,      renowned  for  its  ducks  .    .    .  158 

Boiuf-gras,  a  fatted  ox 145 

Bold  appetite 255 

Boleti,  mushrooms 283 

Bon  Chretien  pear 107 

Books  placed  in  the  dining-room    .    .  364 

Bordeaux,  its  oysters 244 

Botargo,  a  preparation  firom  the  eggs 

of  mullets 220 

Bourbon  coffee 810 

Bourriche  of  oysters 242 

Bouturon,  butter 171 

Brahmin  women,  worship  a  cow      .    .  145 

Braket,  a  beverage  for  the  lower  classes  303 

Bramble  of  Ida 115 

Braziers  of  the  ancients 365 


452 


INDEX. 


Bread,  how  made  in  the  East     .    »    .  30 

,,      withoat  leaven 31 

„      of  Athens ;  of  Meg^ara     ...  32 

,,      yariooB  kinds  in  Greece  .    .    82,  ZS 

„      baking 33 

„      of  the  athlete 87 

,,      soaked  in  vineg^ar      ....  278 

,,      carried  round  the  tables     .    •  392 

Breakfast  of  Gkdba 267 

„        of  the    Romans;    of    the 

Greeks 842 

„        first  meal    ....      344, 349 

Brill 287 

Brine»aBed  to  preserve  cheese     .    •    .  174 

,,    from  the  blood  of  mackerel   .    .  213 

„    served  at  table 268 

„    brought  from  Dalmatia    .    .    .  269 

Britons,  paid  little  attention  to  agri- 

cultore 16 

„      their  frugality 17 

,,      abstained  from  the  hare     .    .  188 

„            „        from  fish  ....  214 

Brocoli,  esteemed  by  oonnoisseors ;  how 

prepared 69 

Brooet^  a  German  dish 258 

Bubona,  the  goddess  of  oxen .    .    .    .  128 

Bncoellatum,  biscuit 37 

Bofiets  of  the  Romans 364 

„        in  the  middle  ages  ....  365 

Bnffon  and  the  tmffles 279 

Bnfifoons 382 

Bohl  work,  valned  by  the  ancients    .  369 

Bun,  its  probable  origin  (Qross)     .    .  290 

Bophonic  feast 125 

Bui^ndy  wine 336 

Bustard 206 

Butchers  in  Greece;  in  Rome;  their 

patron 129 

ft      corporations ;  regulations     130,131 

Butter,  a  substitute  for  oil     ....  100 

M    known  in  the  East      ....  170 

,p    its   manipulation ;     used    for 

pastry ;  served  instead  of  oil ; 

the  food  of  the  barbarians ;  a 

remedy 171 

„    how  to  obtain  it  instantly ;  how 

to  attenuate  its  rancidity ;  its 

preservation  ;  burned  in  lamps  172 

„    fiied  or  roasted 258 

„    regulations  for  its  sale .    ...  172 

„    Tower,  the 172 

Butts,  of  the  ancients        327 

Cabbage,  cured  all  diseases     ....  50 

„       various  preparations;  brought 

into  Gaul;  how  preserved  61 


Pax« 

Cacabaoeaspanis,  akindofbread        •  38 

Cadmus,  the  culinary  tutor  of  a  king  .  253 

Cssar,  served  with  bad  oil     ...    .  99 

,,     sumptuary  regulations      •    •    .  347 

Cake,  devoured  by  an  ox        ....  12j» 

Cakes  of  the  ancients 285 

Caligula,  made  his  own  apotheosis       .  165 

„       his  expedition  against  Britain  241 

Calves,  how  fed 143 

Cambis  devoured  his  wife       ....  339 

Camels' -milk  cheese 173 

„      flesh       190 

Cameline  sauce 257 

Campanian  bacon 140 

„         wines 333 

Canard,  a  French 158 

Candelabra 389 

Cantabria,  renowned  for  hams    .    .    .  187 

Cantibaris^  his  stupendous  gluttony     .  340 

Capers,  left  to  the  people ;  how  prepared  9 1 

Capitolian  pig's  liver 140 

Capon,  first  introduced 154 

,,      iladeliaque 155 

Cappadocians,  venerated  water  .    .    .  2D3 

Caprese,  excesses  of 126 

Capsarii,  attendants  in  the  Roman  baths  387 

Caracas  cocoa 313 

Caranns,  a  Greek  epicure ;  his  wedding 

repast 155, 186 

Carenum,  cooked  wine       326 

Caria,  its  oil 98 

Carp,  held  in  estimation ;  how  cooked ; 
its  size ;  its  fecundity ;  its  longevity ; 

where  naturalised 229 

Carrots,  much  esteemed ;  how  prepared  68 

Carthaginian  chariot 15 

„          apples 122 

Cartier  (Jacques) 231 

Carver       377 

Carviiius,  an  artist  in  buhl-work     •    .  369 

Carving,  art  of;  with  music    ....  260 

Castella  aquarum,  large  water  basius  .  295 

Castor,  trained  horses        179 

Catalonia,  ceJebrated  for  hams    .    .    .  137 

Catesby,  his  opinion  of  the  flamingo    .  201 

Catinufl,  a  vase 268 

Cato,  noticed  the  fig  tree 114 

„     sold  his  old  slaves 208 

,,    his  recipe  for  a  cake     ....  287 
Cattle  mentioned  in  the  Mosaic  law; 
valued    by     the    Romans; 

rearing  of  cattle    ....  127 

„     markets  of  the  Hebrews ;  of  the 

Greeks 128 

,,      of  the  Romans       120 


INDEX. 


453 


.Pag« 

Cattle,  feeding  of 128 

Caoliflowen  unknown  in  England  before 

Charles  IL 62 

Caviar,  how  prepared ;  of  two  sorts     .  317 

Cayenne  coffee 810 

Cecilian  cherry 103 

Celer,  the  price  he  gaye  for  a  red  mallet  213 

Cellars  of  the  ancients       326 

Celtiberia,  swarming  with  rabbits        .  189 

Cereals 19,22 

„     name  of  a  feast ;  when  disoorered  22 

Ceres,  the  goddess  of  agriculture     .    .  0,  13 

„     a  queen  of  Sicily 24 

„     gave  the  fig  tree  to  Phytalus     •  118 

„     kiUed  the  first  pig 124 

„     was  presented  with  milk    .    .    .  160 

Cereyisia,  beer 300 

Chafing-dishes    ;. 262 

Chailly,  bread  of 89 

Chairs  used  by  the  Greeks     ....  8L8 

Chalioes  of  the  Greeks 372 

of  amber 321 

Champagne  wine 3  3 

Champignon  sausages 890 

Charontier,  pork  butoher       ....  132 

Charlemagne's  kitchen-garden  .    .    .  61 

„           silver  tables        •    .    .  370 
Charles  VL  of  Prance ;  his  wedding 

banquet 259 

„         poisoned  by  mushrooms  282 
Charles  IX.  of  Franoe;  his  edict  in 

favour  of  agriculture   .  18 

,,         an  admirer  of  turkeys      .  165 
Charles  X.  of  France ;  his  coronation 

banquet 408 

Cheese       168 

n     mentioned  by  Aristotle        .    .  171 
„     invented  by  Aristoous ;  known  to 
the  Hebrews ;  a  military  ali- 
ment; various  sorts;    given 

to  the  Greek  wrestlers     .    •  173 
,t     preserved  in  brine ;  Tromelian ; 

A  la  Bithynienne     ....  174 

Cherips,  invented  a  new  dish      .    .    .  280 
Cherry  tree,  cultivated  by  Mithridatee'; 

btroduced  by  Luoullus  .  102 

,t        propagated  in  Italy      •    .  108 

Cherries  praised       102 

„      when  served;  various  kinds; 

"  „       cherry  wine 103 

Chervil,  how  prepared       84 

Chestnuts,  preparation  of ;  oil  extracted  121 

„        kept  green  all  the  year  .    .  122 

Chestnut  tree,  its  native  place    .    .    ,  121 

Chickens^  sacred 156 


•p««t 
Chickens,  hatched   in    ovens;    ft    la 

Coslienne ;  k  la  Frontonienne       .  157 

Chicory,  mixed  with  coffee     •    .    •    .  81 1 

Chinmeys  known  to  the  ancients     .    .  261 

„        unknown  to  the  Hebrews     .  865 

Chinese,  their  respect  for  agriculture  .  16 

Chios  wine 828,  380 

Chiron,  a  pupil  of  Diana       ....  179 

Chocolat  de  sante 318 

Chocolate       312 

„       used  by  the  Mexicans      .    .  813 
„       a  favourite  food  in  Spain ;  its 
properties ;     when    intro- 
duced into  France     ...  814 

Christmas  bread       40 

Christmas  feasts  under  Richard  IL     .851 

Chrodegand,  Bishop  of  Metz      ...  24 

Cicero's  valuable  tables 869 

Cider  maker 304 

Cinara  metamorphosed  into  an  arti- 
choke        70 

Cinnamon,  its  mysterious  growing       .  275 
„         its  scarcity;  from  China; 

offered  as  a  present   .    .  276 

Cisalpine  preserve 145 

City  of  London,  its  ancient  gastronomic 

profusion 351 

Civilis  panis,  a  kind  of  bread      ...  88 

Clarence's  wedding  repast  (Duke  of)  851 

Clarey,  an  English  drink       •    .    •    .  888 

Claudius,  his  guests 257 

„        poisoned  by  mushrooms  •    .  282 

,,        hisvoq|u;ity       840 

Clement  VIL  poisoned  by  mushrooms  282 

Clerks'  wine 337 

Clerks'  feeding  in  the  16th  century      .  348 
Cloths,   dimensions  of  table;  cutting 

away  the  table  cloth       ....  374 

Cloves 276 

Clovis,  his  politeness    *. 384 

Club  of  Roman  epicures 248 

Cock,  consecrated  ^to  Mars ;  cock-fight 

in  Greece ;  in  Italy           .    .  153 

„    white,  proclaimed  the  hours  •    •  154 

Cocoa-nut 312 

Cod-fishing ;  weight ;  fecundity  .     281,  282 

„  how  dressed       281 

Coelia,  beer 200 

Coena,     supper,      of     various      de- 
scriptions     356,  357 

Coonaculum,  dining-room      ....  368 
CoBur,  mtroduoed  the  turkey  (Jacques)  165 
Coffee,  of  various  kinds ;  its  introduc- 
tion      310 

„     when  mentioned ;  its  properties  311 


454 


INDEX. 


Coffee  when  drank  in  Italy ;  in  London ; 
in    Paris ;    in    Sweden ;    a   slow 

poison ;  with  milk 812 

CollaUon 842,  344 

„      of  the  Romans 343 

•y      ofLacuUas       348 

Colam  ntvariam,  snow  cullender      296,  327 

„     vinariom,  wine  strainer    .    .    .  331 

Col jmhadeSp  a  kind  of  olives       ...  98 

Comissatio,  a  sort  of  '*  wake"     •    .    .  845 

Comas,  bis  portrait 355 

Conflagration  of  Rome 896 

Conger-eel,  bestowing  immortality;  of 

a  considerable  size     .    .  226 

,,         culinary  preparation     .    .  226 

Conn^table,  a  celebrated  orange  tree   .  112 

Conon's  banquet 355 

Conyiva,  guest 881 

Cookery,  ancient 266 

„       exposed  to  unjust  reproaches  251 

Cooks 261 

„     Greek 126 

„     from  Sicily 256,344 

„     erratic 265 

„     how  rewarded 256 

,;     in  the  middle  ages        ....  259 

,',     of  Louis  XIV. 215,256 

„     his  qualities 252 

Coriander  used  to  preserve  meat     •    .  47 

Corinth,  its  quinces 106 

Cormorant 193 

Corn,  its  aboriginal  country   ....  22 

,,    various  kinds       ..*....  19 

„    best ;  Roman  law 21 

,,    cutting       14 

,,     grinding 23,  25 

,,    its  preservation        15 

Cornelian  law 347 

Corporation  of  butchers 130 

Cos,  its  poultry        154 

„    wine S28 

Cossi,  large  worms        265 

Couches  for  the  repasts  ' 372 

„       of  some  emperors     ....  373 

„      in  the  middle  ages  ....  374 
Counts  of  Ai\jon  introduced  the  plum 

tree 105 

Courses       362 

„      their  number     .    .    .  845,  390, 391 

Cow,  worshipped  by  Brahmin  women  145 

,,    milk;  cheese 173 

Condiments 272 

Crab,  its  seasoning ;  sausages ;  stuffed  248 

Cranaus  mixed  water  with  wine       .    .  323 

Crane 193 


p«ip« 

Crater,  a  cup 891 

Crawfish         247 

Crayfish,  seasoning;  from  Alexandria; 

how  preserved        248 

Credences,  dressers       865 

Cross-bun       290 

Crow 198,  207 

Crowns  of  thrashes •    .  198 

„     for  the  guests     ......  891 

Cracifixion,  the  punishment  of  slaves   .  208 

Craet     .    .  * 264 

CrysUl,  malleable 218 

Crystal  Palace,  the 402 

CubicuUrii,  valets 877 

Cucumber,  plentiful  in  Egypt;  from 
Antioch;  marvellous  pro- 
perties     72 

„      protects  all  kinds  of  seeds; 

preparation ;  preservation  78 

Cummin 91 

Cups 263,  316 

„     in  the  Homeric  ages     ....  317 

„     variety  of  shapes     .    •    .      818,  821 

,,     of  praise 869 

„     modem 407 

,,     bearer 878 

Curlew 207 

Curmi,  beer 299 

Cuttle-fish 234 

Cuvier,  on  the  Pentateuch     ....  9 

Cybele,  her  repugnance  to  garlic     .    .  81 

„       patroness  of  the  pine     ...  95 

Cythnns»  renowned  for  Oheese     .    .    .  174 

Dalmatia,  its  brine 269 

Damascus  plum  trees 1C5 

Dampier,  his  opinion  of  the  pheni- 

copter 201 

Daphne,  its  thrushes 197 

Dapiferi,  servants 377 

Darioles,  a  kind  of  pastry      ....  292 
Dates,  from  Judea  ;    how  preserved  ; 
various  preparations  ;  honey  from 

the  dates 101 

Dauphin  of  France,  his  style  of  living 

in  the  14th  century 848 

Death  of  Vatel 215 

Decapolis,  its  olives 98 

Dfecimer,  or  D^cimheure,  dinner     .    .  849 

Decree  of  Apronianns 130 

Deer 184 

,,      d  la  Marcellus 185 

Defratum,  boiled  wine 326 

Denarius,    inclosed    within    a   trufiie 

(Roman) 279 

Dessert 894 


INDEX. 


455 


Diamond,  a  fish 237 

Diana,  taught  Chiron  « 179 

Dies  epolate,  festivals     ....      .  290 

Digestive  garam 272 

„       salts 269 

Dill,  its  properties 88 

Dining-room,  its  decoration    ....  363 

„            of  Nero 364 

Dinner        342,  344,  349 

„      eerred  to  T.  Quintns  ....  136 

„      of  the  Jews 342 

Diogenes,  his  earthen  yase     ....  327 

Diomus  kills  an  ox 125 

Diphilas  fond  of  cherries 102 

Diploma,  double  vase 262 

Dishes  of  the  ancients 261 

„      thirty  thousand,  at  a  banquet  .  352 

Dispensator,  steward 376 

Distribution  of  wheat 21 

„          of  oil 99 

,,         of  pork-meat 130 

Dodine  sauce 258 

Dog,  a  relishing  dish 150 

„    nailed  to  a  cross 151 

„    trained  bj  Pollux 179 

„    names    of    hunting   dogs ;  their 

qualities 180 

Dolia,  wine  vessels 327 

Dolphins 215 

Dol  jres,  a  kind  of  bread 33 

Domingo  Coffee  (St)    ...:..  310 

Domitian,  his  turbot 224 

Dorio,  a  wit 225 

„      an  epicure 226 

Dormice,  how  prepared 890 

Donbliers,  table-cloths 375 

Dove,  an  emblem  of  sweet  virtues  .    .  162 

Dragon-weaver 237 

Dressers,  in  the  middle  ages   ....  365 

Drinking 383 

,,        in  Roman  banquets     .    .    .  392 

„        to  the  good  genius  ....  396 

„        cups 316 

,,       horns 318 

Druids,  their  respect  for  the  oak     .    .  24 

Drunkards  among  the  ancients   .    .    •  316 

Drusus  fond  of  brocoli 69 

„      favourite  starling 200 

,,      daughter,  and  the  sea-eels  .    .  214 
Duck,  an  antidote ;  its  flesh  ;  sacrificed 
to   Neptune ;    from    Bosotia ; 

served  on  good  tables     .    .    .  158 
f,    parts  oflfered ;    brains   &   PEpi- 

curienne ;  seasoning    .    .    .  159 

Dulcewine 830 


Pag« 

Dumplings  of  Athens 85 

Dutertre,  his  opinion  of  the  phenicopter  20 1 

Eagles,  distribution  of 412 

Easter  eggs 178 

Eaters  of  renown 340 

Eau-benite  sauce 258 

Echansons 378 

Echaudfe  bread 89 

Eclectic  appetite 255 

Eden,  garden  of 9 

Edgar,  a  destroyer  of  wolves  (King)    .  181 

Ediles  of  Borne Z55 

Edward  the  Confessor,  fond  of  hunting  181 

,,              his  sumptuary  hiws  350 
Eel,  worshipped  in  Egypt;  esteeme^l 

by  the  Greeks ;  by  the  Sybarites ; 
despised  by  the  Romans ;  noticed 
by  Apicius ;  how  prepared ;  sacri- 
ficed to  the  (rods ;  how  served ;  its 
enemies ;  served  at  Bockingham's 

banquet 227 

„  its  fabulous  length  ....     218,  228 

Eel-pout,  its  liver 229 

„        its  reputation 213 

Eggs 168 

,,    venerated  by  some  philosophers  .  175 
„    primitive ;  when  served ;  cooked 
without  fire ;  seen  in  dreams ; 
symbol  of  the  universe ;  carried 

with  pomp 176 

„     soft   boiled;  d  la  Romaine;   & 
I'Epasn^te ;  ft  l'Ath§nienne ;  d 

la  Mac^^nienne;  auz  Boses  .  177 

.,    pudding ;  red 178 

,,    cooked  on  the  spit 258 

„    Easter 178 

Egypt,  the  granary  of  the  empire   .    .  12 

„      supplied  the  best  vinegar    .    .  278 

Egyptians  abhorred  the  pig    ....  134 

„        esteemed  the  ox    ....  142 

„        their  veneration  for  the  kid  148 

„        fond  of  fish 211 

„        their  respect  for  the  sea-eel .  222 

„        for  water 293 

„        consumed   a  great  deal  of 

bread 340 

„        wreaths 394 

Elephant)  its  flesh  ;  its  feet ;  trunk .    .  191 
„        dancing    elephants ;    k    la 

Troyenne 192 

Elizabeth,  fond  of  geese  (Queen)     •    •  159 
Emphractum,  an  Apician  dish    .    .    .  242 
Endive,  differently  appreciated ;  cura- 
tive qualities 75 

„      how  prepared 76 


450 


INDEX. 


Pcffi 

Entrails  of  the  scanu 224 

„       of  the  tanny-fiiiL    ....  225 

Entremets 383,  385 

Epicurean  dish  in  the  olden  times  .    .  351 

Epicnms 400 

Epimeletes,  a  Greek  magistrate  ...  129 

Erichthoniiis,  king  of  Athens     .    .    .  125 

Eschalots,  by  whom  discovered    ...  82 

EschariteSi  a  kind  of  bread    ....  33 

Etiquette  in  the  16th  century     .    .    .  353 
Enmenes  encouraged  the  rearing   of 

pigs  (King) 136 

Exeter  banquet 410 

Exhibition  of  1851 16,  402 

Extravagance  Cnlinaire 406 

Faloou 194 

Ealemian  wine 329 

Fannins,  the  oonsnl 381 

Fare,  bills  of 404,  405,  409 

Fattening  of  poultry 154 

„        of  geese 161 

,,        of  turkeys 165 

Feast  in  honour  of  Ceres 356 

Feathered  game 193 

Feathers  thrown  before  the  door     .    .  358 

F^cule,  flour 22 

Feeding  of  cattle 128 

„       of  clerks  in  the  16th century.  348 

Fennel  used  to  restore  the  sight      .    .  88 

Festival  of  St  Ubic 215 

F^te  of  the  distribution  of  eagles    ..412 

Fig-pecker,  how  prepared 201 

Fig-tree  dear  to  Bacchus       ....  95 

,,        a  tree  of  Eden 112 

,p       planted  at  Athens  ....  113 
,,        varieties  ;    brought  war  on 

Attica 114 

Figs,  abounded  in  Canaan  ....  112 
„  exportation  interdicted;  an  ar- 
ticle of  trade  in  Jerusalem  ; 
valued  by  the  Hebrews ;  food 
of  the  athletflB  ;  &vourite  food 
of  Plato ;  of  Attica ;  served  to 

Persian  kings 113 

,,    noticed  by  Cato ;  planted  in  the 

forum ;   food  for  entire  armies  114 

„    how  served 115 

Filbert 120 

File-fish 237 

Fillet  of  pork  &  la  B^otienne.     ...  139 

Fish  permitted  to  the  Jews ,  •    .    .    .  210 
„   served  to  Queen  Gatis ;  desjAsed 

by  the  heroes  of  Homer  .    •    .  211 

„    Athenian  law  on 212 

„   disliked  by  the  Britons  ....  214 


Fish,  of  two  hundred  cubits    ....  213 

„    mania 214 

, ,    prepsred  in  the  shape  of  game ;  its 
consumption  in  former  times  ; 

its  vogue  under  Loub  XIY.    .  215 

„   ponds 220 

„    hooks 249 

„    preservation  of ;    piscine  on  the 

rools  of  houses 250 

Fishermen 249 

Fishing 249 

Fishmongers^  Athens     .    .    .    •    .  212 

„         supplying  royal  tables     .  215 

Flabellarii,  servants 377 

Flamingo's  tongue 200 

,,         little  known  in  Europe  .    .  201 
Flesh  most  in  iashion  in  the  age  of 

Homer 125 

Flocks  of  the  patriarchs 127 

,,      of  the  eastern  nations    .    .    .  146 

Flounder 237 

Flour,  its  manipulation 30 

Flowers  used  by  the  guests     ....  383 

„      spread  over  the  table     .    .    .  389 

Focarii,  stokers 378 

Fontainebleau,  its  orange  tree    .    .    .  112 
Fontenelle,    his   answer   to    Madame 

Helv^tius     . 381 

Food,  primitive 345 

„     animal 123 

Forks 263 

Fornax,  a  goddess 34 

Forum  pistrinum,  the  bread  market  •    •  37 

Fountains  of  the  ancients .    •    «    •    .  294 

„        in  dining-rooms 366 

„        spouting  various  liquors    367,  385 

Fowls  flavoured  at  will 161 

Fox 190 

Francis  L,  how  cured 169 

Francis    of  Paulo  introduces  a  pear 

(St) 107 

Fraternity  of  free-livers 270 

French  wine,  its  price  in  England  .    .  338 

Fricatores,  servants 387 

Fritters 285 

Frogs  had  no  repute  among  the 
ancients ;  in  fashion  in  Paris  ; 
eaten  in  Germany  ;  disdained  in 

England 249 

Fruits;  the  primitive  food;    Hebrew 

l^siation ;  how  eaten      .    .  95 

„      how  preserved  ......  96 

„      when  served 96,  97 

Fruit-trees  on  the  house  tops      ...  96 

Frumenta 41 


INDEX. 


457 


?•«• 


r 


»> 


»* 


»» 


» 


88 

18 

866 

168 

257 
841 
107 
198 
194 
207 
889 
198 
17 
1^9 

69 


81 


Fonereal  banquet 857 

Furfuraoens  ponifl,  a  sort  of  bread 
Furrows,  tbeir  \eng^  .... 
€hila  of  tbe  pagan  pontiffa     .    • 
Galactopbagists,  drinkers  of  milk 

Galba's  breakfast 

,,      gastronomic  profusion     . 
Gaien,  his  opinion  of  the  pear    . 
Game^  feathered  ...... 

its  preservation .... 

fabulous  expenses  for  .    . 
abundant  in  Ithaca     .    • 
permitted  to  the  Hebrews 
Gardening  in  Great  Britain  .    . 

„        known  at  an  early  period    . 
Gardens,  of  Babylon ;  of  Alcinous ; 

Roman 

Garlic,  a  god  in  Egypt ;  a  military 

food;  given  to  cocks;  used 

by  countrymen  ;    proscribed 

by  a  King  of  Castile   .    .    . 

„      its  virtues ;  how  to  render  it 

milder 82 

Garoe,  a  curious  tree 298 

Garosy  a  shrimp 270 

Garum 218,  269 

sociorum 286,  270 

obtained  from  anchovies  .    .    .    240 
procured  from  Spain   ....    248 
its  price  ;  from  shrimps ;  from 
mackerel ;  of  the  allies;  from 
tunny-fish ;  from  the  red  mul- 
let   

from  saxatile  fish ;  its  prepara- 
tion; used  as  a  seasoning; 
from  various  animals   .    •    • 
its  modifications ;  digestive  •    . 

used  in  Turkey 278 

Garos;  a  shrimp 270 

Gastronomy,  where  it  has  flourished    .    126 
the  ofispring  of  appetite 

and  sensuality     .    .    .    210 
promotes  friendship     .    «    402 

Cktis,  Queen  of  Syria 211 

Gaul,  renowned  for  hams 137 

Gauls,  enticed  by  the  figs  of  Italy  .    .    114 

Geese,  saved  the  Capitol 151 

appreciated   by  the   ancients; 
their  prudence ;   honoured  by 

the  Britons 159 

kept  in  the  Capitol ;  a  symbol 
of  safety  ;  iattening     .     160,  161 

Gelatine  sauce 258 

Gellia,  anecdote  of 189 

George  IV.,  his  coronation  banquet  408 


»» 


» 


n 


» 


f» 


*t 


ft 


270 


271 
272 


9* 


ft 


9» 


9* 


Fate 

Geta'B  banquet 126 

„      alphabetical  dishes 257 

Getes,  drinkers  of  milk 168 

Gills  of  mulleto 219 

Ginger 92 

„      bread 40 

„      known  to  the  ancients    .    .    .  285 

Gladiators,  fighting  to  amuse  the  guests  896 

Globi,  a  kind  of  pastry 288 

Gloucestershire,  renowned  for  its  wines  SS6 

Goat,  killed  by  Bacchus 124 

Gold-fish,  how  dressed  ;  gave  its  name 

toSergius 280 

Golden  age,  dietetic  of  the   .    .    .    .  124 

„      apples 109 

Gods  of  the  sea 294 

Gonesse,  bread  of 89 

Goose's  liver 160,  161 

Goose  &  la  Gauloise;  served  on  Michael- 
mas day 161 

Gorgor  introduces  honey  into  Spain     .  273 

Goslings,  in  repute  among  the  Greeks .  1 59 

„      how  fattened 160 

Gourd,  brought  fix>m  IntUa ;  how  pre- 
pared and  preserved;  fromAntioch  66 
Grun,  spread  on  the  furrows  ....  14 

Grains 46 

Granada,  its  olives 98 

Granatum,  pomegranate 122 

„         wine 331 

Granea,  how  prepared 20 

Grapes^  offered  to  Bacchus    ....  95 

„       served  on  the  Boman  tables  .  825 

„       preserved 825 

Grass,  a  primitive  seat 368 

Grasshoppers  265,  890 

Greek-nut 117 

Greeks,  fond  of  agriculture    .    •    •    •  11 

„      their  cattle-markets .    ...  128 

„      eat  dogs 151 

„      laid  the  foundation  of  Ichthy- 

opbagy 211 

Grinding  of  com 23 

Grinding-stones,  by  whom  invented    24,  25 

„           used  by  ancient  nations  25 

Grindstones,  of  porous  lava    ....  28 

Gruel,  of  the  Romans 83,34 

Gudgeon 238 

„      when  served;  seasoning  .    .  239 

Guests 368 

'    „      their  places 372 

„      their  number 381 

Guinea  hen,  native  place ;  k  la  Kumide  163 

„         sacrificed  to  Caligula     .  165 

Guiseau,  a  kind  of  ccl 228 

i> 


498 


INDEX. 


Haddock,  served  with  pomp  ....  236 

Halec,  Akindofhrine 240 

Hall,  Atrium 870 

HaQ-keeper,  atriensis 876 

Halmadesy  a  kind  of  olireB    ....  98 

HAma,  when  eeryed 137 

Hand-mills. 25 

Hare,  how  prepared :  forbidden  to  the 

Jews;  abounded  in  Greeoe.    .    .  188 

HAre's  down  need  for  ooocbes     .    .    •  878 

HAiicot%  introdnoed  bj  AlexAnder .    •  55 

„       when  served 56 

HATold,  the  British  Nimrod  (King)     .  182 

Hasel-nnt 120 

Healths,  how  dnmk     .    .    .  383,  393,  394 

Hebrews,  their  cattle-markets    ...  128 

„        their  use  of  wine    ....  323 

Hedgehog 190 

HelioKabAloa,  fond  of  pheasants  .    .    •  19^ 
„          thrashes  and  ostrichs's 

brains  ....     199,  204 
„           WAS  served  with  g^lls  of 

mallets 219 

„  gorged  the  phessants 
with  an  expensive  de- 
licacy    221 

„           his  oooches 373 

M           his  childish  espi^gleries .  373 

„           biography 400 

Hempseed 48 

Hen  of  NumidiA 163 

Henry  I.  of  Engknd,  hb  death .    .    .  222 

Hens,  proeoibed  by  C.  FAonias  .    .    .  154 
„    AviAries ;  inanspicious  cackling  ; 

feeding 155,  156 

»,    worshipped 176 

„    of  AdriA;  eggs 177 

Hercoles,  thepAtronofbatchen     •    .  129 

n       A  powerfiil  hunter  ....  179 

„        resuscitAted  by  A  quAil    .    .  196 

Heroes  of  Homer,  fond  of  Aniuud  food  126 

„  their   culinAry   tA- 

lents      ....  253 

Heroit 198,  194 

Herring,  onknown  to  the  Ancients ; 
CAUght  on  the  cost  of  Scot- 

Uuad;  sold  by  the  Dotch  .  239 

„      how  preserved    .....  240 

Hesperides  Apples   .    « 109 

Hippocrates,  prejudiced  sgAinst  beans  53 

Hippolochas,  a  defender  of  quAUs  .    .  197 

Hirpmus's  park  ....•.«..  181 

„        fish-ponds 243 

Hirtius,  celebrAted  for  his  fish-ponds  •  220 

„      hisseA-eels 221 


Hirando  esoolentA,  set-swAllow  •    .    •  205 

Hog  A  1a  Troyeone .136 

Horner^  his  heroes 126 

„      his  poem  in  &voar  of  tfarusheB  197 
Honey,  disoovered   by  Aristnus;  its 
qualities ;   introduced   into 
Spaio ;  recommended  by  Py- 
thagoras; produced  by  the 

air;  by  flowers     ....  273 
n,      by  reeds ;  from  Attica ;  when 

served;  sessoning     .    .    •  374 

^      obtsined  from  dAtes .    ...  101 

Honeyed  wine 131 

Hdpital,    prohibits  the  sale  of  pica 

(Ghanoelier  de  1') 290 

Horace^  fond  of  parsley 83 

„            peacocks 176 

Hordeum*  barky 20 

Horns,  used  for  cups    ......  318 

Hors-d'oauvre 381 

HoTBe-radish  despised ;  various  sorts  ; 

preparation  of  the  seed .  80 
„          spoils  the  teeth  •    •    •    .  81 
„         its  prpperties     •    .    •    80«  81 
Horses,  trained  by  Castor     ....  179 
Hortensins,  the  first  who  served  a  pea- 
cock    167 

„        his  park.    ......  181 

„        wept  over  the  death  of  A  fish  214 

HospitsEtj,  described  by  ApolIodoruB  355 

,,         ofthe  English  Aristocracy  384 

Hot-houses^  known  to  the  Ancients      .  94 

„    wine 393 

Hunting;  its  antiquify 179 

„       of  the  ancients 180 

„       permitted  by    the   BomAu 

kw;  inEnghmd   .     181,  182 

Hydromel .  304 

Hydromelon •    •  305 

HydrorosAtmn     ." SOfr 

Hyperbius,  son  of  Mats 124 

HypotrimmA,  a  stomachio  condiment  .  272 

Hyssop,  its  virtues 88,  89 

„      wine.    .    .    » 334h 

Ibnhim  PAchA,   entertAined   by  the 

Reform  Club. 40& 

Ice^  how  obteined ;  horn  the  Alps ;  iod- 

houses 295 

Iced  beverages 296 

Ichthyophagy 210 

„  of  the  Greeks ;  of  the 

Bomans 208 

Ichthyophilists 212 

Imperial  sausages 14L 

Inorustatipas,  ibr  tAble3 368 


INDEX. 


45U 


Indolent  appetite     .......    256 

Innkeepera   * 836 

Intoxication,  not   nnfaahionable  with 

the  ancients  ....    817 
„  in  the  middle  ages      .    .    887 

„         pnnished  in  France     887,  888 

Invitation  to  dinner 887 

Irrigation  of  gardens 69 

Israelites,  fed  on  quxiils 196 

„        their  public  repasts    .    .    .    846 

Ivory  tables 894 

James  I.  and  lamb's  fleece    ....    182 

Janus  planted  the  vine  in  Italy  .    .    .    328 

Jews,  devoted  to  agriculture  .    ...      10 

„    abstained  from  the  pig  .        .    .    184 

„  ,,  hare     .    •    «    188 

Judea,  its  fertility 13 

„     produced  excellent  dates.    .    .    101 

Jugglers 884,  395 

Jupiter,    his   stratagem   against   the 

Gauls 33 

„      suckled  by  a  sow 134 

Jns  Nigrum,  black  sauce,  of  Laoedsmon  262 

Kenefies,  German 268 

Kervyitge,  the  Booke  of 370 

Kid,  venerated  by  the  Egyptians;   a 
favoucite  dish  with   the    He- 
brews; the  Greeks;  of  Attica.    148 
„    Sicily  ;   Tivoli ;  various   prepa- 
rations      149 

King  of  the  banquet 883 

Kirschen-wasser 103 

Kitchen,  ancient  remains 259 

„      description 260 

„      in  the  middle  ages  ....    363 

Kitchen-garden 59 

Knives 264 

Ladies,  fond  of  oysters  (Roman).    .    .    244 
„  •forbidden  to  drink  wine  •    .    .    833 

Lady  of  the  lamb 148 

Lamb,  ofiered  in  sacrifice ;  Paschal    .    146 
„    a  luxury ;  in  repute  among  the 
ancients ;    various   prepara- 
tions   ........    147 

Lamprey,  dried  up  by  the  sun ;  stops 

a  vessel;  its  high  prioe  .    322 
„        killed  in  Candian  wine ;  how 

prepared 338 

„        compared  to  quails    .    •    .    324 

Lares,  household  gods 390 

lark 207 

Latona,  presented  with  leeks  ....      77 

Leaven,  known  to  the  Jews  ....      31 

„      how  used  bj  the  Greeks    .    .      33 

„      different  kinds S6 

i) 


*> 


tf 


Lecticarii,  servants 878 

Leek,  an  Egyptian  divinity;  cnred 
numerous  diseases ;  how  prepared ; 
how  to  make  them  aequure  an  ex- 
traordinary size ;  they  are  offered  to 

Latona 77 

Legislation,   concerning   the    Koman 

slaves 309 

Lemon  tree,  its  origin 109 

received  frem  Persia  .    .  110 
used  for  tables  and  beds  110,  868 
Lemons,  considered  as  a  counter-poison ; 
how  preserved;  lemon-peel,  a  di- 
gestive       110 

Lentils,   etymology;    known    to    the 
Hebrews;  appreciated  by  the 
Egyptians;  by  the  Greeks; 
not  in  high  repute  vrith  the 
Bomans;  suj^Msedto  soften 

the  temper   ......  57 

„       an  ill-omened  food ;  a  funereal 

vegetable 58 

Lesbos  wine 328 

Lettuce,  eaten  by  the  Hebrews ;  its  nar- 
cotic virtue;  irrigated  with 

wine ;  served  with  eggs      .  74 

„       how  prepared       75 

Le  Vaillant,  his  opinion  of  the  elephant's 

feet  and  trunk        191 

Libations 390 

Libum,  a  sort  of  cake 287 

Libumian  oil 100 

Licinian  law  respecting  cattle     •    .    .  127 

„      concerning  the  Roman  diet    .  51 

licinius  Mursena 220 

Lighting  of  the  ancients 866 

Linseed       48 

Liqueur  wine 832,  884 

List  of  the  repast 264 

Liver  of  the  red  mullet 218 

Livia  and  the  sorceress 176 

„    fond  of  good  wine 832 

Livio  contrived  to  fiitten  peacocks    .    .  167 

Loach,  how  dressed  in  Italy        .    .    .  238 

Loaves,  Roman 87 

Lobster,  a  favourite  dish 247 

„      how  prepared       248 

Loligo,  how  served        237 

Louis  XL  imprisons  blackbirds       .    . '  199 

„     Xiy.,  his  public  repasts   .    .    .  849 

his  dinners 850 

suppers 350 

Lucanian  sausages 188,140 

Lucrinus,  a  lake  renowned  for  its  fish  .  243 

Lncullian  ham 139 

i>  2 


»» 


»» 


460 


INDEX. 


PiHce 

Lnciilliis,  introdaoed  the  cherry  tree    .  102 

„     his  park 181 

„     fed  thrushes 199 

,,     hronght   up  the   sea   to   his 

gardens 213 

,,     his    ambign   to    Cicero   and 

Pompey 257»  348 

Lupin,  used  for  cattle 47 

»,     etymology 48 

Lutatian  cherry        108 

Lnxory  of  the  Romans 356 

Lycorgcs  commanded  little  diildren  to 

fast 2/>2 

n      destroyed  the  vines  of  Laoe- 

diemon       828 

Lysimaohus,  his  tax  on  salt   •    •    .    .  267 

Mac^oine  Germaniqueofmilk       .    .  170 

Macedonia,  its  giant  pigs       ....  186 

,,        ofchickens       157 

Macedonian  pork 138 

Mackerel 235 

n       its  dangerous  appetite;  sap- 

y»       plied  a  sort  of  garum   •     236,  270 

„       appreciated  by  the  ancients  .  236 

„       etymology 235 

„       inmished  a  valuable  brme     .  218 

Madidnspanis,  a  sort  of  cosmetic    .    .  38 

Mecenas  introduced  the  flesh  of  the  ass  150 

Magiric  science,  its  beginnings       .    .  123 

Mahomedans  abstain  from  the  pig  .    .  134 

Majordomo 260 

Mallows,  their  properties ;  in  high  re- 
nown; among  the  ancient  ace- 
taria ;  how  prepared ;  served  as  a 

salad        64 

Mamertinum  wine 829 

Manlius,  his  trick  with  the  Ghiuls    .    •  33 

Manure,  Greek  and  Roman   ....  14 

,,      obtained  from  thrushes      .     .198 

Maple,  used  for  tables 368 

Maragnon  cocoa       818 

Mares'  milk  cheese       173 

>Iarionettes  with  the  ancients     .    .    .  395 

Maij Oram  wine  (wild)       838 

Markets 128 

Market-bell 212 

Marl,  used  as  manure 14 

Martinique  coffee 310 

Maiy  Stuart's  supper 388 

Manviette,  a  species  of  lark    ....  207 

Meals,  their  number 342 

Meat,  preserved  without  salt  •    ...  131 

„    sold  by  mication       129 

„    given  by  guests  to  their  servants  894 

Median  apples 109 


PaffS 

Mediastini,  servants  .  .  .  .^  •  .  887 
Megalartus,  taught  to  knead  floor  •  .  32 
Meilleraye,  his  bill  for  vinegar  (Duke 

deLa) 278 

Meleager,  mourned  by  turkeys    .    .    •     164 

Meleagrides,  turkeys 164 

Melitates,  a  sort  of  pastry ....  83,  285 
Mellona,  the  protectress  of  bees       .    .    273 

Melon 77 

,,  fit>m  Asia;  perfumed  by  the 
Greeks ;  appreciated  in  Borne; 
how  to  render  it  milder;  its 
Hygienic  qualities ;  how  pre- 
pared; brought  frt>m  Italy  .  78 
Mercury  was  presented  with  milk   •    •     169 

Merenda 343 

Mication,  used  for  the  sale  of  meat  .  129 
Michaelmas  day,  goose  served  at  dinner    161 

Michanx,  a  botanist 19 

„       brought  peas  into  repute       •      5^ 
Miletus,  the  inventor  of  grinding-stones      25 

Milk 168 

a  primitive  food 123 

an  emblem  of  fertility ;  the  prin- 
cipal food  of  several  nations 
offered  to  Ceres ;  to  Mercury ;  its 

qualities    ..... 
Mae^doine  Gennaniqne  of 
mixed  with  cofiee    .    .    . 
Millers,  their  festival  (Koman) 

Millet 

„    used  for  making  cakes 

Millium,  millet 

Mills  introduced  to  Rome 

of  the  ancients ;  hydraulic  mills ; 

mentioned  by  Vitmvius    .    .    . 

where   invented;  constructed  by 

Belisarius ;  description ;  known 

in  England       \      28 

wind-mills 29 

Milo,  a  notorious  eater  ....  148,  339 
Minerva,  the  patroness  of  the  olive  tree 
„  produced  the  olive  tree .  .  . 
Minos,  his  sumptuary  bws  .... 
Mint,  formerly  a  young  girl ;  prevented 
milk  from  curdling        .    .    . 

„    wine 

Mlnturuffi,  the  retreat  of  Apicius     .    . 

Murabelle  plums       105 

Misor  taught  the  art  of  seasoning  .  .  267 
Mithoecus,  a  magiric  writer  ....  254 
Mithridates  cultivated  the  cherry  tree       102 

his  antidote 119 

his  opinion  of  the  duck      •    158 
S1,<T 


$t 


»> 


tt 


t» 


ft 


tt 


tt 


168 

169 
170 
812 
26 
48 
20 
20 
25 

27 


91 


95 

97 
846 

90 
833 
247 


tt 


tt 


Mocha  co£^ 


INDEX. 


461 


MoIa,  a  goddess 25,  26 

Monsieur,  plums  of       105 

Morel,  a  sort  of  moBhroom      ....  282 

Moretaria,  a  stomaohic  condiment        •  272 
Mortars^  used  to  pound  the  f^am    .     24,  25 

Mosaic  law,  ooaoeming  cattle     ...  127 
Moses,  promoted  agriculture      .    .11,  822 

Mostecham  sauce 258 

Mountebanks  enliTening  the  banquets  344 

Mofit  sauce 258 

Mugil,  how  dressed 235 

Mulberry  treei,  its  wisdom ;  a  native  of 

Canaan;  its  juiee and  wine      .    .  116 

MuUet»  red 218 

„     killed  on  the  table  .    .    .     218,218 

,9     in  brine 213 

„     anecdote  of  PhUozenns     •    .    .  218 

»9     how  eooked;  its  price       .    .    .  218 

„     its  liver  and  head ;  weight    .    .  219 

Mulsum  wine,  cure  for  head-ache   .    .  831 

Murssna,  seareel 208 

„        dear  to  Hortensius    ...  214 

Murrhine  vases 319 

Muria,  brine ;  dura ;  a  convivial  punish- 
ment    269 

Mnses,  protected  the  palm-tree  .    .  95,  100 
Mushrooms^  the  dish  of  the  gods ;  their 
poisonous  effects;    re- 
lished by  the  ancients  282 
„          how  they  are  grown    .    .  283 

Musicians,  symphoniaci 389 

Mussels,    praised    by   the    ancients, 

served  to  the  gods ;  how  seasoned  245 

Mustaoenm  of  the  Romans    ....  286 

Mustard 46 

„       etymology 46,47 

„        a  remedy  against  venomous 

serpents 46 

Myrrhinum  wine 331 

Myrtites  wine 805 

Myrtle  wine 884 

Napkins  used  by  the  ancients  *.    .    .  375 

Naples,  its  good  cheer ]26 

Napoleon  I.,  his  coronation  banquet    .  407 

Nero's  iced  water 305 

„    dining-room 368 

„    he  sets  fire  to  Rome     ....  869 

„     biographical  note 399 

Nestor's  cup 817 

Nets 249 

New  year  eggs 178 

Nicolas  of  Damascus,  his  dates  .    ,    .  101 

Nicomachus  and  his  estate     ....  177 
Nioomedes  and  his  oook     .    .    .    .   44,  45 

Noisettes^  haael  nuts 120 


P«ge 

NomenouhitoreB,  servants     ....  377 
Northumberland  (Duke  of)»  his  munifi- 
cence         408 

Nougat  of  the  ancients 285 

Numidian  chicken 157 

Nut-tree 120 

„     nuts  of  Jupiter ;  Persian      *    •  118 

„     ofHeracIea 120 

Oak,  supplied  a  primitive  food   ...  24 

Oatmeal,  relished  by  the  ancients       .  43 

Oats 42 

„    appreciated  by  the  Germans    .    .  20 

„    oat  soup ;  oat  cream      ....  42 

Obsonator,  servant 260,  877 

(Enanthinum  wine 335 

CEnogarum 73 

Officers  appointed  to  watch  over  the 

water ;    .    .  2^4 

Oil,  abounded  in  the  East ;  used  by  the 

Patriarchs *  97 

„  the  best ;  its  price  in  Rome     .    .  98 
„  served  to  JuUus  Gsesar;  used  at 

the  baths;  distribution  of  oil   .  99 

„  Libumian  oil 100 

„  of  almonds 117 

„  of  chestnuts   ....*...  121 

Oil-mills,  invented  by  Aristssus      .    .  97 

Olive-tree 96 

„        discovered  by  Minerva ;  its 
pre-eminence ;    used   for 

various  emblems    ...  97 
9,        cultivated  by  the  Jews;  in 

Greece 98 

Olives,  preserved  by  the  Hebrews ;  of 
Andalusia;  of  Granada;  cul- 
tivation        98 

„    when  served 99 

OUa,  a  Spanish  dish 258 

Olympian  pig's  liver 140 

Omphacameli,  a  beverage      ....  305 
Onions,  brought  into  Greece;  how  pre- 
pared ;  with  honey      ...  76 
Orach,  its  pernicious  properties ...  87 
Orange-tree,  its  native  place;  intro- 
duced   by  the    Portu- 
guese ;  unknown  to  the 

Romans Ill 

,,          stuck  with  cloves   .    .    .  112 

Orchius,  the  Tribune 381 

Organs  of  the  Romans 389 

Orpheus  and  the  primitive  egg  .    .    .  176 

Ortolans,  sent  to  Rome 203 

Oryza,  rice 20 

Osiris,  the  inventor  of  agriculture  .    .  9 

, ,    introduced  the  plough  into  Egypt  1 2 


462 


INDEX. 


OstiariiUy  porter      .    .    •    1    .    •    .  376 

Ostriuk,  iatted  aad  salted 208 

,,      flenred  on  some  tables;  dish 
of  ostrich's  brains ;  eggB; 

a  friandise 204 

Otranto,  the  palm  tree  of       ....  100 

Ovens,  used  by  the  Jews 31 

I,     near  the  hand-mills  ....  33 

,,     first  bdilt  in  Borne    ....  34 

„     portable 35 

Oz,  sacrificed  by  Prometheos    .    .    .  124 
„  ofii*red   to   Jttpiter;  devouring  a 

sacred  cake •    .  125 

p,  roasted  whole 142,  410 

„  an  emblem  of  agriculture;  its  image 

on  coins ;  offered  to  pogilists .    •  142 
„  its  flesh  permitted  to  the  Hebrews ; 

praised  by  Hippocrates ;  price  of  143 

,,  highly  valued  1^  the  Romans .    .  145 

,,  care'  taken  of;   tracing  a  furrow  14 

,,  sacrificed  to  Bnbona 128 

Ozjcrat,  a  military  drink      ....  304 

Oxymel 304 

Ozyporon,  a  seasoning 274 

Oysters,  uncommon  in  aneient  times ; 
served  to  the  pagan  pontifi ; 

theirprioe 242 

„  preserved  fat  and  alive;  sent 
to  Trajan ;  when  served  in 
Greece;  often  served  raw; 

how  fattened 843 

„  how  dressed ;  fi:om  the  Atlantic 
ocean  ;  fi*om  Bordeaux ;  how 
preserved  ;  pickled;  for- 
gotten for  a  long  period    .  244 

Palatine  broil 147 

Pales 128 

Palestine,  renowned  for  its  wines     .    .  322 

Paladins  cultivated  the  lemon  tree      .  1 10 

Palm-tree,  consecrated  to  the  Muses   05,  100 

„         of  Otranto 100 

„         its  usefulness 101 

,,         supplied  the  schecar  •    .    .  100 

Pan 31 

Pandarus^  exempt  from  indigestions    .  251 

Panic-grass 43 

„          a  favourite  dish    ...  *^0 
Pnnis,  bread  ;  etymology  .    .    .    .     31,  32 

Parasites 382, 388 

\>  ,,        their  place  in  banquets     .    .  380 

Parks 180 

Parrot-fish 223 

Parsley  given  as  a  prize 82 

,1      its  origin;    culinary  prepara- 
tion ;  a  symbol  of  mourning  83 


Parsley,   the  food  of  chaigert ;  a  fa- 
vourite plant  with  Horace ; 

sung  by  Anacreon     ...  88 

„      seed  wine 333 

Parthian  chicken 157 

Partridges 195 

»,        their  price :  the  best  parts ; 

their  fights.    .....  196 

„       feathers  used  for  couches      .  373 

tf        egg" 177 

Paschal  Urab 146 

Passumwine 330 

Pastry  of  the  Jews ;  among  the  Egyp- 
tians ;  with  the  Greeks  and 

Bomans 284 

„      patronised  by  eminent  persons  290 

„      its  progress 291 

„      cooks 285,  290 

PatlnsB,  dishes 263 

Peach-tree,  supposed  to  be  poisonous ; 

price  of  peaches ;  how  preserved  •  104 

Peacocks 166 

„  admired  by  Alexander  the 
Great;  kept  in  aviaries;  their 
price ;  exhibited  in  Greece ; 

appreciated  in  Borne  .    .    .  166 
„      ridiculous  consumption  ;    fiit- 
tened  by  Livio ;  of  Samos ; 

reared  by  Tiberius .    •    .    .  167 

„      served  as  if  alive 167 

„      sacrificed  to  Caligula     •    .    .  165 

ft      eggs 177, 890 

„      utility  of  their  feathers .    .    .  340 

ff      used  by  Boman  polyphagists  .  244 

„      their  tails  designed  on  tables  .  369 
Pear-tree,  its  native  place ;  qualities  of 

pears 107 

Peas 66 

„   green,  little  appreciated;   grey, 
relished  by  the  ancients ;  sold  at 

the  Circus B6 

„    a  kind  of  bribe 57 

Pelasgus  patronised  the  beech  tree  .    .  23 

Pelorus  celebrated  for  itsoysters  (Cape)  244 

Peiiiculi,  washers 379 

Pennyroyal  used  as  a  digestive  ...  90 

„          wine 338 

Pentapharmacum    of     the    Emperor 

Vems 257 

Pentateuch  of  Moses 10 

Pepper  used  by  the  ancients   ....  277 
Perch,  from  the  Bhine ;  given  to  the 
sick ;  fed  in  the  Moselle ;  relished 

by  the  Bomans ;  how  dressed  .    .  232 

Perdix  rustica,  the  wood-cock     .    .    .  207 


INDEX. 


403 


Ptfa 

Perfiimest  nwd  bj  the  gnests     .    .    •  988 

PersiuM^  fond  of  water-oreases  ...  84 

»,       their  Tcneration  ibr  water    .  293 
,j       predilection  of  their  kiDgs  for 

ligt 113 

Peniller,  to  gtre  pongenoj  to  cheese  .  174 

Pertmex,  fend  of  pheaMiits  .    .  '.    .  195 

Pefitles>  used  for  bmisinfi^  wheat ...  25 

Petronins'e  efQi^B      ..«..••  201 

Pharsalianik  their  mighty  appetite  .    •  340 

Pheaeanta,  retiahed  by  Sereros  ...  160 

M     «ggt "ITT 

M  disoorered  by  the  Argonants ; 
kept  in  aviarieB;  adorned 
the  triamph  of  Ptolemy ; 
served  in  nimptnons  repasts  1 94 
,t  scarce  in  Italy ;  Vitellias 
relished  their  brains;  sa- 
crificed to  Galignla;  re- 
commended to  weak  sto- 
machs ;  sold  firosen .    .    .  195 

,f      sansages 890 

Phenioopter,  flamingo 200 

Philip  of  Macedon,  ibnd  of  apples  •    .  108 

Philip-le-Bel's  regulations  for  fast-days  214 

Philoxenus,  died  of  Indigestion  .    .    .  212 

ty         a  witty  epicure     .    .    •    •  218 

„       devoted  to  degustntion     •  254 

PhcBoicians^  abstained  from  pork    .    .  184 

„          Tenerated  the  ox .    •    .    .  142 

Phrygians,  their  respect  for  the  ox  .    .  142 

Phytalua,  received  a  fig-tree  from  Ceres  113 

Pieenum  cakes 288 

Pickled  pork 188 

Pickles,  relished  by  the  ancients.    .    .  278 

Pio-nics,  known  to  the  ancients  .    .    .  844 

Pie,  invented  by  the  Emperor  Verus    .  286 

Pig,  liUed  by  Cerea 124 

„    market  at  Borne •  129 

»,    portrait  of  the;  its  qualities  .    .  183 
„    offisred  to  Venus;  a  sign  of  peace; 
an  emblem  of  (ecundity;  ab- 
horred by  the  Egyptians ;  for- 
bidden to  t])e  Jews ;  to  the  Ma- 

homedans 134 

f,    of  Macedonia 136 

„    stnifed  with  game 187 

„    forbidden  to  ramble ;  of  the  Abbey 

St  Antoine 141 

„    suckling 137 

„    the  ^scoverer  of  truffles    .    .    .  279 

Pigeons^  how  they  were  caught  ...  162 
„       a  dainty  dish;  recommended 
to  the  sick;   their  price; 

how  prepared 168 


*» 


»» 


Pigeon-houses' H2 

Pike,  little  esteemed  by  ancient  epicures ; 
its  multiplication ;  preparation ; 

longevity 228 

PiUm 258 

Pilchard,  how  stuffed  by  the  R<mians  .  238 

Pine,  consecrated  to  Cybele   ....  d5 

Pip-fruit 106 

Pique-assiette,  parasite 882 

Piqnette^  weak  wine  of  the  ancients     .  826 
Pistaohio-tree,   a    natiye    of   India; 

brought  to  Rome  by  Vitellins  120 
„      nuts,    reconnnended  by  Avi- 

cenna  ......••  121 

Pistores,  com  grinders 25 

Pithyllus,  his  protector  of  the  tongue  .  256 

Place  of  honour  in  banquets       •    .    .  878 

Placites,  a  lind  of  bread  «    .    .    .    .  Zn 

Plaice 287 

Plants,  used  in  seasoning      ....  86 

Plato  was  fond  of  figs  .    ^    .....  118 

Plautns  worked  at  the  mill     ....  27' 
Plough   introduced   into  Egypt;   the 

Egyptian  plough      ...  12 

the  primitive       18 

its  simplicity ;  ancient ;  Greek ; 

Anglo-Norman;  Gkillio       .  14 
Plum  tree ;  plums ;  how  preserved ;  of 
Reine  Claude;  of  Mirabelle;    of 

Monsieur 105 

Plutarch,  his  vegetarian  principles      .  126 

Pochet,  her  recipe  for  tea  (Madame)    .  808 

Poisonous  peaches 104 

Poitevine  sauce 258 

Poivre,  his  description  of  birds'  nests  208 

Poles,  fond  of  cucumbers        ....  78 

Politeness  of  King  Clovis       ....  384 

Pollio,  his  answer  to  Augustus        .    •  99 

Pollio's  (Vodins)  atrocious  cruelty  .    .  221 

,>     how  he  ehastiMd  his  slaves     .  214 

Pollux  trained  hunting  dogs       ...  179 

Polypus,  its  seasoning       240 

Pomegranate,  fatal  to  Proserpine ;  first 
cultivated  in  the  east;  brought 
into  Italy ;  how  preserved ;  different 

species 122 

Pomona •    .  95 

Pon^y  and  the  thrushes  of  LucuDos  199 

Pompion,  treated  without  ceremony     .  71 
„       of  Egypt;  its  qualities ;  how 

prepared 72 

Pontic  nuts 120 

Pontiffs,  their  banquet  (Pagan)       .    .  856 

PoppaMaused  asses' milk 169 

Poppy,  its  preparation 86 


464 


INDEX. 


Pork-meat  dlstribafed  to  Uie  Romans  180 

9,        abhorred  bj  some  nations  134 
„        reoommonded  to  wrestlers; 

its  repatation    ....  185 

„        disguised  in  yarioQS  ways    .  136 

H        pickled        188 

Porpoises 215 

Porter,  ostiarios       876 

Portugal  orange 112 

Portaghan,  a  name  of  the  orange    .    .  Ill 

Portognese,  Introdooed  the  orange  ixee  111 

Pot-de-vin,  a  bribe       387 

Poularde  a  la  Viminale 156 

Poaltrj,  the  best  of  aliments      ...  152 
„       permitted  to  some  religions 

orders 153 

M       art  of  fattening 161 

Poanded  bread 40 

Preoocia,  apricots •    .  103 

PrflBfectos  annonas    .......  B6 

Pregnstator 378 

Prayers  before  meals     ....     844,  390 

Prefect  of  Rome       355 

Prestigiators       395 

Priapos,  a  protector  of  irnit  trees    .    .  95 

Priests  of  Mars,  great  epicures       .    .  343 

Probus  restored  the  yine  to  Gaul     •    .  322 

Procillatores,  servants       877 

Procurator,  major-domo 260 

Prsneste  enriched  by  hazel  nnts    .    .  120 
Profusion    in   the    City   of    London 

(Ancient) 851 

Prodigality  of  the  Eari  of  Warwick     .  35 1 
Prometheus  sacrificed  an  oz    .   .    .    .  124 
Proserpine,  was   too  fond   of  pome- 
granates        122 

Provisions  mentioned  in  the  Scriptures  354 

,,        price  of 358 

Prytanea  in  Greece 347 

Ptisana,  barley  water 42 

„      a  sorry  liquid 804 

Pudding,  Carthaginian 43 

„       hasty 44 

"*     „       black 138 

PuUarius,  his  office       156 

Pultiphagists       33 

Panch  given  by  Sir  Edward  Russell    .  411 

Purslaine  mixed  with  salad    ....  68 

„       its  properties 69 

Pyanepsia,  one  of  the  festivals  of  Apollo  53 

Pygmalion,  his  severity 125 

Pythagoras,  abstained  from  beans       .  53 

,,         was  a  vegetarian     ...  126 

„         recommended  honey    '•    .  273 

Quails,  a  sorereigp  remedy      ...  196 


Quails,  food  of  the  IsraeliteB;  supposed  to 
cause  epilepsy ;  banished  from 

the  Roman  tables    ....  196 

„      figbts 197 

Quenelles  of  pig's  liver  and  brains  •    .  140 

Quince  tree,  a  native  of  Cydon    •    •    •  106 
Quinces,  their  beneficial  qualities ;  pre-  * 
served  in  honey      ....    106,  106 

Quince  wine 107 

Rabbits  taught  mankind  the  art  of  forti- 
fication ;  overthrow  Tarra^ 
gona ;  defeated  by  the  Roman 

troops 189 

„      of  Macedonia ;  how  prepsred    .  190 
Radishes  of  Jodea ;  price  in  Rome ;  sup- 
posed to  produce  cabbages ; 

how  preserved      ;.    .    •    .  79 

„      pickled       890 

Ragouts  ofthe  middle  ages    ....  258 
Raleigh,  his  account  of  the  herring 

fishery  (Sir  Walter) 239 

Rancidity  of  butter,  how  to  attenuate  it  172 

Raspberry       115 

Ratafia       103 

Ran  wolf,  the  first  to  mention  cofiee     •  311 

Rearing  of  cattle 127 

Reaumur,   his   experiments  to  hatch 

chickens 15? 

Red  mullet 218 

Redstone's  funeral  banquet  (Sir  John)  359 
Reform  Club,  its  splendid  entertain- 
ments      .........  408 

Reine  Claude,  plums  of 105 

Remy's  silver  table  (St) 370 

Ren6  of  Sicily  introduced  the  plum- 
tree    105 

Repasts 839 

„      in  common 846 

„      variety  of  repasts  ;  of  the  Jews  354 

„      offered  to  Jupiter      ....  356 

„      of  Louis  XIV. 349 

Reservoirson  the  house  tops  .    ...  96 

Rheumatism,  cured  by  drinking  ale     •  801 

Rhoites  wine  .    .    .    , ^^ 

Rhombus,  its  seasoning 235 

Rice 43 

,,   a  nutritious  grain 20 

River  cray-fish 248 

Rivers,  venerated  by  some  nations      .  293 
Roast  beef,  the  principal  article  of  food 

in  the  Homeric  ages      ....  839 

Robert  sauce 258 

Robigus,  agod 19 

Robus,  a  variety  of  com      •    .    •    •  19 

Rochdle  wine^  its  price  in  England    .  888 


INDEX. 


465 


Pag« 

Rocket,  how  used  bj  tlie  ancients ;  its 

properties 87 

Rookingham,  his  hanqnet  (Lord)    •    .  227 
Roehack,  with  spikenard ;  anx  prunes ; 

anx  amandes  de  pin 184 

Roll  bread 40 

Romans,  fond  of  agricnlture  .    .    .     11»  IS 

„      eat  dogs      .....••  151 

,,      their  manipolation  of  butter  •  171 

„      fond  of  fish     ....     212,  216 

Rome  its  oomxption ;  its  fall     .    .    .  401 

Romulns^  studied  the  advancement  of 

agriculture 13 

,»       was  found  nnder  a  fig-tree  .  114 

Rope  dancers 395 

Roquefort  cheese 174,  175 

Rosatum  wine 331 

Rousseau,  (J.  J.)  was  not  a  practical 

regetarian 126 

Rue,  a  counter  poison ;  its  properties  .  90 

„   wine  ••..••....  833 
Russell  (Sir  Edward),  his  memorable 

punch 411 

Rje,  a  detestable  food,  according  to 

Pliny 20 

„   a  substitute  for  cofibe    .    .    •    •  31i 

Sacred  chickens 156 

Salad  could  not  be  procured  for  a  queen  51 

„     in  the  middle  ages 75 

Salangan,  sea-swallow •  204 

„        nests 205 

Salmasius,  on  truffles  .......  281 

Salmon,  when  first  mentioned;  sung 
bj  Ausonius;    firom    Aquitaine; 

abundant  in  Scotland     ....  233 

Salonite  cheese 174 

Salt,  consecrated  to  the  gods;   firom 
the  asphaltite  lake;    used  by 

the  Jews;  tax  on  salt    .    •    •  267 

M    superstitions  oonceming  salt .    .  267 
„    salt  works  in  Italy ;  eaten  with 

bread;  four  sorts   .       ...  268 

Salt-meat,  its  preparation      .    .    •    •  181 

„    cellars *    .    .    •  389 

Salts,  digestive 269 

Samos,  its  oil 98 

Sandaligeruli,  servants      .    .    .    .    •  377 

Sandals '  .  888 

Sapa,  cooked  wine 826 

Sardinia,  renowned  for  hams      ...  187 

Saturn,  the  inventor  of  agriculture .    .  9 

Saucepans  of  the  ancients      ....  262 

Saucers 263 

Sauces  of  various  kinds 257 

Sance  manniactarers 257 


p«ff« 

Saupiquet  sauce 258 

Sausages  of  Lucania 188 

„      various 140 

Savillumpie 286 

Savory  .    • 89 

„    wine 833 

Scales  of  the  ancients 130 

Scaliger,  repugnance  to  water-cresses  64 

Scallop  of  Tarentum 246 

Scarus,  a  fish 223 

„     its  renown 213 

„     celebrated  for  its  anomalies      •  224 
Scate^   its   back  appreciated    by   the 

Oreeks       233 

„    despised  by  th^  Romans ;  its  va- 
rieties according  to  Lac6pMe ; 

its  eggs  a  curious  remedy    .    .  233 

Scissor,  a  carver 877 

Scoparii,  sweepers 878 

Scythians,  drinkers  of  milk   ....  168 

„        their  manipulation  of  butter  171 

Sea,  peopled  with  gods 294 

,,   crawfish,  its  culinary  preparation  .  247 

„   eels,  fed  on  the  flesh  of  slayes  208,  214 
H     ,f    heard  their  master's  voice; 

ornamented  with  necklaces  220 
n     „    how  fattened  ;  where  caught ; 
how  prepared;    firom   the 

Tiber 221 

„      „    venerated  by  the  Egyptians ; 

of  a  considerable  size    •    .  222 
„    hedgehog,    relished   by  the  an- 
cients ;  how  prepared ....  245 

„    swallow 204 

,y  wolf,  an  exquisite  fish ;  a  child  of 
the  gods ;  eclipsed  the  sturgeon ; 
where  caught;  relished  by  the 

Greeks 223 

Seals 215 

Seasoning,  plants  used  in 86 

Seasonings 266 

,»        withgamm 272 

Seats 388 

,,    used  by  the  Hebrews    ....  372 

Secale,  rye 20 

Sechar,  an  exhilarating  bererage     .    .  100 

Seeds :;;  46 

S^  us  seasoning 161 

Selech,  his  services  to  mankind  .    .    •  267 

Seneca,  his  declamations  against  luxury;  * 

his  enormous  wealth 252 

Sensualism  of  the  ancients     ....  845 

Sentinumwine 328 

Sepia,  its  bbck  liquid;  its  conjugal 

affection  ;  how  it  was  dressed  .    .  234 


466 


INDEX. 


Sq>i%  in  eitimable  ciuh 234 

Sergins,  his  fiahponda 24S 

Semmta 876 

Seaame,  how  vaed 86 

,,      cakea .  20 

Berenia,  fond  of  g«eae ;  of  pheaaanta  160, 195 

„           harea 189 

Sirign^  her  opinioH  on  coffife  (Mde.  de)  812 

Shad,  add  to  the  plebeians.    .    .    •    .  284 

Shadows,  a  kind  of  paraaiiea  .    .    •    .  888 

Sheep  bread 40 

Shell)  imitating  pirecioos  wooda      •    .  869 

„     fish 241 

f,  „  ira  aeasoning  in  Italy  ;  how 
dressed  by  Apicina ;  from 
Lake  Lncrinoa ;  from  Pe- 
lonia ;  how  cooked ;  when 
aerred;   reliahed   by    the 

.  ancienta 242 

„    fruit 117 

Shepherda,  ancient 127 

Shoea  of  the  Bomana 888 

Shrimpa  naed  for  garum 270 

Sicilian  cooka 344 

Sicily,  renowned  for  oookc     •    •    .    .  256 

Sideboard 264 

Sievea 265 

Sigma*  a  horae-ahoe  ahaped  table    .    .  869 

Siiatnm,  a  Eoman  drink 834 

Siligineaa  pania^  a  kind  of  bread    •    .  88 

Siligo^  a  apeciea  of  wheat  .    .    .    •    .  19 

Simnda,  or  wiga 291 

Simon'a.specnlation  on  frogs  .    .    .    .  249 
Sitarchi,  magiatrates  for  the  allotment 

of  oom 21 

Sitooome,  an  inspector  of  com    ...  21 
Sitologi,  officera  to  aoperintend  the  pur- 
chase of  com    • 21 

Sitometrae,  officera  watching  OTcr  the 

meaaorement  of  com 21 

Sitonae,  inspectora  of  oom     ....  21 
Sitophylaoea,  officersr^gnlaling  the  aale 
Skeleton,  exhibited  to  the  guesta     885,  393 

Slavery  in  ancient  Umea 208 

Slayea,  aold  by  Cato;  crueltiea  prae- 

tiaed   against   slaves  ;    pn- 

nished  by  crocifizion  ;  put  to 

death  to  amuse  a  friend   .    .  208 

„      thrown  to  the  sea-eels     .     208,  214 

„      more  noli  than  vile    ....  209 

„      eating  with  their  masters    .    .  356 

„      their  stigmas 376 

,,      lettered  slaves 376 

Snail%  a  delicate  hors^'oeuvre    .    .    .  265 

„     how  fattened 326 


Snipe 1   .  207 

Snow,  preserved  in  ceUars 295 

„    cullender •  226 

Soles 287 

„    compared  to  partridges  , .    .    •  224 

„    much  sought  afler 287 

Solon,  his  sumptnary  laws     .    •      108,  847 

Sorrel,  how  prepared 69 

S«>terides,  Nieomedes*  cook    ....  44 

Sow,  Jupiter's  first  nurse 134 

Sow-thistle^  given  up  to  rabbits      .    .  87 

Sowing  taught  by  Ceres        .    •    •    •  24 

Spain,  celebrated  for  garum  ....  248 

Spaniards,  fond  of  acorns 24 

Spanish  camomilet  mixed  with  wine    .  90 

„      dancers  •    .    ^ 895 

Spectacles  introduced  in  banquets        .  883 

Spelt*  a  species  of  wheat 19 

Spinach,  little  known  to  the  ancieBte  «  63 

Spoons       263 

Squirrel 190 

Stag 188 

Stags'  horns  consecrated  to  Diana  •    •  180 
,,     flesh  supposed  to  enmn  lon- 
gevity          183 

„     fillet  of  stag;  shoulder  of  atag ; 
a  U  Persane ;  i.  rHartensius  ; 

i.  hi  lSkm6ame 183 

„     pies 290 

StarHng,  recommended  by  physicians ; 

an  erudite  atarling         ....  20O 

Statues  of  gods  placed  on  the  talde .    .  389 

Steward,  dispenaator 376 

Stilphon,  hia  anawer  to  Gybele  •    •    .  81 

Stokera,  focarii 378 

Stone  fruit 97 

Stork 193,204' 

Stoves  of  the  ancients 366 

Strawberries,  highly  appreciated     .    .  115 

Strigil,  used  in  the  baths 387 

Stroctores.  servants      •    •    .    .     200, 377 

Stratiophagoos  tribes 203 

Stuffed  socking  pork 189 

Sturgeon 216 

„       a  royal  fish 214 

„  its  price;  compared  to  am- 
brosia :  honours  it  received ; 
announced  by  the  sound  of 
trumpets;  an  imperial dihh 

in  China 216 

its  weight 217 

„       compared  to  peacocks  .    .    .  224 

Style  of  living  in  the  14th  century  .    •  862 

Sucking-pigs 137 

„          stuffed 139 


INDEX. 


407 


Sacking-pig,  with  puddings  ....  851 
Sugar,  the  honey  of  reeds ;  the  Indian 

salt         .  ' 275 

Snltaaa  eofifee .    .    .   ' 813 

Snmach 92 

Snmptnary  laws  .      152,  252,  846.  850,  881 

Supper 842 

„    oftheHehrews 343 

,,    primitiye  of  the  Romans ;  in 

the  open  air 844 

„    giTen  by  the  Roman  Emperors  857 

„    a  Roman 886 

Swallow,  sea 204 

Swtui 198 

Sweepers,  seoparii 878 

Sweet  marjoram,  when  used  ....  89 

Sweet  wine 826 

Sword-fish,  how  dressed  in    Greece; 

despised  by  the  Romans     ...  284 

Sybaris,  renowned  for  its  good  cheer   .  126 
Sybarites,  their  meditations   npon   a 

banquet        227 

Sycophants 113 

Symphoniaci,  musicians 889 

Symposiarch 391 

Synthesis,  a  convivial  dress   ....  889 

Syracuse,  its  proverbial  gastronomy     .  127 

Syrian  dancers 895 

Syrup  of  truffles 280 

Tables,  before  each  guest ;  venercd  with 
gnld ;  of  bronze ;  of  wood ; 

of  silver ;  circular  ....  868 
,,      spotted  or  veined;  of  various 
forms;     changed    at    each 
course;    how    cleaned;    of 

-     -  Cicero 869 

„      of  ivory 894 

Taillevant,  the  cook  of  Charles  VII.  of 

France 193 

Talmouses,  a  kind  of  pastry  ....  292 

Tarentum,  renowned  for  its  repasts     .  126 

„        the  abode  of  luxury  .    •    .  246 

Tarragona  overthrown  by  rabbits    .    .  189 

Tarts^  of  various  sorts 290 

Taste,  its  definition 124 

Tax  on  salt 268 

Tea,  gathering 306 

„    of  two  kinds;  heating;  rolling  .  807 

„    its  miraculous  orij>in     ....  308 

„    compared  to  ambrosia    ....  309 

„    tasters 308 

Teal 206 

Teeth,  of  ivory 388 

Teething  repast 857 

Tence  sanee 258 


»f 


»t 


** 


t* 


PaC« 

Tench,  mentioned  by  Ansenios ;  )eft  to 

the  •common  people    .    .    ,    .    •  286 

Tethalassomenon  wine 830 

T^tines  k  la  Flamine ;  k  la  Salicnne    .  140 

Thalassites  wine 830 

Thasiannut 117 

Thases  wine    .    •    »    « 828 

Theagenes,  a  beef  eater 148 

,,          his  voracity 830 

Theophrastus   mentions    the  cherry- 
tree.    .    .  102 
„        the  plum  tree  105 
fond  of  pears     .    .    .  107 
Thesmophoria,   a  feast  in   honour  of 

Ceres 22 

Thessalians,  their  appetite     ....  340 

Thimbron,  a  culinary  star      ....  254 

Thorian  law,  respecting  cattle    ...  127 

Thrashing  of  com 14 

Thrushes 197 

sapplied  an  abundant  manure ;  1 4 
not  eaten  by  children;  sung 
by  Homer ;  sent  as  wedding 
presents ;  served  at  sump- 
tuous feasts ;  from  Daphne  197 
kept  in  aviaries;  sold  by 
Varro's  aunt;  how  fed; 
their  price  ;   in  the  shape 

of  crowns 198 

prescribed  to  Pompey;  re- 
commended to  convales- 
cents; their  brains;  eaten 

by  Heliogabalus      .    .    •  199 

Thurium,  its  oil 98 

Thyme,  its  qualities  ;  used  for  aromatic- 

liqueurs 89 

„       wine 883 

Thys,  his  voracity 839 

Tiberius^  fond  of  melons   .....  78 

reared  peacocks 167 

his  generosity 257 

poisoned  by  mushoooms   .    .  282 

how  he  enconraged  artists     .  81S 

his  sumptuary  regulations    .  847 

Timachidas,  a  cook  and  a  poet   .    .    .  254 

Titormus,  his  voracity 339 

Tonsores,  barbers 887 

Tooth-powder  used  by  the  Romans .    .  887 
Tortoise,  its  blood;    of  an  enormous 

size 246 

,,       how  dressed    ....      246,  247 

Tourte,  a  kind  of  cake 291 

Tractatores,  servants  in  the  baths  .    .  387 

i    Tremellins,  took  the  surname  of  Scrofa  128 

Triclinarches,  chief  steward  .    •    .  •  .  878 


>t 


»» 


f» 


tt 


tt 


ft 


468 


INDEX. 


TngB 

Tridininm 872,278 

TrinuJcio,  a  celebrated  oook  .    •    •    •    266 
Trimestre,  a  species  of  com  ....      20 

Tripes,  their  repotation 143 

Triptolemos,  the  inyentor  of  agriculture       9 
„  was  a  ve^tarian    .    .    .    124 

Triticam,  wheat 19 

Trojan  pig     .■ 187 

Tromelia*  renowned  for  cheese  •    •    •    174 

Trophy  of  agriculture 411 

Trout,  little  appreciated  by  the  Greeks ; 
yy     relished  by  the  Romans;  how 

dressed 280 

Troyenne,  hog  ik  la . 186 

„        wUdboarila* 406 

Truffles,  the  daughters  of  thunder; 
,,        where  they  grow{    yarious 

sorts 27^ 

„        how  prepared. 280 

„        disoovered  by  pigs .    .     185,  279 

„        syrupof 280 

,,        how  preserved 281 

Tunny-Fish,  its  entrails ;  from  Samos ; 

f,         offered  to  Neptune;    of 

Pachynum ;  fishery  of 

the   Synopians;     how 

prepared 225 

y^         obstructed  the  navagation 
of  Alexander ;  of  an  im- 
mense size    •    •    •    •    226 
„  used  for  garum      .    .    .    270 

Turbot,  a  delicious  food ;  compared  to 
the  pheasant;  the  turbotof 

Domitian 224 

„      of  Attica 225 

Turnips,  from  Thebes;  Amitemum; 

how  they  were  eaten 67 

Turkey,  still  retains  the  use  of  garum    278 

Turkey-hen 168 

„  how  msny  are  required  to 
eat  a  turkey-hen ;  eele- 
brated  by  Sophocles ;  be- 
wailing the  death  of  Me- 
leager;  reared  in  Ro- 
man farms;  scarce  in 
Egypt  and  Greece;  in- 
troduced into  Rome  •  .  164 
„  sacrificed  to  Caligula; 
how  liittened ;  &  1' Afri- 

caine 165 

„        how   prepared   ....    166 
„        introduced    into    yarious 
countries;   admired  by 
Charles  IX.  of  France  .    165 
«,       turkey  eggs  •        ...    166 


Turtle  doye 207 

Twelfth-night  cake,  its  composition     .  54 

Typhes,  asortofbread t$ 

Tyrontes,  asortofbread 88 

Tyrotarichus,  a  popular  dish .    .    •    •  174 
Ubidislas  (King),  his  repugnance  to 

apples 108 

Ulric  (St.)  festival  of 215 

Ulysses,  renowned  for  carving    .    .    •  129 

„      laid  the  cloth 252 

„      a  model  of  delicacy  ....  880 

Ungnentarii,  perfumers 387 

Utensils,  culinary 261 

„      of  the  14th  century  ....  265 

Vanilla  chocolate 818 

Variety  of  repasts 854 

Varro's  aviary 198 

Vase  of  the  House  of  Brunswick     .    .  802 

Vases  of  Sardonyx 320 

„      of  silver;  of  gold 821 

Vatel,  his  tragic  death 215 

Vanban*s  recipe  for  eating  com  in  soup  15 

Veal,  k  la  Syracusaine ;  k  la  Tarentaise  144 

Vegetables 49 

.  „        dried .  53 

„        relished  by  the  Romans .    50,  51 

„        how  preserved  ;    scarce  in 
(England,  three  centuries 

ago     •  ;; 51 

Vegetarians 126 

Venofrum 99 

Venison,  appreciated  by  eastern  nations  181 

Ventilation  of  the  dining-room  .    .    •  393 
Ventre  de  tmie  k  T  Ath^nienne ;  k  la 

Romaine 189 

Veijuice,  its  ancient  use 277 

Vertumnus 95 

Veras  (the  Emperor)^  invented  a  new 

*  dish. 257, 286 

„      his  couches 878 

Vespucius  (Americus)  introduced  the 

turkey  into  Portugal 165 

Vesta,  the  goddess  of  bakors ....  87 

Vestis  coBoatoria,  convivial  dress    .    .  888 

Vicar*s  wine 387 

Victoria,  coronation  banquet  of  H.  M. 

Queen 408 

Victua,  the  goddess  of  food   .    .    •    «  856 

VilUir*s  Swiss  porter 841 

Vine,  cultivated  in  England  .    .    «    .  335 
Vinegar,  its   alleged  qualities;  from 
Egypt;  used  to  cool  the 

cannons 278 

,,        cruet 264 

Vines,  protected  by  the  Roman  law    •  834 


IllDEX. 


469 


Yinnm  Tethalassomenon 330 

Violatum  wine 331 

VlteUioB,  brought  the  pistachio  tree  to 

Rome 120 

n  regaled  on  pheasants*  briunii  195 
„        served  with  a  dish  of  7,000 

birds 208 

n  grew  tired  of  sea-eels  .  .  221 
I,  his  culinary  expenses  257,  348 
„  was  an  active  polyphagist  .  341 
„        his  nocturnal  banquets  .    .    345 

Vocatores,  servants 

Voracity,  examples  of .    •    .    .     339,  341 

Vulture 194 

Walnut  tree,  a  native  of  Asia,  conse- 
crated to  Jupiter,  reserved  to  Per- 
sian kings    118 

Walnuts,  when  served ;  how  eaten ; 
their  qualities;  used  as  an  anti- 
dote;  strewed    on    the    nuptial 

chamber 119 

Warwick,  his  prodigality  (Earl  of)  .    .    351 

Washers,  peniculi 379 

Water,  a  vivifying  principle ;  venerated 

by  ancient  nations  ....    298 
f,    conveyed  into  Rome ....    295 
„    its  curative  virtue     ....    296 
•      f,    cure  system,  practised  by  the 

Romans 297 

„    hot,  used  to  drink   ...      .    296 
„    cresses,  a  native  of  Crete ;  es- 
teemed by  the  Persians;  de- 
spised   by   Plntarch;    their 

properties 84 

„    an  anti-scorbutic;  how  prepared      85 

»9    hen 206 

»»    mills 27,  28 

Wax  figures  among  the  Romans    .    .    377 

f,  Tases 318 

Weazung  supper -357 

Wedding-cake  of  the  Romans    .    .    .    286 

,f      wine 337 

,,      repast  of  H.R.H.  the  Duke  of 

Clarence 851 

M      day  banquet 357 

„      of  Charles  VI. 259 

Weights  of  the  ancients 130 

Westphalia  celebrated  for  hams     .    .    137 

Whales 215 

„      of  four  acres 213 

Wheat 19 

„      its  price  in  Greece ;  public  dis- 
tribution in  Rome     ...      21 
t»      its  price  in  the  olden  times    .      22 
„      Indian 44 


Whiting,  its  light  fltsh 230 

„       its  preparation  .    .    •    •    .    231 

Whitten  used  for  tables 364 

Wild  boar  i  la  Troyenne  ...      185,  406 
,»        of  immense  sise;  served  by 

Caranus ;  raised  on  farms    186 

„        how  served 187 

„        how  prepared  .    .    .      186, 187 
„        preceded  by  trumpeters .    .    187 

Wild  marjoram  wine •      89 

„    thyme 89 

William  the  Conqueror,  his  sumptuous 

banquets 352 

Wind-mills 29 

Wine,  of  grain;  of  the  Britons  ...  301 
„  obtained  from  fruits  .  .  305, 322 
„  disliked  by  some  nations  .  .  .  323 
„  method  of  making  .  .  •  •  .  325 
„  fining  of;  how  clarified  .  •  .  327 
„  of  different  kinds ;  Greek ;  Italian  328 
„  of  a  hundred  leaves ;  white ;  red ; 
two  hundred  years  old;  how 
to  change  ita  colour  ....  329 
„    mixed  with  sea- water ;  of  Chios; 

various  made  wines 330 

„  interdicted  to  Roman  ladies  331,  332 
„  its  price  in  Greece ;  in  Rome  .  331 
„    the  drink  of  generous  souls   •    .    332 

„    of  Campania 333 

,p  dealers  in  ..*.••*  .  336 
„    used  for  presents  and  fees;  of 

citizenship •    .    337 

„    sweet 326 

,»    hot 393 

„    press  of  the  ancients    ....    325 
Wood,  an  extraordinaxj  eater  (Nicholas)  341 

Woodoock,  how  prepared 207 

Wood-hen 206 

Wormwood,  esteemed   by  the  Egyp- 
tians ;  its  various  uses  .       93 
„  wine;  its  composition;  it 

prevented  giddiness     93,  334 

Wreaths  of  flowers 391 

Wrestlers  fed  on  pork 135 

„      rewarded  with  an  ox  •    .    .    142 

„      fed  with  cheese 178 

Xerxes,  fighting  for  figs 114 

Xipliias  fish 225 

York  banquet 403 

Tpooras 338 

Zea,  rice  wheat 20 

Zeno^  of  Citium,  of  the  same  nature  as 

the  lupms 47 

„    cooked  his  lentils  himselt     •    •      57 
Zythnm,  beer 299 


ERRATA. 

Vage  16,  Vnu  19,  for  which  great  and  the,  rtod  which  the  great  and  gloriooi.  P.  19,  /.  16,  /or 
Picardjr  to  make  bread,  read  in  Picardy.  To  make  bread.  P.  19,  I.  16,  Jot  of  leaven  and,  read  of 
leaven  is  required,  and.  P.  26,  2.  6, /or  Flamine,  rtod  Flamen.  P.  26,  2.  26, /or  leaTes  rr<u2  loaves. 
P.  27, 1.  20,  /or  Cabire  rtad  Cabira.  P.  28.  2. 28, /or  hand-mill ;  by  the  Britons,  rtad  hand-mill,  bj 
the  Britons;  P.  82,  /.  11, /or  Me^alaite  and  Megalomar,  rtoA  Megalaniis  and  Megalomazni.  P.  88,  i.  2, 
for  escarites,  rtai  eacharites.  P.  88,  Z.  7,  /or  melitutes,  rea<f  melitates.  P.  87,  L  8,/or  Septier,  rtad  Seller. 
P.  60,2.  26, /or  Cienscheris, read  lieuxcheris.  P.68,l.28,/orcbry8olacanon,reaJ  chrysolachanon.  P.  66, 
L  84,  /or  has,  read  have.  P.  67 ,  J.  20,  /or  Amitermes,  rea^  Amitemum.  P.  68, 1.  1 8,  /or  possessed,  read 
possesses.  P.  79.  L  11, /or  A Igidea,  read  Algirius.  P.  84,  L  26,  for  dressed  it  in,  rrad  dressed  in. 
P.  98,  U  82,  /or  Curcyrus,  read  Corcyra.  P.  98, 2. 16,  for  Halmade,  read  Halmades.  P.  99, 1.  2^, for 
Venafra,  fvoii  Venafrum.  P.  100,  /.  81, /or  sechar,  read  schecar.  P.  108.  2. 11,  /or  CscUian,  rvod 
Cecilian.  P.  li>6.  /.  18, /or  fruit  of,  rrod  fruit,  the.  P.  124,  2.  81, /or  Hyberbitis,  read  Hypobias. 
p.  126,  L  2,  /or  Erichtonius,  read  Erichthonios.  P.  129,  L  1,/or  curators,  'read  curator.  P.  129,  L 
26,  /or  life,  read  life,  the.  P.  1 86. 1.  16.  /or  Chalies,  read  Chalds.  P.  189, 2.  88,  /or  i  la  Boootienne 
rvod  i  la  Beotienne  P.  148,  Z.  16,/or  Thasos,  reo^  Thasua.  P.  149.  U  2,  /or  Moelos,  «vad  Melo<. 
P.  168, 2.  2,  for  Camiphobis,  read  Camiphoboa.  P.  160, 2.  26, /or  Scipio,  Metellus,and,  read  Scipio 
Metellus  and.  P.  170, 2.  26,/or  philosopher,  read  philologist.  P.  171. 2. 17,/or  boaturos.  rva</  bouturon. 
P.  176, 2.  7, /or  consort  of  Nero,  read  consort  of  Augustus.  P.  189,  2.  6. /or  oonseotuive,  read  oonse- 
cative.  P.  208, 2.28,/or  Marmot,  read  Marmol.  P.  218, 2.  9, /or scare, read  scar.  P.  216. 2. 9,  et  passim, 
for  acdpenaer,  read  acipenser.  P.  226,  2.  8,/or Pachynum, read  Pachynus.  P.  296,  2.  l8,/or  SicyoAa, 
read  Sioyon.  P.  280,  2.  23. /or  pisant,  read  p^sent  P.  286. 2.  21, /»r  of  Scyathua,  read  of  Sciathos. 
P.  286, 2.  29,.for  the  MosteUa,  read  the  Mosella.  P.  287, 2. 17,/or  the  BuUstes,  read  the  Balistes.  P. 
288, 2. 2,  of  Phaleres,  read  of  Phalenu  P.  242, 2  9,  /or  of  Polareo,  rvod  of  Pelonis.  P.  247, 2. 6,/or 
Mintamns,  read  MinUimie.  P.  260, 2. 12,  for  a  hook,  read  to  hook.  P.  261. 2.  24,  /orPandarea,r«ad 
Pandaras.  P.  268, 2.  J  2, /or  the  act  of  eating,  read  the  art  of  eating.  P.  878, 2.  3,/or  Cnide  read  Cnidns. 
P.  270, 2. 12,/or  Acamidea,  Alopecomesia,  read  Acame,  Alopeoonnesua.  P.  291, 2.  26,  for  eleven  hun- 
dred, read  eleven.  P.  298,2.  26,  for  he  prayed  it  might  be,  fvad  he  prayed  that  the  Tiber  might  be.  P. 
809. 2. 27,  for  Simon  introduced  Pauli,  read  Simon  Pauli  introduced.  P.  817, 2. 26,/or  we  have  spoken, 
read  we  will  soon  speak.  P.  828, 2. 1,/or  Helbon,  read  Hebron.  P.  826,  2.  39,  /or  Plate  III.,  read 
Plate  I.  P.  866, 2.  80,  /or  minutalim,  fvad  minutatim.  P.  878>  2.  16  and  86»  for  Pzodllatares,  read 
TtoaJhUtt.. 


DESCRIPTION   OF  PLATE    No.  XXVI.  ▲,  Paob  865. 

No.  1.    Terra-Cotta  Drinking.Vane,  in  the  shape  of  a  Bird. 
No.  2.    Drinking- Vane  in  the  shape  of  a  Tea-pot. 
No.  8.    Drinking-Cup,  with  Jupiter's  Bead. 


WORKS  BY  A  SOYER.  471 


Lately  Puhlishedt  tlte  Eighth  Edition,  Handsomely  Bound,  Price  15«., 


THE 

^aistronomtc  ISleQenerator : 


SIMPLIFIED   AND  ENTIRELY  NEW 


SYSTEM  OF  COOKERY, 


WITH    NBAKLT 


TWO  THOUSAND  PRACTICAL   RECIPES, 

SUITED  TO  THE  INCOME  OF  ALL  CLABSES. 


ILLD8TSATBD  WITH 

NUMEROUS     ENGRAVINGS, 

AJXJ>    CORRECT    ANB    MINUTE    PLANS    HOW    KITCHENS    OF    BYERT    SIZE,    FROM    THE 

KITCHEN    OF   A    ROTAL    PALACE    TO    THAT    OF    THE    HUMBLE    COTTAQE, 

ARE    TO   BE    CONSTRUCTED    AND    FURNISHED. 


BY   A.    SOYER. 


LONDON: 
SIMPKIN,  MARSHALL,  &  CO.,  STATIONERS'  HALL  COURT: 

A!CU  SOLD   BI 

JOHN  OLLIVIEB,   PALL-MALL. 
1853. 

For  CrUieunru  see  the  Public  Frees  in  1846. 


472  WORKS  BY  A.  SOYER. 

TRANSLATION  FROM  THE  FRENCH  OF  A  CULINARY  DIALOGUE  BETWEEN 
LORD  IL  H.  AND  A.  SOYER.— From  the  **  Gastronomie  RegentraUn-,"  p.  611. 

8. — ^Yoa  are  periecUy  rights  my  Lord,  the  title  of  "  Qoormet,"  belongs  only  to  him  who 
e&ts  with  art,  science,  and  care,  and  even  with  great  care. 

LoBD  li.— The  "  Goarmand"  is  never  entitled  to  the  name  of  **  Qoormet ;"  the  one  eats 
wtthoat  tasting,  whilst  the  other  tastes  in  eating. 

S. — ^The  proud  and  haughty  man,  my  Lord,  orders  his  dinner  from  necessity ;  the  man 
of  the  world — the  profound  epicure — orders  his  with  delight 

LoBD  R. — It  is  quite  certain  that  too  much  attention  cannot  be  given  to  the  proper  exe- 
cution of,  and  the  intelligence  displayed  in,  the  order  of  a  dinner.  The  dinner — being  of  each 
day,  each  season,  ench  century — is  not  only  an  hereditary  fashion,  but  also  the  soolof  sociabili^: 
read  history,  and  you  will  perceive  that,  in  all  times,  amongst  all  people,  the  good  which  has 
been  done — and  sometimes  the  evil — was  always  preceded  or  foUowed  by  a  banquet. 

S. — Nothing  is  more  true,  my  Lord.  Of  all  the  pleasures  which  are  bestowed  upon  us  in 
this  world,  that  of  the  table  is  the  only  one  which,  when  the  reins  of  the  car  of  life  become  slack, 
parts  from  ns  with  rq^ret,  and  often,  as  a  fiiithful  friend,  leaves  us  but  at  the  brink  of  the  tomb ; 
whilst  all  other  pleasures  disappear  gradually,  like  the  fading  of  a  beautiful  autumn,  and 
cover  our  heads  with  the  hoary  locks  of  winter. 

Lord  M.~It  is  positive  that  the  gift  of  degustation  belongs  to  all  ages  of  life,— acoite- 
narian  whom  I  knew  well  retained  this  pleasure  until  his  last  hour. 

S. — Our  degustative  senses  require  contbual  study,  and  unceasingly  claim  a  eonstant 
change. 

Lobd  M. — The  greatest  wit  lacks  eloquenoe,  if  he  neglect  too  much  the  nature  of  his 
repast 

S. — ^Which  proves,  my  Lord,  that  our  most  agreeable  sensations  depend,  not  solely  on 
nature,  but  on  the  dte  we  take  of  ourselves. 

Lord  M. — ^Yes^  the  more  sensitive  the  soul,  the  greater  the  power  of  degustation.  The 
degustative  sensations  operate  with  as  great  activity  on  the  palate  as  the  charm  of  melody 
acts  on  the  ear ;  for  example,  man  in  a  state  of  madness  feels  the  want  of  eating,  but  the 
enchanting  pleasure  of  degustation  is  as  much  denied  to  him  as  that  of  reason. 

S. — ^Your  argument  on  this  point  is  extremely  just,  my  Lord ;  and  are  you  not  of  my 
opinion,  that  nothing  disposes  the  human  heart  to  amicable  feelings  more  than  a  dinner  well 
conceived  and  artistically  prepared  ? 

Lord  M. — It  is  that  which  has  always  made  me  say  that  a  good  oook  is  as  useful  as  a 
good  tutor. 

S. — I  have  always  perceived,  my  Lord,  that  the  finest  palate  is  the  most  difficult  to 
please,  but  also  the  most  just  in  priuse. 

Lord  M. — The  choice  of  wines  is  of  great  importance  in  the  progress  of  a  dinner:  a  fine 
wine,  light  and  generous,  protects  the  oook  and  becomes  the  benefactor  of  the  guest 

S. — ^Permit  me  also  to  observe,  my  Lord,  that  a  firastronomic  reunion,  without  the  beau 
sexe  is  to  me  a  flower-bed  without  flowers,  an  ocean  without  waves,  a  fleet  without  sails. 

Lord  M. — Certainly,  such  riumont  are  the  cradles  of  good  manners  and  sociability^ 
even  as  intemperanoe  is  the  tomb  of  morality. 


WORKS  BY  A.  SOYER.  473 


Jut  PabUdMd,  tiM  Thirtieth  Thoniaad.  FriM  7f.  64., 

THE 


Qbm  ^mstbrk,  m  penagere, 


COMPRISING 


Nearly  One  Thoneand  Bedpes  for  the  Economic  and  Judidons  Preparation 

of  Every  Heal  of  the  Day. 

Aim  THOSE  FOR 

THE  NURSERY  AND   SICK-ROOM, 

WITH    MINUTE   DIRECTIONS   FOR  FAMILY  MANAGEMENT  IN   ALL  ITS   BRANCHES. 

BY  A.   SOYER, 

AUTHOR  OF  "THE  GASTRONOMIC  REGENERATOR," 

3Utistrah)t  iitit|r  ^mmm  (^ngrsoings. 

For  CritieismSy  see  the  Public  Press  in  1849. 


LONDON  : 
SIMPKIN.  MARSHALL,  AND  CO.,  STATIONERS'  HALL  COURT, 


1853. 


COFT  OF  A  LETTER  RECENTLY  RECEiyBD  BT  THE  AUTHOR  FROM  DR.  ERASMUS  IHLSON, 
AUTHOR  OF  "  HEALTHY  SKIN,  A  POPULAR  TREATISE  ON  THE  SKIN  AND  HAIR." 

17,  Hbubistta  Stbkbt,  CATBifoitH  Squasb, 
July  18M,  1808. 

Sir, 

May  I  beg  your  aooeptaaoe  of  the  aooompanyiitg  sniall 
volume,  for  the  part  illastraUon  of  whioh  I  am  indebted  to  your  admirable  *' Housewife." 
Toor  nimery  dinner  is  one  of  the  most  valnable  pages  I  have  ever  read  on  the  snhjeot  of 
Diet ;  and  it  is  calculated  to  confer  an  everlasting  benefit  on  society. 

I  am.  Sir, 

Yoar  faithfnl  servant, 
A.  SoYER,  Esq.  ERASMUS  WILSON. 

E  E 


474  WORKS  BY  A.  SOYBR. 


Bxtraot  from  "Healthy  Skin,  a  Popular  TreatiBO  on  the  Skin  and  Hair." 

By  Braamns  Wilion,  F.S.  S. 

There  is  another  hranch  of  dieteUcs  that  calls  for  an  ohsenration  from  me,  I  mean  the 
diet  of  children.  Children  are  growing  animals ;  nutrition  in  them  is  active,  and  calls  for 
good  and  plentiful  material  in  the  shape  of  nonrit»hment.  As  far  as  period  is  concerned,  the 
same  law  that  applies  to  adults  is  equally  buited  to  them,  three  meals  a  day,  an  interval  of 
four  hours  between  each.  I  speak  of  children  out  of  arms^  not  of  infimts.  The  substance  of 
their  meals  cannot  be  too  nutritive,  or  too  much  varied. 

That  tlte  diet  of  children  cannot  be  too  varied  or  extensive  is  a  doctrine  I  have  long  held ; 
and  I  was  recently  much  charmed  in  finding  the  subject  treated  with  such  admirable  sense 
and  judgment  by  a  high  authority  in  the  science  of  living — Soyer.  His  letter  entitled 
"  Thb  Nursery  Dinner,"  in  the  "Modern  Housewife,"  I  cannot  too  strongly  commend  to  the 
perusal  and  attention  of  my  readers^  and  to  the  study  of  those  on  whom  the  proper  rearing 
of  children  in  any  way  rests.  Speaking  of  the  diet  of  children  for  the  day,  this  author 
writes : — **  Bread  and  milk  for  breakfast  at  eight ;  the  dinner  at  one^  which  was  composed  as 
follows  thoughout  the  week, — roast  mutton  and  apple  pudding,  roast  beef  and  currant  pudding, 
baked  apples  ;  boiled  mutton  with  turnips,  after  which  rice  or  vermicelli  pudding ;  occa- 
sionally a  little  salt  beef,  with  suet  dumplings,  plain  and  with  currants  in  them,  or  pease 
pudding ;  or  if  unwell,  a  little  veal  or  chicken  broth,  or  beef-tea." 

This  scheme  of  diet  is  intended  for  the  children  of  persons  in  very  moderate  circum- 
btanoes ;  but  for  those  who  can  afiford  it  he  prescribes,  as  the  dinner  of  one  day,  roast  mutton  i 
"  then  the  next  day  I  would  give  them  a  small  piece  of  mutton  plain  boiled,  with  turnips,  and 
apple  tart,  or  a  few  slices  of  roast  beef,  or  a  small  piece  roasted  on  purpose,  after  which  a  very 
pUin  currant  pudding ;  or,  occasionally,  a  little  pickled  pork,  with  pease  pudding,  or  roast 
pork,  with  baked  apples,  and  now  and  then  a  little  salt  beef,  but  very  well  boiled,  with  suet 
dumplings,  and  occasionally,  for  change,  either  bread,  vermicelli,  or  tapioca  puddings ;  in 
case  of  illness,  and  with  the  approbation  of  the  doctor,  veal,  mutton,  or  chicken-broth,  sago, 
gruel,  panada,  &c  Many  people  may  perhaps  imagine  that  there  is  too  much  variety  of  food 
for  children,  but  it  is  quite  the  contrary,  for  change  of  food  is  to  the  stomach  what  change  ot 
air  is  to  the  general  health ;  and  of  course,  with  children,  these  changes  must  be  effected 
with  judgment." 

Soyer  is  perfectly  right  with  regard  to  the  question  of  variety  of  food  for  children ;  and 
the  intention  is  so  rational,  that  it  is  difficult  to  conceive  how  a  difference  of  opinion  can 
exist  with  regard  to  its  truth ;  and  yet  I  have  heard  parents  make  a  boast  that  their  childrtn 
were  fed  exclusively  upon  mutton,  as  though  it  were  their  intention  to  render  the  stomach 
incapable  of  supporting  and  digesting  any  other  kind  of  food, — ^in  which  they  generally 
succeed. 

Sameness  of  food,  improper  food,  defective  ventiktion,  and  insufficient  exercise,  are  the 
causes  of  most  of  the  diseases  of  children ;  and  especially  of  cutaneous  complaints.  This  is 
the  secret  of  the  ring-worms  and  scald-heads  of  public  seminaries.  In  some  of  these  insti- 
tutions, as  I  have  heard,  there  is  a  ceremony  in  which  the  children  take  a  public  meal  in  the 
presence  of  the  governors  and  their  friends.  On  these  occasions,  the  platters  eclipse  in 
whiteness  the  envious  snow ;  a  suppressed  burst  of  delight  is  heard  from  the  spectators ;  the 
morsel  of  cheese,  cut  with  mathematical  precision,  would  not  vary  a  grain  in  the  thousand 
platters ;  the  bread — what  ingenuity ! — each  with  his  neighbour  a  very  twin.  And  how  many 
days  in  the  year  do  the  children  enjoy  this  fattening  collation  ? — 365.  For  three  hundred  and 
sixty-five  days,  for  a  thousand  children,  is  this  **  toujourt  perdrix"  feast  the  very  same ;  and 
yet  there  are  people  in  the  world  who  wonder  that  diseases  should  break  out,  that  skin  afieo- 
tions  should  be  rife,  that  consumptions  should  prevail.  Engraft  a  bud  of  Soyer  on  such  an 
institution,  and  health  and  happiness,  learning,  ability,  and  talent  will  take  the  place  of 
disease,  melancholy,  stupidity,  and  common-place  intellect.  What,  now,  in  this  intelligent 
country,  if  there  were  a  college  of  cookery,  with  Soyer  for  its  head? 


Now  in  progress^ 


W'^  llaitt  €mhxi  for  i\t  1^0jle, 


CONTAINING  NUMEROUS  RECIPES, 


Adapted  fbr  the  Cottage  of  the  labourer,  the  Home  of  the  Artisan,  and 

the  Chamber  of  the  Invalid. 


/ 

\ 


NOTE    BY    THE    AUTHOR. 


In  ihe  year  1846  I  published  a  work  on  CodEery,  entitled  "  The  Grastronomic 
Regenerator/'  which  was  very  snoceesfal.  At  page  650  I  obaerred  that  if  any 
author  were  to  write  a  work  on  the  History  of  Food  and  Cookery,  it  would  not 
only  be  very  interesting,  but  also  an  extremely  usefdl  production.  No  one,  how- 
ever,  having  entertained  my  suggestion,  I  determined  to  undertake  the  task,  and, 
after  several  years  of  deep  study  and  perseyeranoe,  have  completed  this  voluminous 
work. 

In  the  '*  Modem  Housewife,"  which  I  published  in  1849,  treating  of  sauces  pre- 
pared by  the  anoients,  I  said,  that  "  In  all  ages  and  countries  removed  from  bar- 
barism, where  fish  has  formed  an  article  of  diet,  sauces  of  various  kinds  have  been 
an  accompaniment  With  the  Romans,  in  the  time  of  Lucullus,  great  care  was 
observed  in  their  preparation ;  the  most  celebrated  of  those  which  ihey  used  were 
the  Oarum  and  the  Muria. 

The  Ghirum  was  a  sauce  which  the  Romans  used  in  nearly  all  their  dishes  ;  the 
prefeience  was  given  to  that  which  came  from  Antipolis  and  from  Dalmatia 
Horace  praises  that  made  at  Byzantium,  being  the  most  esteemed  and  the  most 
expensive :  its  composition  is  unknown.*  The  epicures  of  the  present  day  should 
oflfer  a  premium  for  that  which,  in  their  opinion,  may  bear  the  greatest  resemblance 
to  this  ancient  relish.  It  is  a  subject  weQ  worthy  the  attention  of  the  professors  of 
our  universities ;  perhaps  some  leaf  yet  undiscovered,  that  may  have  escaped  the 
conflagration  of  Alexandria,  might  throw  some  light  upon  so  interesting  a  subject 

A.  SOTER. 

42  Trinity  Square,  Tower  Hill. 

*  Since  the  above  was  written,  my  reaearahes  bare  been  rewarded  by  succeM,  and  I  have  girea  a 
ooni|dete  deicription  of  it  in  this  work.— 5m  pa0$  369. 


Tlieleiljr  uul  CoaBpanf,  Priatfra  and  GnfcnTCTs,  1S5  Fleet  StrMt,  t<eBii<tti. 


^^^ 


fr- 


,h  • 


