TX  715 
.P2293 
1901 
Copy  1 


"jj 

i 


THE 

Parish  Cook  Book 

AS  ARRANGED  BY  THE 

ST.  AGNES  GUILD 

OF  THE 

CHURCH  OF  THE  REDEEMER 

SAYRE,  PENNA, 


;  Now  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite, 
And  health  on  doth — " 


— Shakspeare. 


SAYRE,  PA.: 

DAILY  TIMES  JOB  PRINT. 
1901. 


Library  of  Congress 


2010 


497380 


INDEX. 


Soups   15 

Meats   19 

Sauces     25 

Vegetables   27 

Salads  and  Sandwiches   31 

Breads   35 

Cakes   39 

Desserts   50 

Pickles   62 

Jellies  and  Preserves   65 

Beverages   68 

Confectionery   71 

Miscellaneous   74 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


F.  P.  MURPHY.  S.  A.  BLISH. 

MURPHY  &  BLISH, 

Tailors,  Clothiers, 

and  Gents'  Furnishers 

LOCKHART  BUILDING. 

J.W.  BISHOP, 


DEALER  IN- 


COAL 


ANTHRACITE 
BITUMINOUS 
LOYAL  SOCK 


HARE)  BODY 
SOFT  SLAB 
HARD  SLAB 


WOOD 


6 

ADVERTISEMENTS. 

J.  W.  Knapp  &  Son, 

THE  LARGEST  RETAILERS  OF 

DRY  GOODS, 
CARPETS, 
CLOAKS, 
DRAPERIES 

^   IN  THIS  SECTION  .  » 

 . 

GOODS  DELIVERED  FREE 
AND  PROMPTLY 
ANYWHERE  IN  THE  VALLEY. 

V  ) 


Under  Town  Clock,    WAVERLY,  N.  Y. 


6 


AD  VERTISEMENTS. 


C.  F.  ROGERS.  G.  W.  MILLER. 

ROGERS&  MILLER, 

Furniture  and 

Undertaking, 

Nos.  108,  no,  112  Main  Street.  No.  i  Public  Street, 
ATHENS,  PA. 

Telephone  at  Store  and  Residence. 


Conservative  Gynecology, 

X-Ray  and  Eleftro  Thereapeutics. 

H.  13.  LaPlant,  M.  D. 


WOLCOTT  &  SON, 

We  anticipate  your  wants.  We  keep  in  touch  with  the 
people.  We  continually  renew  our  complete  stock  of 
everything  that  pertains  to  a  first-class 

GROCERY,  MARKET  AND 

FOOD  PRODUCT  STORE. 
Athens,  Penn. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


7 


FIRST  NATIONAL  BANK 

of  Sayre,  Pa. 

Capital  $50,000.00. 

E.  P.  WILBUR,  Pres.  R.  F.  PAGE,  Cashier. 

O.  L.  HAVERLY,  Vice-Pres.         L.  D.  AT  WATER,  Ass't.  Cash. 

DIRECTORS: 

E.  P.  Wilbur  W.  A.  Wilbur  J.  W.  Bishop 

J.  N.  Weaver,  W.  T.  Goodnow  J.  E.  Wheelock 

O.  L.  Haverly  Seward  Baldwin  F.  T.  Page 

General  Banking 

Business  Transacted. 

Three  per  cent,  interest  paid  on  Saving  Deposits 
and  Certificates  of  Deposit. 

TRAVELERS'  INSURANCE^ 

Most  Reliable,  Lowest  Rate,  Prompt  Pay. 
Pays  Accident,  Sickness,  Death. 

Investigate  Its  Value  to  You. 

W.  S.  BARNES,  Agent, 
L.  V.  Ticket  Office,  Sayre,  Pa, 


Fire  and  Life  Insurance. 

 o  — 

Layur9ehnPa,ock:   Fred  J.  Taylor. 


8 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


If  You  Would  Make  a  Success 

Of  the  Recipes  in  this  cook  book  you 
should  have  one  of  these 


RANGES^ 

To  cook  or  bake  it  on.  We  also 
have  all  kinds  of  Kitchen  ware  and 
Utensils,  Perfection  Loose  Bottom 
Cake  Pans,  AngelFood  Tins, Cake 
Spoons,  Etc. 

0.  S.  MILLS  HARDWARE  CO., 


SAYRE,  PA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


Recipe  for  Dressing. 

Take  one  manly  man,  baste  him  in  a  good  suit  of  under- 
wear, place  a  pair  of  fancy  half  hose  on  his  feet  and  a 
nobby  hat  on  head ;  finish  dressing  to  suit.  In  hot  weath- 
er put  one  light  negligee  shirt  on  back  and  set  aside  to 
cool.    For  the  ingredients  try 

BOLTON'S. 

Correct  furnishings  and  hats  al- 
ways fresh  and  hot  from  the 

Oven  of  Fashion. 

SAYRE,  PENN. 

The  Place 

to  Buy 

Choice  Confectionery,  Fruits,  Nuts,  Nut- 
meats,  etc.  Colored  Sugar,  Fancy  Candies 
for  Cakes,  Japanese  Napkins,  Candles, 
etc. 

Ice  Cream  and  Water  Ices  delivered  in 
any  form  at  Reasonable  Prices. 

WK  SOLICIT  YOUR  PATRONAGE. 

R.  M.  McCRANEY  &  CO., 

Lockhart  Street,  Sayre,  Pa. 


10 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


Presents 


Keep  this  store  in  mind  when  you  start 
out  to  buy  presents.  You  will  always 
find  something  suitable  to  the  taste  and 
also  the  pocketbook.  Nice  goods  never 
sold  so  low  and  my  stock  abounds  in 
many  beautiful  articles  and  at  very  mod- 
erate prices. 


STEPHEJJ  E.  FISHER, 


Jeweler  and  Graduate  Optician, 
Lockhart  Street,      Sayre,  Pa. 


Eyes  Examined  Free. 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


11 


Establishes*  1895.  Cbartereti  1901. 

Zhc  Battonal  Bank  of  Sa^re 

Lewis  Eighmey,  President. 

Frank  Pike,  Vice  President. 

M.  H.  Sawtelle,  Cashier. 

HHrectors. 

Lewis  Eighmey,  Frank  Pike, 

W.  R.  Raymond,  C.  H.  Ott,  M.  D., 

N.  S.  Johnson,  F.  E.  Lyford, 

M.  P.  Murray,  L.  W.  Eighmey. 

H  (Seneral  Banking  Business  {Transacted 
accounts  Solicited 

THREE  PER  CENT.  INTEREST  PAID  ON   CERTIFICATES  OF 

DEPOSIT. 

We  issue  Savings  Account  Books  on  which  we  pay  three  per 
cent-  interest. 


C.  M.  DRIGGS, 

Presc  ription  Druggist, 

BANK  BUILDING,  SAYRE,  PA. 


A  complete  stock  of  Pure  Drugs, 

Toilet  Articles,  Perfumery, 

Brushes  and  Combs,  Stationery, 
Photo  Supplies,  Trusses,  Sponges, 

Chamois  Skins,  etc. 

Satisfaction  Always  Guaranteed. 


12 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


I.  A.  SAMUELS, 
Fine  Diamonds 

AND  HIGH  GRADE 

Railroad  Watches. 

Silverware,  Cut  Glass  and  Fine  China. 

Best  place  in  the  valley  to  select 
Wedding  or  Holiday  Gifts,  or 
gifts  of  any  kind  

ESTABLISHED  1893, 

Samuels  Block,  Sayre,  Pa. 

BOLICH  BROS., 

General  Hardware,  Stoves,  Ranges, 

Furnaces,  Paints  and  Oils, 
TIN  AND  WOODENWARE,  PLUMBING  AND  GAS  FITTING 

Bicyles  and  Sundries, 

Refrigerators  and  Ice  Cream  Freezers. 

Desmond  St.,  Sayre,  F*a. 


ADVERTISEMENTS.  13 


No  Matter 


How  well  the  food  is  cooked  and  served 
it  requires  BEAUTIFUL  TABLE  LINEN 
which  you  will  find  at  

A.  B.  Higbee's, 

320  Broad  St.,         WAVERLY,  N.  Y. 

Broad  Street,  Lockhart  Street, 

Waverly,  N.  Y.  Say  re,  Pa. 

WILCOX  &  PIKE, 

^DEALERS  IN^y 

t 

Fresh  and  Salt  Meats. 

^Oysters  and  Poultry  in  Season 

Wagons  on  the  Streets  Daily. 


14 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


Corner  Drug  Store 


Drugs  and  Medicines, 
Wall  Paper 

and 

Window  Shades. 

J  no.  C.  VanAtta, 

WAVERLY,  N.  Y. 


E.E.WALKER.  Established  1 874 

T.  S.  WALKER  &  SON, 

Fine  Domestic  |  Imported  Groceries 

FANCY  CREAMERY 
and  DAIRY  BUTTER 

The  Best  Brands  of  Flour.... 

363  and  365  Broad  Street, 


WAVERLY,  N.  Y. 


SOUPS. 


"For  soup  is  but  the  first  of  those  delights  which  go  to  make  the  coming  bill  of  fare.11 

BOUILLON. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  one  and  one-half  pounds  finely  chopped 
beef  (from  the  round),  one  bay  leaf,  one-half  an  onion,  one  stalk 
celery,  three  or  four  cloves,  two  slices  carrot,  two  sprigs  parsley, 
shell  and  white  of  one  egg.  Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  add  onion 
and  cook  till  brown,  then  add  boef,  celery,  cloves,  carrot,  bay  leaf 
and  parsley  and  one  quart  cold  water.  Cover  saucepan  and  stand 
on  back  of  stove,  where  it  will  heat  slowly  ;  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  three  hours,  strain,  return  to  kettle,  jand  bring  to  a  boil.  Beat 
the  whit©  of  an  egg  with  one-half  cup  of  cold  water  until  thoroughly 
mixed,  crush  shell  and  add  to  the  egg  ;  add  this  to  boiling  bouillon. 
Boil  four  minutes,  stand  on  back  of  stove  one  minute  to  settle,  and 
strain  through  cheese  cloth.  Wring  out  the  cloth  from  cold  water 
before  straining.  Table  Talk. 

SWISS  SOUP. 

Take  two  quarts  of  thickened  chicken  gravy  left  from  yester- 
day's dinner,  with  particles  of  chopped  chicken  ;  add  two  quarts 
of  milk,  heat  thoroughly  but  do  not  boil.  Just  before  serving  add 
two  well  beaten  eggs.  Margaret  O'Donovan. 

CEEAM  OF  PEA  SOUP. 

Press  through  a  colander  a  pint  of  cooked  peas  ;  put  them  into 
double  boiler  with  one  quart  milk  ;  add  a  bay  leaf  and  a  teaspoon 
onion  juice  or  grated  onion.  Rub  together  two  tablespoons  butter 
and  two  of  flour  ;  add  to  mixture,  stir  and  cook  until  thick  and 
smooth,  about  ten  minutes.  Add  a  rounding  teaspoon  of  salt,  a 
saltspoon  of  white  pepper  and  serve  with  croutons  immediately. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Separate  one  chicken,  cover  with  cold  water,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  ;  when  chicken  is  tender,  remove,  strain  liquor,  and 

(15) 


16 


SOUPS. 


let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  skim  and  add  to  one  quart 
of  stock  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  serve 
at  once. 

MOCK  BISQUE  SOUP. 

One  pint  tomatoes  pressed  through  sieve,  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  one  bay  leaf  ;  let  stew  half  an  hour.  Heat  one 
pint  milk  to  boiling  point,  add  piece  of  butter  one-half  size  of  an 
egg  ;  add  half  of  a  level  teaspoon  of  soda  to  the  tomatoes,  mix 
with  boiling  milk  and  serve  immediately.  If  not  ready  to  use  let 
stand  on  the  stove  separately.  Ella  Fox. 

MOCK  BISQUE  SOUP. 

One  can  tomatoes,  cook  until  soft  enough  to  strain.  Scald  three 
pints  milk  in  double  boiler  +  mix  two  level  tablespoons  cornstarch 
with  two  tablespoons  butter  and  stir  into  the  hot  milk.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  about  five  minutes  or  until  done.  To  the  tomatoes 
add  a  pinch  of  soda,  and  when  ready  to  serve  add  milk,  season  to 
taste.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Barron. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

One  quart  tomatoes,  one  and  one-half  pints  hot  water  or  stock, 
one  tablespoon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  cloves,  pinch  cayenne 
pepper,  one  tablespoon  parsley,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  table- 
spoon flour,  one  tablespoon  onion  juice,  salt,  a  little  thyme.  Cook 
one  hour,  strain  and  serve.  Mrs.  H.  N.  Daniell. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Peel  two  quarts  tomatoes,  boil  them  in  a  saucepan  with  onion 
and  other  soup  vegetables  ;  strain  and  add  a  level  tablespoon  of 
flour  dissolved  in  one-third  cup  melted  butter  ;  add  pepper  and 
salt.  Serve  very  hot  on  little  squares  of  bread  fried  brown  and 
crisp  in  butter.  Mrs.  D.  M.  O'Brien. 

MULLAGATAWNY  SOUP. 

Cut  four  onions,  one  carrot,  two  turnips,  and  one  head  of  celery 
into  three  quarts  of  liquor  in  which  one  or  two  fowls  have  been 
boiled.  Keep  it  over  a  brisk  fire  till  it  boils,  then  move  back  and 
let  it  simmer  twenty  minutes  ;  add  one  tablespoon  of  currie  powder 
and  one  of  flour,  mix  well  and  let  boil  three  minutes.  Pass 
through  colander  and  serve  with  pieces  of  chicken  in  it  ;  it  must 
be  a  good  yellow  color  and  not  too  thick. 

Mrs.  D.  M.  O'Brien. 


SOUPS. 


17 


POTATO  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  large  potatoes,  three  stalks  of  celery,  an 
onion,  and  a  tablespoon  butter.  Boil  celery  and  onion  in  a  little 
water.  Pare  potatoes  and  boil  until  well  done,  then  smash  fine. 
Add  boiling  milk,  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  the  water  the  celery  and 
onion  were  boiled  in.    Strain  and  serve  very  hot. 

EAST  INDIA  SOUP. 

Put  one  tablespoon  of  butter  into  a  kettle  ;  add  two  onions  sliced, 
a  small  carrot  chopped  fine,  and  half  a  cup  of  chopped  celery. 
Push  on  back  of  stove,  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  that 
butter  does  not  become  discolored.  Add  a  quart  of  water,  a  bay 
leaf,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  saltspoon  of  white  pepper,  teaspoon  of 
salt,  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  and  thyme.  Moisten  a  teaspoon 
of  curry  and  add  it  last ;  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes  and  strain. 
This  soup  should  be  perfectly  clear  and  of  a  yellowish  shade  when 
finished.  A  id  to  it,  just  as  it  is  ready  to  serve,  five  tablespoons  of 
rice  that  has  been  carefully  boiled. 

CELERY  SOUP. 

One  quart  water,  one  cup  celery,  two  onions  chopped  fine  ;  cook 
until  very  tender,  then  add  one  quart  of  rich  milk  ;  season  highly 
with  pepper,  salt  and  butter.    Serve  very  hot. 

SOUP  STOCK. 

Allow  one  pint  of  water  to  each  pound  of  meat.  Simmer  seven 
hours.  Remove  meat,  strain,  and  let  stand  over  night  in  a  cool 
place.  In  the  morning  remove  fat  from  the  top.  Use  as  wanted, 
by  heating. 

NOODLE  SOUP. 

Wet  with  two  eggs  as  much  dry,  sifted  flour  as  will  make  them 
into  a  firm,  smooth  paste.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  possible  and  cut  in 
bands  one  and  one  fourth  inches  wide  ;  dust  with  flour  and  place 
four  of  them,  one  upon  another,  cut  in  the  finest  possible  strips, 
separate  with  knife  and  spread  out  so  they  may  dry  a  little.  Drop 
them  in  boiling  soup  and  in  five  minutes  they  will  be  done. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Low. 

SPRING  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Half  pint  of  green  peas,  two  shredded  lettuce  leaves,  one  onion, 
small  bunch  of  parsley,  two  ounces  butter,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one 
pint  of  water,  one  and  one-half  quarts  soup  stock.    Put  in  stewpan 


18 


SOUPS. 


the  lettuce,  onion,  peas,  parsley  and  butter  with  the  water  and  let 
simmer  until  tender  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Drain  the 
juice,  add  two-thirds  to  the  stock  and  the  other  third  to  the  beaten 
yolks,  heat  well  and  when  ready  to  serve  add  to  the  vegetables. 

Mrs.  D.  M.  O'Brien. 

CROUTONS. 

Take  stale  bread,  cut  quite  thick  slices,  trim  off  crusts,  cut  in 
dice  and  fry  brown  and  crisp  in  hot  butter  ;  spread  on  thick  brown 
paper  for  a  few  moments,  turn  into  the  soup  tureen  and  pour  soup 
over  them. 


M  EATS. 


"A  genial  savour 

Of  certain  stews  and  roast  meats  and  pilaris, 
Things  which  in  hungry  mortals  eyes  find  favor.1 " 

—Byron. 

CREAMED  FISH 

Almost  any  kind  of  fresh  fish  may  be  made  over  when  cold  into 
a  delicious  dish  of  cream  fish.  Put  a  liberal  lump  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  and  let  it  melt.  Add  a  teaspoonful  each  of  onion  juice 
and  minced  parsley  and  a  heaping  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour.  Let  this 
cook  for  a  moment  and  when  it  boils  add  one-half  pint  of  milk,  one 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice.  Whip  one  egg  yolk  and  mix  it  carefully  wiin  one- 
half  cupful  of  hot  cream.  Add  to  the  contents  of  the  saucepan 
and  stir  in  one  pint  of  cold  cooked  fish,  picked  in  small  pieces  and 
separated  from  all  traces  of  bone  and  skin.  Serve  in  small  dishes 
each  covered  with  browned  crumbs. 

DEVILLED  FISH. 

Scald  one  cup  of  milk,  add  one  cupful  of  grated  bread  crumbs. 
Stir  over  the  fire  one  minute,  then  take  it  off  ;  add  one  tablespoon 
of  chopped  parsley,  the  chopped  yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  a 
little  cayenne,  a  little  paprika,  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teas- 
poon of  onion  juice.  Mix  and  add  two  cupfuls  of  flaked  fish  that 
has  been  cooked.  Fill  shells  or  individual  dishes.  Cover  with 
buttered  bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

FISH  CUSTARDS. 

Mash  fine  half  a  pound  of  boiled  whitefish.  Add  to  it  a  teas- 
poonful of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  almonds,  a  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Now  add  gradually  the  un- 
beaten whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonf uls  of  cream.  Form 
into  small  rolls,  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking 
hot  fat,  or  this  may  be  filled  into  small  custard  cups,  placed  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water  and  cooked  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Under  such  circumstances  it  is  wise  to  whip  the  cream 
Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

(19) 


20 


MEATS 


STEAMED  SALMON, 

One  can  salmon,  two  eggs  beaten  light,  three  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  season  with  cayenne 
pepper,  parsley  and  salt.  Chop  fish  fine,  rub  butter  in  smooth, 
beat  bread  crumbs  in  eggs  and  season  before  working  ;  put  in 
mould  and  steam  an  hour. 

Sauce. — One  cup  of  milk,  let  come  to  a  boil,  add  one  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  butter  worked  together,  three  or  four  spoons  of  catsup 
or  tomatoes,  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  season  with  salt,  cayenne  and 
lemon  the  last  thing.  Mrs.  G.  M.  Angier. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

On  can  salmon,  two  eggs,  four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  four 
tablespoons  milk,  six  soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  salt  and  pepper. 
Drain  the  fish  and  chop  fine  ;  add  beaten  eggs,  butter,  crackers 
and  milk  in  order  named.  Beat  together  until  a  soft  paste  is 
formed,  make  in  desired  shape,  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and 
fry  in  hot  lard.  Mrs.  Kline,  Waverly,  N.  Y. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

Pour  oil  from  one  can  salmon  ;  break  salmon  in  small  pieces, 
add  one  unbeaten  egg,  one  tablespoon  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir 
all  together  thoroughly  and  boil  until  flour  is  cooked.  After  ice 
cold  shape  into  balls,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  like  dough- 
nuts. Mrs.  H.  N.  Daniell. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

Twenty-five  oysters,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one 
tablespoon  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  oysters  in  their 
own  liquor  until  the  edges  curl,  then  drain.  Put  milk  on  to  boil 
in  double  boiler,  rub  butter  and  flour  together  and  add  to  milk 
when  boiling  ;  stir  until  it  thickens,  then  add  oysters,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  when  thoroughly  heated  serve. 

Mrs.  Arch  Wilking. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

Take  one  pint  of  chopped  oysters,  strain  the  liquid  and  add  the 
same  quantity  of  milk,  one  egg  and  enough  flour  for  a  thick  bat- 
ter.   Fry  like  pancakes.  Irene  Bennett. 

OYSTER  CROQUETTES. 

Put  one  quart  oysters  on  to  boil  in  their  own  liquor.  Let  cook 
for  five  minutes,  take  from  fire  and  drain  ;  chop  oysters.  Put 


MEATS. 


21 


one-half  cup  of  the  liquor  and  one-half  cup  cream  in  saucepan,  rub 
together  tablespoon  of  butter  and  two  of  flour,  add  this  and  the 
oysters  to  the  boiling  liquor  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  season  with  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Mix  well,  when  cold  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  fat.        Mrs.  James  Wilking. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

One  pint  fish,  two  pints  potatoes,  two  eggs,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  a  little  pepper.  Pick  fish  very  fine,  measure  lightly  in  the 
bowl ;  put  potatoes  in  boiler  and  fish  on  top  of  them,  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  cook  half  an  hour  ;  drain  off  all  the  water  and 
mash  potatoes  and  fish  together  until  fine,  then  add  butter  and 
pepper  and  egg  beaten  ;  have  deep  kittle  of  boiling  fat,  take  table- 
spoonful  and  drop  in  the  fat  and  cook  until  brown.  These  balls 
are  delicious.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Lane. 

DEVILLED  LOBSTERS. 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  on  to  boil  in  a  double  boiler.  Blend  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  the  same  quantity  of  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful  dry  mustard,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Stir  into  the  boiling  milk  ;  cook  two  or  three  minutes,  and  add  the 
meat  of  the  lobsters  cut  fine.  Allow  all  to  cook  for  a  minute.  Put 
the  mixture  into  baking  cups  or  shells,  and  cover  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  on  the  top.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven.    This  is  for  three  pounds  of  lobsters. 

Irene  Bennet. 

VEAL  CUTLETS  (Breaded). 

Beat  one  egg  light,  add  a  pinch  of  salt ;  dip  the  veal  steak  into 
thf>  egg,  then  into  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  or  beef  drip- 
pings ;  season  to  taste.  The  butter  should  be  hot  when  veal  is 
put  in,  but  it  should  cook  rather  slowly  and  thoroughly.  When 
nicely  browned,  turn  and  cook  the  other  side.  Do  not  turn  but 
once.  When  done  place  on  hot  platter,  sprinkle  with  bits  of  but- 
ter ;  set  in  oven  a  moment  before  serving.  A  gravy  may  be  made 
by  pouring  a  cup  of  hot  water  into  the  frying  pan,  into  which  has 
been  stirred  a  tablespoon  of  flour  ;  let  boil  up  and  serve  in  gravy 
dish. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Three  pounds  of  raw  veal,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  pepper, 


22 


MEATS. 


two  raw  eggs.  Chop  or  have  veal  ground  at  market.  Mix  all  to- 
gether with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Model  this  into  a  loaf, 
roll  it  in  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  rolled  crackers.  Pour  over  it  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Put  in  a  pan  and  bake  two 
hours.  Ida  Rose  Piollet. 

BEEF  LOAF. 

Two  pounds  raw  beef  chopped  fine  (round  steak  is  preferred), 
seven  soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Mould  with  hands  until 
perfectly  solid  ;  put  in  greased  pan  with  a  little  water,  and  baste 
as  you  would  roast  beef.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery 
salt.  Mrs.  J.  L.  Parker. 

BEEF  LOAF. 

Three  and  a  half  pounds  round  steak,  one-half  pound  of  salt 
pork  chopped  fine,  one  cupful  of  rolled  crackers,  two  eggs,  one 
and  a  half  cupfuls  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  cable- 
spoonful  of  salt,  season  with  sage.  Bake  three  hours.  When 
cold,  slice  thin  and  garnish  with  bits  of  parsley  or  sliced  lemon. 

Mrs.  E.  G.  Tuttle. 


BRESLAU  OF  BEEF. 

One  pint  cold  chopped  beef,  one  gill  stock,  two  tablespoons  but- 
ter, one-half  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  one-half  pint  of  cream  or 
milk,  one  tablespoon  parsley,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper.  Bake  thirty  minutes.  When  done 
turn  out  on  platter  and  garnish  with  toast  and  pour  tomato  sauce 
over  it.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Hamilton. 

DRIED  BEEF  WITH  CREAM  GRAVY. 

Fry  the  beef  in  butter  until  it  curls  a  little,  then  add  a  bowl  of 
milk  and  flour  to  thicken. 

BAKED  SPRING  CHICKEN. 

When  ready  for  cooking  cut  the  chicken  in  two,  down  the  back, 
and  spread  it  open,  as  flat  as  possible,  flatten  the  breast-bone  by 
giving  it  two  or  three  blows  with  the  rolling  pin.  Lay  the  fowl  in 
a  dripping-pan  with  the  skin  side  down,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
bits  of  butter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  very  frequently  with 
butter.  A  little  water  may  be  added,  if  necessary,  to  keep  the 
pan  from  burning,  but  only  a  little  will  b^  required.    When  done 


MEATS. 


23 


remove  to  a  hot  platter,  dust  with  pepper  and  lay  generous  bits  of 
butter  over  chicken,  set  in  oven  long  enough  to  melt  the  butter  ; 
make  a  cream  dressing  with  the  butter  left  in  the  pan. 

LAMB  CHOPS  (Breaded). 

Prepare  as  for  frying,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter.  When  done,  take  up,  drain  and  serve 
on  a  hot  dish,  garnished  with  parsley. 

ONE  WAY  TO  COOK  LIVER. 

Soak  the  liver  twenty  minutes  in  hot  water,  wipe  dry.  Cut  into 
pieces  with  cookie  cutter,  using  corner  pieces  also  ;  dip  each  piece 
in  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  well  salted  and  peppered,  have  fry- 
ing pan  hot  with  lard  enough  to  fry  a  light  brown  (one  tablespoon 
lard  is  sufficient). Do  not  let  the  pan  burn  ;  if  cooked  slowly  it 
will  be  soft  and  tender.  Never  use  pigs  liver.  Use  empty  baking 
powder  can  for  cutter  as  it  is  sharper.  Mrs.  K.  M.  Craig. 

MEAT  CROQUETTES. 

Use  cold  roast  beef.]  Chop  fine  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  ; 
add  one-half  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs  and  moisten  with  a 
little  milk.  Have  the  hands  floured  ;  rub  the  meat  into  balls,  dip 
into  beaten  egg,  then  into  pulverized  crackers,  and  fry  in  butter. 
Garish  with  parsley.    Mrs.  H.  S.  Lowman.  Z 

SWEET  BREADS. 

Parboil,  then  put  in  cold  water  for~ten  minutes  ;  drain  in  towel, 
split  in  halves,  dip  in  egg  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  or  butter  the  same  as  oysters.        Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

SWEET  BREAD  PATTIES. 

Make  small  shells  of  puff  paste,  boil  the  sweetbreads  until  tender, 
when  cool  cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  in  a  saucepan,  with  cream 
to  cover  them,  add  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  and  flour  to 
thicken.    When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  fill  the  shells  and  serve  hot. 

BAKED  EGGS. 

Boil  eight  eggs  twenty  minutes  ;  take  out  the  yolks  andfcadd.  as 
much  bread  crumbs  as  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Put  back  in 
the  whites  and  add  a  cream  gravy.    Bake  until  brown. 

Mrs.  James.  N.  Wilking. 


24 


MEATS. 


OMELET. 

To  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  light,  add  two  tablespoons  of 
water  or  milk,  beat  until  well  mixed,  then  fold  in  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Grease  the  omelet  pan 
with  butter,  heat  it.  and  pour  in  the  omelet  and  cook  for  a  minute, 
then  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  five  minutes,  fold  and 
turn  out  on  a  hot  platter. 

SHREDDED  EGGS. 

Boil  four  eggs  twenty  minutes  and  drop  them  in  cold  water  for 
five  minutes  ;  then  remove  shell  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices  ;  put 
in  a  fryingpan  three  level  tablespoons  butter  and  when  hot  add  one 
onion,  thinly  sliced  ;  let  cook  slowly  for  five  minutes,  but  not 
brown  ;  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  stir,  then  add  two  cups 
milk  and  stir  until  boiling  ;  add  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper  and 
the  sliced  eggs.  Serve  on  platter  and  sprinkle  chopped  parsley 
over  the  top. 

DRESSING  FOR  GOOSE  OR  OTHER  FOWLS. 

Two  cups  very  dry  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup 
melted  butter,  one  cup  hot  water,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper,  if  you  like  any  spiced 
herb  a  little  of  that,  one  apple  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoon  sugar. 
Cook  onion  in  butter,  do  not  use  it  uncooked.  Mix  all  together  in 
large  bowl,  add  butter,  eggs,  and  hot  water  last.  Do  not  use  sage 
with  this  dressing  ;  leave  plenty  of  room  to  swell.  For  pigeon 
add  a  few  seeded  raisins,  less  onion  ;  for  pig  use  less  butter. 
Never  use  oysters  for  filling  unless  you  are  sure  everyone  likes 
tham.  Mrs.  K.  M.  Craig. 


SAUCES. 

"Epicurean  Cooks  sharpen  with  cloyless  sauce  his  appetite.'"— Shakespeare. 


DRAWN  BUTTER. 

One  tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  cup  boiling 
water,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  dash  of  pepper.  For  fish  sauce, 
add  one  egg,  hard  boiled  and  chopped  fine. 

SAUCE  FOR  BAKED  FISH. 

Mix  thoroughly  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  a  small  wine- 
glass of  salad  oil,  one  large  tablespoon  of  sharp  vinegar,  a  little 
dry  mustard  and  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  pickles  or  capers. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

To  serve  hot  with  cutlets,  croquettes,  etc.  One  pint  tomatoes, 
one  small  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  parsley.  Cook  together, 
strain  and  add  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste  ;  cook  until  it  thickens. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

Three  tablespoons  of  fresh  mint  chopped  fine,  five  tablespoons 
of  vinegar,  two  teaspoons  of  sugar  dvissoled  in  the  vinegar.  Serve 
hot  with  roast  lamb.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Bolich. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 

Cook  together  until  well  mixed  one  tablespoon  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  add  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  simmer  five  minutes,  season 
and  serve.  Mrs.  Ewing. 

CABBAGE  DRESSING. 

Four  tablespoons  butter,  four  tablespoons  cream,  four  tablespoons 
vinegar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  little  sugar  and  cayenne  pepper.  K. 

BEET  DRESSING. 

One  egg  beaten  light,  one-half  cup  sugar  scant,  one-half  cup 
vinegar,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  tablespoon  butter.  Boil,  and 
pour  over  sliced  beets,  serve  hot.  K. 

(25) 


26 


SAUCES. 


SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  PUDDING. 

Beat  four  ounces  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add  one  quarter  pound 
granulated  sugar,  wineglass  of  brandy,  and  mix  thoroughly. 

Mrs.  Flynn. 

BRANDY  SAUCE. 

A  small  cupful  sugar,  one  egg,  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  one 
tablespoon  flour  and  two  of  cold  water  ;  mix  together  and  pour  in- 
to half  pint  boiling  milk  or  water.    Wineglass  of  wine  or  brandy. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

Mix  together  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour, 
and  teaspoon  grated  lemon  peel.  Add  a  cup  of  hot  water,  simmer 
five  minutes,  remove  from  fire  and  add  juice  of  a  lemon  and  half  a 
cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream.  Ella  Fox. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  tablespoons 
water.  Cook  until  it  burns  slightly  ;  then  take  one  teaspoon  corn- 
starch, dissolve  in  cold  water,  add  to  it  one  cup  boiling  water,  add 
to  the  caramel,  and  stir  until  well  mixed  and  partly  cold. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

SWEET  SAUCE. 

Put  a  gill  of  water  in  a  small  enamelled  saucepan  with  an  ounce 
of  sugar.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  add  a  glass  of  sherry,  a  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  a  tablespoon  of  jam  and  a  few  drops  of  cochineal. 
Bring  to  a  boil.    Strain  the  sauce  and  serve. 

Irene  Bennett. 


VEGETABLES. 

"Nor  lacked  our  table  small  parade  of  garden  fruits.11 


POTATO  PUFF. 

Two  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
two  well  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  milk.  Mix  well  together  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  Louise  Whittle. 

STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Bake  six  good  sized  potatoes,  when  done  cut  the  tops  off,  and 
with  a  spoon  scoop  out  the  potato  into  a  hot  bowl.  Mash  fine,  add 
one  tablespoon  butter,  quarter  cup  hot  milk,  teaspoon  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Beat  until  very  light,  then  add  the  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs  ;  stir  gently.  Fill  the  skins  with  this  mixture,  heap- 
ing it  on  the  top  ;  brush  over  with  yolk  of  egg  and  put  in  oven  to 
brown.    They  may  also  be  cut  into  half  and  stuffed. 

Mrs.  Arch  Wilking. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  several  raw  potatoes  ;  put  layer  of  potatoes 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  flour  and 
bits  of  butter  ;  another  layer  of  potatoes  seasoned  as  before  and  so 
on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Fill  the  dish  with  milk  and  bake  until 
tender  and  well  browned.  Mrs.  John  Babcock. 

CREAMED  POTATOES. 

Put  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  it  bubbles, 
add  one  tablespoon  flour.  Add  one  cup  hot  milk,  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Add  one  pint  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  small 
dice.    Cook  until  thoroughly  hot.  Mrs.  N.  J.  Parker. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Two  cups  smashed  potatoes,  two  tablespoons  cream,  one  teaspoon 
onion  juice,  one  teaspoon  salt,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley,  piece  butter  size  of  walnut,  dash  of  cayenne  pep- 
per. Beat  yolks  until  light,  add  them  to  the  potatoes,  then  add 
other  ingredients.  Mix  well,  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  fry  in 
hot  fat.    Makes  twelve  croquettes.       Mrs.  Clare  A.  Welch. 

(27) 


28 


VEGETABLES. 


FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES. 

Pare  and  cut  potatoes  in  long  strips,  let  stand  in  cold  water, 
drain  and  wipe  dry.  Fry  in  hot  lard  until  brown  and  crisp,  skim 
out  and  drain  on  brown  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  serve. 

SARATOGA  CHIPS. 

Pare  and  slice  very  thin  on  slaw  cutter,  let  them  stand  for  an 
hour  in  ice  water,  with  a  piece  of  alum  in  it,  then  drain  and  wipe 
dry  with  a  cloth.  Fry  a  few  at  a  time  in  boiling  lard,  salt  as  you 
take  them  out.    They  should  be  a  light  brown  when  done. 

CREAM  CABBAGE. 

Beat  together  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
vinegar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 
Put  the  mixture  into  a  saucepan  and  stir  until  it  boils,  then  stir 
in  one  cup  of  cream,  let  boil,  and  pour  over  cabbage  while  hot. 

.  C. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  CREAM  DRESSING. 

Pick  over  a  good  firm  head  of  cauliflower,  soak  in  cold  salt 
water  for  half  an  hour  before  cooking.  Cook  until  tender, 
then  lift  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  pour  over  the  following  sauce : 
Rub  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  together  ;  into  this 
beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Dip  up  some  of  the  cauliflower  liquor  in- 
to this  until  quite  thin,  then  pour  all  into  saucepan  and  boil  up 
once  and  pour  over  cauliflower.    Some  add  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Seattle  Cook  Book. 

ONIONS. 

Boil  in  salted  water  until  perfectly  done  ;  pour  off  water  and 
pour  on  milk,  when  it  boils  add  flour  and  butter  stirred  together, 
sufficient  to  thicken.  Or  boil  them  in  salted  water  ten  minutes,  then 
put  them  in  cold  fresh  water  for  half  an  hour  ;  after  that  place  in 
a  stewpan  with  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them  and  boil 
gently  until  tender.    Drain  and  serve  with  melted  butter. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Put  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes  in  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  pud- 
ding dish  ;  then  a  layer  of  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Season 
each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  bits  of  butter.  Make  three 
layers  of  each,  having  the  top  one  of  crumbs  with  plenty  of  butter. 
Cover  and  bake  one-half  hour  in  a  moderate  oven  or  until  nicely 
browned. 


VEGETABLES. 


29 


GREEN  TOMATO  PIE. 

Four  good  sized  green  tomatoes,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  all- 
spice, one-half  nutmeg,  a  few  small  bits  of  butter,  one  tablespoon 
of  vinegar  ;  sprinkle  well  with  flour.  Peel  tomatoes  and  slice 
very  thin.  Chop  a  little  after  slicing,  so  as  not  to  have  large 
chunks  ;  then  mix  all  together  and  bake  with  upper  and  lower 
crust.    Be  sure  to  get  it  real  sweet  and  well  spiced. 

Mrs.  John  Galligan. 

FRIED  TOMATOES 

Cut  tomatoes  in  slices  without  skinning,  pepper  and  salt  them 
well,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them  and  fry  in  butter  until 
brown.  Put  them  on  hot  platter,  pour  milk  or  cream  into  the  but- 
ter and  juice  and  when  it  is  boiling  pour  over  the  tomatoes. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Select  smootn,  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  deep  piece  from  stem  end  of 
each,  remove  inside  and  mix  with  it  bread  crumbs,  seasoning  the 
mixture  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar  ;  put  piece  of  butter  in 
top  of  each  tomato,  place  them  in  pan  and  bake  about  thirty 
minutes,  or  until  they  are  nicely  browned. 

BAKED  MACARONI. 

Break  macaroni  in  small  pieces  and  cook  in  salt  water  about 
twenty  minutes  ;  drain  and  put  in  baking  dish  a  layer  of  maca- 
roni sprinkled  with  grated  cheese,  pepper,  salt  and  bits  of  butter  ; 
proceed  in  this  manner  until  dish  is  full,  having  cheese  on  top, 
cover  with  milk,  set  dish  in  oven  and  bake  until  brown. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Cook  one-half  pound  of  macaroni  till  tender,  pour  off  all  the 
water,  then  add  one-half  cup  sweet  cream,  one-third  cup  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  let  simmer  for  a  short  time,  turn  into 
vegetable  dish.  Have  ready  one  pint  stewed  tomatoes,  seasoned, 
and  pour  over  the  macaroni ;  or  place  a  layer  of  the  cooked  maca- 
roni in  baking  dish,  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  then 
layer  of  tomatoes,  and  so  on  till  dish  is  filled.  Cover  top  with 
bread  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

Two  quarts  small  white  beans  soaked  over  night.  Parboil  in 
the  morning  until  soft ;  pour  off  water  and  put  into  stone  crock  or 


30 


VEGETABLES. 


jar,  add  one  and  one-half  pounds  salt  or  fresh  fat  pork,  one  cup 
sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  small  pinch  red  pepper  improves 
the  flavor.  Cover  beans  with  hot  water,  put  into  moderate  oven 
and  bake  over  night.  Mrs.  George  W.  Stevenson. 

FRIED  EGGPLANT. 

Slice  the  eggplant  at  least  half  an  inch  thick  ;  pare  each  piece 
and  lay  in  salt  and  water,  putting  a  plate  upon  the  topmost  to 
keep  it  under  the  brine,  and  let  stand  for  an  hour.  Wipe  each 
slice,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard  until  nicely  browned.  Marion  Harland. 

VEGETABLE  OYSTERS. 

Wash,  scrape  and  cut  in  quite  thick  slices,  cover  with  water  and 
boil  till  tender,  then  add  one  tablespoon  of  flour  wet  with  cold 
water,  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  boil  one  minute  and 
serve. 

MUSHROOMS  ON  TOAST. 

Peel  and  rinse  one  dozen  mushrooms,  cut  in  pieces  and  stew  in 
one  cup  water  until  tender  ;  add  two  tablespoons  cream  and  a 
little  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  on  slices  of  but- 
tered toast. 

WINTER  SQUASH. 

Break  in  large  pieces  and  stew  until  tender ;  scrape  from  shell, 
mash  smooth  and  season  with  butter,  a  little  sugar,  pepper  and 
salt.    Serve  very  hot. 

SUMMER  SQUASH. 

Unless  they  are  very  tender,  pare  them  as  thin  as  possible,  and 
remove  seeds.  Put  to  cook  in  salted  boiling  water  ;  when  tender 
remove  from  saucepan  and  press  out  all  the  water,  mash  smooth 
and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

Wash  and  wipe  six  large,  juicy  apples  that  are  not  too  tart ;  re- 
move cores  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  the  apple  around  in  slices  half 
an  inch  thick,  fry  in  hot  butter  until  slices  are  nicely  browned, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  after  removing  to  dish.  A  nice  ac- 
companiment for  roast  pork. 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES. 


"We  may  pick  a  thousand  salads 
Ere  we  light  on  such  another." 


UA  crust  of  bread  and  liberty.11 

— Horace. 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Three  well  beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoon  mustard,  six  tablespoons 
cream,  six  tablespoons  vinegar,  four  tablespoons  salad  oil,  pinch 
of  red  pepper,  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  thoroughly,  put  in  a  pail 
and  set  in  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Winlack. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  six  eggs  beaten,  to  this  add  six  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter  or  olive  oil,  pour  in  slowly  beating  all  the  while;  then  add 
teaspoon  of  mustard  dissolved  in  six  tablespoons  vinegar,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  sugar,  pinch  of  red  pepper,  six 
tablespoons  milk  or  cream.    Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 

Louise  Sumner. 

ONE  EGG  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Stir  into  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  one  small  tablespoon 
of  flour,  add  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  when  it  boils  add  one  half 
tablespoon  of  salt,  one-half  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one-fourth  table- 
spoon of  mustard,  one  egg  well  beaten,  and  one-fourth  cup  of  vin- 
egar. Mrs.  George  Loop. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING  (with  oil). 

Put  the  uncooked  yolk  of  an  egg  in  a  cold  bowl,  add  half  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  work  well  before  adding  oil;  drop  in  the  oil 
slowly  and  alternate  with  a  little  lemon  juice.  The  mixture  should 
thicken  as  it  is  beaten ;  when  the  egg  has  absorbed  a  gill  of  oil,  add 
more  lemon  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  and  set  away  in  a  cool 
place.    If  not  thick  add  more  oil.  Catharine  W.  Bishop. 

(31) 


32 


SALADS  AXD  SAXDWICHES. 


CHICKEX  SALAD. 

Chop  the  cold  cooked  chicken  meat  into  even  sized  pieces,  not 
too  small.  Select  the  tender  stalks  of  celery,  (the  tough  outer 
pieces  will  spoil  the  salad) ;  wash,  scrape,  and  chop  into  small 
pieces  ;  for  every  two  cups  of  chicken  meat  take  one  cup  of  celery. 
Marinate  the  chicken  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve. 
Mix  with  the  celery.  For  every  quart  of  salad  take  one  cup  of 
thick  mayonnaise  dressing;  mix  gently  with  the  salad,  leaving 
sufficient  to  use  as  a  garnish  with  lettuce  leaves  or  celery  tops. 

Irene  Bennett. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  six  tablespoons  of  cream,  half  teaspoon 
of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  four 
tablespoons  vinegar,  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Put  on  the  stove 
stirring  constantly  until  quite  thick.  Have  one-half  head  of  cab- 
bage and  three  heads  of  celery  chopped  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt  ; 
add  to  the  dressing,  when  cold,  two  tablespooDS  of  cream,  and 
pour  it  over  the  cabbage.  Mrs.      J.  Parker. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Take  equal  parts  of  potato,  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  celery,  one 
onion  chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add 
dressing. 

Two  eggs  beaten  light,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  one-half  cup 
vinegar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Dissolve  mustard  in  vinegar,  cook 
all  together,  stirring  all  the  time.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Welch. 

COLD  BEAX  SALAD. 

Into  the  salad  dish  place  a  pinch  each  of  salt,  pepper  and  mus- 
tard ;  then  mix  in  equal  parts  of  oil  and  vinegar  until  enough 
sauce  is  made.  Add  the  cold  baked  beans,  and  one  small  onion. 
Stir  well  into  the  sauce  and  serve.  This  makes  a  nice  dish  for 
dinner  or  tea.  C.  H.  Smith. 

ASPAKAG-US  SALAD. 

Cook  asparagus  in  long  pieces  until  tender.  When  cool  pour 
over  it  a  French  dressing  and  let  it  stand  several  hours. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD. 

Boil  a  cauliflower  until  tender.  Cool.  Cover  with  mayonnaise 
or  French  dressing.    Garnish  with  lettuce. 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES. 


33 


APPLE  SALAD. 

Four  tablespoons  vinegar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  four  tablespoons 
sugar.  When  it  boils  stir  in  one  well  beaten  egg.  When  cool  add 
half  cup  of  thick  sweet  cream,  one-fourth  teaspoon  mustard,  and  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Slice  apples  thin  and  put  a  layer  of 
celery,  one  of  apples,  then  of  dressing  without  stirring  them. 

Nell  K.  Blaksley. 

TOMATO  JELLY. 

One  and  one  quarter  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  one  pint  cold 
water.  Scald  one  pint  thick,  strained  tomatoes,  adding  one  pint 
water.  Season  with  salt,  paprika,  a  little  sugar  ;  add  gelatine, 
pour  into  square  tin,  one  inch  deep.  Cool,  cut  in  squares  and  serve 
on  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise.    Makes  twenty-four  squares. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Hamilton. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

Remove  the  skin,  juice  and  seeds  from  nice,  fresh  tomatoes, 
chop  the  meat  with  celery,  and  serve  a  tablespoonf ul  on  a  lettuce 
leaf,  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

RUSSIAN  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  olives  fine  and  moisten  with  mayonnaise.  Cut  the  bread 
into  thin,  narrow  strips  and  spread  one-half  of  these  with  the 
chopped  olives,  and  the  other  half  with  caviar.  Press  together 
and  put  in  pairs.  Mrs.  Joseph  H.  Horton. 

MOCK  CAVIARE  SANDWICHES. 

Bone  six  ancovies,  chop  them  lightly  and  pound  in  a  mortar 
with  one  teaspoon  powdered  parsley,  one  clove  of  garlic,  one  salt" 
spoon  cayenne,  teaspoon  salt,  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon,  and  a 
few  drops  salad  oil.  When  well  blended  together  spread  on  hot, 
dry  toast  and  serve  at  once.  Mrs.  Joseph  Horton. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 
Two  tablespoons  cream  cheese  mashed  smooth,  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Spread 
thin  slices  of  bread  with  butter,  then  with  the  cheese  paste. 

Mrs.  H.  D.  Jump. 

CELERY  SANDWICHES. 
Celery  sandwiches  are  best  made  when  combined  with  hard- 


34 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES. 


boiled  eggs.  The  celery  should  be  shredded  very  fine  and  mixed 
with  finely  chopped  eggs  ;  the  paste  is  then  formed  with  mayon- 
naise dressing.    Spread  between  thin  oblongs  of  brown  bread. 

Philadelphia  Times. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 

Mash  peanuts  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste,  or  chop  as  fine  as  possible. 
Thoroughly  mix  with  Worcestershire  sauce  ;  spread  on  thin  slices 
of  bread  and  butter  cut  small. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  the  sardines  very  fine,  and  mix  with  Worcestershire  sauce, 
or  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Spread  on  small  squares  of  thin 
bread  and  butter. 

ROAST  BEEF  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  raw  roast  beef  very  fine  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a 
very  little  mustard.    Use  plenty  salt. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  the  whites  of  the  hard-boiled  eggs  very  fine.  Mix  the 
yolks  smooth  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  add  the  whites,  and 
spread  on  bread.  Mrs.  G.  W.  Stevenson. 

WALNUT  SANDWICHES. 

One  pound  of  English  walnuts,  cut  kernels  in  small  pieces  ; 
cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Cut  bread  in  fancy  shapes, 
round,  square  or  triangular,  and  spread  with  mixture.  Set  in  cool 
place  till  nearly  ready  to  serve. 

ALL  SORTS. 

Lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise,  between  thin  slices  white  bread 
and  butter. 

Tender  nasturtium  leaves,  or  cresses  in  same  manner. 
Any  nut  meats,  chopped  and  mixed  with  mayonnaise. 
Thin  slices  of  rare  roast  be6f,  salted  freely. 

Raisins,  figs,  dates  and  nuts,  chopped,  in  equal  parts,  or  in  any 
combination. 

Veal,  ham,  and  hard-boiled  eggs ;  equal  parts  chopped  and  sea- 
soned with  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  lemon  ;  mixed  with  soft 
butter. 

Cold  roast  turkey  or  boiled  tongue,  chopped  and'mixed  [with 
finely  minced  pickles  or  olives  and  mayonnaise. 


BREADS. 


"Here  is  bread  which  strengthens  men's  hearts 
And  therefore  is  called  The  Staff  of  Life  ,1 

"BIRNE  BROD." 

One  pint  of  boiled  milk,  one  quart  flour  (spring  wheat),  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  cake  Fleischman's  yeast,  two  tablespoons  butter, 
one-half  cup  chopped  nuts  (any  kind),  one  cup  raisins  and  cur- 
rants, one  cup  boiled  dried  apples  or  pears,  one-half  cup  boiled 
prunes,  one-half  cup  pitted  dates,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  two 
well  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon.  In  the  morning  make 
a  sponge  by  stirring  into  the  pint  of  luke-warm  milk  a  portion  of 
the  flour,  add  yeast  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons  water  with  pinch 
of  sugar.  Let  sponge  stand  an  hour  in  temperature  of  72°,  after 
which  add  to  it  remaining  flour  and  all  of  above  ingredients  ;  mix 
and  knead  thoroughly  ;  let  stand  in  temperature  72°  until  it 
doubles  its  bulk  and  is  very  light,  put  in  square  bread  pans  and 
allow  to  rise  once  more.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Charles  H.  Ott. 

SODA  BISCUITS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar,  one  of  soda,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sweet  milk  ; 
mix  very  thoroughly  the  flour,  cream  of  tartar,  butter  and  salt, 
then  add  the  milk  and  soda.  Roll  out  and  bake  ten  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  H.  K.  Spaulding. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Two  quarts  sifted  flour,  two  tablespoons  lard,  a  little  salt,  one 
pint  warm  milk,  one  cake  compressed  yeast,  scant  half  cup  sugar. 
Rub  flour,  lard  and  salt  together,  make  a  hole  in  the  flour  and  pour 
in  the  milk,  yeast  and  sugar.  Let  it  stand  until  it  risep,  then 
knead  well  and  let  it  rise  again.  Roll  out  and  cut  with  biscuit 
cutter  and  turn  half  over  ;  let  them  rise  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  G-.  M.  Angier. 

(35) 


36 


BREADS. 


RUSK. 

Scald  one  pint  milk,  when  lukewarm  add  two  ounces  butter  cut 
into  bits,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  half  a  yeast  cake  dissolved, 
quarter  teaspoon  salt,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  smooth  batter. 
Beat  thoroughly,  cover  and  stand  aside  in  warm  place  for  four 
hours.  When  light  add  flour  to  make  soft  dough,  knead  care- 
fully, form  into  small  rusks  and  when  they  have  doubled  their 
bulk  brush  with  milk,  and  bake  in  quick  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Rorer. 

SWEET  MUFFINS. 

One  coffee  cup  sifted  flour,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  well,  two  large  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder  mixed  with  flour,  one- half  cup  melted 
butter.  The  butter  should  be  stirred  in  batter  just  before  putting 
into  pans.  R. 

MUFFINS. 

One  pint  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk  or  water,  one  good  tablespoon 
butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  egg,  a  little*salt. 

Lou  Lawrence. 

LAPLANDERS. 

Two  cups  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  a  little  salt,  two  eggs  beaten 
very  light.  Bake  in  small  pans  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Heat 
and  butter  pans  before  putting  in  batter.       Mrs.  T.  R.  Jordan. 

PUFFS. 

One  teacup  of  milk,  one  egg,  one  teacup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder.  Mrs.  Seymour  Lowman. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  two  rounded  teaspoons  of  soda,  two 
teaspoons  of  salt,  one  cup  of  N.  0.  molasses,  two  tablespoons  of 
brown  sugar,  four  coffee-cups  each  of  graham  and  wheat  flour. 
Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Lowman. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  baking  molasses,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sour  milk, 
one  egg,  one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dis 
solved  in  the  sour  milk,  two  cups  of  graham  flour  sifted,  two  cups 
of  white  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  well,  pour  in  basin 
and  steam  two  hours.    Bake  in  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  G-.  W.  Stevenson. 


BREADS. 


37 


BROWN  BREAD. 

One  cup  graham  flour,  one  cup  rye  flour,  one  cup  corn  meal,  two 
cups  sour  milk,  three-fourths  cup  molasses,  two  level  teaspoons 
soda,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Sift  dry  ingredients,  add  molasses,  then 
milk.    Steam  two  hours  in  lard  pail  or  baking  powder  cans. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Hamilton. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

One  eg;*,  two  teaspoons  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  one  cup  graham  flour,  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  thoroughly ; 
bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes.    Makes  eight  gems. 

CORN  BREAD. 

Two  cups  Indian  meal,  one  cup  wheat  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
one  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  cup 
sour  milk.  Stir  all  together  and  add  one  egg;  bake  in  moderate 
oven  about  forty  minutes.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Welch. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Small  cup  sugar,  shortening  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  eggs,  two- 
thirds  cup  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  meal,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Louise  Sumner. 

BLUEBERRY  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  two  large  spoonfuls  melted  butter,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
two  cups  blueberries.  Serve  hot  with  butter.  This  makes  a  fine 
breakfast  cake. 

WAFFLES. 

Six  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  one  quart  butter- 
milk or  sour  cream,  salt  to  taste,  butter  size  of  egg,  melted  and  ad- 
ded to  batter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  yolks  with  milk, 
and  add  flour  to  make  quite  stiff  batter,  then  add  butter  and  beaten 
whites.  Mrs.  John  L.  Wilking. 

WAFFLES. 

One  quart  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  large  tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs,  one  and  one  half 
pints  milk;  sift  together  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder,  rub  in  but- 
ter, beat  eggs  lightly ;  have  irons  hot  and  fill  two-thirds  full. 

Mrs.  H.  N.  Daniell. 


38 


BREADS. 


WHEAT  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Two  and  one-third  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two  cups 
sour  milk,  one  and  one  fourth  teaspoons  soda,  one  egg.  Mix  and 
sift  flour,  salt  and  soda ;  add  sour  milk,  then  egg  well  beaten. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

One  can  corn  put  in  bowl  and  chopped  fine,  add  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  two  eggs.  Mix  stiff  with 
cracker  dust;  make  into  balls  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  D.  Sinclair. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Eight  ears  corn,  cut  from  the  cob  and  scraped,  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  salt 
and  pepper.    Fry  in  butter  and  lard.  Mrs.  H.  N.  Daniell. 

HOMINY  FRITTERS. 

Two  cups  cold  boiled  hominy,  stir  in  one  cup  sweet  milk,  little 
salt,  four  teaspoons  flour,  one  egg,  beat  white  separately  and  add 
last.    Drop  batter  by  spoonfuls  in  hot  lard  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

Mrs.  Chas.  B.  Low. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 

Twenty  chopped  clams,  one  pint  milk,  three  eggs,  add  liquor 
from  clams,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  flour  to  make  batter.  Fry 
in  hot  lard.  Mrs.  Chas.  B.  Low. 

.    RICE  FRITTERS. 

Boil  one  quart*  r  pound  rice  in  milk  until  tender.  Mix  with  one 
pint  milk,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  cinnamon,  and 
flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Fry  in  thin  cakes  and  serve  with 
butter  and  powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  C.  B  L. 


CAKES. 


'WoultTst  thou  both  eat  thy  cake  and  have  it  ?" 

— Herbert. 


COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  flour  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Roll  thin,  sift 
over  with  sugar  and  bake.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Welch. 

JUMBLES. 

One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  four  eggs,  two  cups  flour,  one- 
half  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder.  Rub  together  butter  and 
sugar,  add  beaten  eggs  and  flour,  sifted  with  baking  powder. 
Flour  the  board,  roll  dough  rather  thin,  cut  with  any  cutter,  lay 
on  greased  tin  and  bake  in  quick  oven ;  they  may  be  rolled  in 
sugar  before  baking.  Nellie  F.  Weaver. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

One  cup  butter  (or  butter  and  lard),  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup 
molasses,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  one 
scant  teaspoon  cloves,  flour  to  roll  soft.    Sprinkle  with  sugar. 

K. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES. 

Put  one  pint  of  best  N.  O.  molasses  into  the  baking  bowl.  Take 
one  cup  of  shortening,  one  tablespoon  of  salaratus,  and  half  a  cup 
of  water  and  let>come  to  a  boil;  pour  this  over  the  molasses,  add 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  ginger,  and  one  well  beaten 
egg.  Mix  thoroughly  and  stiffen  with  pastry  flour.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Edith  M.  Thompson. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

One  cup  sugar  (brown  or  white),  one  cup  shortening,  two  cups 
molasses,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  teaspoon  of  salt,  tablespoon  soda 
in  one  cup  boiling  water,  three  cups  flour.    Roll  very  thin. 

Mrs.  Louise  Whittle. 

(39) 


40 


CAKES. 


SAND  CAKES. 

One  pound  sugar,  one  pound  flour,  three  fourths  pound  butter, 
two  eggs.  Wash  top  of  cakes  with  white  of  egg  beaten  a  little, 
sprinkle  sugar  over  this,  blanched  almond  in  middle  and  a  sprinkle 
of  cinnamon  on  each  end.  Mrs.  D.  H.  Turner. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

One  cup  butter,  one  cup  chocolate,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups 
flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  four  eggs,  vanilla.  K. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
three-fourths  cup  grated  chocolate,  two  eggs,  one-half  tsaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  one  teaspoon  of  water,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  flour 
enough  to  roll.    Put  a  nut  on  each  cookie.         Mrs.  A.  J.  Ross. 

HICKORY-NUT  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  soft  A  sugar,  two  eggs,  one- half  cup  melted  butter,  six 
tablespoons  milk,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon 
soda,  one  cup  hickory-nut  meats.  Mrs.  J.  L.  Parker. 

RAISIN  OR  NUT  COOKIES. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoons 
sweet  milk,  one  cup  ot  raisins  or  nuts,  chopped,  one  teaspoon  each 
of  soda,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg,  five  cups  flour.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  Mrs.  I.  A.  Williams. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  sugar,  one. cup  milk,  two  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  eggs, 
one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  large  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Mix  rather  soft.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Grumme. 

FRIED  CAKES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  pint  buttermilk,  lard  and  butter  size  of  egg, 
three  eggs,  two  quarts  flour,  one  teaspoon  ginger,  one-half  a  nut- 
meg, one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  the 
buttermilk.    Beat  thoroughly  and  roll  as  t  oft  as  possible. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Turner. 

FRIED  CAKES. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  soft  and 
fry  in  hot  lard.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Welch. 


CAKES. 


41 


ALMOND  WAFERS. 

One-half  pound,  or  very  full  cup  of  butter,  one-half  pound,  or 
one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, one  pound  flour,  flavor  with  almond.  Roll  very  thin,  wash 
with  beaten  egg,  sprinkle  over  top  equal  parts  of  chopped  blanched 
almonds  and  granulated  sugar. 

CHOCOLATE  MACAROONS. 

One  teacup  brown  sugar,  one  teacup  chocolate,  two  tablespoons 
cinnamon,  whites  of  three  eggs.    Drop  on  buttered  tins. 

Catharine  W.  Bishop. 

COCOANUT  BISCUITS. 

Six  ounces  cocoanut  grated,  nine  ounces  white  sugar,  three  eggs. 
Whisk  the  eggs  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  sprinkle  in  the  sugar 
gradually,  lastly  the  cocoanut ;  form  with  your  hands  into  little 
pyramids,  place  on  white  paper  and  the  paper  on  tins.  Bake  in 
cool  oven  until  slightly  brown. 

ROCKS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  thirds  cup  butter,  three  eggs 
beaten  separately,  three  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  pinch  of  salt, 
three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  hot  water,  one 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  and  one  half  cups  raisins  chopped,  one 
pound  English  walnuts  chopped,  hickory  nuts,  vanilla.  Put  in 
soda  last ;  drop  on  buttered  tins.  Mrs.  H.  N.  Danikll. 

KISSES. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Beat  eggs 
very  stiff,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in 
a  slow  oven.  Nina  Lewis. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

One  cup  of  boiling  water  poured  over  one  half  cup  of  butter. 
When  you  have  done  this,  place  on  stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil, 
and  add  one  cup  of  sifted  flour.  Let  boil  five  minutes,  stirring 
constantly ;  when  cool,  add  three  eggs,  not  beaten ;  beat  for  ten 
minutes,  then  add  soda  the  size  of  a  pea.  This  makes  twelve  large 
puffs.    Bake  thirty  minutes. 

Filling:  One  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  table- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  water,  and  stirred  in. 
Cook  until  thick.  Flavor  to  suit  taste.  When  the  puffs  and 
cream  are  both  cool  open  the  puffs  a  little  way  on  one  side  with  a 
sharp  knife  and  fill  with  the  cream.  Mrs.  N.  J.  Parker. 


42 


CAKES. 


SPONGE  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sifted  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
cold  water,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a 
little  salt,  and  flavor  to  suit  the  taste. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Beat  four  eggs  lightly  together,  add  two  cups  granulated  sugar, 
then  one  cup  sifted  flour  gradually,  the  second  cup  of  flour  with 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder;  lastly,  a  scant  cup  hot  water,  little 
at  a  time.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Welch. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Two  eggs  beaten  light;  beat  into  them  one  cup  of  granulated 
or  confectioner's  sugar,  one-half  cup  sifted  flour,  then  one-half 
cup  of  flour  sifted  with  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  and  last 
a  scant  half  cup  of  boiling  water  very  gradually.  Put  inio  a  but- 
tered tin  and  bake  in  a  well-heated  oven.      Mrs.  N.  J.  Parker. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  lard,  one  egg, 
four  cups  flour,  one  cup  boiling  coffee,  one  pound  raisins,  one 
pound  currants,  teaspoon  soda,  teaspoon  cloves,  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon. Carrie  Corbin. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

One  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sour  milk, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  a  little  cinnamon  and  ginger,  two  cups  flour. 

Mrs.  M.  P.  Seward. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  light  brown  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  each  of  mo- 
lasses, butter,  and  milk,  One  teaspoon  of  soda,  pinch  of  salt,  flour 
to  stiffen.  Mrs.  Flynn. 

DRIED  APPLE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  dried  apples  soaked  over  night,  and  chopped  fine  in 
the  morning.  Cook  in  one  cup  of  molasses  until  tender ;  add  one 
cup  each  of  butter,  sugar,  and  sour  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  soda, 
one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  lemon  extract,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  cloves,  one  grated  nutmeg  and  one  cup  of  raisins. 

May  White. 

RAISIN  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  two  large 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  a  bowl  of 
chopped  raisins  and  figs.  Ida  Rose  Piollet. 


CAKES. 


43 


COLD  WATER  CAKE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cup  cold 
water,  three  cups  flour,  two  cups  raisins  cut  fine,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  James  Wilking. 

SOUR  CREAM  CAKE. 

One  cup  sour  cream,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  level  teaspoon 
soda,  pinch  of  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  two  scant 
cups  of  flour.    Flavor  to  taste.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Barron. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three-fourths  cup  milk, 
three  cups  flour,  whites  eight  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  four  layers.  Mrs.  C.  B.  Low. 

ARCH- ANGEL  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  one  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Clare  A.  Welch. 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der. Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  flour,  stir  well  to- 
gether, then  add  whites  of  eggs    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

CUP  POUND  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of 
flour,  one  small  cup  of  butter.  Flavor  with  almond.  Stir  butter 
and  flour  together  until  light ;  beat  eggs  and  sugar  very  light,  and 
then  stir  all  well  together.  Mrs.  G.  M.  Angier. 

WATER  POUND  CAKE. 

One  pound  pulverized  sugar,  one  pound  flour,  one-half  pound 
butter,  five  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  of  cold  water,  two  small  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  flavor  to  taste.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar  with  the  hand,  add  eggs,  one  at  a  time  until  it  is  well  beaten, 
then  add  water.    After  flour  is  added  beat  well  for  five  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Wiltse. 

CITRON  POUND  CAKE. 

One  pound  sugart  one  pound  flour,  three-fourths  pound  butter, 
eight  large  or  ten  small  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  citron 
finely  shredded.    Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks,  then  flour 


CAKES. 


and  well  beaten  whites ;  put  layer  of  batter  in  pan  and  sprinkle 
thickly  with  citron,  then  batter,  etc.,  until  pan  is  filled.  Bake 
slowly  one  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  Mrs.  J.  N.  Weaver. 

BRIDE'S  CAKE. 

Whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound  butter,  one 
pound  flour,  one-quarter  pound  corn  starch,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  two  teaspoons  bitter  almond.      Mrs.  James  Wilking. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

Whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  one  half  cups  granulated  sugar, 
one  cup  pastry  flour  measured  after  being  sifted  four  time3,  one 
teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one  of  vanilla.  Sift  flour  and  cream  tartar 
together;  beat  whites  to  stiff  froth,  beat  sugar  into  the  eggs,  add 
flavoring  and  flour,  stirring  lightly.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  forty 
minutes.    Use  angel  food  pan  and  do  not  grease  it. 

Mrs.  John  G.  Kinney. 

YELLOW  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Yolks  of  ten  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk, 
three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  flour,  then  eggs  well 
beaten.    Will  make  two  large  or  three  small  cakes. 

Mrs.  J.  G.  K. 

ANGEL  FOOD. 

Whites  of  nine  large  eggs,  one  heaping  cup  fine  granulated 
sugar,  one  cup  flour  sifted  five  times  before  measuring,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of 
lemon  and  vanilla.  Separate  eggs,  add  salt  and  cream  tartar  to 
the  whites  and  beat  till  very  stiff,  add  sugar  and  flavoring,  beat 
thoroughly,  then  fold  in  the  flour.  Bake  from  forty  to  fifty  min- 
utes in  moderate  oven.    Invert  pan  to  cool. 

SUNSHINE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  yolks  of  five,  one  cup  fine  granulated 
sugar,  one  scant  cup  flour  measured  after  sifting  five  times,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon  orange  extract.  Beat 
yolks  till  thick  and  set  aside ;  add  pinch  of  salt  and  cream  tartar 
to  whites  and  beat  till  stiff,  add  sugar,  beat  thoroughly,  then  add 
flavoring  and  beaten  yolks,  beat  lightly,  and  carefully  stir  in  the 
flour.  Bake  in  tube  pan  in  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes. 
Invert  to  cool. 


CAKES. 


45 


SPICED  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  each  of  sugar,  molasses,  butter  or  lard,  and 
sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves,  two  teaspoons  of 
cinnamon,  one  of  grated  nutmeg,  and  one  of  saleratus,  and  three 
cups  of  flour.  Mrs.  N.  Wagner. 

POEK  CAKE. 

One  pound  fat  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  one  pint  boiling  coffee 
poured  on  pork  and  let  stand  until  cold.  One  cup  brown  sugar, 
one  pint  molasses,  two  eggs,  one  pound  raisins  chopped,  one  pound 
currants,  one-fourth  pound  citron,  one-half  pound  figs,  tablespoon 
each  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  heaping  teaspoon  soda.  Stir  stiff. 
Wineglass  of  brandy  improves  it.  Mrs.  John  Enright. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  molasses,  two 
cups  brown  sugar,  four  cups  flour,  four  eggs,  one  tablespoon  cin- 
namon, one  tablespoon  cloves,  one-half  tablespoon  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  one-half  cup  wine.  One  pound  raisins,  one  pound  cur- 
rants, one  fourth  pound  citron,  one-half  pound  dates,  one-half 
pound  figs,  one-half  pounds  almonds.  When  cake  is  done  and 
taken  from  the  oven  pour  a  cup  of  brandy  over  the  top. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Parker. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Two  scant  teacups  of  butter,  three  cups  of  dark  brown  sugar, 
six  eggs  (whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately),  one  pound  of  raisins, 
seeded,  one  of  currants,  washed  and  dried,  half  a  pound  of  citron, 
cut  in  thin  strips,  half  a  cup  of  cooking  molasses,  and  half  a  cup 
of  sour  milk.  Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  to  that 
half  a  grated  nutmeg,  one  tablespoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoon  of  cloves,  and  one  of  mace.  Add  the  molasses  and  sour 
milk.  Stir  all  well,  then  put  in  the  beaten  yolks,  and  a  wineglass 
of  brandy ;  stir  all  again  thoroughly,  and  then  add  four  cups  of 
sifted  flour,  alternately  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Now 
dissolve  a  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  stir  in  thoroughly.  Mix  the 
fruit  together  and  stir  into  it  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  then 
stir  into  the  cake.  Butter  two  common-sized  baking  tins  care- 
fully, line  them  with  letter  paper  well  buttered  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  two  hours.  After  it  is  baked  let  it  cool  in  the  pans.  Af 
terwards  put  it  into  a  tight  can  and  let  it  remain  in  the  pans. 
Cover  tightly.  Mrs.  Henry  Enberg. 


46 


CAKES. 


CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  piece  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two-thirds  cup  sweet 
milk,  two  eggs,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  with  two 
cups  flour. 

Icing.  — One  cup  sweet  mijk,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one-fourth 
cake  chocolate ;  boil  until  thick.  Mrs  Wm.  Walker. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD. 

Cream  together  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
and  yolks  of  two  eggs.  When  light  add  one  half  cup  of  grated 
chocolate  melted  in  two  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  and  beat  again. 
Add  two-thirds  cup  of  sweet  milk  in  which  one  level  teaspoon  of 
soda  hasbeen  dissolved,  and  two  cups  of  flour  into  which  one  heap- 
ing teaspoon  of  baking  powder  has  been  well  mixed ;  lastly  add 
one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  thick  layers  or  loaf.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Vaughn. 

BLACK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk 
two  eggs,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Take 
one-half  cake  chocolate,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sugar, 
yolk  of  one  egg,  boil  together  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  then  add 
to  the  cake    Bake  in  layers  or  bar.  Louise  Sumner. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  egg,  one-half 
cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one-half  cup  grated  chocolate,  one-half  cup  boiling 
water  over  chocolate,  vanilla.  Mrs.  H.  N.  Daniell. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  butter,  two  eggs 
(whites  beaten  and  put  in  last),  one-half  cup  sweet  milk;  mix  with 
one  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  a  scant  teaspoon  of  soda ;  two  and 
one-half  cups  of  flour,  one-third  cake  of  chocolate  dissolved  in  one- 
half  cup  of  boiling  water.  Mrs.  George  Loop. 

FIG  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  whites  of  three  eggs, 
one  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Filling.— One-half  pound  figs,  chopped  fine,  one  cup  sugar,  water 
enough  to  cook  tender.    Spread  when  cool.    Ida  Rose  Piollet. 

PEARL  CAKE. 

Cream  together  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  butter ;  add 
alternately  one  cup  of  milk  and  one  cup  of  corn  starch.    Add  two 


CAKES. 


47 


cups  of  flour  into  which  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  have  been 
sifted,  and,  lastly,  the  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Flavor 
with  vanilla.  Bake  in  two  layers.  The  yolks  of  the  eggs  may  be 
used  for  mayonnaise  dressing.  Elizabeth  Winlaok. 

NEAPOLITAN  CAKE. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  two  cups 
chopped  raisins,  one-half  cup  cold  coffee,  one  half  cup  molasses, 
one  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  allspice,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour. 

Icing.— One  cup  brown  sugar,  white  of  one  egg;  boil  sugar  and 
eix  teaspoons  water,  when  thick  pour  it  over  egg  and  beat  until 
cold.  Mrs.  Clare  A.  Welch. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two 
tablespoons  water,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Cream. — Two  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons flour.  Mrs.  James  Wilking. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  one  scant  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of 
five  eggs.    Add  the  milk  with  the  flour  and  baking  powder. 

Icing. — One  cup  xxxx  sugar;  boil  until  it  strings;  add  white  of 
one  egg ;  stir  until  cold.  Melt  and  spread  one-fourth  pound  choc- 
olate. Mrs.  I.  A.  Williams. 

ORANGE  CAiqC. 

Two  cups  sugar,  six  eggs  (save  out  two  whites  for  icing),  two 
cups  flour,  one-half  cup  water ;  put  in  one-half  of  flour,  then  half 
of  water,  then  rest  of  flour  and  water,  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, grated  rind  and  juice  of  an  orange. 

Icing.— Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  on  platter,  add  about  half  a 
pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  and  beat  well,  then  add  juice  and  rind 
of  one  orange.  Nellie  F.  Weaver. 

ORANGE  JELLY  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  two-thirds  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  cups  of  flour,  two 
eggs.  Beat  eggs,  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  milk,  then  flour 
and  baking  powder.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Jelly . — One  cup  granulated  sugar,  two  even  tablespoons  of  flour; 
mix  thoroughly ;  add  three-fourths  cup  hot  water,  set  on  the  range 


48 


CAKES. 


and  boil  until  clear,  stirring  often.  Add  one  well-beaten  egg  and 
cook  a  little  longer.  When  cold,  add  two  teaspoons  of  orange  ex- 
tract.   Put  on  cake  cold.    Add  a  little  extract  to  the  icing. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Bates. 

FRENCH  CREAM  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  two  teaspoons  cold  water.  Bake  in  small 
tin  and  split  while  warm  to  put  custard  inside. 

Custard.— Boil  one  pint  sweet  milk,  mix  two  tablespoons  corn 
starch  with  one-half  cup  milk;  when  milk  boils  add  one  cup  sugar 
and  stir  in  slowly  the  corn  starch  and  two  well  beaten  eggs;  add 
one-half  cup  butter  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Use  white  icing  for 
top  of  cake.  Lavinia  E.  Wass. 

FRENCH  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  three  eggs, 
three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Take  half  of  the 
batter  and  mix  in  two  ounces  of  chocolate.    Bake  in  layers. 

Filling.— One  pint  milk,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons corn  starch,  vanilla  to  flavor.  Mrs.  J.  L.  Parker. 

VARIETY  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three- 
fourths  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  one-half 
teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Take  one-third  of  the 
batter  and  add  one  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  cup  raisins 
mixed  with  flour  for  dark  layer.    Put  together  with  icing  or  jelly. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Parker. 

ALMOND  CREAM  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  four  cups  flour, 
whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
layers. 

Filling.— One  pint  milk,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  three 
tablespoons  corn  starch ;  cook  in  custard  kettle  until  thick,  flavor 
with  vanilla.  One  pound  of  almonds,  take  three-fourths  of  them 
and  chop  very  fine  and  stir  in  the  custard ;  blanch  and  split  the 
rest  and  ornament  the  icing.  Key  to  the  Cupboard. 

BOILED  ICING. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  Let 
boil  until  clear,  or  until  it  ropes.  Pour  on  the  stiff  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs,  and  beat.  Ida  Rose  Piollet. 


CAKES. 


49 


MARSHMALLOW  ICING. 

Soak  a  tablespoon  powdered  white  gum  arabic  in  two  table- 
spoons warm  water  for  an  hour;  stand  it  over  hot  water  and  stir 
until  dissolved.  Boil  one  cup  sugar  and  one-half  cup  water  until 
it  will  thread,  pour  while  hot  over  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat- 
ing constantly,  then  add  gum  arabic  and  beat  until  cold. 

MARSHMALLOW  FILLING. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  water;  stir  until  sugar 
is  dissolved  then  boil  carefully  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold 
water.  Pull  apart  one- half  pound  marshmallows,  put  them  in 
double  boiler  with  two  tablespoons  hot  water  and  stir  till  melted. 
Pour  hot  syrup  into  marshmallow  mixture,  beating  all  the  time; 
add  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  beat  until  cold. 


DESSERTS. 

"No  soil  upon  e  arth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes, 
As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies.11 


"If  you  could  make  a  pudding  v?V  thinking  o1  the  batter,  it 'ud  be  easy  getting 
dinner.11— George  Eliot 


PIE  CRUST. 

Six  tablespoons  melted  lard,  three  tablespoons  cold  water,  flour 
to  roll.    This  amount  is  sufficient  for  one  round  pie  tin. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Barron. 

PASTRY  CRUST. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  flour,  one  half  teaspoon  salt,  scant  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one  cup  lard.  Put  in  chopping  bowl  and  chop 
with  knife  until  thoroughly  mixed,  then  add  one-half  cup  cold 
water.    Makes  two  pies.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Hamilton. 

PUFF  PASTE. 

Take  one  pound  of  flour,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one  teaspoon 
Of  salt ;  rub  together  till  real  fine,  then  put  the  yolk  of  one  egg  in 
a  cup,  beat  it  well  and  fill  the  cup  with  cold  water,  add  to  the 
flour  and  butter,  and  mix  well.  Take  out  on  moulding  board  and 
work  smooth.  Roll  out  quite  thin ;  take  another  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, cut  in  very  thin  slices,  spread  over  the  dough,  dust  with  flour, 
then  fold  over  from  four  sides,  roll  out  again  and  fold ;  and  repeat 
twice  more.  Cut  in  any  shape,  either  strips  or  tarts,  brush  with 
egg,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Two  quarts  of  chopped  meat,  four  quarts  chopped  apples,  two 
quarts  sweet  cider,  one  quart  molasses,  four  cups  of  brown  sugar, 
two  tablespoons  of  salt,  four  of  cloves,  five  of  cinnamon,  two  tea- 
spoons of  black  pepper,  four  nutmegs,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  two 
pounds  of  currants.  Stew  thoroughly,  and  when  cool  add  one- 
half  pint  of  brandy  if  desired.  Mrs.  Henry  E.  Spaulding. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Take  five  or  six  pounds  beef,  a  neck  piece  will  do,  boil  till  ten- 
der and  when  cold  chop  very  fine,  mincing  at  the  same  time  three 

(50) 


DESSERTS. 


51 


pounds  beef  suet.  Seed  and  cut  four  pounds  raisins,  wash  and  dry 
four  pounds  currants,  slice  thin  one  pound  citron,  chop  fine  four 
quarts  good  tart  apples ;  put  in  large  pan  together,  add  two  ounces 
cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  ginger,  four  nutmegs,  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  pep- 
per and  two  pounds  sugar.  Put  in  a  kettle  one  quart  boiled  cider, 
or  one  quart  currant  or  grape  juice;  one  quart  molasses,  any  syrup 
from  sweet  pickles  may  be  added,  and  lump  of  butter;  let  it  come 
to  a  boil  and  pour  over  ingredients  in  the  pan  after  having  thor- 
oughly mixed  them.  Pack  in  jars  and  put  in  cool  place.  When 
cold  pour  molasses  over  top  an  inch  thick  and  cover  tightly.  For 
baking,  take  some  from  jar,  if  not  moist  enough  add  a  little  hot 
water  and  throw  a  few  raisins  over  each  pie. 

Mrs.  J.  N.  Weaver. 

PUMPKIN  PIE.  / 

Wash  the  pumpkin,  cut  it  up.  and  stew  with  the  rind  on  until 
tender;  then  stew  down  brown  and  dry  in  the  kettle;  sift  through 
a  fine  colander.  To  one  cup  of  this  add  one  pint  of  milk,  smatl 
half  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  molasses,  one  teaspoon  of 
ginger, |a  little  cinnamon,  pinch  of  salt,  one  well-beaten  egg.  This 
makes  one  large  pie.  Line  the  tin  with  rich  crust  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  until  thoroughly  cooked  through. 

Mrs.  Bert  Hayden. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

Heat  three  cups  milk  to  boiling  point ;  beat  three  eggs  very  light, 
add  four  tablespoons  sugar,  and  one  fourth  of  a  nutmeg.  Pour 
the  milk  over  the  egg,  beat  well,  and  fill  lined  pie  tin.  Bake  in 
quick  oven.  Ella  Fox. 

PEACH  PIE. 

Bake  the  under  crust;  halve  the  peaches,  make  a  little  syrup 
and  pour  over  the  peaches;  when  they  are  heated  through  remove 
the  peaches,  add  little  cornstarch  to  syrup.  Place  peaches  in  pie 
crust,  add  syrup,  with  meringue  on  top  put  in  oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  T.  P.  Jordan. 

PIE  PLANT  PIE. 

One  cup  chopped  pie-plant,  one  half  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  two 
tablespoons  flour,  little  salt.    Mix  together  well  and  put  into  crust. 

Mrs.  H.  N.  Daniell. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Make  a  delicate  crust  and  line  a  pi<>  plate.  Then  prick  crust  all 
over  with  a  fork  to  prevent  blisters,  and  bake.    Filling.— One  cup 


52 


DESSERTS. 


sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs,  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  one  tablespoon  cornstarch.  Dissolve 
cornstarch  in  cold  water,  and  stir  it  into  a  cup  of  boiling  water ; 
when  cooked  clear  add  sugar  and  butter  and  cook  until  quite 
creamy;  when  nearly  cool  stir  in  lemon  and  beaten  eggs.  Fill 
the  baked  crust.  Then  cover  with  meringue  made  of  three  whites 
beaten  stiff ;  lightly  stir  in  three  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and 
one  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Heap  the  meringue  rockily  on  the  pie 
and  brown  in  slow  oven ;  it  should  take  about  twenty  minutes, 
for  a  quick  oven  makes  a  tough,  leathery  meringue. 

Mrs.  Joseph  H.  Horton. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Beat  two  cups  sugar  with  one-half  cup  butter  until  light ;  then 
add  four  well-beaten  eggs,  leaving  out  whites  of  two  for  meringue, 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  three  teaspoons  flour,  one- 
half  pint  sweet  milk.  Stir  together  and  bake.  Enough  for  two 
pies. 

Meringue. — Whites  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  pulverized  sugar. 
Put  on  after  pie  is  baked  and  brown.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Welch. 

LEMON  PIE. 

One  lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  one  and  one-half  cups  water. 
Cook  together  till  it  thickens,  set  aside  to  cool ;  line  pie  tin  with 
crust,  put  in  filling  and  bake  until  crust  is  done.  Make  meringue 
of  whites,  spread  on  pie  and  browr*.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Barron. 

CREAM  PIE. 

Three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  three  tablespoons  of  flour,  five 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  flavor  to  taste  and  boil  until 
thick.  Pour  over  the  crust,  which  should  be  previously  baked. 
Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  three  tablespoons 
of  powdered  sugar;  pour  over  custard,  set  in  oven  and  brown 
lightly.    To  be  eaten  cold.  Mrs.  Henry  K.  Spaulding. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Boil  one  cup  milk,  add  one  egg  beaten  smooth  with  two  table- 
spoons grated  chocolate,  one  heaping  teaspoon  corn  starch  and  one 
tablespoon  sugar.  Stir  constantly  until  thick;  let  it  cool  and  fla- 
vor with  vanilla.  Spread  in  a  crust  already  baked,  whip  stiff  one- 
half  cup  cream,  sweeten  and  flavor  and  spread  on  top.  Put  on  ice 
to  cool.  Lavinia  E.  Wass. 


DESSERTS. 


53 


CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Four  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  two  of  cornstarch,  yolks  of 
two  eggs  (use  whites  for  meringue),  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  pint 
boiling  water.  Mix  and  boil  until  thick.  Bake  crust  first,  pour  in 
the  filling,  frost  and  set  away  to  cool.      Mrs.  Louise  Whittle. 

CRANBEERY  PIE. 

One  cup  of  cranberries  chopped  fine,  one-half  cup  raisins  chop- 
ped fine,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  of  water,  one  tablespoon  of  flour, 
one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mrs.  Henry  Enberg. 

CRANBERRY  PIE. 

One  quart  cranberries  chopped  fine,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar, 

one-fourth  cup  molasses,  one  tablespoon  flour  mixed  with  a  little 
cold  water;  turn  over  this  one  cup  boiling  water.  Pour  the  mix- 
ture of  flour  over  the  cranberries.    This  makes  two  pies. 

.Lavinia  E.  Wass. 

MONDAY  DUMPLINGS. 
Three-fourths  cup  flour,  fill  the  cup  with  cornstarch,  one  tea- 
spoon butter,  pinch  of  salt,  level  teaspoon  baking  powder;  make  a 
soft  batter  with  milk  or  water.  Have  canned  peaches  or  other 
fruit  on  the  stove  heating ;  when  boiling  drop  the  batter  in  with  a 
tablespoon,  leaving  space  between  each  spoonful,  cover  closely  and 
cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  butter  and  fine  sugar. 
Use  a  rather  flat  dish  to  cook  in.         Mrs.  Kenneth  M.  Craig. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

One  quart  flour,  through  which  is  sifted  three  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  mix  in  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  a  large  cup  sweet 
milk,  and  pinch  of  salt.  Butter  a  plate  that  will  fit  in  your 
steamer.  Cut  the  paste  into  seven  parts,  roll  out  and  fill  each 
carefully  with  as  much  apple  as  possible;  place  on  plate  so  that 
they  will  not  touch  and  steam  forty  five  minutes.  Serve  with  any 
sauce  desired. 

CUP  CUSTARD. 

One  quart  milk,  four  egg,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
flour  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  flavor  to  taste. 
Put  milk  on  to  boil  and  when  boiling  add  slowly  the  beaten  egg 
and  sugar,  pour  into  cups  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  Harry  Lane. 

RICE  PUDDING. 
Two  quarts  unskimmed  milk,  one-half  cup  rice,  little  salt,  sugar 


54 


DESSERTS. 


and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Put  in  baking  dish  in  moderate  oven,  and 
when  top  forms  on  the  milk  push  it  down  with  a  spoon  but  do  not 
stir  the  rice.  Continue  this  until  you  want  the  top  to  brown ;  cook 
about  three  hours.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Wells. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

Dissolve  four  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  in  a  teacup  of  cold  water; 
and  pour  slowly  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir  thoroughly,  then 
add  cup  of  sugar,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  juice  of  two.  Beat 
this  hot  mixture  very  gradually  upon  the  stiffened  whites  of  three 
eggs,  beat  for  a  minute  and  pour  into  mould.  Serve  with  cold 
custard  sauce  made  with  the  three  yolks.     Mrs.  G.  M.  Angier. 

GOLDEN  CREAM. 

Boil  one  quart  milk,  and  when  boiling  stir  into  it  the  well  beaten 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  six  tablespoons  sugar,  and  one  tablespoon  sifted 
flour  well  beaten  together ;  when  boiled  turn  it  into  a  dish  and 
pour  over  it  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  six  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar.  Set  in  oven  and  brown  slightly ;  flavor  the  top 
with  vanilla,  and  the  bottom  with  lemon.    Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  D.  M.  O'Brien. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  one 
egg,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  pint 
flour. 

Sa^ce. — One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  four  tablespoons 
of  wine,  a  very  little  boiling  water.    Stir  until  it  foams. 

Mrs.  John  Galligan. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

Three  fourths  cup  white  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  egg, 
one  half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  squares  chocolate  melted  and 
stirred  in  last.    Steam  two  hours.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Krom. 

CALLA  LILIES. 

Make  a  nice  light  sponge  cake  and  bake  in  saucers.  While  cake 
is  warm  fold  in  shape  of  a  calla  lily ;  when  ready  to  serve  fill  each 
with  whipped  cream.  Lavinia  E.  Wass. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Four  tablespoons  of  butter  rubbed  into  two  cups  of  flour,  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  litcle  salt,  one 


DESSERTS. 


55 


cup  milk.  Stir  to  a  stiff  batter.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  Make 
two  layers  and  spread.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Grumme. 

BAKED  PEACH  PUDDING. 

Prepare  a  pint  of  flour  by  sifting  in  it  one  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der and  pinch  of  salt,  then  rub  a  teaspoon  butter  in  the  flour ;  beat 
one  egg,  add  to  it  one  cup  sweet  milk  and  stir  in  the  prepared 
flour;  pour  batter  into  buttered  pan,  take  peaches  and  cover 
pudding  with  them,  put  one  drop  of  vanilla  and  piece  of  butter  in 
each  peach,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake.      Mrs.  W.  H.  Lane. 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

One  pound  prunes  cooked  soft ;  remove  pits,  add  one  cup  sugar, 
and  when  dissolved  add  one-half  box  gelatine  soaked  in  a  cup 
of  water.  When  cold  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  put  in 
mould  and  let  stand  two  or  three  hours  in  cool  place.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla.         Mrs.  D.  M.  O'Brian. 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

One  pound  English  prunes  stewed  well ;  drain  free  from  juice, 
then  take  out  pits  and  beat  to  a  pulp ;  add  sugar  to  taste.  Beat 
whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  with  the  prunes.  Put 
pan  with  pudding  into  another  pan  of  water  and  bake  short  time. 
Make  a  boiled  custard  for  dressing  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  in 
one  quart  milk ;  flavor  with  gratod  orange  peel. 

Margaret  O'Donovan. 

CHRISTMAS  PUDDING. 

One-half  pound  bread  crumbs  grated,  one  pound  currants,  two 
pounds  raisins,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
beef  suet,  one-half  pound  of  flour,  one-half  pound  citron,  one-half 
teaspoon  allspice,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  grated  nutmeg, 
six  eggs,  one-half  pint  molasses.    Cook  in  boiling  water  all  day. 

Sauce  for  Christmas  pudding.— One-cup  sugar,  one  half  cup  but- 
ter, yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  tablespoon  water  or  wineglass  of 
brandy,  one  cup  cream  or  hot  milk,  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  all  to- 
gether well,  cook  until  like  good  cream.    Do  not  boil. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Hamilton. 

PLAIN  SUET  PUDDING. 

Take  one  cup  of  nice  fresh  suet  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  seeded 
raisins,  and  flour  enough  to  make  quite  a  stiff  batter,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  should  be  sifted  into  the  flour.    Put  into  a 


56 


DESSERTS. 


five-pound  sugar  sack,  which  is  clean  and  free  from  print ;  have 
the  bag  wet;  tie  closely  and  drop  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  just 
one  and  one-half  hours.    Serve  with  brandy  or  lemon  sauce. 

Mrs.  Alfred  Bolioh. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  each  of  raisins  and  currants,  one- 
fourth  pound  citron,  one  cup  N.  O.  molasses,  one  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon, one-half  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  nutmeg,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  bat- 
ter, add  one  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  little  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  I.  A.  Williams. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  seeded  raisins, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  graham  flour;  steam  three  hours. 

Sauce.— One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  beaten  to  a  cream, 
add  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  then  whites,  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Mrs.  George  W.  Stevenson. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

One  quart  huckleberries,  one  pint  molasses,  one  cup  cold  water, 
one  large  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  two  teaspoons  cinna- 
mon, flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  cake.    Steam  three  hours. 

Sauce. — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  whites  of  two  eggs; 
stir  to  cream  with  whites  beaten  lightly.      Mrs.  D.  H.  Turner. 

WALNUT  PUDDING. 

One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  for  cake,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder.  Put  in  either  English  currants  or  walnuts;  steam  three 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

Sauce.— One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour, 
about  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  A  few  spoons 
of  cream  may  be  added.    Flavor  with  wine,  or  to  suit  taste. 

Nell  K.  Blaksley. 

HICKORY-NUT  PUDDING. 

One  quart  bread  or  cake  crumbs,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  flour, 
one  cup  milk,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange,  one  half  cup 
suet,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste,  one-fourth  pound  chopped 
raisins,  one  pint  hickory-nut  meats,  one-half  cup  black  molasses, 
one  tablespoon  baking  powder;  mix  together  and  steam  two  hours. 
Serve  with  plum  pudding  sauce.  Mrs.  T.  R.  Jordan. 


DESSERTS. 


57 


TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

Soak  one-half  cup  of  tapioca  in  cold  water  over  night ;  put  this 
into  a  quart  of  scalding  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  beaten  yolks  of 
four  eggs  with  four  tablespoons  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Have  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  pour  the  hot  mixture  on  them  beat- 
ing all  the  time.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

TAPIOCA  WITH  FRUIT. 

Take  one-half  cup  tapioca,  one  quart  cold  water,  cook  slowly 
until  clear.  Add  a  little  salt  and  two  tablespoons  sugar.  When 
nearly  cold  pour  over  the  fruit,  which  have  ready  in  dish  from 
which  it  is  to  be  served.  Canned  strawberries,  raspberries,  cher- 
ries or  peaches  are  all  suitable  for  this  purpose.  Serve  with  sugar 
and  cream.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

FARINA  PUDDING. 

Cook  together  one  and  one-half  pints  milk,  three  tablespoons 
farina,  two  tablespoons  butter;  let  cool  and  add  yolks  of  five  eggs, 
five  tablespoons  sugar,  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon ;  mix  well 
and  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Butter  and  flour  over  a 
pudding  dish,  pour  pudding  in,  place  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and 
bake  one  hour. 

Sauce.— Yolks  of  two  eggs,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  three  tablespoons  cream ;  cream  butter  and  sugar  together, 
add  eggs  and  cream.  Let  simmer  a  few  moments,  set  in  a  bowl 
of  hot  water.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Wsltse. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 

One  pint  of  cream,  one  ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  half  a  pint 
of  boiling  water.  Beat  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  sweeten  to  taste, 
flavor  with  vanilla ;  beat  in  the  dissolved  gelatine  and  pour  into 
moulds  to  harden.  This  is  more  delicious  if  made  the  day  before 
it  is  wanted  for  use.  Irene  Bennett. 

AMERICAN  CREAM. 

Put  one-half  box  gelatine  in  one  quart  milk  let  it  dissolve,  then 
put  on  stove  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  yolks  of  four  eggs 
and  six  tablespoons  sugar  well  beaten  together.  When  nearly 
boiled  beat  the  whites  with  five  tablespoons  sugar  and  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  As  soon  as  the  milk  begins  to  boil  remove  from 
stove,  add  whites  and  pour  into  mould.    Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Laws. 

PEACH  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

One  quart  canned  peaches,  one  large  cup  sugar,  one  pint  cream, 


58 


DESSERTS. 


one-half  box  gelatine,  one-half  cup  cold  water.  Soak  gelatine  in 
cold  water  two  hours,  mash  peaches  and  rub  through  sieve,  add 
sugar.  Whip  cream  to  froth,  put  peaches  in  saucepan  and  sim- 
mer twenty  minutes,  stirring  often,  add  gelatine  to  hot  peaches 
and  remove  from  fire  immediately ;  place  saucepan  in  pan  of  ice 
water  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  stir  in  the  cream, 
mix  thoroughly  and  pour  into  moulds,  set  away  to  harden.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  John  G.  Kinney. 

COMPOTE  OF  PEACHES. 

Take  a  quart  can  of  peaches  and,  if  not  sweet,  add  four  table- 
spoons of  sugar  sifted  over  them.  Heat  them  through  in  their  own 
juice;  drain  and  then  place  peaches,  hollow  side  up,  on  squares  of 
sponge  cake,  placed  in  a  pudding  dish.  Take  their  juice  and  mix 
with  it  two  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  une  egg  beaten  light,  and 
one  tablespoon  cornstarch  moistened  in  a  little  cold  water.  Place 
on  the  stove  and  allow  to  bubble  up  together ;  when  slightly  cool 
pour  over  the  peaches.  Put  in  a  cool  place.  The  syrup  will  jelly 
all  about  the  fruit  and  make  a  delicious  dessert.  Serve  with 
cream.  Irene  Bennett. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

Cut  in  squares  the  following  fruits:  Banana,  orange, pineapple, 
Malaga  grapes,  add  whole  candied  cherries,  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaf.  Cover  with  the  following  dressing :  Four  tablespoons  sugar, 
eight  tablespoons  sherry  wine,  two  tablespoons  Maderia  wine,  one- 
half  teaspoon  cinnamon.    Serve  ice  cold. 

Mrs.  Grosvenor  R.  Trowbridge. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

One-half  package  Cox's  gelatine,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  let 
stand  twenty  minutes ;  add  one  pint  boiling  water,  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  two  lemons,  two  cups  sugar;  stir  together,  and  strain,  put 
on  ice  until  it  partly  hardens ;  beat  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  froth 
and  stir  through  gelatine ;  put  in  mould  and  let  stand  until  hard. 

Custard. — One  pint  milk,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sugar ;  beat  whites  of  eggs  and  stir  in  custard  while  hot ;  fla- 
vor with  vanilla ;  pour  around  the  jelly.       Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 

Three-fourths  box  Cooper's  gelatine  soaked  in  one  cup  cold  water' 
one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  pint  boiling 
water;  let  come  to  a  boil,  add  one  box  strawberries  mashed,  strain 
all  and  put  in  mould  to  harden.    Serve  with  s  weetened  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  West. 


DESSERTS. 


59 


PINEAPPLE  SPONGE. 

Soak  one- half  box  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold  water  until  dis- 
solved. Chop  pint  can  pineapple,  add  one  cup  sugar  and  one  cup 
water,  and  simmer  ten  minutes;  add  gelatine  and  strain.  When 
partially  cold  add  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  and  beat  until  it  be- 
gins to  thicken.    Pour  into  mould.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Peach,  strawberry  and  raspberry  sponge  are  made  in  the  same 
way.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Wiltse. 

LEMON  JELLY  WITH  PINEAPPLE. 

Turn  a  can  of  shredded  pineapple  into  a  glass  dish,  add  lemon 
jelly  cut  in  cubes,  and  cover  with  whipped  cream. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

Soak  one-half  box  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water;  pour  over  it 
one  pint  boiling  coffee,  sweeten  to  taste.  Stir  till  all  is  dissolved, 
strain  and  mould.    Serve  very  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

COFFEE  MOUSSE. 

A  pinch  of  salt,  one  pint  cream  whipped  stiff  (stand  in  bowl  of 
cracked  ice  or  snow),  one  half  glass  sugar  ;  flavor  with  two  or 
three  tablespoons  strong  coffee  in  which  a  tablespoon  of  gelatine 
has  been  dissolved.  Strain  coffee  into  whipped  cream ;  pack  in 
freezer,  but  do  not  turn  freezer.    Nuts  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE. 

One-half  cup  of  maple  syrup,  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  and  put 
in  syrup  in  a  double  boiler ;  boil  until  thick,  and  let  cool.  Beat 
whites  of  two  eggs  stiff,  whip  one-half  pint  cream,  beat  all  together. 
Pack  in  mould  for  three  hours.        Mrs.  Henry  K.  Spaulding. 

WALDORF  DESSERT. 

Cut  in  squares  two  or  three  pieces  of  each  of  the  following  fruits : 
Banana,  orange,  apple,  pineapple,  two  or  three  Malaga  grapes 
(cut  in  halves),  two  fresh  or  preserved  strawberries,  two  Mara 
schino  cherries,  three  small  pieces  of  angelica.  The  above  quanti- 
ties are  for  each  champagne  glass.  Prepare  each  glass  separately, 
covering  the  fruit  with  one  dessert  spoon  of  sifted  pulverized 
sugar,  one  dessert  spoon  Maraschino,  one  teaspoon  brandy.  Set 
glasses  away  in  cold  place  for  six  to  eight  hours.  When  ready  to 
serve  cover  with  lemon  ice,  half  of  which  color  pink  and  half  white. 
Place  on  top  of  the  ices  a  Maraschino  cherry,  three  or  four  pieces 
of  angelica  cut  in  fancy  shapes.    Any  other  fruits  in  season  may 


60 


DESSERTS. 


be  used.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  fill  the  glasses  more  than 
half  full  of  fruit.  This  makes  a  most  delicious  as  well  as  attract- 
ive dessert.  Mrs.  Grosvenor  R.  Trowbridge. 

PLUM  PUDDING  GLACE. 

One-fourth  pound  chocolate,  one-fourth  pound  stoned  raisins, 
one-fourth  pound  currants,  two  ounces  citron,  one  pint  sherry 
wine.  Dissolve  chocolate  in  wine,  mix  in  fruits  and  stew  five  min- 
utes. When  cold  mix  with  two  quarts  sweetened  vanilla  cream 
and  freeze.  Nell  K.  Blaksley. 

FOUNDATION  FOR  ALL  ICES. 

One  quart  water,  one  pint  or  pound  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons, 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Dissolve  sugar  in  one  quart  boiling  water,  add 
lemon  juice,  let  cool,  then  freeze ;  when  half  frozen  add  whites 
beaten  stiff.  To  make  raspberry,  strawberry  or  pineapple  ice  add 
to  the  above  one  pint  of  either  juice  before  freezing.  Will  serve 
ten  people. 

LEMON  ICE. 

One  pint  water,  one  pint  sugar,  juice  of  eight  lemons.  After 
mixing  well  together,  strain  before  freezing.  When  partially 
frozen  add  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 

Mrs.  Grosvenor  R.  Trowbridge. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

The  juice  of  five  lemons,  one  and  one-half  pints  sugar,  one  quart 
water,  one  tablespoon  gelatine.  Soak  gelatine  in  a  little  of  the 
water,  cold ;  add  rest  of  water  hot,  to  the  sugar,  lemons  and  gela- 
tine.   Strain  and  freeze.  Mrs.  H.  N.  Daniell. 

ORANGE  ICE. 

The  juice  of  five  oranges,  two  lemons,  one  quart  of  water,  one 
and  one-half  pints  sugar,  and  one  tablespoon  of  gelatine.  Boil  the 
sugar  and  water  together,  add  the  gelatine  which  has  been  dis- 
solved in  a  little  of  tne  water.    When  cool  add  the  juice  and  freeze. 

Louise  W.  Bishop. 

GRAPE  SHERBET. 

Add  juice  of  two  lemons,  one  pound  sugar,  and  one  quart  water 
to  the  juice  of  four  pounds  of  Concord  grapes  squeezed  through  a 
jelly  bag;  boil  this  mixture  together  for  fully  ten  minutes;  set 
away  to  cool ;  then  freeze  to  a  stiff  ice,  pack  a  few  hours,  and  serve 
in  sherbet  glasses. 


DESSERTS. 


61 


STRAWBERRY  FRAPPE. 

One  quart  ripe  strawberries,  four  lemons,  three  cups  sugar,  three 
pints  water.  Crush  the  berries,  with  the  sugar,  and  let  stand  one 
hour,  then  add  juice  of  lemons  and  water,  and  freeze.  Turn  fif- 
teen or  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  immediately  or  pack  until 
wanted  for  use.  Nell  K.  Blaksley. 

RASPBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

One  and  one-half  quarts  cream,  one  pint  milk,  two  cups  gran  u 
lated  sugar ;  partly  freeze,  then  add  one  quart  fresh  raspberries 
strained,  with  one  and  one  half  cups  sugar  in  fruit. 

Mrs.  M.  P.  Seward. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM. 

One  quart  milk,  one  quart  cream,  three  squares  chocolate,  one 
cup  sugar.  Put  chocolate  shaved,  in  double  boiler  with  cup  water 
and  the  sugar,  cook  until  smooth,  stirring  occasionally;  add  milk 
and  when  boiling  hot  add  four  tablespoons  flour  rubbed  to  smooth 
paste  in  part  of  milk.  When  cool  add  the  cream  whipped,  vanilla 
to  flavor,  and  freeze.  Mrs.  George  Stevens. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

Remove  the  stems  of  one  quart  of  fresh,  ripe  strawberries ;  wash 
well.  Then  mash  and  cover  with  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Put 
into  the  freezer  can  three  pints  of  nice,  sweet  cream  and  two  cups 
of  powdered  sugar.  When  just  beginning  to  freeze,  add  the  fruit 
and  turn  as  long  as  possible.  Edith  M.  Thompson. 


PICKLES. 

"Peter  Piper  picked  a  peck  of  pickled  peppers.1 1 


CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Take  small  cucumbers,  put  them  in  a  crock  and  pour  boiling  hot 
weak  brine  over  them,  let  stand  until  next  day ;  repeat  this  three 
or  four  times.  To  a  quart  can  of  pickles  add  three  or  four  little 
onions,  a  few  pieces  of  stick  cinnamon,  and  quite  a  little  horse- 
radish cut  in  strips,  one  tablespoon  white  and  one  of  black  mus- 
tard seed,  two  red  peppers  or  one  tablespoon  whole  black  pepper. 
Heat  vinegar  and  sweeten  a  little,  add  small  piece  of  alum.  Put 
pickles  in  cans  and  pour  on  vinegar  boiling  hot. 

Mrs.  T.  R.  Jordan. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

One  hundred  small  cucumbers  fresh  from  the  vines,  wash  and 
wipe  dry,  put  in  jar  with  one  pint  of  salt,  a  piece  of  alum  the  size 
of  a  nutmeg,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cover  close,  and  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours.  Take  out,  wipe  dry,  put  in  a  jar  with  the  fol, 
lowing  spices  over  each  layer :  One  tablespoon  each  of  mustard 
seed  and  allspice,  one  root  horseradish  grated  or  cut  in  fine  strips, 
a  few  small  red  peppers,  and  sufficient  strong  boiling  vinegar  to 
fill  the  jar  which  must  be  two- thirds  full  of  cucumbers.  When 
cold  cover  closely  and  they  will  keep  for  years. 

Mrs.  James  Long. 

PICKLES. 

Take  about  five  hundred  little  cucumbers,  pour  boiling  water 
over  them,  stir  for  fifteen  minutes  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  take  them 
out  and  put  in  salt  water  that  will  bear  an  egg ;  let  stand  five  days- 
take  out  and  put  in  cold  water  one  hour,  wipe  each  one  dry,  put 
in  jars,  placing  one  or  more  onions  in  among  them.  Boil  vinegar 
with  ground  spices  or  whole  mixed  spices  to  suit  your  taste ;  let 
this  cool  a  little,  then  pour  on  the  pickles;  when  cold  seal  with 
melted  spermacetti.  Ida  Rose  Piollet. 

(62) 


PICKLES. 


63 


CRISP  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

To  every  gallon  of  pure  cider  vinegar  add  one  cup  of  salt,  one 
cup  sugar,  four  tablespoons  ground  mustard,  two  teaspoons  alum, 
one-half  cup  horseradish  cut  in  small  dice,  spices  to  taste.  Wash 
cucumbers  in  cold  water  and  drop  in  the  prepared  vinegar.  In 
picking  a  few  at  a  time  from  one's  own  garden  wash  and  drop  in. 
Be  sure  to  keep  them  well  under  the  vinegar. 

Mrs.  Kline,  Waverly,  N.  Y. 

SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced,  sprinkle  with  one  cup  of  salt 
and  let  stand  over  night ;  in  the  morning  drain ;  add  to  the  toma- 
toes two  quarts  of  water,  one  quart  vinegar,  boil  fifteen  minutes; 
then  drain  again  and  throw  vinegar  and  water  away ;  add  to  the 
pickle  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  quarts  vinegar,  two  table- 
spoons each  of  cloves,  allspice,  ginger,  mustard  and  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoon  cayenne  pepper ;  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  James  Long. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE  OR  CHOW  CHOW. 

One  quart  each  of  small  cucumbers,  large  cucumbers,  small  on- 
ions, string  beans,  green  tomatoes,  one  large  cauliflower,  six  green 
peppers;  one  tablespoon  mustard,  one  and  one-half  cups  brown 
sugar,  one-half  cup  flour,  three  quarts  vinegar.  Let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes,  stirring  constantly  to  keep  from  burning ;  cut  the  large 
cucumbers  and  tomatoes  in  small  pieces  and  put  all  in  a  weak 
brine  for  twenty-four  hours,  then  scald  in  same  water.  Take 
pickles  out  of  brine  and  turn  the  paste  over  them;  mix  well 
together.  Mrs.  James  Long. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE. 

One  quart  small  cucumbers  sliced,  one  and  a  half  quarts  green 
tomatoes  chopped,  one  quart  small  onions,  two  heads  cauliflower 
picked  fine,  six  green  peppers  chopped,  one-half  ounce  tumeric, 
one-quarter  pound  yellow  mustard,  two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup 
flour,  three  quarts  vinegar.  Soak  in  brine  twenty-four  hours,  scald 
but  not  boil,  drain  off  all  the  water/  Mix  mustard,  tumeric,  and 
flour  with  a  little  cold  vinegar,  pour  into  vinegar  and  let  heat 
then  add  pickles  and  boil  until  it  thickens.         Lou  Lawrence. 

PICCALILY. 

Two  dozen  large  green  tomatoes,  three  large  cucumbers,  one 
head  cabbage,  six  green  peppers,  six  heads  celery.  Chop  each  fine, 
add  two  handf uls  salt,  scald  and  pour  through  a  colander ;  pour 
cold  water  through  it;  then  scald  again  in  one  quart  water  and 


64 


PICKLES. 


one  quart  vinegar  and  drain.  Scald  one  gallon  vinegar,  three 
pounds  brown  sugar,  one-half  pound  white  mustard  seed,  one 
tablespoon  ground  mustard,  three  tablespoons  ground  cinnamon, 
one  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  black  pepper,  allspice  and  mace. 
Pour  over  pickle  hot.  R. 

CHOPPED  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

One-half  bushel  green  tomatoes  chopped  rather  coarse ;  six  on- 
ions, one  cup  of  salt ;  let  stand  over  night ;  drain  well,  and  boil  in 
two  quarts  of  vinegar  for  twenty  minutes.  If  the  vinegar  is  sharp 
add  a  pint  of  water  to  it.  Drain  again.  Take  three  quarts  of 
vinegar,  three  pounds  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  mustard  seed,  three 
tablespoons  of  allspice,  four  tablespoons  each  of  cloves  and  ginger, 
two  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  three  green  peppers.  Let  this  come 
to  a  boil,  then  add  tomatoes  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Lowman. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Twenty-four  large  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  cut  up,  six  onions 
chopped  fine,  four  green  peppers  chopped  fine,  four  cups  vinegar, 
six  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  three  tablespoons  ground  cinnamon, 
one  tablespoon  each  of  nutmeg,  mustard  and  cloves,  three  table- 
spoons salt.    Cook  two  hours ;  bottle  while  hot. 

Mrs.  James  Long. 

UNCOOKED  CATSUP. 

One-half  peck  ripe  tomatoes  chopped  fine,  two  cups  horseradish, 
one  cup  chopped  onions,  one-half  cup  salt,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half 
cup  white  mustard  seed,  one-half  cup  black  mustard  seed,  one  cup 
celery  seed,  two  tablespoons  black  pepper,  two  tablespoons  red 
pepper  chopped,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  one 
quart  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly  and  let  stand  a  few  hours  before 
bottling.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Boil  tomatoes  (one  peck)  until  they  can  be  pressed  through  a 
sieve,  and  to  a  gallon  of  pulp  add  three  tablespoons  of  pepper,  four 
of  salt,  three  of  mustard,  three  of  cinnamon,  and  pint  of  vinegar ; 
boil  a  long  time  until  quite  thick,  then  seal  in  bottles. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

RED  SAUCE. 

Sixty  tomatoes,  sixteen  onions  chopped  fine,  sixteen  red  peppers 
chopped  fine.  Boil  until  soft ;  put  through  sieve ;  then  add  twenty 
tablespoons  brown  sugar,  ten  tablespoons  salt,  sixteen  cups  vine- 
gar.   Boil  until  thick,  then  seal.  Mrs.  C.  C.  West. 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES. 


"Without  good  company,  all  dainties 

Lose  their  true  relish,  and  like  painted  grapes 

Are  only  seen— not  tasted. " 


CURRANT  JELLY  (cooked). 

Crush  fruit  with  wooden  potato  masher,  and  put  cupful  at  a 
time  through  cheese  cloth;  when  juice  has  all  been  squeezed  from 
fruit  measure  it  by  cupf uls  and  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle ;  let  it 
come  slowly  to  a  boil,  then  boil  twenty  minutes  carefully  remov- 
ing all  scum  as  it  rises.  Add  same  amount  of  sugar  and  let  boil 
five  minutes,  strain  and  put  in  tumblers.      Mrs.  W.  H.  Flory. 

CURRANT  JELLY  (uncooked). 

Strain  and  squeeze  juice  in  usual  way,  but  do  not  scald  the  fruit; 
put  juice  in  stone  jar,  stir  a  few  minutes,  then  add  confectioners' 
sugar  in  proportion  of  pound  for  pound,  stirring  until  sugar  is 
entirely  dissolved.  Dip  out  or  strain  into  tumblers  and  let  stand 
until  it  stiffens.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Flory. 

GREEN  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Pick  grapes  from  stems  and  wash  them ;  put  in  porcelain  kettle 
with  just  enough  water  to  cover ;  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally ;  see  that  each  grape  is  mashed ;  turn  mixture 
into  jelly  bag  and  let  drain  over  night.  Next  morning  measure 
juice,  and  to  each  pint  allow  one  pound  of  sugar ;  bring  juice  to  a 
boil  and  skim  ;  add  sugar  and  boil  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
trying  by  putting  some  in  saucer.  When  it  becomes  solid  quickly 
take  it  from  the  fire  and  turn  it  into  glasses.  Mrs.  Rorer. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Cut  quinces  into  small  pieces,  put  cold  water  on  them  and  boil 
until  soft,  then  strain.  To  each  pint  of  juice  use  one  pint  of  gran- 
ulated sugar ;  boil  juice  twenty  minutes  then  add  sugar  and  boil 
until  it  jells.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Flory. 

(65) 


56 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES. 


BLACKBERRY  JELLY. 

Take  two  pints  blackberry  juice,  two  pints  green  apple  juice, 
add  one  pint  sugar  for  each  pint  juice  and  boil  until  it  jells. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  F. 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

To  one  ounce  gelatine  add  a  pint  of  cold  water,  after  fifteen  min- 
utes add  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved, 
then  add  a  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  six  oranges  and  two 
lemons.  Strr.in  and  put  into  moulds.  The  jelly  looks  particu- 
larly pretty  if  the  skins  of  the  oranges  are  used  for  moulds.  Dig 
them  carefully  out,  cut  in  halves  and  pour  in  the  jelly  to  harden. 

Irene  Bennett. 

WINE  JELLY. 

One-half  box  gelatine,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  one  pint  boiling 
water,  one  cup  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  sherry  wine. 
Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  boiling  water,  lemon  juice, 
sugar,  and  wine ;  stir  well,  strain  through  cloth  into  moulds. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  JELLY. 

Soak  one-half  box  Cox's  gelatine  in  one-half  pint  of  cold  water, 
dissolve  with  one  pint  boiling  water,  add  juice  of  three  lemons, 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar ;  strain.  When  beginning  to  stiffen 
put  a  layer  of  jelly  in  a  dish,  then  a  layer  of  English  walnuts,  an- 
other layer  of  jelly,  one  of  sliced  oranges,  then  the  remainder  of 
the  jelly.  Mrs.  N.  J.  Parker. 

PINEAPPLE  MARMALADE. 

Take  one  quart  grated  pineapple,  two  pounds  sugar,  and  boil 
until  clear;  keep  removing  scum.  Putin  jars  with  brandy  papers 
over  top.  C.  W.  B. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Twelve  oranges,  two  lemons,  two  quarts  water,  nine  pounds  of 
sugar.  Wash  oranges  clean,  wipe  dry  and  cut  in  thin  slices, 
using  peel  and  pulp,  but  removing  seeds ;  pour  over  them  two 
quarts  of  cold  water  and  boil  until  very  tender  (about  an  hour  and 
a  half) ;  add  nine  pounds  sugar  and  boil  an  hour  or  a  little  longer. 

QUINCE  HONEY. 

Pare  and  grate  four  large  quinces :  add  one  pound  of  sugar  and 
one  quart  of  water.    Cook  twenty  minutes.       Mrs.  A.  J.  Ross. 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES. 


67 


CURRANT  JAM. 

Five  pounds  currants,  five  pounds  sugar,  one  pound  raisins,  two 
large  oranges  cut  in  small  pieces.  A  cup  of  red  raspberry  juice 
improves  it.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Bishop. 

PEAR  CHIPS. 

Ten  pounds  fruit,  six  pounds  sugar,  one-half  pound  green  ginger 
root,  three  lemons,  one  quart  water.  Cut  the  pear  j  in  small  slices 
and  the  lemon  rind ;  squeeze  juice  of  lemons.  Cut  ginger  root  in 
small  pieces  and  parboil,  then  drain  off  the  water  and  sprinkle 
ginger  root  through  pears  and  sugar.  Boil  all  together  three  hours, 
put  in  jars  and  cover.  R. 

PLUM  CONSERVE. 

Four  quarts  plums,  cut  out  pits,  three  or  four  oranges  chopped, 
three  pounds  sugar,  one  pound  raisins.    Cook  until  like  jam.  R. 


BEVERAGES. 

"I  drink  to  the  general  health  of  the  whole  table." 

— Shakespeare. 


COFFEE. 

Mix  the  coffee  with  an  egg  (using  shell  also)  and  a  little  cold 
water,  thoroughly ;  put  in  the  coffee  pot,  pour  boiling  water  over 
it.  Let  boil  ten  minutes,  then  pour  in  a  little  cold  water  and  let 
stand  on  back  of  stove  five  minutes.  Allow  two  heaping  table- 
spoons of  coffee  to  a  pint  of  water. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Four  ounces  chocolate  in  double  boiler,  add  to  it  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  stir  until  perfectly  smooth,  then  add  a  pint  of  milk. 
When  hot  add  four  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Beat  over  fire  with  an 
egg  beater  or  syllabub  churn.  Mrs.  Rorer. 

CHOCOLATE. 

One-half  cake  Baker's  chocolate,  one-half  cup  sugar  melted  in 
hot  water.  Boil,  then  add  one  quart  hot  milk  and  teaspoon  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Boil  ten  minutes.    Enough  for  twenty  people. 

Mrs.  H.  N.  Daniell. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

To  two  quarts  of  juice  add  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar, 
one-half  ounce  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one-fourth  ounce  allspice; 
boil  it  well;  while  cooling  add  one  pint  best  brandy. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Place  ten  quarts  of  red  raspberries  in  an  earthen  jar  or  crock ; 
cover  with  pure  cider  vinegar.  Let  this  stand  for  three  days,  stir- 
ring occasionally  with  a  wooden  spoon;  strain  through  a  jelly  bag, 
add  one  pound  granulated  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Put  in  a 
porcelain-lined  kettle  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Bottle  and  seal 
while  hot.    Keep  in  a  cool  dry  place.         Mrs.  A.  E.  Winlack. 

CURRANT  SHRUB. 

One  gallon  ripe  red  currants,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  quart  cold 

(68) 


BEVERAGES. 


69 


water.  Pitt  berries  and  water  over  fire  where  they  will  heat  slowly 
but  not  boil.  They  must  be  broken  by  heating  just  enough  to 
make  the  juice  flow  readily.  When  this  point  is  reached  add  vin- 
egar and  let  all  stand  together  for  five  hours.  Squeeze  juice  and 
measure  it.  To  every  pint  allow  one  pound  white  sugar  Put  on 
stove  and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Cool,  bottle  and  seal.  A 
teaspoon  of  this  added  to  a  glass  of  water  is  a  refreshing  drink. 

GEAPE  SHEUB. 

This  may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe.  A  tart  grape  is  prefer- 
able to  a  sweet  one.  Eipe  wild  grapes  are  especially  good.  Either 
of  these  shrubs  may  be  served  in  small  glasses  filled  with  crushed 
ice. 

EASPBEEEY,  STEAWBEREY  OE  CUEEANT  SYELP. 

Crush  the  fruit  and  to  every  quart  add  one  pint  of  water.  Let 
stand  over  night;  next  morning  squf eze  the  juice  and  to  each  pint 
allow  a  pound  and  a-half  of  sugar.  Put  over  the  fire,  boil  twenty 
minutes  skimming  often.  When  cold  bottle  and  seal.  Take  a  tea- 
spoonful  to  a  giass  of  ice  water— or  it  may  be  used  for  flavoring 
jellies,  icings,  etc. 

GEAPE  JUICE. 

Select  sound  grapes,  pick  from  the  stems  and  put  into  a  stone 
jar.  Let  this  set  in  an  iron  kettli  of  boiling  water  as  high  as  the 
grapes.  Boil  till  thoroughly  cooled,  keep  well  coveied,  crush  the 
grapes  and  strain;  then  add  one  cnp  sugar  to  one  quart  of  juice. 
Bottle  at  once.  Mrs.  G.  M.  Angier. 

GINGEE  WINE. 

Have  compounded  at  the  drugstore  the  following  tinctures:  One- 
half  ounce  capsicum,  one  ounce  caramel,  one  ounce  tartaric  acid, 
one  half  ounce  ginger.  Boil  one  gallon  of  water  fifteen  minutes, 
then  add  three  pounds  sugar  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  When  cool 
add  mixture  and  bottle.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Hawthorne. 


AD  VEHTISEME y  TS. 


r 


SAt  D 
KARNER'S  w 


c        At  e 

U  KARNER'S 


CONFECTIONERY. 

"A  wilderness  of  sweets/' 


MOLASSES  CANDY. 

Two  cups  gr<nulated  sugar,  two  cups  New  Orleans  molasses, 
one-half  cup  butter.  Boil  until  it  hardens  in  water  and  add  one 
teaspoon  vanilla.    Let  cool  and  pull  until  white. 

Willmina  Welch. 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

To  one  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses  add  one  cup  of  sugar  (gran 
ulated)  and  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.    Boil  until  it  hairs 
well,  or  is  brittle  when  put  in  cold  water;  do  not  stir  while  cook- 
ing.   When  done  add  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  stirring  briskly.  Pour 
into  buttered  pans,  and  when  cool  enough  s' retch  well. 

Mrs.  Alfred  Bolich. 

WHITE  TAFFY. 

Two  pounds  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  water,  one  teaspoon  of 
cream  tartar,  flavor  to  taste.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Grlm.me. 

ALMOND  CREAM. 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  and  one  half  cups  water,  one-half  teaspoon 
cream  tartar;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Boil  until  drops  will  almost 
keep  their  shape  in  water,  add  a  cup  of  blanched  almonds  chopped 
fine,  then  pour  into  bowl,  set  in  the  cold,  stir  until  it  is  cool  enough 
to  handle,  then  put  in  dish  and  knead  to  fine  texture.  If  too  hard 
a  few  drops  of  warm  water  may  be  stirred  in ;  may  also  be  flavored 
with  chocolate.  Catharine  W.  Bishop. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  CANDY. 

One  grated  cocoanut,  one  and  one-half  pounds  granulated  sugar, 
three-fourths  cup  water.  Boil  sugar  and  water  for  five  minutes, 
add  grated  cocoanut  and  boil  five  minutes  after  it  comes  to  the 
boiling  point;  then  take  off  and  beat  until  it  comes  to  a  cream. 

Mrs.  Chas.  B.  Low. 

(71) 


72 


COXFECTIOXEB  I 


PANOCHIN. 

One  pound  brown  sugar,  one  quart  peanuts,  one  tablespoon  vin- 
egar, butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Wet  sugar  with  water  and  boil 
until  it  hairs,  take  off  fire  and  stir  in  peanuts:  when  it  begins  to 
sugar  dip  out  spoonful  on  buttered  platter:  work  fast,  as  it  hard- 
ens quickly.  Gertrude  Schoosmaker. 

HICKORY  NOT  CANDY. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  flavor.  Boil  without  stir- 
ring until  thick  enough  to  spin  a  thread.  Set  dish  into  cold  water, 
stir  quickly  until  white.  Stir  in  one  cup  hickory  nuts,  turn  into 
flat  tin.    When  cool  cut  into  squares. 

PRAULINE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  a  wal- 
nut. Boil  till  like  icing,  stirring  all  the  time:  when  done  stir  in 
one  and  one-half  quarts  peanuts  chopped  fine.  Take  off  the  stove 
and  beat  till  cold,  then  put  on  a  platter  and  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  West. 

VASSAR  FUDGE. 

One  cup  Baker's  chocolate,  one  cup  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  but- 
ter size  of  egg.  Boil  until  it  will  form  in  water,  add  a  little  va- 
nilla, remove  from  stove  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  grain  ;  then 
pour  into  pan  and  when  cool,  cut  in  squares. 

WiL^iiXA  Welch. 

FUDGE. 

Two  pounds  sugar,  one-half  pound  chocolate,  one-half  pint 
cream,  one-half  pint  molasses,  one  quarter  pound  butter,  teaspoon 
vanilla  added  just  before  taking  from  fire.  English  walnuts  or 
cocoanut  may  be  added.  C. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

One-half  cup  of  chocolate,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  each 
of  milk  and  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Let  the  milk  boil, 
stir  in  chocolate  until  there  are  no  lumps,  then  add  the  other  in- 
gredients. Stir  constantly  until  thick  as  mush.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Gremme. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS. 
Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk  or  water  ;  boil 
hard  fire  minutes,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Stir  briskly  until  it  creams 
sufficiently  to  mould  into  shape.  Dissolve  Baker's  chocolate  over 
teakettle,  drop  in  one  cream  at  a  time  until  covered  with  chocolate. 
Lay  on  platter  to  dry. 


CONFECTIONER  Y. 


r:> 


COFFEE  CREAMS. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  powdered  sugar,  one  half  cup  strong  cof- 
fee. Boil  together  four  minutes,  then  cool,  beating  all  the  time. 
Roll  paste  into  balls  and  harden. 

MAPLE  CREAMS. 

One  cup  water,  two  cups  maple  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  hickory 
nut.  Boil  sugar  and  water  until  hard,  add  butter.  Place  candy 
pan  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  dtir  until  it  becomes  waxy.  Make 
into  balls  and  put  a  walnut  on  one  side. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


BAKING  POWDER. 

One-quarter  pound  of  carbonate  of  soda,  one-hc'lf  pound  cream 
of  tartar,  one  teacup  of  cornstarch.  Mix  well  and  sift  six  times 
through  a  sieve.  R. 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Blanch  the  desired  number  of  almonds  by  putting  them  into  hot 
water  and  removing  the  brown  skins  ;  place  on  pan,  sprinkle  with 
butter  and  salt  to  taste,  place  in  oven  and  brown  well,  stirring 
them  occasionally. 

CHEESE  BALLS. 

Mix  together  one  and  one-half  cups  grated  cheese,  one  quarter 
teaspoon  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff  ; 
shape  in  small  balls,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  lard  and  drain 
on  brown  paper.    Serve  with  vegetal le  salad. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Welch. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

One  cup  grated  cheese  mixed  with  one  cup  flour,  a  good  sized 
lump  of  butter,  pinch,  of  cayenne  pppper  and  little  salt.  Add 
enough  cold  water  to  roll  thin  ;  cut  in  strips  and  bake. 

Mrs.  H.  N.  Daniell. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Pare  a  dozen  tart  apples,  take  out  the  core,  place  sugar  with 
small  lump  of  butter  and  bit  of  cinn  imon  in  center  of  each  apple, 
pat  in  pin  with  one  half  pint  water.  Bake  until  tender,  basting 
oec  isi  >n  illy  with  the  syrup.    Serve  with  cream. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Make  a  batter— one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  heaping 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tablespoon 
sugar,  a  little  salt.  Heat  the  milk  a  little  more  than  milk  warm, 
add  slowly  the  eggs  and  sugar,  then  flour.  Throw  in  thin  slices 
of  apple,  dipping  batter  over  them  ;  drop  in  boiling  lard  in  large 

(74) 


MISCELLANEO  US. 


spoonfuls  with  slice  of  apple  in  each.    Serve  with  maple  syrup. 

Lavinia  E.  Wass. 

COUGH  SYRUP. 

One-half  package  packed  hops,  one  and  one  half  quarts  water. 
Boil  half  an  hour,  strain  and  add  one-half  pound  brown  sugar,  one 
pound  rock  candy,  one  stick  licorice  pounded  fine.  Boil  until 
thick  then  add  six  tablespoons  brandy.  Put  in  bottles  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place. 

PREPARATION  FOR  A  HARD  WOOD  FLOOR. 

Soap  the  size  of  a  horse-chestnut,  two  large  tablespoons  of 
powdered  borax,  one  fourth  pound  of  yellow  white  beeswax.  Put 
soap,  borax  and  beeswax  in  one-half  pint  of  water  ;  set  on  the 
stove  and  melt  slowly.  When  thoroughly  melted  set  off  the  stove, 
pour  in  very  slowly  one  quart  of  turpentine,  stirring  constantly. 
Then  pour  the  mixture  from  one  dish  to  another  until  perfectly 
cold.    Use  a  little  on  a  flannel  cloth  and  rub. 

Mrs  W.  H.  Vaughn. 


INVALIDS'  DIET. 

"We  all,  when  we  are  we'l,  give  good  advice  to  the  sick.11 

— Terence. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Jennie  Flynn. 

BEEF  TEA  NO  1. 

Take  one  pound  of  lean  beef  finely  chopped,  add  one  pint  of 
cold  water.  Steep  for  two  hours.  Place  on  stove  where  it  will 
simmer  but  not  boil  ;  allow  it  to  remain  there  for  two  hours  ;  then 
strain  and  press  all  juice  out  of  beef.  When  ready  for  use,  heat 
and  add  salt  to  tast,  season  with  celery  or  bay  leaf. 

BEEF  TEA  NO.  2. 

Put  one-half  pound  of  lean  beef  into  a  granite  vessel  ;  add  one 
gill  of  cold  water.  Let  this  simmer  for  on'e  hour  ;  pour  off  fluid 
but  do  not  strain,  heat  and  season  to  taste. 

BEEF  TEA  NO.  3. 

Mince  fine  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  put  into  wide-mouthed  bot- 
tles or  fruit  jars  ;  cover  with  cold  water.  Cover  jars  tightly  and 
set  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Boil  for  three  hours.  Season  with 
bay  leaf. 

'   BEEF  JUICE. 

Place  one-half  pound  of  lean  beef  on  broiler,  hold  over  the  fire 
for  three  minutes  to  draw  juice  to  the  surface.  Sprinkle  with  salt, 
squeeze  through  strainer  until  all  the  juice  is  out.  Place  a  cup 
containing  the  juice  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  allow  to  remain 
until  sufficiently  hot  to  drink.    Season  with  celery  salt. 

BEEF  JUICE  AND  CREAM. 

Squeeze  one  half  pound  of  lean  beef  cut  into  very  small  pieces 
through  a  fine  strainer,  tirst  removing  all  fat.  Add  to  this  one- 
half  cup  ot  cream.    Heat  and  season  to  tatte. 

CLARIFIED  BEEF  TEA. 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  with  two  ounces  of  cold  water,  add 
orie-half  pint  of  beef  tea,  let  com^  to  a  boil  and  season. 

(76) 


INVALIDS'  DIET. 


17 


BARTHLOWS  FOOD. 

One-half  pint  of  fresh  milk,  two  ounces  pearl  eago.    Allow  to 
stand  fifteen  minutes,  boil  and  add  one-half  pint  of  beef  tea. 

MILK  AND  BARLEY  WATER. 

Take  one  tablespoon  of  pearl  barley  (ground  and  slightly- 
browned);  add  one  pint  or  water;  boil  twenty  minutes.  Strain 
through  linen  ;  mix  with  half  as  mucli  milk  ;  put  into  bottles  and 
sterelize  for  one  hour.  Keep  on  ice.  Give  from  two  to  six  ounces 
at  a  time.    Add  sugar  and  salt  to  taste. 

PEPTONIZED  MILK. 

Dissolve  twenty  grains  of  bicarbonate  of  soda  in  six  ounces  of 
tepid  water  ;  then  add  five  grains  of  pancreatine.  Let  stand  for 
fifteen  minutes,  then  add  one  pint  of  milk  heated  to  a  temperature 
of  98  °F.  Place  in  bottle,  and  cork  with  absorbent  cotton.  Put 
bottle  in  temperature  of  75°  for  thirty  minutes;  cool  quickly  and 
let  stand  on  ice. 

SOFT  BOILED  EGG. 

Pour  into  a  heated  vessel  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Put  into 
this  an  egg.  Cover  tightly  and  let  remain  for  four  minutes. 
Keep  temperature  of  water  even  during  the  four  minutes. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Butter  well  a  hot  pan,  beat  slightly  two  eggs,  add  a  tablespoon 
of  cream  and  one  of  milk,  also  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  con 
stantly. 

BEAUREGARD  EGG. 

One  cup  of  milk  thickened,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut  ;  let  come  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  pour 
over  toast.  Over  this  squeeze  through  a  potato  masher  a  hard 
boiled  egg.    (Egg  must  boil  for  twenty  minutes). 

EGG-NOG. 

Beat  the  yolk  and  white  of  one  fresh  egg  separately.  To  yolk 
add  one  tablespoon  of  whiskey,  and  stir  thoroughly  ;  then  add 
one  teaspoon  of  su_::«r  and  six  ounces  of  cold  milk.  Now  add  the 
wline  which  lias  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 
Put  oysters  on  broiler,  place  over  a  hot  fire  until  brown.  Sea- 
son and  serve  on  hot  toast. 


78 


INVALIDS'  DIET. 


JUNKET. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  ounce  rennet  wine,  sugar  to  taste  ;  flavor. 
Warm  the  milk  slightly,  add  the  rennet  slowly,  and  stir  uutil  well 
mixed.    Let  stand  until  thick. 

MILK  PUNCH. 

To  one  glass  of  fresh  milk  add  one  tablespoon  of  cracked  ice,  one 
teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  tablespoon  whiskey.    Stir  thoroughly. 

CHOCOLATE. 

To  two  tablespoons  of  Baker's  chocolate  add  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  one  of  hot  water.  Stir  over  a  fire  until  thoroughly  dis- 
solved.   Add  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  serve  at  once. 

FLAXSEED  TEA  AND  LEMON. 

Tablespoon  flaxseed,  one  pint  of  cold  water,  tablespoon  sugar, 
and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Boil  water  and  flaxseed  one  hour  ;  let 
cool  ;  then  add  sugar  and  lemon. 

LEMONADE  FOR  THE  SICK. 

To  one  glassful  of  boiled  water  (cooled)  add  juice  of  one  lemon, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  sugar,  a  tablespoon  of  crushed  ice, 
and  two  teaspoons  of  sherry  wine. 

MULLED  WINE. 

One  egg,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  clove,  one  piece  cinnamon, 
one-half  cup  sherry  wine,  one  cup  of  water.  Put  water  and  spice 
over  fire  and  allow  to  boil  ten  minutes  ;  add  wine  and  let  come  to 
a  boil  again,  now  add  egg  and  sugar  well  beaten  together.  Stir 
until  slightly  thickened. 

TOAST  WATER. 

Toast  slowly  three  small  slices  of  bread  brown.  Break  into  small 
pieces,  put  into  a  bowl,  and  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  water.  Let 
stand  tor  one  hour.    Strain  and  add  cream  and  sugar. 


AD  VER  TISEMEETS. 


Sayre  City  Shoe  Store. 


A  neat  fitting  Shoe  is  pleasing  to  look  upon, 
A  Comfortable  Shoe  is  perfect  happiness, 
A  Good  Shoe  is  something  to  be  proud  of, 

A  Stylish  Shoe  you  are  certain  to  get  with  all  the  above  qualities 
combine.    Prices  low  as  we  can  make  them,  at 

J.  P.  CARROLL  &  CO.'S, 

220  Desmond  St.,  SAYRE,  PA. 


ESTABLISHED  1889. 


go  to  £.  PETER 


jfor  tftne  flfeercbant  ftailonno, 

PETER'S  BLOCK, 


SAYRE,  PA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


FOLLETT, 

ALL  THE  LEADING 

|  3f amil|!  Groceries  | 

ALWAYS  FRESH. 


WE  MAKE  A  SPECIALTY  OF 

Fresh  Vegetables. 

SEND  YOUR  LAUNDRY  TO 

The  Star  Steam  Laundry 

Desmond  Street,  Sayre. 

Our  work  is  flawless  because  done  by  skilled  hands  under  watch- 
ful eyes  and  expert  supervision. 

MRS.  WILLIAMS 

Hlp*to*2)ate 

LockhartSt.,  Sayre,  Pa. 


A  D  VER  TI SEMEN  TS. 


C.  L.  BURLINGHAM  &  CO., 

Dress  Goods,  Silks  and  Trimmings, 
All  Staple  and  Fancy  Dry  Goods, 
Carpets,  Mattings  and  Rugs. 

OUR   MOTTO  IS  TO  SELL  GOOD  GOODS  AT  REA- 
SONABLE PRICES. 

C.  L.  BURLINGHAM  &  CO., 

SAYRE,  PA. 

P.  S.  We  are  agents  for  the  Butterick  Patterns  and 
Publications. 

ilfcost  Stores  Gn> 

We  are  the  cheapest  stores, 
Look  at  our  prices ! 


Vac  Sav 


Look  at  our  good  quality  first, 
Price  is  a  secondary  consider- 
tion. 

All  Goods  Union  Made  and  Guaranteed 
to  Give  Satistaction. 

MANEY  &  PAGE, 

^Clothiers  and  Furnishers,  J 

ATHENS  and  SAYRE,  PA. 


AD  YER  TISEMENTS. 


rThe  Kasper 
DINING  HALL 
OPEN  DAY  AND  NIGHT. 

Board  by  the  Day  or  Week. 

Quick  Lunches       Desmond  St.,     J.  KASPER,  Prop, 
at  All  Hours.  sayre,  f*a. 

We  Have  What  You  Want... 

In  Fancy  Groceries  and  Provisions,  Hard  and 
Tinware,  Glass  and  Queensware.  G-oods  as 
represented  or  money  refunded. 

I.  A.&C.  R.  WILLIAflS, 

Wilbur  Block,  Sayre,  Pa. 

WILTSE'S  CAFE, 

Desmond  Street,  Sayre,  Pa. 

Refreshments  at  All  Hours 


Choice  Beer  and  Ales  Always  on  Draught. 
Imported  and  Domestic  Wines. 

■IIBIIBIiailBIIBIIBIIBIIBIiaiiailBliailBII 


Oysters  and  Clams 
in  Season. 


J  H.  WILTSE, 

Proprietor. 


DVti/ri "ICEMEN  J  s. 


Job  Griffin,  President,  F.  T.  Page,  Vice  President. 

O.  L.  Haverly,  Cashier. 

Farmers  National  Bank,  of  Athens,  Pa. 

Statement,  February  5,  1901. 


RESOURCES. 

Loans  and  Discounts  .$325, 388  28 

U.  S.  Bonds   50,000  00 

Banking-  House  Furni- 
ture and  Fixtures. ..    14,575  00 

Demand  Loans   37,750  00 

Cash  and  Reserve          132,244  63 


$559,957  91 


LIABILITIES. 

Capital  $  50,000  00 

Surplus  and  Profits.  .    28,413  22 

Circulation   50,000  00 

Deposits   431,544  69 


$559,957  91 


DIRECTORS. 

Job  Griffin,     F.  T.  Page,     J.  S.  Thurston,     O.  L.  Haverly, 
J.  T.  Corbin,       Job  Morley,      F.  A.  Gillette. 
I.  A.  Williams,       Jos.  G.  Waldron. 

H.  M.  DeLano, 

DEALER  IN 

Groceries,  Prooisions,  Etc. 

Always  a  Full  Line  of  the  Best  Canned  Goods  in  Stock. 

STEVENSON  STREET. 

FRENCH  &  KINGSBURY, 

 DEALERS  IN  

J^igb  grade  furniture. 

Al^o  Funenl  Duvet  i  s.    L  dy  A.<*«ifttant  *h<  n  desired 

Cor.  Broad  St.  and  Park  Aoe. 


A  D  VER  TI SEME  NTS. 


C.  J.  CARY, 


GONTRAGTOR  AND  BUILDER 


PLANS  AND  ESTIMATES  FURNISHED. 

Office  Lockhart  St.,  SAY  RE,  PA, 

CHARLES  EX  SCOTT, 

Coal... 

Office  ELMER  BLOCK. 


PERKINS  BROTHERS, 

Fine  Dress  Goods, 
Laces,  Gloves,  Hosiery, 
and  Muslin  Uunderwear, 

BROAD  STREET,  WAVERLY,  N.  Y. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


TEED  &  SONS 


are  in  line  to  furnish  you  with  a  full  and  complete  line  of 


Fresh  Groceries,  Crockery 

and  Garden  Seeds  in  Bulk. 

^^MARVEL  FLOUR  the  Great  Bread  Producer.^s^ 

Buy  once,  buy  always. 

TEED'S  Stone  Front  Grocery  and  Crockery  House, 

SAYRE,  D?-A__ 


Acknowledgements  of  all  kinds  promptly  and  carefully  executed. 


CHAS.  C.  WEST, 


LOCKHART  BUILDING, 


SAYRE,  PA. 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


W.  B.  MEIXELL, 
t^mmm  Stationer, 

Next  to  Times  Office,  LOCKHART  ST. 
ALL  PERIODICALS 

Newspapers— Daily  and  Weekly,    Books,    Tobacco  and  Cigars, 
Stationery,  Confectionery. 

5osepb  HMnee, 

125  Soutb  flDain  St.,  Htbens,  fl>a. 

fixe  tnsurance 


j  AT  LOWEST  RATES  I 

■  ■ 


WHITTLE  &  SPAULDIMG, 

SAYRE,  PA. 


AD  VEH  TISEMENTS. 


Zbc  Htbens  IRational  Bank, 

ATHENS,  PENNA. 

Vine  Crandall,  President.         L.  W.  Eighmey,  Vice  President. 
M.  J.  Murphy,  Cashier. 

CAPITAL  $50,000. 
Organized  July  20,  1899. 

Do  a  General  Banking  Business. 

ACCOUNTS  SOLICITED. 

J.  A.  RUGGLES, 

— Dry  Goods,  Cloaks,  Carpets,  

AND  WALL  PAPER, 

Athens,  Pa. 
YOU  ARE  OUT! 

Come  in  and  see  our  line  of  Baseball  Goods.  You  can  say, 
"  What  a  beauty  I  caught."  You  can  land  larger  and  better  fish 
if  you  use  good  Fishing  Tackle,  and  we  have  a  fine  assortment. 
You  can  ride  your  wheel  as  long  as  you  please  if  you  use  good 
tires.  We  have  a  complete  line  of  Bicycle  Supplies  We  make 
a  specialty  of  Detachable  Tires.  Manufacture  Union  Made  Cigars 
Full  line  of  Tobaccos  and  Smokers'  Supplies. 

WALKER  &  TEED, 

Packer  Avenue,  SAYRE,  PA. 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


Foot  Rests^n^ 

Generally  speaking  are  arti- 
cles of  furniture,  but  they  can 
be  found  in  all  styles  and 
prices,  in  the  shape  of  SHOES 
for  young  and  elderly  people 
at 

Towner's  Star  Shoe  Store, 

221  Desmond  Street, 

SAYRE,  PA. 

J.  W.  GRUMME, 
Furniture  and  Undertaking, 

SAYRE,  PA, 

F.  N.  DRAKE,  Funeral  Director. 

M.  H.  KANE, 
Groceries  and  Provisions, 

132  Desmond  Street, 

SAYRE,  PA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


Jump's  Pharmacy, 

Satfre,  Pa.  1 

RECIPES  FDR  GOOD  HEALTH- 

One  bottle  BEEF,  IRON  and  WINE  will  give  you  a  fine  appetite 
so  you  can  relish  the  delicacies  made  from  the  recipes  in  in  this 
book.    The  price  is  only  50  cents  in  full  pints. 

For  your  liver  one  bottle  of  our  Little  Liver  Pills.  None  better. 
15  and  25  cents. 

For  your  blood— one  bottle  JUMP'S  COMPOUND  SYRUP  OF 
SARSAPARILLA  contains  more  good  medicine  than  all  others 
combined,  at  $1.00.    Worth  more. 

The  recipes  in  this  book  are  the  finest,  but  in  case  they  should 
disturb  your  digestion,  and  you  are  obliged  to  consult  a  doctor, 
take  your  prescription  to  Jump's  and  you  will  get  the  best  of  re- 
sults. His  drugs  are  always  the  purest,  put  up  as  ordered  and 
prices  right.    Everything  up-to-date  at 

JUMP'S  PHARMACY. 


K.  JERZYKOWSKI, 

.  Fine  Merchant  Tailoring... 

PACKER  AVENUE, 

Say  re,  Pa. 


Xtttle, 
(Srocer  ant>  JSaker, 

Htbens,  fl>a. 


AD  VER  TISEMEETS. 


In  Buying  a  Range  GET  THE  BEST. 


No  Ranges  Better  Made  Than  the 
Celebrated 

Happy  Thought  Line 


 MADE  BY  

Pittston  Stove  Co.,  Pittston,  Pa. 

 AND  SOLD  BY  

BOLICH  BROS., 

SAY  RE,  PA. 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


J.  K.  WILLIAMS  &  SON, 

106  Desmond  St.,  Sayre,  Pa. 


It  is  not  necessary  for  us  to  say  much  of  ourselves — the  goods 
we  gather  for  your  use  will  speak  for  us  in  price  and  quality. 

FIRST  FLOOR. 

Dry  Goods,  Notions,  Cloaks,  Furs,  Un- 
derwear, Etc. 

The  New  Ideal  10c-  Paper  Paterns. 

SECOND  FLOOR. 

Shoes  and  Rubbers,  Carpets,  Mattings, 
Draperies,  Etc. 

The  Monarch  Guaranteed  Patent  Leather  Shoe  for  men  and  women. 


*°or;*rr^         No  Menu 

Complete  without  this 

CELEBRATED 

Coffee. 

SOLD  ONLY  BY 

BEEBE, 

CASH  GROCER 

•'"'""WWW®*"'" " 
222  Desmond  St.,  Sayre,  Pa. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 
plumbing  and  furnace  W)orI^. 

GEO.  A.  KINNEY, 

DEALER  IN 

Hardware,  Stoves  and  Cutlery 

Roofing  and  Jobbing, 
197  Main  St.  Athens,  Penna. 

HAMMOND  &  CO., 

*  fine  /UMlUner^  * 

Lockhart  St.,  Sayre,  Penna. 

LUCKEY  &  DRAKE, 
I  Sbe  Xeabtno  2)r^  (SooSs  Store  | 

OF  ATHENS. 

It  is  economy  to  trade  with  us. 
LUCKEY  &  DRAKE,  Athens,  Pa. 


